[{"Title":"Does What A Thriller Should, No More, No Less","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"44 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came A Spider works.  It may suffer from one plot twist too many, it may borrow liberally from other pictures, it may have narrative holes you could run a horse race through, but in spite of all that, it WORKS.  And as everyone knows, that is about the highest compliment a film like this can be paid.Directed by Lee Tamahori, Along Came a Spider hits the ground running with a bravura sequence in which a federal sting goes horribly wrong and a good agent dies.  Det. Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman), the leader of the sting, goes into brooding isolation, but a year later, the daughter of a U.S. congressman (Michael Moriarty) is kidnapped from her prestigious Washington boarding school by a brilliant madman, and Cross, a mental wizard with the ability to see into the mind of the maddest psychopath, is the only one who can track the criminal's M.O. and save the girl.Standard thriller territory, and it's given more or less standard treatment, albeit with a fair share of stylistic spark and energy.  Tamahori does a good job choreographing his action set pieces, particularly that shattering opening and a nifty cat-and-mouse chase that closes out the picture. Cinematographer Matthew F. Leonetti gives the film a dark, brooding visual richness, and Jerry Goldsmith contributes another thunderously effective thriller score.The acting is also generally strong across the board.  Morgan Freeman.. what can one say?  I honestly cannot think of another modern actor who has done such consistently high-quality work.  Granted, Cross does not seem like a role that would overly tax a top-notch thespian like Freeman, but he doesn't sell it short either, giving the character his full, commanding force.  He is the tough, solid center that really elevates Along Came A Spider above pulp territory.  Michael Wincott plays the psycho (as naturally he would; what else is Michael Wincott going to play in a film?), and gives it his gravelly-voiced best, making us hate this guy just as much as we should. Monica Potter is fine as the young security officer helping Cross track the fiend, but I was constantly distracted by the fact that her voice sounds EXACTLY LIKE JULIA ROBERTS!  I swear, it sounded like she'd been dubbed. Am I the only one who noticed this?  Probably, so I'll drop it.If there's any real complaint to be had with Along Came A Spider (aside from my weird personal difficulties with Monica Potter's voice), it is an age-old one for a thriller  script problems.  Screenwriter Marc Moss keeps things moving nicely, and there are some clever moments throughout, but the film also raises unanswered questions.  What was the purpose of the weird Lindbergh website the kidnapper sets up?  When will they learn that internet-related plot devices just don't work in films?  What was the point of the Russian kid who seems to play such a big role in the middle portion of the picture?  Why did Moss feel the need to crib his most exciting sequence, a footchase with the maniac leading Cross through Washington via cell phone, from Dirty Harry?  Granted, I haven't read the novel by James Patterson upon which this film was based, so I may not be casting blame in the right place.  But Patterson didn't write this script, so maybe I am.As I mentioned before, however, all of this largely doesn't matter.  In the moment, while it's unfurling in front of you, the film's fast pace, engaging performances, and visual polish keep you intrigued, and allow you to overlook the plot's more outrageous contrivances and awkward reversals. Along Came A Spider is not a perfect thriller, but brother..it WORKS.  "},{"Title":"Underrated. 7 of 10.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The plot starts out in a very straight-forward manner a man with an ambition to become criminal legend kidnaps the daughter of a congressman right out from under the nose of the FBI. He then sends a note and a sneaker of the girl to Detective Alex Cross, hence forcing him out of his self-inflicted isolation, the reasons of which are explained in the opening scene. Along with the FBI agent who was in charge of security at the scene of the crime, he follows the clues laid out by the kidnapper in order to find the girl. And so the story goes. The kidnapper is portrayed by the always formidable Michael Wincott, the best serial villain on that side of the Atlantic. He should have the Best Supporting Role awards piled up in his attic.  Alex Cross, whom we remember from Kiss the Girls, and portrayed by Morgan Freeman, is just the kind of cop you like best sincere, sympathetic, intelligent, thorough and committed.  Monica Potter features as the FBI agent determined to redeem herself after she let the kidnapper escape. This may not be a blockbuster, but this solid and underrated thriller delivers what so few of them have to offer these days a final plot twist that genuinely surprises. It shall not be revealed here. "},{"Title":"Nice moments and effective twists, but too many plot holes. ** (out of four)","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"39 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  ALONG CAME A SPIDER / (2001) ** (out of four)By Blake French	In 1997, a big year for serial killer movies, Gary Fleder's Kiss the Girls enriched the genre with a sense of splendid atmosphere, mystery and intrigue. Along Came a Spider, based on a novel by James Patterson, is not on that level. It is not really a sequel, but more a continuation of the adventures of Forensic Psychologist Alex Cross. It is a well-made movie with good performances and effective, unexpected plot twists and startling surprises, but so much of it is too conventional. As I watched the film, often spotting ample plot holes, I was astonished at how recycled so many of the scenes were. There is a sequence that has Cross running throughout a busy city during rush hour to deliver a ransom. The killer commands him to race from one location to the next answering pay phones. Gee, we have never seen this idea before.	Morgan Freeman reprises his role as Alex Cross who finds himself in complete grief and remorse after losing a partner during an undercover operation that we see at the beginning of the film. It starts out quick as his time of regret is shattered when he gets a phone call from a killer who just kidnapped the 12 year old daughter of the Senator (Michael Moriarty). We know this man as a school teacher named Mr. Soneji (Michael Wincott). Although under the secret service protection by Jezzie Flannigan (Monica Potter) and Ben Devine (Billy Burke), Soneji devised an articulate plan and now holds the girl captive on his boat.	I dare not reveal any more of the story. There are several ninety degree twists that play games with our mind. However, they are disposable and essentially unneeded, and only rationalize familiar clichés. Some of them are fun, but they seem to crawl out of holes in the plot. As the movie continues, it only becomes more absurd. And it is particularly vulnerable to logic, or perhaps it is just poorly edited. For instance, what if the detectives missed any of the killer's clues? Any given clue? Then what? His entire plan would be shot to hell because each clue he leaves sets the police up for the next one. So I question why do killers always want to play elaborate cat and mouse games with detectives?Unlike Kiss the Girls, Along Came a Spider lacks suspense and thrills because there is little tension in its structure. We already know the killer's identity-but do we? The movie certainly ends up on different floors than where I thought it would land, and it works to some extent. I still think the movie could have had some more thrilling moments of suspense and chills instead of indulging in a crime case that is not really all that involving. Actually, we never really care if the killer is caught. Since the film's villain is so much more interesting than the good guys, I was actually rooting for him in some scenes. When the girl tries to escape from Soneji, I was hoping she would be caught, because I wanted Soneji to lay down more puzzle pieces for Cross. 	There are nice moments here, effective scenes of action. Morgan Freeman is a little too calm and collected for such an intense situation, though. Monica Porter has a great performance, however, in one of the film's trickiest roles. Along Came a Spider, directed by Lee Tamahori (The Edge, Mulholland Falls) has a lot of potential-but strays from its roots and becomes just another contrived thriller in which we have already seen countless times before.     "},{"Title":"The book is not closed. A mind game with a profiler.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A terrific movie. Suspense, thrills and a plot that twists and turns.  Detective Alex Cross(Morgan Freeman),on sick leave recovering from the lose of his partner, is called back into action when the daughter of Senator Rose(Michael Moriarty) is kidnapped from her private school. Cross is an expert profiler and is very successful in tracking down elusive criminals.Michael Wincott plays the savvy kidnapper. Also in the cast are Monica Potter, Mika Boorem and Dylan Baker. Penelope Ann Miller is the Senator's wife. Very tense mood throughout with Freeman strong and steady. Probably the best acting is turned in by easy on the eye Ms. Potter.The kidnapper has the detective hurrying to keep pace in the race to save the little girl's life. A surprising twist makes for a very satisfying finale. This thriller is just that. "},{"Title":"Hey give it some slack...","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I've been reading some of the comments for this movie, and think that many of you are over-critical. This is a psychological thriller, and plays it's part well. Morgan Freeman is one of my favourite actors, and he plays Detective Alex Cross very well. I enjoyed the movie on a thriller type basis. If you want to be critical about it not living up to the book's legend then fine... cause I'll be the first one to tell you that it's barely anything like the book. Along Came a Spider was a wonderful book and the character of Gary Soneji was compared to a spider... if anyone was wondering why the title was called that. I'm not one to bash movies unless they are horrible, and for those of you that think this movie is horrible... thats just your call. This movie is good, its just not the book. *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Along Came A Plot Twist","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Precocious kids, computers, and a famous kidnapping figure into this elaborate thriller set in Washington, D.C. A guilt-ridden detective (Morgan Freeman) and his Secret Service partner (Monica Potter) try to catch a psycho who abducts the child of a prominent family. The film is aimed at viewers who like crime puzzles and mind games. There's lots of action and dark suspense.The film's underlying concept is fascinating and clever. But the screenplay overlays the ingenious concept with implausible, and at times confusing, plot twists. After my second viewing I still had unanswered questions.The screenplay had another weakness. At least seven times, it used TV news coverage of the abduction to advance the plot. Relying on TV news reporting is a stale and tiresome plot device that detracts from any film, in my opinion. Here, its repetitiveness made it even more irritating.The film's characters were not particularly interesting. Freeman's Alex Cross was dull and plodding; Potter's Jezzie Flannigan was nasal and humorless. And the melodramatic music was manipulative and too loud.Along Came A Spider does have entertainment value, derived from its suspenseful action, and cloak and dagger intrigue, enhanced by excellent cinematography and good set design. I just wish that the film's screenplay had been as clever as the concept upon which the screenplay was based. "},{"Title":"Slightly Above Average  Despite Some Credibility Problems","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Crime story-wise, this was nothing extraordinary but was a pretty solid film. He isn't always like this, but Morgan Freeman does best in films where he's the likable hero-cop. He is definitely that in this film although his character, Alex Cross, is a little too sharp for believability. There were just a bit too many oh, come on's said by me watching this as Cross would get computer passwords with no trouble, etc. The odds of that happening are millions-to-one but not in the world of films. There were other examples, too, of him figuring out things that were almost impossible.For a tough modern-day crime story this film, for the most part, was pretty low- key with low profanity and not a lot of gore or overdone action. That was surprising considering the sordid subject matter. The tameness in here, and Freeman, make this a notch (albeit a small one) above the average thriller. "},{"Title":"It's sort of just there but you may like it.","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came a Spider is not a bad movie all in all.  It is just a generic movie and a pretty decent generic movie at that.  Lets face it, every plot is based on clichés. What counts is how these clichés are used.  The screenwriter's challenge is this Can he blow enough smoke and juggle his mirrors in such a way as to make the viewer believe he is seeing something new or, at least, enjoy the same old crap?  Shakespeare did it.  Dickens did it.  Stephen King has made a career out of it.  The problem with Along Came a Spider is that no-frills clichés are all you get, basic and unadorned. The movie's ad campaign should have featured bare white posters, a bar code and the word `Thriller' printed in the middle. Okay, I overstate.  You do get Morgan Freeman and Michael Wincott. Mr. Freeman has never given a bad performance and doesn't start with this film.  Mr. Wincott is also very, very good. He makes you feel a little sorry for his character despite his murderous escapades. You rather want to comfort him when the inevitable problems start cropping up.To make sure you are getting your moneys worth, the writers have thrown in a `Guaranteed Surprise Ending. Now some movies sport twist endings that are knockouts.  These endings not only come as genuine surprises and are completely satisfying; they force you to reconsider everything that went before in the film.  Think of The Sixth Sense, The Usual Suspects or The Crying Game. First, in all these movies the ending was prepared for.  No matter how unexpected ultimately the twists make sense in the terms of the logic of the movie.  Second, you recognize these movies as superior long before you reach the conclusion.  Had The Sixth Sense ended five minutes before it did you still would have remembered the performances, the genuinely scary moments and the fantastic plot.  The twist came as icing on an already fine cake. Along Came A Spider has a surprise ending because, well, 'Thrillers' have `Surprise Endings'.  That's all.  You probably won't guess it, but even so you won't be all that surprised.  You will realize that since because such and such happens, the movie can only end in two or three different ways. Like the rest of the movie the twist is mechanical and non-descript.  It's satisfying enough but it operates more as a punctuation mark than anything else.This sounds like a pretty negative review - and I guess it is.  In fairness I should say I enjoyed myself watching it.  A predictable experience is not necessarily a bad experience.  Sometimes all you want is a no frills `Thriller'.  You have a taste in your mouth for guns and psychopaths and you've already seen Hannibal, so what do you do?  Sure, a movie that sautés it's clichés with a bit more sauce and spice would be preferable, but if your only other option is a Matlock rerun, Along Came A Spider looks pretty darn good!  "},{"Title":"Great Suspenseful Thriller","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie and really enjoyed it.  It is one of those movies where if you walk to the kitchen for two minutes, you probably missed something important.  It leaves you on the edge of your seat throughout the course of the movie.   The only flaw that I have with the movie is the decision to use special effects in the first few minutes of the movie.  These special effects with the car were not very special at all.   In fact, it was so unrealistic looking that it was borderline pathetic.  Fortunately, this only occurred in this one scene.  However, the scene with the thermos (as to not give anything away) was excellent and extremely creative.  Morgan Freeman did his usual brilliant job of acting.   If you like a good suspenseful thriller/mystery, this may be a good choice for you.  8.5 Stars. "},{"Title":"A Mind is a Terrible Thing","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a strictly routine kidnapping crime thriller. Morgan Freeman is the profiler/cop who delves into the criminal's mind. Monica Potter is his cop partner. It's a shame to see a marvelous actor like Freedman wasted on trite stuff like this. He has an endearingly lumpy face and a soothing voice, the kind of guy you wouldn't mind going to for reassurance when you're in doubt. He can be mighty mean too, as in Street Smart. Potter is as glamorous as all get-out. She looks a little and sounds a lot like Julia Roberts, a comparison that must make her physically ill by now. Unfortunately her voice is flat and toneless and her face mostly expressionless. She'd be a great model though. The kidnapper of a senator's little girl is Michael Wincott, a very expressive face and a voice that sounds filtered through a coffee grinder. He has a bony face, rather like a weasel or ferret, but not necessarily villainous, a term that in my view is slung around much too loosely. I myself am eminently handsome yet I too have been described as villainous. I didn't mind it from my ex wife but it can be unnerving when brought up independently in the confessional and in a shrink's office. The script has nothing original in it. The dialog is by the numbers, the characters and their interactions not very interesting. The action, and there is a lot of action, as is standard in routine thrillers, takes place in Washington, DC, and makes use of many recognizable locations. One rather lengthy sequence is lifted straight out of the Ann Mary Deacon incident in Dirty Harry, the writers beginning to run dry I guess. Something to do with the Lindbergh kidnapping is introduced ominously and then left to flop around, gasping, until it expires. A couple of plot twists at the end can't save this damaged script. The most surprising thing about it is that Dylan Baker, as the head FBI man, usually a dilatory figure, has a chilling face, and begins by chewing out Freeman, a local cop, because of a turf conflict. But then, in the very next scene, he apologizes and offers to help as much as he can -- and he means it too! It's diverting but no more than that. "}{"Title":"Worth 1 1/2 Hours of your time","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman) is back on the trail of a kidnapper, and this time he's accompanied by a secret service agent (Monica Potter) Together they must try to save a young girl from the clutches of a brilliant criminal (Michael Wincott).Along came a Spider does turn out to be a decent thriller, with plenty of action, suspense and ample plot twists, but on the down side it still isn't as good as 'Kiss the Girls'Morgan Freeman puts in a typically solid performance and the support cast are all good enough, however the storyline does become a little disjointed at times, and it contains some minor plot holes that distract from the overall effect of the movie. That said i would be lying if said i didn't enjoy it, and i would still recommend it as worthwhile viewing; it will satisfy your thirst for a thriller for a short while at least.7/10 Not the greatest, but certainly not the worst. "},{"Title":"Speaking as one who hasn't read the book...","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I must say this film was better than your average thriller to me. Call me stupid, that's just fine, but I didn't see the ending coming at all. Of course, it didn't hurt the film's stature to have Morgan Freeman back in the lead role, the guy doesn't seem to be able to make a bad film and is one of the most underappreciated actors of his time. Also, Michael Wincott is one hell of a great villain, as he has proved time and time again in The Crow and Robin Hood Prince Of Thieves, as well as this film. Monica Potter is indeed Julia Robert's clone, and that's not good in my eyes. I cannot stand Julia Roberts or any movie she has ever been in (I actually WATCHED My Best Friend's Wedding with my girlfriend in the theaters, and it was so bad even she couldn't watch it). All in all, I highly recommend this film as a modern day thriller. Yes, it has a few holes and gets bogged down a bit in the middle, but Freeman as always is a delight to watch and the film is about as good a thriller as you'll find in modern times. That's just one guy's opinion. "},{"Title":"C+","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came a Spider, with Freeman leading the way as a super sleuth cop who sets about to solve the kidnapping of a Senator's daughter, is strictly Hollywood formula film-making. The flick follows the rules, lacks in creativity, twists and turns a little in the middle, and provides a modicum of entertainment. With the always good Freeman and the always delicious Potter in the foreground, there's little to fault and little to rave about in this middle-of-the-road thriller. "},{"Title":"Solid Thriller","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman again in his typcasted role as profiler. This movie is the prequel to Kiss the Girls and Freeman´s second turn as Alex Cross.This time he has to find a kidnapped daughter (Mika Booram) of a rich couple (Penelope Ann Miller and Michael Moriaty ). She got kidnapped because one of her body guards, secret-service Agent Jezzie Flannigan (Potter) didn´t take care about her for just a second. The kidnapper himself involves Cross in the crime and wants him to slove it.Well I reallly like the movie, tho it is predictable ( there is one big twist that is very predictable) but I like the way it was done. Lee Tamohari knows how to make enjoyable thriller, maybe he isn´t really able to build up big excitingness but at least he makes the characters of his movies, quit appealing. Morgan Freeman is great as always, and I really love to see him in that role, tho he plays it in every second movie, he isn´t able to bring it as believable and succesfully as in Seven to the audience but at least he doesn´t annoy at all. Monica Potter is decent, she is a good actress but in my opinion she is far too cute and sweet looking for the part she plays, so she is rather unbelievable here but the reason for that is not her fault, she is simply miscasted. The rest of the cast is all right, I especially liked Michael Wincott´s appeareances, this gay has really a great, unique and memorable voice and he was perfectly casted for the part he plays. All in all good entertaining, not really a mystery thriller but I don´t think you will get bored.  "},{"Title":"Full of Plot Holes and Pretty Much By-The-Numbers","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  My first question is rhetorical Are there any cinematic police departments that teach officers to shoot to wound, rather than shooting to kill? I suspect that most real ones probably do, actually. But in Along Came A Spider, there are at least two occasions when Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman at his most Morgan Freeman-esque) has the opportunity to end a standoff by just popping a suspect in the leg rather than shooting them in the chest. Winging a suspect might allow for, say, a trial and sentences. All that good legal stuff. Instead, though, Cross feels perfectly comfortable killing suspects after either realizing they don't have any new information, or that they were actually guilty. This raises the question of when you last saw a thriller in which the cop or investigator captures the criminal at the end, puts them on trial, and gets their cathartic release watching them get sentenced to life in prison. Nah. Instead movies just look for cool ways for the hero to waste the bad guy in the final reel. And when that wasting occurs in a dull manner, as is the case with Along Came a Spider (I don't feel I've given too much away here)... Well, what's the point?Along Came A Spider begins with a tragic accident in which Alex Cross leads a botched sting operation that leaves his partner dead (in a horrid special effects sequence). Cross is so shattered he hasn't recovered 8 months later. That's what we're told, at least. Mostly Morgan Freeman just looks a little tired. Once he gets launched on a new case, though, the 8 months of depression cease to be a factor. The new case involves the kidnapping of the daughter of a US Senator. The kidnapper (gravel voiced Michael Wincott) seems to want fame, I guess, though it's never fully important. Cross picks up a new partner in the Secret Service agent who feels responsible for the girl's kidnapping (Monica Potter). For around ten seconds Cross has an adversarial relationship with a federal agent (Dylan Baker) who is leading the investigation until he drops jurisdiction and basically lets Cross take over. Things twist and turn and there are surprises and double-crosses galore.The fact that the surprises really aren't surprising is a moderate problem. The number of little details that make no sense are more problematic. There's a series of clues involving a Charles Lindbergh web page and web cam that are pretty foolish. In fact, any time the film references computers it seems out of its element. Every detail is off. But since the computer stuff is basically the only detective work in the movie, you've gotta wonder about things. At the end, Cross hacks into a suspect's computer, for example. He figures out the password in an arbitrary manner (and then enters the password into the only security field in computer history that actually shows the letters in a password onscreen as you type them) and he pretty much clicks on a series of files that might as well be labeled Motive, Kidnapping Evidence, and Where I'm Hiding Away. But I guess we don't see these movies for their realism. But absent any thrills, I guess I'm at a loss. Beyond the obviousness of the plot, nothing about Along Came A Spider is really bad. But I have equally little to recommend it.Like Kiss the Girls, Along Came A Spider is based on a novel by James Patterson. And like Kiss the Girls, Along Came A Spider is directed by a man who started in independent films and has graduated to making indistinct run-of-the-mill Hollywood thrillers. Lee Tamahori first made his mark with the searing Once Were Warriors, but since then he's gone from bland (The Edge) to dull (Mulholland Falls) to blankly innocuous (here). His style, which once seemed so fresh, has been so subverted that his next assignment is helming a James Bond film, the ultimate reward for a director who gets the job done without letting such irrelevances as personal style and vision cloud his judgement. In Along Came A Spider, Tamahori does nothing to call attention to himself, but also offers nothing of originality to goose the narrative along. Basically the suspense involves lots of thunderstorms, dark dank hiding places, and children in peril. That plus a climactic chase that makes you yearn for the skill of Dirty Harry. But basically all of the technical aspects of the film are acceptable (damning praise).Morgan Freeman, of course, is never anything less than an intelligent, composed, strong on-screen presence and you frankly wish more depth could be added to the Alex Cross screen persona so that Freeman could have a little more acting fun. As his foil, Monica Potter is, as always, a blonder, blander version of Julia Roberts. Potter's only true acting success, in my book, was in the Robert Towne Prefontaine story Without Limits. Otherwise, she's pretty much coasted on charm and a resemblance to the biggest star in Hollywood. In the smaller supporting parts Wilcott is fine, Baker is wasted, and you wonder how Penelope Ann Miller's career has disintegrated to the point where she has a half dozen lines here as the kidnapped girl's mother.So it's hard to know what to say about Along Came A Spider. You could pick at its plot holes for hours. But trying to pick it apart cinematically is a pointless endeavor. There's not much wrong, but there's not much here. This is a totally mediocre 5/10 film. "},{"Title":"If in doubt...","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I like this sequel to Kiss The Girls, but the script maybe a little weak. Morgan Freeman has done better things in his hugely successful career, but performs to his usual high standard.Monica Potter is a glamorous woman, her beauty taking precedence over her strong character portrayal. She seems a quiet lady, but Jezzie Flanagan's personality might be misleading, and could hide an angry and deeply hurt conscience, while the revengeful side to Michael Wincott works exceedingly well, such was his performance in the film Metro, and he convinces thoroughly.A thriller like Along Came A Spider does its best to keep the viewer interested, with tautly directed scenes and strong acting. Even so, this movie is not the best ever made, and may leave you wondering what the point was in making it in the first place.If you do watch Along Came A Spider, stick with it and enjoy what it offers - I certainly did. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Solid genre film but has no aspirations beyond that","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" When a senator's daughter gets kidnapped from a exclusive private school by her teacher Gary Soneji, the FBI are called in. However the kidnapper has his own agenda and phones Alex Cross, sucking him into the case even though he has not worked for almost a year due to the guilt he feels over the death of his partner. With the killer leaving him clues, Cross realises that Soneji is after fame and is using him to communicate to the world. Taking on Secret Service agent Jezzie Flannigan as his partner, Cross tries to work out enough about Soneji to profile and catch him.It has been too many years since I saw Kiss The Girls for me to be able to comment on the quality or lack thereof in the first film but I decided to give this sequel a try anyway. From the opening scene this is pure Hollywood with its clunky CGI and its simplistic plot device of the dead partner and so we continue with a fairly uninspiring thriller that is engaging enough but never does anything that special. It doesn't help that the primetime schedules are full of versions of Alex Cross in TV series mysteries but generally this film just plods its way through a story that isn't obvious so much as it is uninspiring. It is an enjoyable enough mystery that is professionally handled but it lacks imagination and flair. The twists come but the film is not exciting enough to prevent the audience from thinking and, in thinking it is easy to rip massive holes in the logic of the whole thing &#150; and thinking a plot is a bit silly doesn't help keep one interested. Tamahori directs without any distinction &#150; he isn't bad but again he doesn't do anything of that much interest.Instead he sits back and hopes that Morgan Freeman doing Morgan Freeman's Zen-cool&#153; will be enough to carry the audience along with the whole affair. Luckily for him this does work to some degree because Freeman on his day could sell shoes to fish. He is solid and professional even if he is underserved by the script. Wincott is good in a role that he could have made more of but instead is controlled and restrained. Potter is blond and dull and is not suited one jot to the role that her character grows into during the film. Baker deserves a bigger role while Miller, Horsford and a few others provide familiar faces.Overall then an entertaining but uninspired affair that pushes the right buttons but doesn't aspire to anything beyond the genre. The cast and the budget help but the story gets weaker the longer it goes on and although it will do enough for some viewers, it is nothing that special. "},{"Title":"Nothing compared to the book","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  What went wrong here?  A strong source novel by James Patterson.  A plot full of twists.  A director on his way up.  And Patterson wrote the screenplay, which makes the end film even more surprising.  All but the most blatant plot twists have been cut out so what we're left with is your average thriller.  Soneji starts out as a refreshingly believable killer - in fact, he's pretty normal - but then degenerates into a cliche'd raving loony.  The murder on the boat is commited as if Soneji were just killing a bird, which gives a stark realism to the film.  But it's not all bad.  The studio re-shot the ending (and boy does it show) but when the film is good, it's great Morgan Freeman can do no wrong and the cinematography is slick and Monica Potter is a real find.  If only the studio had had the guts to trust the audience's intelligence, this could have been the thriller to end all thrillers.  Read the book. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Most definitely CONTAINS SPOILERS. It kicks off with a bang. Unfortunately, this opening scene quickly destroyed my respect for the film and cashed in the only suspension-of-disbelief chip it held only minutes in. Someone as intelligent as Morgan Freeman's Alex Cross is supposed to be should have been able to come up with a better plan than this to trap a serial rapist. How in the world did he expect anyone to protect her while he's driving the car? The suspect has too much control in the situation. True, Cross kicks himself for it later, but I don't find it realistic that he would have put his partner's life at that much risk in the first place. Spider isn' t awful. But for a thriller, I found it to be less than engaging. Too bad because it's a good story. Secret Service agents outsmarting a criminal mastermind and turning it into an opportunity for themselves is a great concept. Now I'd like to read the novel. It's surely better.Tamahori and writer Marc Moss' execution of it is decent. No one's going to see that last big twist coming. You know something is off the whole time, just by the way Soneji is painted. The character is such a wreck, I'd have been disappointed if it HAD actually been him behind everything. One thing is guaranteed in a thriller like this There's always someone bigger waiting in the shadows. So Moss wisely chooses not to even try fooling us into thinking otherwise. The problem is that he keeps you guessing for too long. There is that whole sequence immediately following Soneji's failed attempt at kidnapping Dmitri, where nothing that happens makes any sense. This includes Cross' silly run through downtown D.C. (though at his age, you have to admire how nimble Freeman is).  He's asking himself why Soneji is just now asking for money, and so are we, especially seeing as we know Soneji doesn't have Megan any more. I think it would have helped if the audience didn't know the girl was gone at that point. Maybe show him returning to the boat and finding her gone after the train scene (but still do the scene right after the stakeout where he returns to the boat, only cut before showing Megan's compartment empty). That would have made it look like Soneji was simply becoming more desperate, having not scored his primary target. Hmmm.Placing Monica Potter in the rogue agent role was either a stroke of genius or a big miscast, I can't decide which. Just being who she is draws away all suspicion. Seeing her blow a guy's brains out was pretty freaky. It was like watching in an innocent child waving a gun around, not knowing the damage it can do. If this is the unsettling effect they were looking for, well, mission accomplished. Even so, something's off and it's this why make her a complete lunatic? It's too much of a leap in too short a time span.  Changes like this in characters need to be more gradual. Her wanting to kill Megan goes too far and is a plot flaw anyway (thanks T). She's got the money, why not just let the kid go? Heck, she could even continue being an agent if she wanted to. Jezzie's sudden change in demeanor is designed to create a more rousing ending to the film, but it doesn't make sense.For a much more intense, truly entertaining kidnap-themed film, try Ransom if you haven't seen it. I'm disappointed in Tamahori, who after making the great, David Mamet-penned The Edge, raised himself to a pretty high standard. Despite the mess Spider is, I hope Freeman takes the Alex Cross character for another spin. The man deserves a successful franchise.Grade D+     "},{"Title":"Unconvincing, Hackneyed and Cliché-Ridden","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along Came a Spider makes use of two of the most overworked clichés of the modern crime drama. The first is the criminal who commits his crimes as a sort of intellectual exercise and then plays games with the police by deliberately leaving them clues. In reality, of course, most criminals are motivated either by greed or by strong emotions such as anger, hatred or jealousy rather than by the desire to commit the perfect crime for its own sake; Leopold and Loeb may have been exceptions, but even they were not stupid enough to taunt the police in the manner of some fictional criminals. The second cliché of which the film-makers are guilty is that of the twist, the sudden revelation of information, previously withheld from the audience, which makes them aware that the true situation is not what they had previously been led to believe. Such twists normally occur towards the end of the film, and often involve the disclosure of information about the identity or motivation of one or more of the characters.The modern fashion for the pseudo-intellectual criminal, who commits crimes so that he can play a sort of mental chess with the detective, seems to have started with The Silence of the Lambs (in itself a reasonably good film). This fashion was followed in weaker films such as the overrated Se7en and the predictable The Bone Collector. The villain in Along Came a Spider is not (as in the examples quoted above) a serial killer but a kidnapper. His real name appears to be Jonathan Mercusio, but in the film he is normally referred to by his alias Gary Soneji. Soneji poses as a teacher in order to infiltrate an exclusive boarding school and kidnap the daughter of a senator. Soneji, who is obsessed with the Lindbergh baby kidnapping case from the thirties, then contacts the police to let them know what he has done and to give clues as to the girl's whereabouts. The title of the film derives from a comparison made between Soneji and a spider.The investigation of the crime is entrusted to Alex Cross, the Washington Police Department detective originally contacted by Soneji, and Jezzie Flanagan, the female Secret Service agent who was assigned to protect the girl and who failed to prevent her kidnapping. Like Jezzie, Cross is haunted by guilt, in his case over an earlier incident in which a female partner was killed. Like The Bone Collector, Along Came a Spider teams an older African-American male detective with a younger white female one. In both cases the female character has an Irish surname (Donaghy in the earlier film).Morgan Freeman is a highly talented actor, as he showed in films such as Driving Miss Daisy, Glory and Unforgiven, but his talents are often wasted in routine thrillers; Along Came a Spider is an example, and his next film High Crimes another. (Freeman also played the detective in Se7en; I have not seen Kiss the Girls, the other film in which he played the role of Alex Cross). Monica Potter gives a rather wooden performance as Jezzie; she is not as good as Angelina Jolie, who played the equivalent role in The Bone Collector, and certainly not as good as Jodie Foster in The Silence of the Lambs.I won't say what the twist is that occurs near the end of the film, as I don't want to write a spoiler, although I must say it is not a credible one. Indeed, it has the effect of casting doubt on most of what has gone before, converting a believable if routine thriller into one that makes no sense at all. (John Schlesinger achieved a similarly dubious feat the previous year in Reindeer Games, which featured not one but two separate twists). The writers of crime fiction, especially scriptwriters for films like this, generally have far more fertile imaginations than do the criminals themselves; consequently fictitious criminals tend to hatch over-complicated and unworkable schemes which no real-life criminal would entertain for a minute. Along Came a Spider is the sort of unconvincing, hackneyed, cliché-ridden thriller of which Hollywood has been churning out far too many in recent years. 4/10 "}{"Title":"The spider came along but really not that surprising","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman is, as ever, terrific in this movie which must have looked good as a written script. However, I don't think it quite hangs together as a plot - probably because some crucial scenes probably got lost on the cutting room floor. Never the less, entertaining hollywood fare which boasts some decent action sequences. See it on satellite or DVD. "},{"Title":"Your standard kidnapping movie","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film was a great disappointment. So many things didn't work, I don't really know where to begin.First, plot this is a pretty average kidnapping movie that contains nothing we haven't seen a million times before. Some plot twists are attempted, but they come as no surprise. The dialogue is weak and sounds as if it was taken out of a phrasebook. It's so full of cliché it sometimes really hurts.Acting none of the actors manage to progress beyond portraying a stock character. From good guys to bad guys, each and everyone is a plain boring stereotype. The script must have been pretty uninspiring for the actors. Morgan Freeman is a bit more pensive than the rest, but he just doesn't come across as a real human being.Photography average, and the car crash scene at the beginning is so obviously (and badly) computer-generated it hurts. Plus, too many close-ups of people being shot for my taste.All in all this is an average kidnapping movie with stock characters, predictable plot twists and lots of cliché in it. Thanks to Morgan Freeman I'll give it a 4, but that's just because I'm in a good mood at the moment. A major disappointment. "},{"Title":"A few too many plot twists","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Obviously Hollywood types have to pay their bills too. I'm pretty sure that's the only reason this turkey was made. Morgan Freeman did his best, I'm sure, but he wasn't given much to work with. The rest of the cast? Meh...With just about every kidnapping movie cliché' written in and outright ripoffs of a dozen other shows (the running from phone to phone sequence being lifted in toto from Clint Eastwood's first Dirty Harry)it's surprising that the writers were still able to keep the script as tension and interest free as they did.The plot holes are so freaking enormous as to make one start screaming at the screen halfway through. The whole effort is clearly a miss. "},{"Title":"A below average thriller","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" There are many top quality thrillers over the years but I'm afraid to say this film Is not one of them. The premise of the film sees a retired detective drawn back into his work when a congressman's daughter is kidnapped. Morgan freeman is easily the best part of this film which isn't really a surprise. He was great in the lead role and he really delivered in this private detective role that suited him very well. The villain was pretty good in this film even though you don't really know too much about him or about his motivations. However, I didn't really like the partner that freeman gets. It's just she didn't really have anything special about her character for the majority of the film. The story is very generic with similarities to allot of other films but it has a bit of suspense to it. That is until the 3/4 mark where there are a few twists that really spoil the overall plot of the film. The script doesn't provide the suspense or drama that you want, it also moves really quickly so you sometimes miss key dialogue. The style had some decent action scenes and a bit of good suspense. But once again there isn't anything that stands out and makes this film feel truly unique. Overall, this is a below average film that you can avoid. "},{"Title":"The Story Just Isn't as Interesting or Thrilling as it's Predecessor,and there are a Ton of Plot Holes,","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along Came a Spider is a decent movie with a good storyline that has several plot holes but still contains plenty of enjoyable scenes and a good cast.The movie certainly isn't as good as the previous Alex Cross movie Kiss the Girls,it just wasn't as exciting and there wasn't really any mystery as to who the kidnapper and other criminals were,they made the audience aware of everything so there was never a scene where you would be shocked or surprised.Morgan Freeman still does a good performance,but he's definitely done much better and I think he knew himself that about 90% of this script was far fetched and basically ridiculous.After watching this you will definitely be asking yourself a lot of questions,you'll be wondering how one thing happened,how did this happen,etc, you will definitely be confused because the writers clearly didn't develop this story enough.Along Came a Spider has it moments,but it's mostly just a mediocre crime movie and unless you want to see every movie that stars Morgan Freeman,I wouldn't recommend this movie.Forensic psychologist Alex Cross,teams up with secret service agent Monica Potter to track down a psychotic kidnapper.Best PerformanceMorgan Freeman Worst Performance Dylan Baker "},{"Title":"Was a sequel really necessary? Absolutely awful stuff with a predictable twist ending","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I didn't mind Kiss the Girls. It was predictable stuff, but at least it was fairly engaging, this couldn't engage you if it tried. Morgan Freeman sleepwalks through this one, and I don't blame him one iota. I think he wanted to grab his paycheck and get out; smart man. Mika Boorem was at least fairly sympathetic. I was able to feel for her, I'll say that, but I couldn't get by the dull pace and the rather passive approach to things. Michael Wincott is a great actor, and I relished his intense show. Monica Potter does what she has to do well. Too bad I didn't care about her. The movie tries to really shake things up with a big twist ending, but I saw it coming. Maybe I'm being too harsh on this one, but this movie really annoyed me. Final Thoughts Watch Kiss the Girls on a rainy day, leave this one alone, and thank me later. There is nothing worthwhile about this sequel, unless you really like to be bored. 3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Decent second outing...","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The comparably decent second Alex Cross outing to feature Morgan Freeman in the title role. This time it's a case of child kidnapping by a twisted mastermind with a very unpredictable agenda.Lee Tamahori directs and reminds that although he is an erratic talent, veering from the creatively skilled (THE EDGE, MULHOLLAND FALLS, THE DEVIL'S DOUBLE) to the downright atrociously incompetent (xXx 2, DIE ANOTHER DAY), he can manage to spark the target with some aplomb on a good day. Here he turns in a well-paced and gripping thriller laced with drama and intrigue.Freeman is excellent as Cross (again) and the supporting cast perform admirably. Michael Wincott delivers a nicely-judged turn as the egocentric and murderous villain of the piece and the twist is well-executed, if perhaps a little predictable in the scheme of things. My personal preference would be for the earlier entry KISS THE GIRLS, but this comes very close to the same standard. Even if it hadn't, it would still outstrip the dire ALEX CROSS (2012) by a good country mile or so "},{"Title":"Decent if unexceptional","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Morgan Freeman lends his customary gravitas to a glossy adaptation of James Paterson's crime thriller, but the better performance comes from Monica Potter (to the extent that it is surprising that this wasn't a breakthrough film for her). Michael Wincott is a pleasing baddie in his usual gravelly way, and there is a decent crowd of moderately well-known faces in the secondary parts - it is interesting to see Anton Yelchin, pre Hearts In Atlantis, as a very young lad.The thriller is perfectly satisfactory - the story is convoluted, there are periodic bursts of action, you are kept guessing, and there are a couple of twists. Maybe you'll guess them, maybe you won't. The whole thing is kept fizzing along by Lee Tamahori and, as long as you don't examine it too closely, it passes a couple of hours enjoyably enough. "},{"Title":"Above-Average...","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Adapted from the 1993 novel of the same title by James Patterson, 'Along Came A Spider' begins deliciously, but ends quite bland. Lee Tamahori knows the subject well, but the end could've really been better.Freeman stars as a disturbed detective, forensic psychologist, and author who is brought back in the game after a important personality's daughter gets kidnapped. The idea, as said is crispy and the film beings with a bang! The first 40-minutes are damn good. Sadly, the excitement is sloshed when the actual culprit is reveled. It doesn't come across as a shock, and that's it's biggest disadvantage. Tamahori's direction is super, while Marc Moss's adapted screenplay is flawed.In the acting department, Morgan Freeman is fantastic. The screen legend sinks his teeth into the character from start to end. Monica Potter is very good. Michael Wincott does not deliver. He makes a devilish character into a caricature.On the whole, It's an above-average thriller. One-time watch! "},{"Title":"Caught in the web","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  As a genre i usually love these films, where a clever serial killer tussles with an equally brilliant detective. And with Morgan Freeman in the lead role it is usually a recipe for success as in Kiss The Girls and Se7en. But Along Came A Spider never really captures you like te previously mentioned films. The script isn't particularly bad and certainly has some original ideas. But there are gaping holes that leave you wondering Why did that happen? and Why did he say that? Also i wasn't overly impressed with the choice of leading lady, and this causes no real chemistry like Jodie Foster in Silence of the Lambs or the friendship between Freeman and Pitt in Se7en. To summarise it's a film you should watch when it's on TV but there's no need to rush out and buy it. "}{"Title":"Err... well...","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big, BIG fan of Patterson's Alex Cross books, and I don't think it's really fair to link this film (or 'Kiss the Girls') to them, because they're COMPLETELY changed, COMPLETELY different. WHY didn't they keep the original names? That just seems really dumb to me...But, on the other hand, Morgan Freeman is his usual excellent self and the film was good. Not brilliant; it was good. Maybe I'd have liked the Cross films more if I'd never read the books... Do yourself a favour -- watch the stories, then READ them (in the correct order -- 'Along Came a Spider' comes first, then 'Kiss the Girls').~Mieko "},{"Title":"Milk and cookies, please!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I felt obligated to write about the beginning scene of this movie. There's a car crash that looks so fake, I'm surprised it wasn't endorsed by Cher herself. Easily the most laughable attempt at photorealism I've yet to see. This scene is reason enough to hate CGI. I've played videogames that looked more realistic. Besides that, the movie is blah and besides a cool little plot twist that you might or might not see coming, it's really not notable for any reason. I won't be watching this again unless I'm in the hospital and there's absolutely nothing else on the telly. And if you're trying to make sense of my one line summary, don't bother. I'm kind of hungry right now. Rating ** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Fans of the book will be disappointed","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I read the book first and as most people know books are usually better than the movie.  Well having seen Kiss the Girls and reading the book after, I was not disappointed at all, I thought the movie stuck very closely to the book.  So I was expecting the same from this movie.  I was greatly disappointed, I started watching the movie and couldn't even finish, but eventually did finish the movie.  Gary Soneji the villian is nothing like the Gary Soneji of the book, although the actor cast for the part could have totally pulled off the true Gary.  Morgan Freeman, the brilliant actor he is, is just getting to old to play Alex Cross who is a middle age man having relationships with most of the women of the novels, and Morgan being older means having to leave that out of the movies, which actually takes away from the story.  I guess if you're looking for a suspenseful film this would be somewhat interesting, but as for fans of the book, a BIG disappointment. "},{"Title":"It's crappy and it's boring","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  What a disappointment this film was.   Ludicrous coincidences, pathetic use of the internet to advance the boring plot, and lame acting all around, except by the great Morgan Freeman.   Monica Potter is beautiful, I couldn't take my eyes off her, but her character has all the emotional range of a rotting corpse.   Michael Moriarty is embarrassing as the Senator.   The kidnapped little girl is the most resourceful person since Robinson Crusoe, which is interesting at first, then more and more unbelievable as the movie plods along.   How does Alex Cross figure out how to log on to the kidnapper's computer? Well, you idiot, you should have paid attention to that scene 45 minutes ago when the password was discussed.   Too bad if you were out of the room during that time.   Save your money for seven or any film by Todd Solendz. "},{"Title":"Very, very. Average.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Little to say on this. A core of a plot you can pretty much peg in the first 20 minutes. I don't know where the twists were supposed to be.Loosely spoilersThe first half though, was excellent & had much potential, but then through a combination of a) plot holes, b) Morgan gaining clues (which countless times will make you remark well how the hell could he have known that) c) an incredibly over the top reliance on the unsuspecting kidnapper's actions to correspond with their own, d) dreadful police marksmen & e) the least security conscious computers & owners ever, it degenerates into a little bit of a farce.There wasn't much difference from the kidnappers leaving a folder on the dining room table saying Why I kidnapped the girl, How I done it & Where I am as opposed to what happened with the computers & it was an unconvincing schoolgirl at that. A real What was the point of that? film, which takes some believing, but despite all that it does have plenty of tension even if you know exactly how it will pan out. Morgan, although looking tired & bored is brilliant again & if you don't take it seriously you'll find some enjoyment in it. For the promise & acting ...a very low 6/10 "},{"Title":"Somewhat entertaining...like a Lifetime movie","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie was fairly entertaining if you can get past the plot holes. It's a thriller, where Morgan Freeman brings back the role of detective/profiler/mind-reader Alex Cross, who you may remember from Kiss the Girls.  It's based on the novel by Patterson, which I haven't read, about the kidnapping of a senator's daughter.  It was OK, but it could have been so much better in the hands of a great screenwriter.  Instead, it feels like Hollywood mailed this one in once Freeman signed on.The movie reminded me of the movies they show on the Lifetime network.  I watched this movie with my wife and she loved it as much as she loves the Lifetime marathons on Sunday.  The problem with Lifetime movies, and ACAS, is that they all treat the audience members like total idiots.  Important knowledge about the story is handed to the main characters, characters know or remember things that you wouldn't expect, etc.  Instead of creating an interesting way to get from A to B, we go straight out the A door and into the B door, as if the only reason the story even happens is so that we get caught by the plot twist at the end.  It's not suspenseful, and the only reason we get caught by surprise at all is because we've been lulled to sleep.  Thankfully, the movie ends quickly as soon as the pony shows his one trick.Along Came A Spider also contains my pet peeve, which is that it abuses technology to advance the plot.  The victims this time are once again computers and the internet, which the script abuses throughout the film - including the now classic I could explain the whole movie if I only knew this computer's password!  I would have been less insulted if the ghost of Alfred Hitchcock appeared and moved the story along.Monica Potter doesn't really get the job done as the female lead.  She's certainly pretty, but she's also as wooden as a mannequin.  I'm sure she has a bright career ahead of her starring in straight-to-Lifetime movies like She Walked Alone and Stranger With My Baby.  In fact, the only difference between Along Came A Spider and your standard Sunday on Lifetime is another great performance by Freeman, who is one of a few actors we can really count on.  He raises the bar on this film around 2 points for me, so I rate it a 6. "},{"Title":"eh why not 7/10","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I got more or less what I expected from this film.  I wasn't too impressed, I didn't hate it.  I think the film makes for a mildly entertaining watch, and it has a nice twist in the end.Better then Kiss the Girls, but that isn't saying much.  A nice movie to watch if you are bored, don't go out of your way, unless you are a huge Morgan Freeman fan.Monica Potter makes quite the impression. And doesn't she just look like Julia Roberts? "},{"Title":"The title doesn't make any sense, however this is a pretty good thriller mystery.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Yes, I too am one of those movie fans who thinks that Monica Potter sounds just like Julia Roberts. In fact, she looks like a blonde Julia Roberts, only somewhat more attractive.  I think she is a fine actress, and Morgan Freeman is a fine actor. Although I don't understand why so many fawn all over him.  He's not any better than four dozen or so other good male actors working today. Still, his acting style is perfect for the low-key investigator he plays here.SPOILERS - Do not read my review if you haven't seen the movie. Many reviewers have commented on the plot loopholes in this film. I disagree, there aren't any more than are contained in most fictional works, and whatever ones may be in this film certainly are not distracting.  Near the end, there is what I call a miracle happens when Alex (Freeman) finds Jezzie's (Potter) computer, quickly guesses (Aces&Eights) her password, and with a few keystrokes reads and sees all the pieces fall into place to lead him directly to the kidnapped little girl. Only in fiction, only in a movie, can this happen. But I forgive them, it would have been unbearably tedious to actually see him discover all that in a believable way.The meat of the story is this deranged (a mind is a terrible thing...) teacher, in disguise, who wants to pull a Lindbergh-like kidnapping of the century of a Russian student of his. However, there is too much security so instead he kidnaps the best friend classmate, a young girl. The teacher then arranged to use the girl to contact via their secret email code the Russian boy, coax him outside his home so he could be snatched.  Problem was, two others were aware of the teacher's plot, and they double-crossed him to get $10Million worth of diamonds.  The security man had set up a webcam showing where the teacher lived, so he would get caught, as part of their plan to pretend to be the kidnapper and get the diamonds.  Jezzie was the main perpetrator of the double-cross, and our only clue is early when the disguised voice is asking for the diamonds, we see her eyes shift back and forth, telegraphing her involvement. I only noticed it upon re-playing the scene later. At this point in the film she was still Alex's partner.The crooks would have gotten away with it, had it not been for the omniscience of Alex, who managed to piece together several very tiny clues which convinced him the teacher was not the real villian, and which lead him to suspect Jezzie.  But, that's why he is so good! Without that, there wouldn't have been a movie in the first place. And, as a tribute to his toughness, he does not hesitate to put a big one through Jezzie's heart at the end, to save the little girl. After he had used a shotgun earlier to snuff out the teacher.Not a great movie, still I like it better than Kiss The Girls. None of the plot twists seem forced, once I reflect on the whole movie. I rate it 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"~~The book was so much better~~","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I never thought I would say this, but the book was so much better.  It was almost like a totally different story.  The character of Gary Soneji was a major character in the book, but the movie down played him so bad that half way through the movie you had forgotten all about him.  Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite actors and his role in Kiss the Girls as Alex Cross encouraged me to read more stories by James Patterson.  The fact that he starred in the movie is really it's only redeeming quality.  He was a perfect choice for the character of Alex Cross, but for this film it was like watching a different person (maybe his role in Nurse Betty did damage to his career).  He did so much better in Kiss the Girls.I can only hope that if there are to be more Alex Cross movies that they seek a new director because Lee Tamahori did not do this movie the justice that it deserved.  Seriously who picked this guy?  I understand that he is now working on the new Bond film, let's just hope he doesn't muck that film up they way he did this one. "},{"Title":"Artificial story but still entertaining","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Good things Highly paced, never boring . Morgan Freeman is in it. Michael Wincott is good as the villain. Surprising plot twist. Some violence.Bad things Artificial story were clues are left intentionally. It´s not only Cross (MF) that is unbelievably intelligent, the kids are also too smart. One scene is directly copied from Dirty Harry. Soneji (Wincott) makes things unnecessary complicated for himself. Why not go directly for what you want, it would have been easier ? Why did his preparations have to drag on for years ? The ending, after the surprise plot twist, is very standard and becomes an anticlimax. Unbelievable use of computer clues, especially the improbable guessing of a password. (Anyone knows that an important password should never be something with a meaning that someone else can connect with you, so why choose such a password ? And why would Cross come up with the idea that this password had been used ? And even more illogical why leave clues behind in the PC in the first place ? The same password could also have been written in a number of ways, with `and' instead of `&', with only capital letters, only small letters or a combination, but Cross gets it right in the first try.)Minor problem Obvious use of computer graphics in the beginning.This kind of detective story, were the detective does not use conventional clues such as witnesses and fingerprints but have to find far fetched clues to make him look smart,  is very hard to make believable but the movie is still entertaining and well worth seeing.  A weak 7 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"...does whatever a spider can...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Yeah well, here you have the typical Morgan Freeman thriller, without the element of him being just a few days away from his retirement.The story is not that exciting, and the characters often do things which seem to be, well, just out of character.The surprise ending came as a total surprise, it was not hinted at anywhere during the movie and therefore it is not really a good ending - twisting the plot just for the element of surprise is a rather rude method to get the viewer off-balance, and it has been done better lately in movies like The Sixth Sense or Wild Things. Apart from these big downlets in the style division, there are some major questions remaining as to the main plot.My main complaint, ATTENTION SPOILER ALERT...ALERTWhen the kidnapper wanted to be famous, and when the only way of reaching this fame was to get the Russian presidents son, then why for heavens sake didn't he kidnap him INSTEAD of Megan in the first place? He could just as well have Dimitri called to his office instead of Megan - he would have pulled of his caper without the necessity to bring himself into danger once more at the Russian embassy...No, this movie was certainly not a memorable one. And Monica Potter as a bad girl? Come on, guys, who is going to buy this??? "},{"Title":"GOOD MOVIE THAT MAKES ME FEEL WARM AND FUZZY DOWN IN THE COCKLES OF MY STOMCH.","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie, it wasn't as good as SE7EN, but it was anentertaining mystery suspense.  Mr. Freeman did a thumbs up joband i applaud him.  Kudos to the production team for making amovie that was average.  This movie wasn't anything special but itworked.  The end is cool. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The archetypes, the twists, the filming--everything is standard fare, passably well done, but that's all","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along Came a Spider (2001)Well, Morgan Freeman is pretty dependable, and he keeps this movie going. Otherwise the use and re-use of tired plot devices and general crime clichés is too much. And some of the acting is pretty marginal, too, making for rough sledding.The essence is a kidnapping with ransom in play, and with the common addition that the criminal wants a particular cop to do the case. (For prestige.) So Freeman takes the case. The actual crime is clever and highly improbable (the criminal needed to be in disguise for 2 years straight before the crime--2 years!). And then the series of twists begins, with people who are not suspects suddenly (very suddenly) in the middle of it all.Of course these things all have their interest, so even as you watch knowing it could be better you're curious who did what and how. It makes sense, too, whatever the unlikelihood. Expect scene after scene to depend on Freeman's steady hand to keep it afloat.Director Lee Tamahori has an up and down career, and he's no stranger to mediocre productions, and so this is right up his alley (The Devil's Double is the more interesting, and the most recent). The most praised by far is the one dealing with his own New Zealand issues, Once Were Warriors, so that might be a place to go instead of this. If you, like me, never mind a good Morgan Freeman detective movie (there are lots of them), then you might get along with this just fine--with expectations in line with reality. "},{"Title":"Dim-witted nonsense about nothing ....","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ...unspiced by unwise life-observations freely offered by the Alex Cross character (Freeman) to the Jezzie Flannigan character (Potter). In this way the movie is perfectly symmetrical; meaningless insights embedded in a pointless story. The plot has very few twists &#150; if by twists we mean the head remains connected, however tenuously, to the tail. A lot of strange stuff does happen (it's just not connected to anything that went before). My suspicion is that the writer got these ideas by throwing darts against the wall - and came up with the final surprise when one bounced off the board and hit him in the head. Monica Potter is absolutely lovely to watch, and Morgan Freeman is suitably grim. My guess is that the film made money, and so for the principals, was worth the week it took to film, and the ten minutes it took to write. "},{"Title":"The worst adaptation of a novel I've seen in a long time","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I had just read the novel on which this screenplay is very loosely based. It's not a great novel but it's a good read when you want something light. The movie, on the other hand, is an almost unrecognizable adaptation.  The plot becomes ludicrous.  The kidnapper is two dimensional.  In the book he is psychologically fascinating.  What a waste of time.  Not even a good renter. "},{"Title":"Solid Thriller","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman turns in yet another solid performance. This man is building quite the solid body of work.The film has more than enough plot twists. I must confess that the final one had me shaking my head. Usually by this point in a film you can figure out which way it is going to turn, but it had me fooled.The film contains the standard ransom drop sequence. But even this was something that had a wrinkle to it. Well done.As a previous astute reviewer noted, Monica Potter is a dead ringer for a younger Julia Roberts. It took a while to draw the connection, which I found distracting when I finally realized who it was she reminded me of. Even some of her mannerisms were quite similar, which leads one to wonder if they were intentional.As these type of films go by today's standards, there was little unnecessary violence, which I found refreshing. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"Unaffected","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  With the exception of the impressive CGI car crash shown in the previews, this film failed to affect me in any way.It tried to be a 'Whodunit?' thriller, but succeeded best at being a contrived 'Who cares?'.  The storyline was tired, the mysterious mastermind of the crime was made obvious within the first 20 minutes for even the most passive viewer and the movie just stops at the end.  The acting was mediocre only because the script didn't give the actors much to chew on.Bottom line Sophomoric attempt at a thriller. "},{"Title":"story has good potential, but bad movie","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Gazillions of plot holes and other things that don't make sense.  The basic story is interesting and has great potential, but quickly gets ruined by the plot holes and lack of explanations well.  You'll find yourself saying, many times where the heck did THAT come from? Acting was ok.Best summed up as not thorough.  3/10.  Yep, there were THAT many plot holes. "},{"Title":"Laughably Bad","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Terrible film. Laughable 'computer jargon' scattered around for no apparent reason, plus a vast number of incredibly tenuous 'clues' that are followed by the police that bear no logical connection to each other (look out for the 'picture missing on the wall' scene and try to follow the logic). Senator's daughter is seemingly a trained commando for some unfathomable reason. Female lead is so unrealistically good looking it's distracting and boring. Music is pretty bad. Best part, (the money drop), is taken from ANOTHER FILM! Predictable, clichéd, tired... 2 stars go to the computer jargon - Hey, i downloaded some cool GIFs last night - wanna check em out? "},{"Title":"This film is just AWFUL!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The ridiculous plot is so full of holes it might be mistaken for  Swiss cheese. Don't waste your time or your money. One cliche after another actually helps this film - it gives the viewer something to chuckle at to help stave off the boredom or wonder why the writer thought that any of this was plausible or entertaining. "}{"Title":"The Sequel Spins Erratically","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" After a Cool Credit Sequence and a Kinetic Car Crash Opening Scene the Movie Descends into a Rather Lame and Pretentious Story that becomes Less Thrilling as Things move along with No Sense of Style, a Dull Screenplay and Dialog, and just about Everything in This Thing keeps it from becoming a Thrilling Thriller.The First Alex Cross Movie, 'Kiss the Girls (1997) was so much Better. Morgan Freeman returns here because the First Film was a Taut, Tight and Mysterious Success. It was Interesting, but this one is Not.Nothing seems to work. It's got a Decent Cast that cannot do Anything to Save this Clunker. The Computer Stuff is Instantly Unbelievable to anyone who knows anything about Personal Computer Capabilities in 2001.There are Plenty of Twists and whether You care or not will depend on Your Tolerance for Weak and Woeful Scenes that Drag on and on before anything Intriguing Happens. Overall, Average or a bit Below. It's one of those that Starts out Strong and Suffers Exponentially as it Unreels. "},{"Title":"Spoiled by wooden acting","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a classic detective story of a chase between grizzled police officer (Morgan Freeman) and intelligent, ruthless villain (Michael Wincott), who has kidnapped a politician's daughter.There is a good dose of double-crossing and plot twists involved and Morgan Freeman puts in an excellent performance as usual.Unfortunately the same can't be said of his costar, Monica Potter, who plays a secret service agent and is a terribly wooden actor. This is a shame because the movie centres on the relationship between Freeman and Potter's characters and as a result fails to convince.This could have been a good movie with better actors but in the end it's just OK. There's enough plot interest to keep things going and it's easy to watch, but don't expect to encounter any memorable characters here. "},{"Title":"complex web of deceitful clues of intrigue and twisted suspense","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" here is director lee Tamahori who has done some good action films like xxx die another day he directs this film that has some very good twist and turns and who is who so he has created a good triller so we have Morgan freeman back as Alex cross from kiss the girls he can be seen with his partner getting ready for a raid but as it happens the raid gets out of control and his partner in the car get hit and she dies Alex feeling responsibility he retires but a child who is being watched and groomed by a catch a psycho who abducts the child of a prominent family. The film is aimed at viewers who like crime puzzles and mind games. There's lots of action and dark suspense.Detective/psychologist Alex Cross and his partner Jezzie Flannigan who is played by Monica potter so with twisted plot starts in a school with the security at the school at top notch the senators daughter is there Gary Soneji who is played by a very good Michael Wincott who is a teacher plots his move with help of others as he uses computers to play mind games into his layer he so as the school realizes there has been a kidnapping the school closes as Alex comes to help he has keen sense for clues and finds the next clue on the hunt for Gary soneji but as he moves closer to the truth the answer is closer to him as he thinks so as Alex gets closes in soneji gives him clues is Alex running into a dead end as soneji keeps ahead but does Alex find the girl in time to rescue her great acting all round Along Came A Spider does have entertainment value, derived from its suspenseful action, and cloak and dagger intrigue, enhanced by excellent cinematography and good set design above average score 8.10 a short but clever film at 1hr38mins this is my 93 review "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Long before Tyler Perry turned Alex Cross into an action star, the all-star detective was portrayed correctly by the legendary Morgan Freeman. While the first film, Kiss The Girls, was a huge success, it's sequel, Along Came A Spider was a bust, once again due to the fact that the strengths of the character were not utilized properly. The character of Alex Cross was created by Author, James Patterson, and has been responsible for over 20 best selling novels, because he's unlike any other cop in any other mystery series. Cross is a psychologist first, who gets inside the heads of killers. Once he knows what they're thinking and why they're acting the way they are, Cross is usually able to capture them. These stories make for terrific novels, but when transferred to the screen, producers felt that they lack the action movie goers crave. Despite a successful first appearance on screen, the producers felt that with more action and bullets, the sequel would do even better, they were wrong. When a Senator's daughter is abducted from an upscale private school, detectives are at a loss, but call Cross in when evidence and a ransom demand turn up at his house. Cross believes the criminal is using his admiration to cover up the real motives for this crime, and he needs to play into that role, in order to determine what those motives are. This was a terrific novel, but wasn't right for the screen, so much of the story was cut and replaced by the manhunt and police chases. These elements make for a more intense film, but don't do justice to the story. Alex Cross and his abilities are the story and are what make the series unique. Morgan Freeman returned hesitantly to do the sequel and he was right when he said he shouldn't have done it, mainly because it takes away from the brilliance of the first film. The producers of this movie even managed to screw up a terrific surprise ending and that really says it all. Along Came A Spider is not a bad film, it certainly has it's movements and a legendary star, but if you're a fan of the Alex Cross novels, expect to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"When Will a Decent Screenwriter Come Along?","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along Came a Spider (2001) Dir Lee Tarahori / Cast Morgan Freeman, Monica Potter, Michael Wincott, Billy Burke, Dylan Baker Prequel to Kiss the Girls referring to numerous spiders, one little girl, and the detective they intend to frighten. Alex Cross is introduced in an unnecessary opening sequence where he loses a partner. He leaves work for eight months resorting to alcohol. The Senator's daughter is kidnapped by a professor and her shoe is found in Cross's mailbox. He pairs with guilt-ridden Monica Potter who was in charge of the victim. Director Lee Tarahori allows information to surface. He previously made a much better film in The Edge. Effective plot turns hardly make up for the numerous shortcomings. Freeman is a great film presence but his opening here barely matters to the rest of the film. The only notable element is that he will only use violence as a last resort. Potter is also cardboard until the third act where she becomes more interesting. Michael Wincott plays the villain, which is hardly a surprise since he seems to be the top of the list for actors to play villains. Billy Burke also makes an appearance until he is killed off. Dylan Baker is another talent who has been better used in other films. While Kiss the Girls is hardly great suspense, it at least had a premise and superior production, while this film spins a web of total nothingness. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"Invited on the hunt","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Morgan Freeman made his second appearance as police detective/profiler Alex Cross in Along Came The Spider. Cross is a man of both thought and action and Freeman certainly covers both aspects of his character well.Michael Wincott plays a master criminal who Cross has been on the trail of in the past. His latest scheme involves the kidnapping of young Mika Boorem who is the daughter of US Senator Michael Moriarty. The young lady rates some Secret Service protection which is never really gone into other than possibly Moriarty is announced candidate for president.But her detail which is in the charge of Monica Potter is completely outfoxed by Wincott in disguise who snatches Boorem right from the grounds of an exclusive school that she attends. Wincott then practically invites his old adversary Freeman in on the hunt by sending an article of clothing that Boorem wore to Freeman's house.What seems to be a battle of wits between Freeman and Wincott at first is far from that. There are a couple of other players in this game and they just might be holding the winning hand.I really was impressed with how Freeman got into all aspects of Detective Alex Cross. This man is intelligent and compassionate and is not easily fooled. Those other players in the game think they've got Freeman bamboozled, but he's far from that.Along Came A Spider is an intelligent action thriller with major kudos going to Morgan Freeman for his portrayal of Alex Cross. "},{"Title":"Along comes a better Alex Cross film","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" We have a new crime fighting character in the second of the Jay Patterson books transferred to film- Alex Cross, and it comes off better second time around. This is a more more exciting or livelier film, opening with a thrilling start, which shows Alex Cross's reasons for retiring. He's called back in on a special case, involving the kidnapping of a congressman's little daughter (a real smart cookie) at a collegiate school by a nutter (a fantastic Michael Wincott who has a brilliant facade one might say at the start) who really just wants notoriety than money, but there's a bigger picture here. Yeah, I did have issues with the unsatisfying motive of Wincott's, but there's other qualities in this film that make up for it, so all can be forgiven. Assisting Freeman is a young female agent (Monica Potter-No, it's not Julia Roberts) bed sitting the daughter at school, who fails in his task in protecting her, and feels much obliged to help. The twist in this film is a killer, one of the best, I've ever witnessed, the film's title baring a classic connotation to this aspect. There's much more activity in this film, than the prior, and it's more action paced. This is definitely for fans of Freeman's or as a bonus, for fans of Kiss The Girls. "},{"Title":"Super generic and forgettable","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I read the book this is based on shortly before watching this and thoroughly enjoyed it so I was interested to see the film. Like the book, this is about detective Alex Cross investigating a child abduction. As much as I love Morgan Freeman he's not my choice for Alex Cross and he's miscast in this OK but totally average thriller. Looking at the film from an objective point of view, this is an OK film technically but when compared to the book, it lacks the depth, twists and thrills which made the book such a non stop nightmare. Morgan Freeman is less interesting than usual and miscast and the film is in general just forgettable. To be fair, you can't really expect much from the person who did Die Another Day and if you haven't read the book you'll likely find this watchable and moderately entertaining. It's got plenty of tense moments and is more patient and mature than some films of its kind. The visuals are decent as is the script (despite a multitude of plot holes) and the film never becomes unwatchable.The main problem is that it's so generic and wasteful of the source material. It goes down the road into cliché town with great enthusiasm and never really hits a peak. It can be dull and it has quite a few implausible situations. The revelation of Jessie Flanagan as the antagonist made sense in the book, but it doesn't here. The film is also derivative of better things and doesn't add anything whatsoever to the detective genre. There is apparently another Morgan Freeman film, which adapts the slightly inferior but still good sequel Kiss The Girls. That is apparently even more unfaithful so I don't plan to watch it. How bearable you find the film pretty much depends on whether or not you've read the book. It lacks charisma or soul, but makes up for it since it has a certain sense of dread, tension and realism. An OK movie. Nothing more. Nothing less.5/10 "},{"Title":"Surprise Surprise","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along came a spider was a very good crime-mystery-thriller film. Certainly much better than the disappointing Kiss the Girls film, a film which was pretty predictable, but what makes Along came a spider stand out are its twists and turns. The film is some mystery no doubt and is certainly worth watching for movie lovers.The story is about a forensic psychologist named Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman) who retires after a disastrous sting operation that resulted in the death of his partner. He immediately retires, but later, he is pretty much drawn back to the police force again after a congressman daughter named Megan Ross (Mika Boorem) is kidnapped at school by a 'teacher'. This kidnapper then drags Alex (Morgan) into this by placing the shoe of the girl in his mailbox, then, Alex (Morgan) along with Jezzie Flannigan (Monica Potter) presumably Alex's (Morgan) new partner must find out where Megan Rose (Mika) is, who kidnapped her and WHY?Like I've said, its a good film with lots of twist and turns and that was one of the major reasons I enjoyed this film. This film made me jump off my couch with one of its twists, it made me smile a lot since I didn't expect it at all. The film no doubt gets you intrigued, it is a film certainly worth watching, Morgan Freeman role as Alex Cross was simply brilliant in this movie. I give this thriller of a film a deserved 8 but only just. Its a film worth watching for sure. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie, Ideal Thriller","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Directed by unknown to most Lee Tamahori, this action thriller will have you sitting at the edge of your seat from start to finish!The plot starts out in a very straight-forward manner a man with an ambition to become criminal legend kidnaps the daughter of a congressman right out from under the nose of the FBI. He then sends a note and a sneaker of the girl to Detective Alex Cross, hence forcing him out of his self-inflicted isolation, the reasons of which are explained in the opening scene. Along with the FBI agent who was in charge of security at the scene of the crime, he follows the clues laid out by the kidnapper in order to find the girl. And so the story goes. The kidnapper is portrayed by the always formidable Michael Wincott, the best serial villain on that side of the Atlantic. He should have the Best Supporting Role awards piled up in his attic. Alex Cross, whom we remember from Kiss the Girls, and portrayed by Morgan Freeman, is just the kind of cop you like best sincere, sympathetic, intelligent, thorough and committed. Monica Potter features as the FBI agent determined to redeem herself after she let the kidnapper escape. This may not be a blockbuster, but this solid and underrated thriller delivers what so few of them have to offer these days a final plot twist that genuinely surprises. It shall not be revealed here. "}{"Title":"Fine","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" An OK thriller, but nothing terribly original. As a mainstream detective film, it does quite well. It is well-acted by everybody, especially Michael Wincott. Though perhaps that is because he has one of the few characters with a bit of diversity (as well as Monica Potter perhaps). Morgan Freeman puts in a great performance as always, but his performance didn't comprise of as much as it should have. The character of Cross was fairly 2-dimensional.The plot is decent, only perhaps a tad ridiculous in places, with the killer laying out very, very obscure clues which he somehow assumed would be solved. The ending has a few nice twists and turns, but does leave a couple of unanswered questions.The main problems are that it isn't very original or creative and it is quite dull, for a thriller. Well, maybe not dull, but it just lacks any suspense or tension, probably because the villain is more likable than Cross. Certainly more interesting. A lot of the scenes involving Cross and the villain are almost lighthearted. I wouldn't go as far as to call it boring, because it's not. It just isn't very tense either. "},{"Title":"How does Morgan Freeman stay the same age?","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing this gem in a theater (I guess it must have been about 14 years ago) and Monica Potter seemed so young and vivacious like Ashley Judd who is just a tad older than Monica (point of fact) but still looks incredible... I guess it's a southern thing (Monica from Ohio and Ashley from SoCal.).In any case after looking at the time that has gone by it would seem that Morgan Freeman should have aged as well but he still looks pretty much exactly identical to how he did in this movie so I'm calling Conspiracy on Morgan Freeman an his anti-aging technologies!Don't get me wrong... he doesn't appear any younger... he just doesn't appear to be getting any older either (for the last 20 years?). "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman great but hate the twist","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Detective profiler Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman) loses his partner after the perp drives them over a dam. He's been hiding ever since. Senator (Michael Moriarty)'s daughter Megan Rose (Mika Boorem) is kidnapped under secret service agent Jezzie Flannigan (Monica Potter)'s watch. The kidnapper is disguised as teacher Gary Soneji (Michael Wincott). He calls up Cross to get him back into the game. Agent Ollie McArthur (Dylan Baker) is now in charge. Agent Ben Devine (Billy Burke) is also in trouble along with Flannigan. Cross teams up with Flannigan who has known Soneji for the last 2 years. It's a cat and mouse game where Soneji seems to be inspired by the Lindbergh baby kidnapping.Morgan Freeman reprises his Alex Cross role from 'Kiss the Girls' replacing Ashley Judd with Monica Potter. They form a good team. I like him in this role. He is more cerebral than muscle. It's got good tension. It's on track for a very good thriller. Then the twist comes and the logic goes all to heck. This could have been better. At least we still have Morgan Freeman. "},{"Title":"Simple, straight-forward kidnapping thriller.","Date":"23 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a sequel to Kiss the Girls, once again starring Morgan Freeman as detective/psychologist Alex Cross, who this time loses his partner while on the case and cannot forgive himself of the incident. When a congressman's daughter is kidnapped, he is back on the workforce and sees that the kidnapper has a personal vendetta with him.There is some mystery and a little kick-butt action in this film that will surely keep the audience at least mildly entertained. The story is straightforward and simple, but provides for a good conventional thriller. Freeman is intelligent, thoughtful and committed in his role as Cross and Monica Potter is an attractive and unpredictable FBI agent, determined to help Cross nab the kidnapper.With limited action and tension, I have, however, seen more exciting thrillers than this. However, it's still worth the watch.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Crime and Mystery...","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along Came a Spider is a movie which has to do with a kidnapping of a girl who is a congressman's daughter from a private school by an insider teacher. This kidnapper calls Det. Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman) who is recovering from the loss of his partner, to solve this case.I liked this movie because of the plot and because this movie combines really well the mystery of a crime with the suspense for the solution of this case. I also liked it because is a subversive movie and because of the interpretations of Morgan Freeman who plays as Det. Alex Cross,Monica Potter who plays as Jezzie Flannigan and of the bad guy Michael Wincott who plays as Gary Soneji.Finally I have to tell you that the interpretation of the little one Mika Boorem's who plays as Megan Rose was really outstanding. I also believe that Lee Tamahori in the direction of this movie did a really great job. "},{"Title":"When any old swill will do","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" What an embarrassment! Yet another Royal Nonesuch. Actors, indeed, almost anyone except the director and editors can be forgiven for being involved with this ridiculous dog of a movie because they have little idea about how bad it is going to scan when it comes out of the cutting room. What's wrong with it is that it stretches credibility until the movie becomes pathetic and laughable. Need specifics? Well for one, imagine a dwarf impersonating Frodo Baggins every day for five years in a high security private school by simultaneously a) single-handedly applying prosthetic makeup to himself good enough to fool all the students, administrators, teachers and secret service agents for five years running and b) being an top-notch hot-shot impeccable empathetic computer science teacher.Imagine he does all this so he can kidnap one student from the class, for the sole purpose of tricking a second student from the very same class to expose himself to a second completely different, but wholly ad hoc, drive by and snatch kidnap plot. He seems to be a complete loser except for pulling this plan off, for which he has no apparent motive, and appears to have a million dollars worth of security equipment stashed in his apartment. Oh, and he has a yacht. When James Bond went up against Specter, the Specter gadgets were always unbelievable but, because it was a big well-healed outfit, it was possible to suspend disbelief, but a loser wearing buck teeth and a wig---come on.Or how about the explosive charge the kidnappee happens to find hidden behind the intercom face plate in her otherwise featureless cell, padded like the confinement room in an insane asylum.And that's just for starters. I kept expecting Martians to teleport into the inside of the police revolvers and sabotage the firing pins--at least we were spared that! "},{"Title":"A good movie... but could have been better.","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ALONG CAME A SPIDERThis is a typical thriller. It is a good movie and I really enjoyed it, but it is nothing that is new really. Everything you see in this film has been done before in other thrillers.There are some predictable moments and some twists that I didn't see coming, which makes for a good thriller. You don't want the whole film to be predictable. I like the element of surprise in films and this one had a couple of moments that surprised me.The movie is about a detective who is looking for a kidnapped child of a senator. The problem is this kidnapper has a grudge with the detective.The movie star Morgan Freeman and Monica Potter. Morgan does a good job&#x85; I think Morgan is a very good actor, but a lot of the characters he plays are the same. I still think his best film was Se7en.Monica also did a great job&#x85; she was very convincing in her character and you feel sorry for her through the movie as it was her character that was supposed to be protecting the kidnapped girl.My favourite character was the bad guy though, played by Michael Wincott. He was very convincing and had a great face and personality in the film that made the part more convincing&#x85; I believed he was crazy.The story played along at a good pace too&#x85; there were no boring moments and I didn't get bored at all through the movie,It ran for over 90 minutes, but it felt less than that&#x85; and that is generally a sign of a good movie. Time does fly when you are having fun.The main negative thing I could say about this film was the makeup&#x85; the kidnapper was wearing prosthetics at the beginning of the movie and pretended to be someone in a group of people&#x85; but the prosthetics were so bad, as soon as I saw him I said to my wife He is wearing a mask&#x85; it is so obvious&#x85; I thought they could have made the mask more convincing. But then this film was made in 2001. Perhaps they make up was not as good back then.This was a very entertaining movie and a lot of fun&#x85; but unfortunately there was nothing really original there.I will give this film 7 out of 10.I just hoped there would be some twists in it that I had never seen before.For more reviews, please check out my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Gets entangled in it's own web","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along Came a Spider starts out quite well, but immediately after the opening credits and the opening scenes, we are brought into the happy-go-lucky thriller world. Now, this movie entertains, but the one thing it does not do is stick. It has many plot holes.Dr. Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman) has gone into a world of isolation after the death of his partner. But, one year later, a brilliant criminal (Michael Wincott) manages to kidnap the daughter of a United States senator from the heavily-guarded private school. He then draws Cross back into the game where he must team up with the secret service agent that let the girl go (Monica Potter).This film, like many other films, suffers from the one to many plot twist disease. The film is traditional, nothing new here. It is quite enjoyable, but just doesn't stick. *SPOILERS* Like, when Cross is hacking into some computer, he notices something (convenietly) and clicks on something on the computer which just so happens to bring him into some handy-cam that leads him into the home of the kidnapper (even more conveniently). And then there are many more things wrong with this film, but I just don't want to bother going through them all. "},{"Title":"Errors in dialog","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" When Cross rescues Megan in the barn he asks her, Jezzie, are you ready to go home... (a mistake perhaps because the ending was re-shot, after a long delay, and the writers were confused.) The only other explanation would be that Cross, having just killed Jezzie, is suffering from some deep emotional regret, but if that is so Freeman's portrayal is short of the mark. A previous comment remarks on the distances and locations Cross must travel by Metro and on foot in DC, and notes mistakes. A glaring error is that Cross, even if he were an Olympic athlete, could not have achieved the effort. Also, a movie scenario of racing from public phone to public phone to get the next track to a goal is an old, well worn, Hollywood trick, and overworked (something like the obligatory high speed car chase, in movie after movie.)Kiss the Girls was true to the original book, and I really enjoyed it, even knowing the story from the beginning. From what I read in the reviews, Along Came the Spider does not follow the book, although I did not read the novel. "},{"Title":"We Do What We Are !","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Since Detective Virgil Tibbs who was portrayed by Sidney Poitier in 3 movies (In the Heat of the Night - 1967), (They Call Me MISTER Tibbs! - 1970), and (The Organization - 1971) we didn't run into more black crime solvers in movies, and be that genius, for a long time until Dr. Alex Cross (by Morgan Freeman) in (Kiss The Girls - 1997). While his first appearance was in kind of fair thriller, this return is better and more attractive in my point of view. From the first time I rented (Along Came a Spider - 2001) on 27/1/2003 I fell in love with it. The elements are all high and solid. The bright cinematography, Jerry Goldsmith's music, and the fresh performance, certainly we have a case where nothing is glaringly wrong. I enjoyed it more than once for its good cinematic work. (Morgan Freeman) is more charismatic than ever, doing a share of action as well. (Monica Potter) is a treasure, being awfully pretty and talented in the same time, though got no work in Tinseltown !? (Maybe she refuses to appear naked for instance, I know that what Hollywood always asks nowadays !). (Michael Wincott) made one of his most remarkable roles to date, being on the edge between a disturbed criminal and a wronged genius; I believed his sane performance so much. Yet, the one that I savored the most was that director. (Lee Tamahori), who came from New Zealand few years earlier, made deservingly a discrete name. I adore his work utterly. He can lead such a fascinating action all the way, with an unusual professional technique. He got lovely aesthetic feel, can formulate the simplest details as stately, and most of all he doesn't show off. He's capable of recreating a plain thriller as something so cohesive, engaging, and memorable without factitious or hyper anything. In one word, he's the old-fashioned school at its best. I always recall the sequence in which Freeman was running all over the streets of Washington D.C, or surely the one with the two leads having a tough moment under the rain in front of the Russian embassy; this is a magical moment of cinema. No wonder that shortly after he'll be selected to make the next James Bond's movie (Die Another Day) which I consider as a big masterpiece for both Tamahori and Bond. Although, this is the 100 minutes type of ride, but there are some interesting points  the way this kidnapper was communicating with the police (smart riddles), the screenplay's twists, and the good dialog. Just try to remember another thrillers where you hear lines like we do what we are, they are few, very few. Since I was a kid I loved reading the suspenseful novels, respecting just the strong ones, so by loving this movie I do what I am indeed ! Name one bad thing about it ? Hmmm...well, maybe one discovering for some information near the end was too easy to a little bit fabricated extent, the movie's title which's identical with another TV thriller from the 1970s that I see as lower, and finally the way people look at it as a small flick !! while it's fine, with no CGI crap, and still good damn way to spend an afternoon. P.S  (Monica Potter) doesn't look anything like (Monica Potter) on the poster ! "}{"Title":"This Is Along Came a Spider??","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The entire plot of the great James Patterson thriller has been gutted and transformed in so many ways. The great psychopathic killer comes off more like a common kidnapper, main characters are missing (John Sampson, Cross's family) as well as major plot points. Other characters' names are changed as well as some of their identities. This movie might have been better if it was changed a bit more and marketed as a different story. So, why even 3 stars? Well, Morgan Freeman and some others are well-casted and the great plot twist stays the same. If you haven't read the book,you might enjoy it. But if you have read the book, stay away!!!! "},{"Title":"Thriller","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I am a fan of Morgan Freeman and he did not let me down in this film. Freeman plays the part of Alex Cross, a renowned criminal profiler who is lured out of his depressive state to help the FBI track down a kidnapper. Although extremely far fetched in parts, (password guessing included) there are some very clever scenes. My personal favourite is the scene with silver flask - reminds me of the third die hard movie. The film seems to flow smoothly and whilst not a complicated plot, it will keep you watching right until the end. Definitely a film you can only watch once unless you have a really bad memory. Michael Wincott plays a very good mad man whilst Freeman is at his cool calm best. Not the best thriller by any means but well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Decent Thriller","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along Came A Spider is based on a novel by James Patterson, and has Morgan Freeman reprising his role as FBI psychologist Alex Cross. This is film is not as good as Kiss the Girls, and is not as dark, but it does fill a spot and is decent viewing.The basic plot of the film is Alex Cross is called out of retirement after a Senator's young daughter is kidnapped from her school under the noses of the Secret Service. The kidnapper picks Cross to be the main negotiator because he is damaged he is suffering from grief and guilt after the death of his partner.The film is not the most well written, with some of the plot twists a bit unbelievable but it does offer some gems like general politics and the politics within the Secret Service, the kidnap itself (the first 30 minutes are the best) and the general psychology of the characters. There is some good acting, Morgan Freeman can never give a bad performance, even in bad film. I thought the young actress playing Megan Rose (the kidnap victim), Mika Boorem, was very good and has promise, but I felt that the filmmakers could have shown more and play up the impact of being kidnapped. Michael Wincott and Monica Potter also offered decent performances. Lee Tamahori, the director, was really just a gun-for-hire director, but he still did solid job. He wasn't terrible but not spectacular. This was his last decent film because he ended up directing Die Another Day, XXX2 State of the Union and NextDecent enough film if it is on television. "},{"Title":"Well done movie","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" After an obligatory prologue in which its detective hero suffers a tragic professional setback, Along Came a Spider sets about its business of luring the viewer into its nefarious plot, relying on the magician's technique of misdirection to reveal a double-whammy surprise. The clever, late-coming plot twist is a bit too mechanical but effectively unexpected, making this a satisfying prequel to the hit thriller Kiss the Girls--based on the first of James Patterson's Alex Cross detective novels--and a welcomed addition to a promising movie franchise. It's no better or worse than a good vintage episode of Peter Falk's Columbo, adhering closely to the mystery-thriller's time-honored traditions, but with Morgan Freeman settling comfortably into his role as seasoned sleuth Alex Cross, familiar formula is given fresh vitality. When a senator's daughter is kidnapped from her high-security private school, the kidnapper (nicely played by the underrated Michael Wincott) draws Cross into the case, knowing that the psychologist-detective's involvement will bring high-profile publicity. Cross partners with the Secret Service agent (Monica Potter) who botched her assignment, but wait... the movie's got a rabbit in its hat... and that rabbit has an ace up its sleeve... and director Lee Tamahori (who brought similar intensity to The Edge) handles the sleight-of-hand with slick precision, dispensing just enough information to keep the viewer off guard without resorting to cheap manipulation. Don't look for much depth of character here, but Along Came a Spider is well served by everyone involved. It's the movie equivalent of a bestseller you'd impulsively buy at the grocery-store checkout, and on those terms it succeeds. "},{"Title":"worth a look but never memorable","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Heavily distraught over a sting operation that went awry, Dr. Alex Cross has little time to fully recuperate when he's drawn into a highly publicized case by a meticulous criminal who abducts the young daughter of a D.C. Senator. Teamed with a Secret Service agent, Cross must put aside all of his emotional baggage and play the kidnapper's elaborate game in order to save the girl's life. Watchable but nothing special mystery/thriller goes a long way on the strength of the always dependable Freeman, but the setup is familiar, the plot twists insignificant, and the finale ineffectual. Fans of the genre may buy into it, but the film never builds any genuine feeling of suspense or excitement. ** "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Good Thriller. Has Many Scenes Which are very Genuine. All the Actors Deliver Outstanding Performances. Not Only Can This Film Be Credited as A Thriller, but Shares some Horror/Suspense Moments. In My Opinion, This is the Best Film of 2001. Rent It If you Have been Waiting for a Great Spellbinding Mystery. "},{"Title":"Your usual run of the mill Copy cat Killer Movie","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along came a spider is no more of no less than average. It is a movie about a guy who kidnaps a senators daughter to become famous(this motive is a big reason for this film not being credable), along the way detective Cross ( Morgan Freeman)tries to get into the mind of the criminal in order to save the girl. This film has a lot of questions to be answered .Such as, Why did the senetor hardly ever speak ? How did the Girl move the bed to block the door when afterwards she couldnt move it? I wouldnt recommend this film as it just lacks a certain aspect that makes a Thriller , thrilling. Freeman is good as is Monica Potter but not good enough to make this film memorable. I would say this is NOT as good as Kiss the Girls. 6 out of 10.     "},{"Title":"Oh Dear.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If the creators of this film had decided to change the title and all the character names (instead of just some of them - what was the point?) I probably wouldn't have recognised this as the brilliant James Patterson book which made me hooked on the author.  What a terrible disappointment.  They have taken Patterson's incredibly rich mix of tense storylines and deep characters and turned it into something transparent which a bunch of characters, all of which I couldn't really care less about, even the main character Alex Cross who is so endearing in the books.  They took the basic idea of the plot and added so many holes interspersed with tenuous links as to make it embarrassing to the author.  I can only hope that those of you who were put off reading the book after seeing the film read this so I can assure you that you will glean infinitely more pleasure from the book than the film. "},{"Title":"A little slow; Michael Wincott is good","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If you saw or read KISS THE GIRLS, you will suspect how the ending is going to turn out, which may take away from your enjoyment of the movie. Morgan Freeman is of course excellent, and Michael Wincott plays another in a line of smart, witty, and vaguely psychotic criminals. The little girl is good, but perhaps too precocious to be a real little girl (to fit the requirements of the story). I liked this more than KISS THE GIRLS. "},{"Title":"well paced thriller","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  along came a spider was certainly an above average thriller but it  did seem a little contrived at times. Michael wincott's character was built up a lot but just seemed to crumble away when his game was up. Morgan freeman has done roles like this a lot (seven) & he did his part well but a character change is now in order. Monica potter looked too young & pretty to be in this film & didn't really fit her character's part that well.A lot of this film shows the police forces as idiots which isn't far off but the diamond drop was really unrealisitic & Looked tagged on to keep the film going. The best point of the film was the performance of the girl Megan who showed that not all young kids are nuisances in films.Along came a spider does its job well but the investigators did really appear to be really dumb which went a bit far on several occasions "}{"Title":"horrible title...","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The worst part of the movie is Monica Potter's acting as the same annoying character as in Patch Adams.  And there are too many long scenes where she and Freeman have deep discussions about their pain.Other than that, standard B-flick.  But why the lousy title?  Spiders? "},{"Title":"I WAS HOOD WINKED!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This one got me good!  Didn't see it coming or going and consequently thoroughly enjoyed the 'ride'.  I'll leave it at that with this caveat  go in without prejudice or preconception and leave entertained.  Many red-herrings, no spiders, lots of rain, an acceptable quantity of decent acting.   "},{"Title":"uh...","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  What can I say about this movie but IT SUCKED!!! The only good thing in it was the villain (Gary Soneji, played by Michael Wincott). I mean, all of you who say this movie is good, have you ever read the novel?! Alex Cross is a vibrant cop, not a tired one. He experiences passion with his wife, and is basically NOT Morgan Freeman. (Don't get me worng, MF's a great actor, just not for this part.)  "},{"Title":"Amazingly Horrible","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely in my all time top ten worst film list.  I can't imagine that the people involved with the making of this film thought they were making anything of substance.  Horrible screenplay, horrible direction, and with the exception of Freeman, horrible acting (often consisting of just shots of facial expressions).  You know you're in trouble from the opening scene, it's clinched by a hilarious car wreck, and followed up with every cliche in the book.  I especially like the part when the bad guy gets away on 3 tires.  Possibly worth seeing just for a laugh, but I would recommend skipping altogether.   "},{"Title":"About what I expected...","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Overall, it was a decent flick, worth the dollar rental.  Morgan Freeman is, as usual, fantastic.  Michael Wincott was great, too, as the seriously disturbed Soneji.  The man was born to play villains and FINALLY, he gets to be one that's not 2D.Oooooooookay...bad points.  Weak script.  After such a dynamite job of transferring KISS THE GIRLS to the screen, you'd think with even more complex villains that the scriptwriter would have been...I dunno, better. Monica Potter...couldn't stand her.  Her voice grated on my nerves in a major way and she had two facial expressions tears and completely emotionless.  If they were going for the Julia Roberts type of heroine, then why...oh WHY did they not try to get Ms. Roberts?  The movie would have been so much better.  There are so many scenes between Cross and Flannagan. Such a mediocre actress against Morgan Freeman slowed the movie down.  The beginning sequence?  umm...it's been awhile since I've read the book, but I really don't remember Tracie.  And, since everyone else has mentioned it, I won't talk about the CGI in the beginning.  And the last 1/4 of the flick...yuck.There's more, but I think you get the point.  It started good, but then goes downhill about 1/3 of the way into it.  So, class, in summary  watch for Freeman and Wincott, ignore Potter and the script, then READ THE BOOK.  "},{"Title":"A Mediocre Thriller that sets no precedent...","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Formulaic thrillers have been in effect for a  long time. Thus it has become increasingly difficult to create a fresh, new and invigorating cinematic experience for the audience in terms of the thriller genre. This applies to the kidnap thriller &#145;Along Came A Spider'. Despite its' plot filled with numerous twists and turns on the &#145;who-dunnit' aspect, the film fails to surpass its  common level of normality. Comparing this film to other films, it is in my opinion a fact that subject to all the  saturation of all the thrillers released yearly, a thriller should stand out and be recognized for its' originality. And thus not be categorized as just another thriller with a surprise ending. While this film contains many  elements contained in a conventional thriller, it does not surprise nor appease as a  thriller should stand on its' own. Lee Tamahori (The Edge. Mulholland Falls) directs Morgan Freeman as he returns to his role as Dr. Alex Cross; the same role he portrayed in &#145;Kiss The Girls'. Yet, these two films are two separate entities and bear no resemblance in terms of plot and characters. In this outing,  Dr. Cross is assigned to a case by the kidnapper himself when a Senator's daughter is kidnapped from a prestigious  school for the world's diplomats.Joining Freeman on his search is Monica Potter,  a Secret Service agent who failed the kidnapped child's parents while under her supervision and now must redeem herself and rescue the child. This piece is a simple and formulaic  that contains an artificial story that sets the tone as indeed a formulaic film with an opening sequence containing some bad CGI (computer generated imagery). The opening sequence displays a car skidding off the road and ending up in a dam in a truly horrible attempt at CGI. That being said, if I may dissect the direction of the film and analyze it properly - one may not. Tamahori does not break any new ground and in a nutshell, does nothing more and nothing less to extract the most from this mediocre film. So much more could have been done  with the style of the film, its' direction and  performances. Yet,  the film's biggest flaw lies in  the interplay; or lack of, between antagonist  and  protagonist. Tension is not built, motives are built then tossed out, resulting in a slew of characters that we as the audience really have not connected with. Sympathy nor hate is not accomplished thus building a  wall that prohibits us  from truly entering the film and  encompassing ourselves with the film's characters, dialogue, and suspense. In conclusion, many more different styles of filmmaking  could have been attempted with this film. yet it is clear that Tamahori was not attempting to break new ground with this film and chose merely to fill 1 Hr. and 40. mins. with a  simple, formulaic and medium paced film that will not surprise anyone with its' mediocrity.Giancarlo's Rating **  "},{"Title":"I could watch Morgan Freeman sleep and be entertained.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie doesn't get much past that. It is the equivalent of the novel you buy at the airport when you are going on a couch potato holiday (although the actual novel is a lot better than that). Dreadful plot turns (my favorite is when they decide for absolutely no good reason to stake out the Russian Safe House). Monica-Julia-Roberts-wannabe is, I'm afraid stiffer than a 3 day dead tramp. That said, Morgan Freeman's intelligent persona and cerebral monotone is simply a joy. I could quite easily watch a film of him playing the part where the following happens... Dr Alex Cross wakes up, Dr Alex Cross makes a cup of tea, Dr Alex Cross takes his morning dump... and so on... you get the idea.Morgy Baby... luv yer. "},{"Title":"Good book, very bad movie!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I am a fan of James Patterson's Alex Cross series and have been since Kiss the Girls.  The movie inspired me to start reading the books and I was thrilled when I heard that Along Came a Spider was being made into a movie.  After seeing it, however, I am grossly disappointed.  If you've read the book, then you know why.  One of my biggest problems with the movie was how small the role of Gary Soneji was.  Michael Wincott was a perfect choice and could have been dynamite if the script had been better.  Why were so many things changed from the book?  Where was Alex Cross's partner, John Sampson, who was included in Kiss the Girls?  Who came up with the idea to give Alex Cross a female partner who was killed?  Another problem I had was the actress who played Jezzie Flanagan.  She was terrible, to put it bluntly.  If you haven't seen Along Came a Spider, I advise you to forget the movie and read the book. "},{"Title":"Cross Again","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie a few days ago and one of the first things that I thought about the movie is that it is better than the other Alex Cross movie Kiss the Girls. Morgan Freeman plays detective Alex Cross again in this movie and as always, he gave an excellent performance. Monica Potter is a beautiful actor but her acting isn't too impressive.The movie starts out fairly strong but I found the ending somewhat lacking. Even with a plot twist that takes everyone by surprise, you get the feeling that the film makers took the easy way out.I gave this movie a 7 out of 10.Hopefully another Alex Cross movie with Morgan Freeman will be made, but I sure hope that it will be a better movie. "},{"Title":"Horrible plot and script","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I've heard more nursery rhymes with ...along came a spider... in that were more exciting than that movie had in its entirety. I left the theater wanting my money back. Honestly, I would have walked out if I hadn't kept telling myself ok, don't worry, it will get better. Morgan Freeman tries, but he's out there playing his typical character -this time with a terrible script. Monica Potter (if you close your eyes, you'll think its Julia Roberts talking) is trying with just as little success to keep people into the movie. The little girl in the movie, Megan, is a tad too smart for even the most exclusive school. She is saying and doing things that are completely unrealistic throughout the whole movie. I could say nothing but oh please, give me a break through the majority of it. The writers attempt to make an edge-of-your-seat ending with twists and turns, but they also fail at that, miserably. The nicest thing I can say about this film is that I'm glad it's over. "}{"Title":"Along came another mediocre thriller screenplay","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I often wonder why people make films like these.  Unremarkable.  Unlikely to make a huge amount of money.  No new ideas.  Recycling of plenty of old ones, some of which are even good ones.One advantage of films like these is that you know exactly what you're going to get.  Morgan Freeman is reliable as ever and Monica Potter is definitely pleasant eye candy, if an unlikely future Oscar winner.As for the plot - well, it chugs along and doesn't place too much strain on the viewer to guess where it's going.Undemanding fare. "},{"Title":"Ridicolous movie...","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Just another cliche. Only this one manages to mix in some ridicolous things along the way.For example the part where the detective is navigating through the computer, they must think 80 year-old grandma's are planning on watching the movie and will believe that senseless gibberish they are speaking of. A 13 year-old could have came up with a better idea.In addition they must think that the little girl, has enough intelligence to come up with the stuff she does to attempt to escape. Also notice her swimming abilities, she perhaps needs to try out for the Olympic team.Usual stuff as I said above, bad guy, good guy, and bad guy loses. "},{"Title":"I've seen this before...","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The film itself was put down nicely, with good actors and a good story. One thing that did bother me though, is that at a certain point in the film it bares a great resemblance to Die Hard With A Vengeance, AKA Die Hard 3. It has even used the same location, and the same sequence of events. The writer of this story must have watched that film very closely. Other than that, it's worth a watch, but no more than that. "},{"Title":"Okay, see the movie, but don't buy it!","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan (as usual) does a good job. Monica (as usual) is beautiful. The twists and turns keep you interested, so if you like mystery thrillers, go see it - or at least rent it. While I recommend this movie, I would not buy the video because it's not worth seeing a 2nd time - the twists and turns are a large part of why this movie works (twists and turns I could NOT figure out by the way); but once you know them - that's it. (This is unlike the excellect movie, In the Heat of the Night - which I DO own - which is so well done that I see it at least once a year, even though I KNOW how it will turn out.) Again, the surprises are worth a viewing. I was disappointed with a few things, mostly the ending. I felt both Penelope Ann Miller and Michael Moriarty should have had bigger and better parts (since these are both very capable lead quality actors). But I like mystery thrillers... so go see it. "},{"Title":"An insult to intelligent moviefans","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This must be the stupiest way ever that computer details where visualized in a movie. We all know that everytime a character in a movie receives an email or a message on a computer it is overdone; YOU HAVE EMAIL!!!, or INCOMING MESSAGE, whenever something happens on a computer in a movie it is so extremely unrealistic! In Along came a spider it was even worse. Moving around (steady) webcams from several different locations, zooming in and enhancing pictures (like in Bladerunner)everything is even worse than bad B-sf movies. I almost expected them to make a 3-d zoom around an object in a picture, like in bladerunner, completely useless computer research in this movie. Listen, moviefans are not stupid! By the way, big editing error in the part where they zoom in the mouth of a head in a portrait and suddenly they're in control of the webcams (webcams normally can't even move) in the house of the kidnapper. This is an insult, even to the average American. "},{"Title":"Ordinary Movie","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came a Spider was just your ordinary, run-of-the-mill thrillers.  Nothing flashy or special really stood out in it.  Some points were even predictable.  The only part I found somewhat intriguing was discovering who the real kidnappers were.  But, even then I should have picked it up.   Morgan Freeman and Monica Potter gave decent preformances and the few special effects were almost believable (the beginning).  Otherwise just an ordinary movie. "},{"Title":"Freeman doesn't save the day this time.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman is one of those actors who can usually save a film from being a complete bomb (i.e. Kiss The Girls) but with Along Came A Spider no matter how hard Freeman tried he just couldn't save this movie from being bad. He wasn't so bad in it, in fact if the rest of the cast were as good as him and the script didn't have some silly sequences and plot lines, then this would have been a real winner. In fact the movie isn't too bad until the last 35 minutes which have a major rushed feel to them. ** out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"questionable scenario","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I would like to overshadow my comment with some questions on the plot - Jezzie Flannigan fools all professionals; she must be cunning, ruthless and intelligent. Why can't she persuade an untrained kid then? Are Megan and Dimitri secret agents in the making or some such thing? - Soneji has not only prepared for years, he's on top of Cross' progress using various media. How come he has no knowledge of the ransom request? He disapproves of Cross' attempts of trickery, but why does he use deceit himself during the conversation about the 12 million? - Jonathan manufactors and sticks a beard to his face every day, for 2 years, in order to look like Soneji. Why this disguise, since he was to come face to face with Cross anyway? Why not GROW a beard? ha? - Cross omits to investigate on how Dimitri was lured to the phonebooth. - Penelope is 37 and quite good-looking. Why has she been transformed into a near dead tart? "},{"Title":"Not horrible, but...","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The major fault of the whole action/suspens/thriller genre is that well, after a while they all seem like exactly the same film.  I was none too excited about seeing this for that exact reason, and while the film has much going for it, I got what I expected another snack from the Hollywood cookie cutter.  (This review will not be a rant on how great independent films are; frankly many of those bore me.) First the good  Morgan Freeman, of course always turns in a good believable performance.  I'm not a huge fan, but I have a lot of respect for his work.  It's a well-directed film with a good slick look (except for a truly awful CGI car crash) and most of the cast is good as well, with Michael Wincott (who should be in more movies) giving us a creepy villain. Wincott's performance gave some real intensity to the film, and actually had me a little worried about what would happen to the little girl. Overall though, I guess only for those who haven't seen many kidnapping movies, this would prove a great entertainment.     Now the bad....Monica Potter was not very believable for me at all.  THough she's pretty nice to look at, she came off as pretty awkward.  Maybe she'll work her way up to something like this, but she's not quite there yet.       Then there's all the stereotypical talk like, If the kidnapper dies, we'll never find the girl.  I don't know how many times I've heard this over the years, and maybe it seems like a silly complaint, but it irritated me.       Next up  why is it that the cops can never find the kidnapper, but he can always find the cops?  Another element of Along Came a Spider.     And you know that scene where the hero has to race on foot through the city from phone to phone, with the victim's life hanging in the balance? Yep, it's here too.....      And my final complaint....I won't give anything away, but the big twist ending is just the same old thing from many, MANY thrillers I've seen, especially throughout the last 5 years or so.  And this very same thing has been seen in quite a few action movies too.  I'm tired of it.  Either come up with something new, or keep it plain and simple, and don't try to dazzle the audience with surprises.  No matter how good the film is I'm always let down when the filmakers resort to this cliche.     I'm gonna give this a 6.  I would say wait for a rental...   "},{"Title":"Read the book, don't even rent the movie","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I was extremely disappointed with this film.  Freeman was terrible miscast as well as Monica Potter.  Actually the only believable character was the man who played Gary Soneji. The dialogue/script was unconvincing.  The story never really picked up either.  Do yourself a favor and read James Patterson's entire Alex Cross series, but skip the film.  It does no justice to the novel.  "}{"Title":"Movie was lacking but the BOOK WAS AWESOME!!!!","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I waited until today to finally see this movie.  As I suspected, this wonderful suspenseful book was slaughtered to make a barely decent movie. I love Morgan Freeman as an actor but he was totally miscast in this movie and in Kiss the Girls.  If you like this movie, or if you didn't like it because you thought it was lacking, you need to read this book because there is an enormous part of the storyline that was never even touched on.  The book dealt more with Soneji's mentality, the children, Cross's family, and Cross and Jezzie's relationship.  It goes way past anything this move did. Check it out.  I have read it a couple of times and cringed through the whole movie because of the missing pieces of the puzzle.  READ THE BOOK BEFORE YOU JUDGE THIS STORY!!  MOVIE WAS BAD BUT THE BOOK IS AWESOME!!!! "},{"Title":"The well played thriller is not yet dead.","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This taught thriller opens with a scene reminiscent of Hitchcock's 'Vertigo' with the death of his partner during an operation to catch a serial killer. Cross goes into retirement. He is sharply brought out of this by a call from 'Mr Soneji' who has kidnapped a Senator's daughter. This has been done under the noses of the Secret Service agent who was assigned to protect her, Jezzie Flannigan.She teams up with Cross to try to get her back. The plot moves along crisply with Soneji playing games with Flannigan and Cross. This part of the movie works well.Unfortunately, the film unravels in the last reel. We discover that Flannigan and a fellow Secret Service agent were onto Soneji's plan and in fact, are manipulating the plot to extort money.The film then degenerates into standard Hollywood melodrama, with Flannigan killing her co-conspirator and becoming unhinged and trying to murder her former charge. It of course ends with a show down between Flannigan and Cross.This is a shame because until this point this film had been a good thriller. Despite this Freeman provides his usual class performance. Potter demonstrates that she has got what it takes to become a top flight actress with a well measured performance. Mika Boorem is yet another high class child actor who shows that she can act with the best of them in a thoroughly creditable performance.  "},{"Title":"Good for what it was, but you've seen it before","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  To begin with, let me apologize because unfortunately I'm one of those people who only see's the bad in movies. My friends always want to go to the same types of movies. It's usually a dumb horror flick or a suspense film. Along Came A Spider seemed very similar to many of those, so I felt like I'd seen it before. I even drew a parallel to Rush Hour with Jackie Chan. The difference between this one and the others was the ending. I'm not going to talk about the ending to spoil it, but I am going to say that I thought it was a little overboard. Recent suspense movies have seemed to try to include so many twists, that they seem to be pushing it. Morgan Freeman was good. He always is. Although if he keeps playing roles like this, people may question his range of acting ability. Monica Potter wasn't very good. I remember seeing her in Patch Adams and not being impressed. When I remembered that I thought she was bad in Patch Adams, it didn't help her at all for me. Everyone else gave solid performances, nothing extraordinary though. However, with all those bad things I said, the movie was entertaining, and that's what movies are for. It's not going to be winning any awards, but it's worth seeing. Better than some of the other options out there right now, I'm sure. I gave it a 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Good Synopsis, great acting, but poor plot.","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  When I first went to see this movie, I was hoping for something along the lines of suspense. Or at the very least a 'shock' of some sort. With out giving too much of the film away, I will say that the plot is original. As a whole this movie had a good concept behind it, and some great talent that could have made it an excellent film. But it just doesn't happen. Watching the film it felt like it kept losing track with too many sub plots. But it then makes several hasty attempts to get back on track.Morgan Freeman does a great job here as the weathered, yet focused hero of the film. One of only a few actors who can show an intellectual side without giving the appearance that he's acting. Monica Potter does an excellent job as well! She doesn't just recite her lines in the movie. She goes through the movements as well. Her facial expressions and body language make her more of a real person in this film, and not just a character. Michael Wincott appears as the scheming, but patient villain of the film. A great job by a good actor. You get the feeling that he could snap at any moment, which makes him all the more menacing. SPOILER ALERT But then there's the plot. In many spots in the storyline becomes way too vague about the subjects at hand (clues for tracking down the bad guy, motives for the crimes, technical talk, etc...). But what becomes worse are the holes in the plot. There are way too many items in this movie that are just left to random chance, and others that just leave you scratching your head (exactly why did he call Alex Cross, how did he find a feed from a web cam in the guy's house, how could he guess the password correct on the first try, how does a scared little girl suddenly have the judgement and logic of an adult in less then 1 shot, etc...).Overall I would recommend anyone see this movie if either they're a fan of one of the film's stars, they want to see an original story line, or they want to see some really great acting. Other then that, I'd just wait until it comes out on video.  "},{"Title":"Good Plot. Great performance from Freeman, problem with cutting","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman, as I always expect, deliver a performance where the character is believably intelligent and sharp. Every movement is purposeful.I find that, however, Monica Potter is unacceptable as an actress, for she is simply without ANY expressions. In one of the scenes (Not really a spoiler since no plot information is included) which she follows Freeman up a staircase, she looked more like a child following her parent rather than a partner at work. The character Megan was well done. I believe that a child does not necessary go into hysteria when an extreme circumstance descends upon her. As an intelligent child, she looked for ways out, and take the things that come with bravery. The plot was fairly predictable, but not completely. The script was well-written, and the pace was quick, not too fast, but never slowed down. Overall, a great experience.********************************************************************* *******************Spoiler Alert!!!!!!!!!!!!************************* *********************************************************************I can be wrong about this. When Freeman was being led by the kidnapper all over DC, the kidnapper told him to go to Platform A in Union Station of Washington DC. The next scene, to my absolute surprise, is the Johns Hopkins Hospital Station in Baltimore!!! I know this because of the following1. All stations (that I have been to) in DC, at the edge of the platform, have circular lights which signify the coming of a train. The edge of the station in the movie is yellow, which I know for sure is in the Baltimore subway (I rode it everyday for a year)2. DC stations are usually much wider, have a dome interior, with different style of benches.3. The walls are white, and the only station where the walls are white in Baltimore is the Johns Hopkins Hospital Station.4. The scene when the train exits the tunnel into the surface was recognizable as being in Baltimore, so is the drop off itself being on the path to the Owings Mills station. The highway which the train traveled is I-795. I am not saying that this makes the movie poor in quality. I just think that a LITTLE more attention could have been given to this, since it really made me said WHAT?? when I saw it. "},{"Title":"A Good One","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  After reading some of the more informed critics views on this film I almost did dot see it. What a mistake that would have been. Good-Good film. Not to be missed. Great acting by Morgan Freeman. The plot twists were great even though a little far fetched. Won't win the academy award but will keep you more than interested. See it! "},{"Title":"This kept me guessing...","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  until the last 5 minutes of the film.  As an avid mystery fan, I can, regrettably, usually figure out the villains and the plot before half way threw the film or the book; but not this time.  Morgan Freeman is wonderful, as usual, and a joy to watch.  His character is one I think I could watch for any number of movies and not get bored.  Other than Alex, my favorite character was Megan.  It's refreshing to see a child in a film that displays the intelligence and guts of this one.  I get tired of the standard child in distress characters that do nothing but whine or cry.  This movie was the best I've seen since Airforce One; and this one was equally suspenseful for me.  If I could vote, this movie would get mine for Best Picture of the Year, and Morgan Freeman would get Best Performance by an Actor for 2001. "},{"Title":"morgan freeman's grade A web of mystery and terror","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  soneji is one of the creepiest villains i've seen on screen and morgan freeman once again proves that he's one the most excellent actors in history. the action is anything but mindless and the mystery is quite intriguing.  "},{"Title":"More of the same (yawn)","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  There is only one or two things which save this movie from being an absolute farce. The first is a fairly accomplished performance from Morgan Freeman who seems incapable of giving a poor performance and leaves the questioned being asked as to where has he been all his life. The second plus point of the movie is a brilliant ransom drop-off which lasts for 10 minutes and culminates in a sequence which leaves you breathless. It really does make you grateful for your money, but the fact that this scene makes you pleased is enough reason to justify your complaint at its obvious downfalls.A director like Tamahori is more than capable of delivering drama of the highest quality, but the one thing lacking in this thriller is the drama. There is absolutely none at all. The plot is very half-baked and only has enough momentum to carry half the movie. Perhaps this where the drama needs to happen. After all there are enough actors there to give us some drama, but instead the writer has opted out and decided throw us into Hitchcock territory. That just about p***es the audience off, we were clever enough to get up to this point without being lost so why on earth should we tred back over muddy ground.There are three or four twists thrown in which are not exactly surprising and leave you turning over to your girlfriend and saying I knew that would happen. We are left in the mind of the write rather than the viewer which soon becomes frustrating.Perhaps every idea in movies has been dreamed up so that now we have become a cinema savvy audience and can see the mysteries before they are. If that is the case then is very unfortunate. Plot holes, poor direction and characterless characters leave this one as a real disappointment. A great director, one good actor and a terrible script leave the whole in a mess, a pity because up until 55 mins. it was all looking so good. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This was a terrific movie.  It keeps you guessing right up until the end.  I have heard that the book was better, which is usually the case, but If you haven't read the book, I highly recommend this movie!  I am truly surprised that it hasn't received higher ratings.  I love mysteries, and this was by far one of the better mysteries that I have seen in a long time! "}{"Title":"They didn't understand why the book was so good.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I wonder.. After the first film of what seems to be a new franchise was pretty good (read had Ashley Judd in it), why did they throw away the plot that introduced Cross's nemesis. While the literary Soneji was an extremely scary dude (and really the star of the book), the cinematic one wasn't even intriguing, without background or motive.From the appalling CGI at the start, through to the end, this was a movie that really lacked any verve, and the few twists that were thrown in there seemed to be an attempt to make up for how little tension was being built by staying close-ish to the book's plot.Sure, Morgan Freeman can act, and Monica Potter is an attractive girl, but this film is collectively a waste of time (I went to see 'Exit Wounds' on the same weekend, and I'm not sure which was worse).4/10 "},{"Title":"Be bored... very bored!!!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If I had rented this movie I would feel less cheated than I feel after paying good money (not to mention time )to see it at the theatre.Laughable, predictable (very), by-the-numbers crap. Morgan Freeman is a fine actor but whenever you hear that an actor was sleepwalking the part, just use his lead in this movie as a text-book reference. Monica Potter is gorgeous, I will make no bones about that, but you have to wonder as to who was the casting genius that threw old Monica into this thankless role.I honestly would expect more thrills out of a Movie for a Rainy Sunday Evening on NBC, BBC or CBS. You name it.Alex Cross, mate, you are right up there on the crap-o-meter with Hercule Poirot, 'Murder She Wrote' and the 'Father 'Sodding' Dowling Mysteries'. The twists in your 'plots' are about as mind-blowing as an episode of 'Scooby Doo'!.Whatever happened to the 'Seven's, 'Silence of the Lambs' or 'Manhunter's of the movie world? "},{"Title":"Worst Movie of 2001","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe I paid to see this movie. It had to be one of the worst movies even with the often mentioned surprise.IF YOU SAW THE TRAILER THEN WAIT FOR THIS MOVIE ON DVD.What I have to say next may be filled with spoilers so be warned, but if you saw the trailer then I'm not spoiling anything.The opening car crash scene looked SO fake, I mean, even with all the CG advances movies should try to be more real like in the old times.Then we get to the plot, and if you saw the trailer then you know that he let the girl he kidnaps go (shown in the preview) because he has a bigger crime. But that never pans out and he never gets that other bigger fish!! So if you saw the trailer and then SEE in a scene the girl reuniting with her parents, you know what ultimately happens.There are a few more things going on including the surprise but by then you are disappointed in how the trailer gave away the ending. And the way that Freeman discovers the truth, C'mon! At least have something more realistic, the bad guys are not gonna leave clues on a computer with NO password just laying there to be found.All in all, a disappointment. If you get caught in the hype, go see it as a double feature! "},{"Title":"This movie should be shot in the face","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I really dont understand hollywood these days. Formulaic, un-original, dumb movies like this get good budgets and wide releases while i have to drive 35 minutes to go see Memento (a brilliant film).This movie stars the previously respectable Morgan Freeman who plays a cop who is trying to find the kidnapper of a rich little girl. As to be expected, the kidnaper leaves Freeman clues and Freeman begins to respect his intelligence. How many times will Freeman play the same damn character who does the same damn $hit. Its the same character from Seven basically, however, Seven is a faaar better movie. I dont understand how this movie could even be made after seven. Whats the point. Its all been before and no improvements have been made. Granted, this movie has its own few twists but they are oh so lame. I know many poeple who have seen Memento and many who have seen Along Came a Spider. Not one of them believes Spider holds a candle to Memento. When will Hollywood realize that they dont have to keep putting out the same rehashed, dumbed-down formula movies to gain our attendance. They should seek out scripts that bear intelligence and directors that have new ideas. Give THEM the budgets and the wide releases. But this will  never happen and in a few years  movie will come out starring morgan freeman as an aging police officer who recieves clues and is lead on the trail of some killer or kidnapper or rapist. There will be a stupid twist, bad directing, and lame dialogue and this movie will do quite well at the box-office as it does every few years. All in all, skip this darn movie and go see Memento.  "},{"Title":"Great Acting,Great Suspense, Great Film.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film altogether was simply great. Despite the awful effects it was a lot better than kiss the girls and a lot more entertaining, it left me  amazed by the solid performences from freeman and potter. if u ever get a chance to see this film go. "},{"Title":"It's not that it's a sequel","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The Morgan Freeman character of the intelligent old man dispersing his pearls of wisdom is starting to get a little tiresome and predictable.  I can only hope that there's not another sequel, and that Morgan starts taking some roles that don't shoe-horn him into such stereotypical territory.With Monica Potter as the replacement for Ashley Judd, Along Came A Spider is probable less sequel-esque than many we've had in recent years.  Of course she isn't a patch on Judd, but she does well enough to erase the memories of some of the utter tripe she's made in recent years.There's a twist in the tale that I didn't see coming makes a change for Hollywood films! but I still got the impression that the ending was rather contrived and put together so that everything was tidied up nicely for the audience.Did this get a re-take after a test screening that didn't go down well?  That wouldn't surprise me given the ending. "},{"Title":"Along came a formula","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Yet another formula film with no intelligent plot at all.  This was obviously an attempt by the film company to cash in on one major A-lister (Freeman) complimented by a relatively unknown supporting cast.  The trouble is, none of the characters are likeable or believable.  Not quite as bad as the bone collector but on the way there ! @@@@@@@ SPOILER WARNING @@@@@@I find it hard to believe that the USSS could not tell the teacher was wearing prosthetics after 2 years of being with him (I did after 2 seconds).  Also they never bothered to check out his background as evidence - duh !   "},{"Title":"Terrific, suspenseful, keeps up pace of action throughout, nice twists and surprises","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Terrific, suspenseful, keeps up pace of action throughout, nice twists and surprises.  Freeman's talent seems to be realized more and more.  His depth of character carries the scene when script otherwise may drag in spots. Some of the other characters could have been better developed. Overall it was a great experience. "},{"Title":"big hope....silly plot","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Going into this movie I had hope of something good coming out of film from early 2001.  Unfortunately the streak of bad movies is unbroken. If the holes in the plot were not so huge, I might have enjoyed this movie, but instead the plot screams of a screenwriter desperately trying to find a neat twist as the movie stumbles to a conclusion.  Instead what is delivered is a series of increasingly silly plot devices that leaves one thinking that this COULD have been a good movie. I hate it when I find myself asking why the character didn't do the obvious (well the movie would end for one thing), or how a character can be so smart one minute, and soooo stupid the next. Too bad...it had potential.  "},{"Title":"..that sat down beside her. Then I yawned.","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed Kiss the Girls, so I decided to give this one a go without knowing anything about it. Sure taught me a lesson, I tell ya. Along Came a Spider followed the trend of most recent hit movies this year by making the claims, but not quite cutting it.It promised mystery and intrigue, but only delivered predictable, bland twists that we've all seen so many times before. It proclaimed intelligence while offering only sub-witty dialogue and lackluster plot.The action scenes were done well enough; engaging, well paced, and not too over the top.The high point of the film, and it's only saving grace, would be Michael Wincott and Morgan Freeman, who were both excellent as usual.All in all, I walked out of the movie feeling a little ripped off. I don't like slamming down for a 50 dollar evening unless I'm seeing a really good film. What I got was a sometimes interesting, mildly entertaining, average movie. It *did* however, seem to please the masses. During the scene when all was revealed, the entire audience gasped and murmured with delight (while my girlfriend and I rolled our eyes at each other). ;)Save your hard earned bucks. Wait for this one to come out on VHS. "}{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I can honestly say I had a good time while watching this film.  A good popcorn movie. Despite its flawed special effects in one of the opening sequences, I found myself cringing in my seat and it was fun! I hadn't noticed this before, but if anyone ever thinks of casting an actress to play Julia Roberts' sister in a movie, they should cast Monica Potter. They look (and sometimes even sound) so much alike. Morgan Freeman does a pretty decent job, and I was glad to see Penelope Ann Miller once again... too bad she spent most of her screentime sobbing. All in all I'd give it an eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"Boring waste of my time & money!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I wonder if Fox and I saw the same movie?  I could hardly stay awake and kept waiting for something to happen.  The way the story played out was stupid.  The characters seemed to have crystal balls to reach all the right conclusions, I could give examples, but why bother?  Morgan Freeman is good no matter what he does, Monica Potter did an outstanding imitation of Julia Roberts, all she lacked was the popping vein in the middle of her forehead.  Pass on this one. "},{"Title":"Good movie with flat ending","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came A Spider is the sequel to 1997's thriller Kiss the Girls, in which Morgan Freeman plays detective and author Alex Cross. The action starts immediately when Cross's partner dies in a horrible car accident while attempting to take down a suspect in a case. Cross feels responsible for her death and retires. He pours himself into making model ships at home, much to his wife's disdain. Eight months after the tragic accident, there is a kidnapping at an elite private school in Washington, D.C. Shortly thereafter, Cross receives a strange phone call that he quickly recognizes is attached to the recent kidnapping of a senator's daughter. Cross notes that the perpertrator specifically wants him on the case, and he immediately gets to work. He meets the Secret Service agents that were assigned to protect the daughter, although we are never told why she needs protection. The movie takes several interesting plot twists that catch the viewer completely off guard. The ending is rather lackluster and I left the theater with somewhat of an empty feeling. I enjoyed the movie alone, but it lacked the intensity that Kiss the Girls had. This movie is rated R, and for good reason. Overall, I would recommend this movie to any adult looking for a good action, crime movie. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman excellent--well done and entertaining.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Strayed far from the book but nontheless a good movie.  Story flowed smoothly and was difficult to follow as is sometimes the case with mysteries.  Time well spent and if one likes thrillers and mystery plots and excellent way to spend some time. "},{"Title":"If you're a fan of Patterson...","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If your a fan of Patterson books, this movie will be a disappointment. Once again this movie reaffirmed you cannot enjoy a movie of a book you have read.  This movie combines all of Patterson's book with the  Alex Cross character.  In fact, I had just finished reading Roses Are Red the day before and a major scene in the book was incorporated in this movie.  I was disappointed in the fact that the main nemesis, Gary, who was played out so well in several books, was neatly taken care of in one movie.   I, too, agree that Freeman is too old to play  Alex Cross.  Blair Underwood or Denzel Washington would have been a better choice.  I was also disappointed that Nana and Alex's children were left out of the movie.  I do understand that Hollywood makes movies to make money.  I would recommend this movie to people who haven't read Patterson in depth, but if you are a Patterson fan, see if you can pick out which books are portrayed throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"Score saves the picture","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Greetings, people of the group. What a BAD movie. Horrible screenplay, and twists that insult the audiences intelligence. I won't dwell much on those because on of the reviewers on this message board did a great job (the one that warns us about spoilers). But, the music was done by composer Jerry Goldsmith who has always been one of my favorites. In this film he gives us a great treat by combining Orchestral textures with that of creative synth sounds.  Plus, we get to hear favorite Goldsmith signature passages through out the score.Spoiler coming up Pay attention to the cue that follows Morgan Freeman in to the subway station and the train shows up. Hear the train bell? Well pay attention now...  and you will hear that the train bell is actually part of the score because it changes pith while following the chord progression of the cue.And the sweet but complex piano theme for the character Megan Rose is another great example of great scoring. Notice how many hits Goldsmith uses as the scenes edit back and forth, especially during the chase scenes. They've said that A good score never saves a bad film but a good film can save a bad score. Well this is one exception where the good score does save the bad film, and makes me want to see it again just for the sake of the music.  "},{"Title":"Mika Boorem saves the day","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  from the test audience demanding more of Mika Boorem, & to change the ending, she does save the day. This made the film the most exciting Morgan Freeman movie to date.  The artistic quality of director Lee Tamahori was evidenced throughout and had the audience on the edge of their seats.  The wonderful Morgan Freeman continues his legendary role as detective Alex Cross. Highly recommend this film as excellent. "},{"Title":"Along Comes Another Great Book Ruined by Hollywood","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Of the James Patterson/Alex Cross books, this one was the best.  I remember being fully engulfed in the story and the way Patterson weaved the intricate Gary Soneji and his lair.  That notwithstanding, almost none of it appears in this movie.  Having come away from the 1st movie based on a Patterson book (Kiss The Girls) mildly disappointed, I was really hoping this one would be better, as it is based on the better book.  WRONG!  This one was far worse.  Gone is the elaborate underground fortress Soneji kept his victims in, and gone is any depth and real motivation to his character.  Although the actor playing Soneji is a great villain, he just wasn't given the material here to really shine, and then his thunder was stolen from him by a cheap Hollywood twist of fate that obviously some director felt was necessary (maybe to change the ending for those who have read the book?)  Big mistake!  It took an otherwise excellent thriller and made it into the typical run-of-the-mill 2-bit Hollywood excuse.  Unfortunately, this prolongs the recent drought of movies worth the over $8 price tag.  Unquestionably, this past year and a half has been the worst in memory for movies, and I just don't see the end in sight. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it a lot","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"      A group of my friends went to the movies asking me if I wanted to go. I said sure. I found out when I got there we were going to see Joe Dirt. I don't think so. So me and one of my friends went to see Along Came A Spider. Let's just say I'm very happy I went to see this instead. Even my friends wished they had gone with us after their movie.     I loved the opening of the movie. It had a great car crash scene and a very funny line of dialogue. You look like a natural born--. I enjoyed the kidnapping too. They were both suspensful.     I read a couple of reviews that said they could see the twist coming all along. You got to be kidding me. There is no way in hell you saw that coming, unless you read the book. Though I do agree with Roger Ebert that films lately seem to have to have a twist ending, Keysor Soze Syndrom is what he calls it. But I did enjoy the twist in this film.     One thing I would like to add. It seems to me that Morgan Freeman seems to be getting stuck in that brilliant detective roll. Besides Nurse Betty it seems like those are the main roles he's been taking lately.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Too many What thes","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILERS contained throughout (though it probably doesn't matter). Along Came a Spider and sat down beside her and scared all the movie patrons away.  Ok, first off, this movie wasn't half bad, nor was it half good.  I am not going to dwell on the movie itself, but rather, unbelievable aspect of it.First, we have the car crash scene at the very beginning (and call me old fashioned, though I am 24, but can we please get back to using actual cars and real effects rather than computer generated everything) that looked very unrealistic.  Ok, now we have a police officer who has gone through extraordinary trauma, and they hint at it for the first part of the movie.  Does it develop into anything?  No.  Ok, we drop the point of his partner dying, and we even breeze on through the one scene with who we assume was his wife. We now watch an elaborate scheme to capture the daughter of a little known senator (which is very realistic btw).  But we come to find out that he really wants her friend Dimitri, who she passes notes to in a very elaborate picture of two deer while receiving pictures of Michael Jordan.  These kids know their stuff!!!  However, Dimitri, it seems, could not have been caught in the same manner.  Why, there is no reason why other than to prolong the movie and add to the many twists.  Ok, now we know he has kidnapped someone who he doesn't want, and the police are trying to find him.  They are looking at the tape of his classroom to find where the missing picture is.  And poof, by clicking on the picture, in the video, we are transported into his house where he leave his medicine reflecting off of a mirror for all to see.  I am a computer programmer and I have no idea of how they got into his house...movie magic I assume. Ok, the movie starts moving around now...and we get to a terrible edit where Morgan is standing there holding a 1932 Turkish Musket that the secret service agent's father won in a game of aces&eights.  How he found the musket in her apartment, why he was playing with it, or any real relevance in her life (other than being the last thing she knows about her father) we'll never know.  Apparently it was just lying around (loaded no less) for him to play with and to keep as a mental note for later. Meanwhile, McGuiverette, the senator's daughter, apparently knows that by placing the intercom battery on the already lit stove (you'd think that kidnappers don't serve much tea) and then awaits it's 10 megaton blast before she flees.  Why even bother sending the police to find this girl...she can free herself.  Ok, now the kidnapper coaxes Dimitri to leave his room (very good security in his house considering what has just happened) by pretending to be the kidnapped girl.  Kids know how to pass notes to each other via online pictures, but aren't smart enough to know that kidnapped people don't have computers to play on, nor do they need to keep up their method of passing notes via the pictures (they aren't in class).  So, they thwart the kidnapper's attempt on young Dimitri (his last scene) and now we find the kidnapper's kidnapped has been kidnapped (why he doesn't report this to the police we'll never know).  So, the kidnapper, apparently has no clue what is going on finds Morgan.  Morgan, the sly fox that he is, tricks Mr. kidnapper and claims that instead of 10 million in diamonds, it was 12 million.  Obviously thrown for a loop with the glaring mistake in the value of the diamonds, the kidnapper ignores him completely.  I mean, everyone knows the difference in 10 mil and 12 mil in diamonds...man, Morgan is a GENIUS!!!  So, he kills the kidnapper for being such an idiot with the musket which is still conveniently lying on the kitchen table with pieces of fruit loops stuck to it.  Now we find out that pretty little miss secret service agent is a bad egg.  (Great, more twists)  Now it is Morgan's turn to figure it out...and it takes all of 12 seconds...I mean, it is obvious...anyone who's father wins a musket in a game of aces&eights has to be a criminal (how she got into the secret service with that background is anyone's guess)...it was just staring him in the face.  So, knowing the password to her computer is just the first step.  One shot, with the ampersand too and no asterisks to confuse the audience...he gets in.  How convenient...he searches around...finds some pictures she has for online dating, her taxes...wait, a folder labeled wrong-doings...voila, this must be it.  So, Morgan is on his way to save the day.  No need, Mcguiverette (who is really the daughter of Jerel, superman reference) has lifted the cast iron bed in place so mean secret service lady can't get in.  She then makes a pipe bomb out of toilet paper, saliva and a dead spider and escapes. Morgan happens to catch her (which makes me believe he should have been the kidnapper to begin with) and kills the pretty blonde (maybe diamonds aren't a girl's best friend).  After questioning her personal guard for 3 years to why she was alone to save her, and been kidnapped and kidnapped again...it seems as little McGuiverette drops her guard and goes with the guy she had never met before because he says he'll take her back to her parents.  Ahh...such a good movie.  "}{"Title":"Whats good and wrong","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The problem with people that go to the movies nowadays is that they no longer know how to have fun. Everyone is expecting from the moment the set their feet on the movie theater a deep thoughtful, mind changing film that would change their lives. But then, what happened to plain and mere entertainment, isn't that important?. OK, the plot is almost the same thing we have been seeing from quite a while, and I admit that the acting was average, that the characters, the dialogue and the situations were cliched, but God!! It was entertaining while I watched it. It might not be the best thriller ever, but it worked as good as the novel did, just to have a nice time while it last, and then afterwards forget it as time passes. And of course the final spin, even though I had already imagined what was going on, I still got shocked when it happened, so in a way is a kind of film that still works. Morgan Freeman has always been a terrific actor and he always be, so even for the pleasure of watching him the film is worth the look. "},{"Title":" .. and frightened the viewers away","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  As many reviewers in this forum - I am a BIG Morgan Freeman fan.  I am also a James Patterson/Alex Cross fan.  It is because of this that I was soooo disappointed in this film.I realize moving a book to a film usually requires losing several supporting storylines along the way .... But, in both Kiss the Girls and Along Came a Spider, we miss the great humanity of the family life Alex has with Nana and his two kids and his partner. (Freeman is likely too old to play the written Alex cross anyway).  Here we lose the entire romance between Alex and Jezzie and we have too many remaining story lines wrapped up in the last few minutes in seemingly impossible ways.By the way - I cannot remember the Dirty Harry/ Die Hard III phone to phone chase in the book - Did they think it made for a BETTER movie?  Not me!Monica Potter was attractive and did a lovely little job with the material at hand.  I agree with other reviewers that she bears an amazing resemblance in voice and mannerisms to Julia Roberts.In conclusion - worth seeing for Morgan Freeman, but not the suspense thriller of the year!5.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good, if not great, action thriller","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Pretty good suspense film, based on James Patterson's novel of the same name.  The opening of the film is very implausible, and left a sour taste that took a long time to go away.  Once the main story is well underway, though -- the kidnapping of a U.S. Senator's child by mastermind Gary Soneji -- things get moving along at a tight, crisp pace . . . until about fifteen minutes to go, when a gratuitous Keyser Soze-esque ending gets tacked on for no good reason.  (To be fair, the ending is similar to the book ending as well -- both leave you scratching your head).Morgan Freeman is exceptionally good, except for the fact that he's a little too old for the Alex Cross role -- Cross, in the novels, is supposed to be a much younger man.  Still, that's a casting flaw, certainly not Freeman's fault, and Freeman makes the most out of a good part.  Monica Potter is excellent as Special Agent Jessie Flanagan as well.  Their performances really make the movie, and they're able to pull off some awfully cliched lines with enough style to make them actually sound good.  Same script with different actors . . . Along Came a Spider might've been a clunker.Overall, very good.  Could've been a great film with a slightly different ending (and a completely different beginning), but still manages to entertain.  If nothing else, it'll be a fun movie to rent.B+ "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  the movie was great, the plot twist keep you on the edge of your seat. but nothing like the book. slightly better thought. i give it a 9. plus it was better than kiss the girls. Morgan Freeman again shines to the top with a movie. and agian Alex Cross is the best. the other movies out right now may not compare to this one. "},{"Title":"Rose. . . Megan Rose","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came a Spider tries to follow in the footsteps of its successful and suspensful predecesor, Kiss The Girls, but instead of holding its own, Along Cmae a Spider is squashed like a bug.While Morgan Freeman remains and gives an equally outstanding performance, his supporting cast is not up to the same standards. Monica Potter showcases neither the depth, nor the charisma that Ashley Judd did in its predecesor. The villians whoms names i willnot reveal here do not rival that of Tony Goldwyn, nor Cary Elwes. Megan Rose is played well for a young actor, but the part was written far too unbelievably. I began to wonder if she was the daughter of James Bond at certain points in this picture.  The scenario that goes down in the last 15 minutes is so far-fethced that i found myself yearning for Starship Trooperish realism.To the movie's credit, aside from the lack of realism, the first 3/4ths of the movie was at least able to hold my attention, but the ending was so bizarre and unexplained that i wished i hadn't bothered with the rest.The best i can give it is a 3 out of 10. The script has more plot holes then this review has words. I'm not sure that I've wondered why did that happen? or how did that happen? so many times in a single film.  "},{"Title":"Along Came a Spider and took a dump on this movie.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I was not let down by the performance of Morgan Freeman's acting or any of the other actors, it was the script.  Terrible. Terrible. Terrible.  I was sitting in the theater naming off movies I've seen the stuff that happens in Along Came A Spider, like, Oh yeah, I remember that from Lethal Weapon.  Ah man, they did that in Face Off.I was overwhelmed by Monica Potter though.  She looks great.  I could not help but notice how much she resembles Julia Roberts.  She even sounds like Julia and has similar facial expressions.  Of course, Julia is not blonde and probably wouldn't look good as a blonde because of her brown eyes.  Anyhow, Monica was stunning.  Too bad about this movie though.I couldn't understand the part with Demetri at home and wanting to use the outside public phone to make contact.  At first, who did he think he was talking to through the secret message thing?  Megan?  If he did think he was talking to her (obvious because of what the secret .gif messages were saying, like, You're the only one I trust) why didn't the kid notify the authorities?  I know the Soneji character was the one on the other end but I couldn't understand why Demetri was convinced he had to go out to the public phone?  What??  Plot hole I'm guessing.  I understand the fact that Demetri and Megan were using the .gif messages in class as secret ways of communicating but why would they practice this at home, after school?  Is there something wrong with online chat or email???  That was dumb or I must have missed something. I will say that the 'surprise' through me for a loop but disappointed me.  I didn't want 'that' to happen.  Julia wouldn't have done that would she?  Hey, didn't I see something similar to that in Ransom?  Of course I did.BGR   "},{"Title":"Ripped off an entire seen from Dirty Harry","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a stupid film.  One of the stupidest ever made.  Kiss the girls wasnt much better but this one was a major let down.  They stole an intire seen from Dirty Harry.  You know the seen where freeman is running down the city picking up phones as the kidnapper calls.  Well guess what the same thing happened in Dirty Harry....PS. the screen play sounded like it was made by a crack head  "},{"Title":"Are You Kidding Me?","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  My guess on how, after 400 viewers rated this film, the rating was 6.2 is that most of the votes that really count hadn't yet been cast.If you've read Patterson's books, then you already know that both Kiss the Girls and Along Came a Spider are fantastic stories.It's a shame, though, that Morgan Freeman is, by far, one of the most underrated actors in the past decade, and someone can't give him a good script in this case.While this film has a very definitive, and plausible, plot, there's just too many things that are not believable. The timeline of Alex Cross figuring out what's happening is just too quick.I was shocked that Freeman was a producer on this film, because, besides him, the editing of the film is horrible. I was left wondering when the suspension of disbelief was supposed to be presented.No doubt, Freeman, as usual, is phenominal and believable as a character. His acting is as superb as ever. Unfortunately, he was working with a terrible cast, a trashy script and film editors that should go back to 101. "},{"Title":"This movie was absolutely terrible!","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The first problem with this movie is the special effects, which becomes evident within the first five minutes of the film.  I thought the plot was weak, the twists were obvious, and the acting overall was mediocre at best. About the only saving grace to this film was another outstanding performance by Morgan Freeman, and the beauty of Monica Potter.  In short this was one big steamy pile of ponyloaf, and seemed that, as if the screenplay wasn't weak enough, the writers insisted on insulting their viewers intelligence. You can probably think for yourself, but it is written so that you don't have to, and if you do think, you'll ruin the end of the movie for yourself. "},{"Title":"A class act for the suspense genre","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came a Spider should entertain even the pickiest fan of the suspense movie. It was an entertaining film with a twist I don't think most will see coming. Superb acting on the behalf of Morgan Freeman and the ever lovely Monica Potter. Dive in and I am sure you will not be disappointed as Along Came a Spider weaves it's web around you and draws you into it's lair. "}{"Title":"Not just another serial killer movie.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  When i read reviews about this movie, i thought it would be horrible. This movie was surprisingly good. I would have liked it even better if the bad reviews weren't stuck in my head. This movie had everything a good movie should have. Morgan Freeman with his consistantly good acting, Monica Potter is a good actress but is highly forgettable, she needs to do some chick flicks before she comes out in serial killer movies. This movie had twists, YES and they are shocking!. Some plot holes are there but the suspense and hype the movie builds up is alone enough to pay for the movie. One of the finest movies of the year. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Once was warrior. Not no more.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Geez, what a sad state of affairs. The L.A. Times prints anarticle--glowing with praise, as one could expect--about the newParamount Pictures, quoting one observer as commenting, Is thisa movie studio or an insurance company? The director of ALONGCAME A SPIDER, the New Zealand-born Lee Tamahori, is quotedquoting a Paramount production guy--and I paraphrase Don'tworry, don't think too much--Paramount knows how to make thiskind of movie.So what kind is that? The TV-movieish, airport-paperbackish kindTHE GENERAL'S DAUGHTER, DOUBLE JEOPARDY, KISS THE  GIRLS, and now SPIDER, like GIRLS taken from a James  Patterson novel. Like DAUGHTER and GIRLS, SPIDER featuresbrutal violence and hints of squeamish-making sexuality, butbutters it all in a style so bland and movie-of-the-week it all seemswholesome. Morgan Freeman plays the brilliant Dr. Alex Cross, alatter-day Sherlock Holmes who often is so brilliant he needs onlywalk into a room to start intuitively cracking amazing mysteries. Apsycho (the superbly psycho Michael Wincott) has kidnapped asenator's daughter (why not call it THE SENATOR'S DAUGHTER?)in order to battle wits with the world-famous Cross. Add into themix a Secret Service agent (Monica Potter) with a frighteninglyperfect ski-slope nose and an aura of pretty android-ness so blankyou start wondering, What is this chick even doing in this movie?Ah! That means you haven't anticipated the first of many,many...MANY twists...ALONG CAME A SPIDER is in no way worth discussing except inthat it represents a new depressing house style. This new kind ofParamount movie seems made to be shown on the video  monitors on Greyhound buses, for your Aunt Myrtle to pass thetime with on the way to the Matterhorn. It diverts your mindpassably without being genuinely compelling, frightening, funny,flavorful, or anything else that would take you out of that low buzz ofalpha sleep. The we-know-how crew at Paramount seems to havesurgically excised every single imaginative thought out ofTamahori's, and the cinematographer Matthew Leonetti's, heads.Freeman gives a creditable sobersided, unsmiling, I-mean-itperformance, but the only life in the movie comes from theinventive performance of Michael Wincott. He seems to have madethe astounding discovery that one of the most imaginative ways toplay a stock bad guy is to underplay very gingerly. He lends themovie spirit and idiosyncracy. Everything else about it, from theoverly poised lighting to the fake shock of the girls' parents(Penelope Ann Miller and Michael Moriarty, both sucking eggs),seems to have come out of an old, dented can. "},{"Title":"SUSPENSEFUL BUT PREDICTABLE","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman is an excellent actor, and steals the picture from the rest of the cast.  Monica Potter is OK but outside of being a very attractive actor is not believable in the part.  My main objection is that things happen with no explanation, and if you do not want to think about how, when, and why this picture is enjoyable.  I would say wait for the tape to come out. "},{"Title":"About as average a movie as can be......","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Everything about it says average.Average acting,average story(which we have all seen before)etc.etc.And for that I give it a 5,only because of Freeman.I dont know why everyone is making a big deal about the Surprise ending.I saw this one coming a mile away.I will recommend it for older viewers of ,say,Murder she Wrote or Father Dolwling Mysteries or maybe even Matlock, because thats what it reminded me of! "},{"Title":"I still enjoyed it","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Yes, there were a lot of far-fetched leaps in the story, and the computer scenes were really just funny.  But I still totally enjoyed the movie overall.For one thing, the little girl who was kidnapped was wonderful.  I loved her character.  When I first saw her and realized she was going to be a big part of the plot, I thought oh, man, not another poor cute kid story.  But she ended up being the star and the hero of the story to me.  She wasn't so tough that she was unbelievable - she was smart and gutsy but also scared half to death.One thing I really liked about the movie was the complete lack of sexual tension between the main male and female characters.  In most hollywood movies, you have a man and a woman standing in the same room for ten seconds and BINGO - doesn't matter how much older than her the man is, how completely incompatible they are, who is married or anything else - they want each other.  Not so in Along Came a Spider.  Unfortunately, while that made the movie more enjoyable and realistic for me, I have no doubt that the reason for the lack of sexual tension is very clear - it's because Morgan Freeman is a black man.  Guaranteed, had he been a white man, there would have at least been some goo-goo eyes made at some point.  The thirty-plus year age difference probably wouldn't have mattered.  But anyway, despite the racism I suspect was responsible for the choice, I found it refreshing to have no romance entering the story.If you can relax your mind and accept the leaps of logic in the plot, you might find this an interesting movie.  I plan to see this one again when it comes out on video, to look for clues.   "},{"Title":"Terrible Waste of Time","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Why buy a book if you have no intention of using its plot?  If they had just stuck to the basic plot of the James Patterson novel, this would have been much more entertaining and worthwhile.  But the finished product bears no resemblance to that original story and adds some totally unnecessary, jaw-droppingly stupid plot twists.  Morgan Freeman almost saves it, just based on his general demeanor, but you really ought to save your money. Wait until this one shows up on cable.  If there's to be a third movie in this series, I hope the next creative team takes a look at why _Kiss the Girls_ worked and why this one is such a flop. "},{"Title":"Not pleased with adaption","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It must certainly be a daunting task to attempt to adapt a screen play from an existing work of literature. In the case of Along Came a Spider I would have to say that the writer and director failed. The film lacked the character development, warmth, and suspense of the book. They turned one of the greatest criminal masterminds in the history of literature into an inept bumbler that could be outwitted by a child. I don't know if they didn't understand the book but the cliff notes version they came up with was sadly lacking. The movie Kiss the Girls stayed fairly true to the book and it was a very good film. If this is what the writers' of Hollywood have to offer then maybe a strike won't be such a bad thing. Some of them need time away to reflect on what they have done before they do more damage. "},{"Title":"Swiss Cheese","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  (I'm going to give away the ending, so don't read further if you don't want to know...)Okay, I can suspend reality for a couple of hours.  I've been doing it since I saw my first feature film at the age of four.  But from the poorly executed opening sequence to the incredibly lucky password guess, this movie plot had more holes that an Alpine Lace swiss cheese.Don't get me wrong.  I didn't hate the movie.  That cutie Michael Wincott was worth the price of admission alone (I've been following his career for many years, and am glad to see him starting to move closer to leading roles).  He just didn't have enough scenes to make it as good as it could have been.If the director (or perhaps it was the screenwriter) had simply left out that dreadfully poor opening car crash sequence (I mean, folks, I've seen better special effects in student films), they could have had a few more minutes to give the characters the development they deserved.  Each and every one was woefully underdone.  I mean rare.  I've never read Mr. Patterson's book, but I'd be willing to bet he put a lot more effort into developing these characters that this director/screenwriter did.Even the great Morgan Freeman couldn't make me believe that Alex Cross could guess a password gleaned from a conversation he'd had hours earlier, much less get the spelling of the phrase right with his first try.  I mean, wouldn't any normal person have written out and instead of using the ampersand the first time around?  A few more seconds to at least let him try unsuccessfully a couple of times wouldn't have hurt.I did appreciate the ending plot twist.  It was the only thing about the film I didn't see coming a mile away.  But why did she do it?  The money? And speaking of the ransom, how is it they could get $10 million in diamonds for a nobody senator's kid?  Also, did she and her partner stake out Soneji for two years just on the hopes he'd do something nutty like kidnap a couple of kids from the school?  Or were they in cahoots with him all along?  I'd be willing to bet on the former, but I wish I could understand why.  What was her motive? And why did they even take the kid from Soneji when they could have simply collected the ransom and sat quietly until she could kill him off in a shoot-out?  End of story.  They didn't want to return the kid anyway, and could have just left her wherever.Please, who says a movie has to be two hours or less?  I would have gladly remained in my seat another half-hour if I could have seen a great film instead of a merely adequate one. "},{"Title":"too many unbelievable plot points...","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  ****SPOILERS AHEAD*** A good thriller has to be tight to work properly. ...Spider takes too many liberties with the story where the viewer is simply supposed to accept the impossible and move on. You can get away with this in a sci-fi flick or a b movie, but it's sad to see this in a big budget hollywood picture. Spend a few bucks to tighten the script before going to production! At one point Morgan Freeman's Dr. Cross character GUESSES a computer password. on the first try no less. Oh, if life were so simple. This is perhaps the most comedic of the flaws in this overrated thriller, coming well into the movie long after I had given up on it. "},{"Title":"Freeman is over-qualified for this movie.","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman is too skilled to be doing generic crime thrillers. He sleepwalks through `Along Came a Spider' like Mr. Magoo in a construction zone. The man's eyes do more acting than the whole ensemble of this film, and his lackadaisical approach is skilled, but belongs to worthy projects similar to last years masterful Nurse Betty. SPOILER ALERT `Along Came a Spider' is another one of those James Patterson film adaptations that involves a senators daughter being kidnapped, and Alex Cross being called out of his slump to solve the case. The term cat and mouse will invariable come up in this review, I hated that term. I gave `Kiss the Girls' a C+, but after seeing `Along Came a Spider,' I appreciate that stories atmosphere and semi plausible storyline to the comic book logic in Along Came a Spider. Morgan Freeman who was good in both Alex Cross detective films, the man still needs a workable script, with an ounce of edginess,  intrigue and or plausibility to make this series work. Monica Potter (the wife from `Con Air') plays Cross' new partner, who's a neophyte secret service agent tagging along with Cross to learn the tricks of the trade. I liked Potter as his partner, she fits well into the lame storyline and has a cute naiveté, although I can't imagine how she's going to learn to be a physic detective. Every time Freeman sits down and looks at a computer screen, he manages to inexplicably find a clue within seconds. I guess it's the eyes. There's a scene that involves yet another showdown between Alex Cross and the criminal mastermind of this elaborate kidnapping, who's more into playing that cat and mouse game with Cross than getting the ransom. What's with serial killers these days? Ever since `Se7en' they all want to play fricken games like they're the Joker in Gothaem city. The heavy in `Along Came a Spider' is so obtuse that he puts on a fake face (A la `Mission Impossible') for two whole years, then he becomes a great teacher that just happens to get his mark in his class. And all of this so he simply kidnap the senators girl, just to call Alex Cross up on the phone so he can be his adversary. And all of that work was just to get to the Russian Presidents child who is a totally different kid than the one he has. I'm scratching my head, but I'm not making this crap up. What's going on here, did anyone read this script, or was everybody too eager to make a sequel (or prequel) to the successful `Kiss the Girls?' Get the money, then play games you dumb s***. Where was I? Oh yea, the standoff. The hero and villain are face to face and the Joker says `That's transparent and clumsy' to Cross, referring to his fairly obvious deductions regarding the where about of the senators missing daughter. Yup, that about sums up my feelings regarding `Along Came a Spider,' careless and clumsy, but its got Morgan so its not a total loss. Oh, by the way, the killer is so obsessed with playing some sort of homoerotic mind game with Cross, that this little kidnapped girl dupes him through acting like a Spy Kid, and throwing a battery into his teapot, which in turn causes one of these lavish movie fires.Character actors Jay o Sanders,(in a cameo)and Dylan Baker fill in the casting gaps with their consistency reliable performances. In fact, the movies only real distinction is the character arc of Carl Monroe played by that guy from `Happiness.' Dylan Baker luckily is in every other movie these days, finally the industry has taken notice of this man. Maybe Nicky Katt will be next. There's a general consensus in cop movies, that there always be that one guy who is totally clueless and his this austere approach to debunk the protagonist mission even though there both on the same side. I call it the Sergeant Dwayne T, Robinson factor, named after that cop in `Die Hard' who ALWAYS managed to condescend Al Powell by barking orders like; If there's terrorists in there, where's their list of demands? All we know is that whoever shot your car up is probably the same silly sonofabitch you've been talking to on that radio, even though it was painfully obvious that Bruce Willis was the good guy. `Along Came a Spider' starts with Dylan Baker being that prick of a cop by insulting Cross. Then, a few minutes later a miracle happens, the guy actually apologizes to Cross for being such an asshole, and they become friends the rest of the movie. Ha, great, wonderful, than you director Lee Tamhori for surprising me, once. The reason so much space is dedicated to that innocuous aspect of the film is because the rest is so boring its' not worth dissecting.I give it a 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Along came more Hollywood Retread!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The only thing that made this movie watchable was the always reliable performance of the classic american actor Morgan Freeman.  This films basic plot lines have been used more times than a french whore.  Monica Potter is very wooden and borish in doing her best Julia Roberts impression.  The film also falls into all to common hollywood cliches that held it down tremendously.  If you have seen last springs Reindeer Games, think of Monica Potter as Charlize Theron character.   "},{"Title":"Two hours of my life that I want back!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This horrid piece of drivel starts promising enough, but spirals down into a boring routine. The main character is given a sad backstory that screams scenes stolen from a movie called Cliffhanger and his cute little side-kick (who's main purpose seems to be smiling and looking pretty) runs around like a bedazzled apprentice. Until the end, her character is neither enticing nor emotionally moving. The little girl is the only one in the film you wanted to cheer for. While trying to stay interested in the film I noticed the tension and suspense essential to a movie of this type was severely lacking. I advise anyone still interested in seeing this film to rent it on video so you can go to the rest room, get snacks, and mute it whenever you like. "},{"Title":"it's a good, gripping film","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Alright, look, this isn't revolutionary or anything and it probably will be forgotten by the end of the year, but it is good. It's about ten times better than Kiss The Girls, it's predessor, and that movie was alright. Along Came A Spider portrays a really clever story with some nice twists and a great character in Alex Cross. So many mysteries have the cop figure something out without ever explaining how. This movie is clear about every last detail. I read the book about a year ago and my biggest concern going into this one was that it wouldn't do the book justice. Now, like all movies, it was not as good as the book. You can't beat an original. However, it made the necessarry changes and with exception to a few flat conversations, everything was done right. So I was not disasppointed by the way the book was represented at all. Infact, it is impressive that I enjoyed this movie as much as I did considering that I knew the whole plot ahead of time. Imagine if I didn't know it. It's a good movie and I know it hasn't been getting good reviews, but I'm glad I didn't let that stop me from seeing it. Critics are idiots. This movie is far from fantastic, but it's good and worth the evening. If nothing more, it definitely keeps one entertained. "},{"Title":"Good, enjoyable film","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came a Spider was pretty enjoyable.  Morgan Freeman is always good in all of his roles...and his continuation of Detective Alex Cross is no exception.  Only Freeman could've given the complex mixture of humor and seriousness of this character with the class he brings to the screen.  The plot had a few good twists and turns, so the audience is never really bored with the film.  Pretty good follow up to Kiss the Girls.  I'd recommend it. "},{"Title":"Engrossed But Uneasy","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I was quite taken with this movie throughout.  I liked the mystery and the seriousness with which the movie began and hit the audience with deadly consequences in the beginning.  This is a solid movie, however, there was something that bothered me, some discordant note that perhaps the scriptwriters deliberately led us into this ending that somehow didn't ring quite right.  There was an attempt at sheer novelty and surprise which is what it came across as.  However, the movie was worth the time and entertaining as movie go.  I would recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"Ok, now we have seen enough mr Freeman.","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along came a spider is in any way not anything new. It is a mixture of Seven and Arlington road. Funny thing, I fell asleep during those two films AND Along...Spend your money on something else. Like another movie....  "},{"Title":"An excellent thriller","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Reviewers have been dumping on Along Came a Spider as just another ho-hum formula film.  What film does not use a formula?  It's not the formula, it's how well it is done that counts,  and this particular film is so good at exploring well known conventions, and providing some twists, that the audience I saw it with applauded at the conclusion.  Morgan Freeman, as usual, gives a superb performance, as do all the other actors.  The pacing of the film, the stylish direction, and the welcome absence of gratuitous sexual scenes and blasphemy, make Along Came a Spider, a film that IMDB users will enjoy seeing. "},{"Title":"same old movie, different cast","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I saw Along Came A Spider and it just seemed like the same old detective-tries-to-find-bad-guy-using-clues-he-leaves-to-rescue-hostage movie.  Apart from Morgan Freeman, the characters just weren't very interesting.  Sure, there were a couple twists in the plot...but a twist means nothing if the story and characters aren't very interesting in the first place.  I think this movie needed a more creative plot that's never been done in these types of movies (kidnapping a government official's child is a bit too cleche) and more interesting characters (the villain seemed like an average man, not nearly as interesting as Anthony Hopkins in 'The Silence of the Lambs' or Kevin Spacey in 'Se7en').  The only thing I really like about this movie is the title. "},{"Title":"Pretty lousy all around","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It's a terrible adaptation from the book, the screenplay has weak dialogue and flimsy characters, the acting is sub-par at best (Monica Potter is especially bad), and the film rips off almost as many movies as WHAT LIES BENEATH. Examples include DIRTY HARRY, HIGH AND LOW, and even CLIFFHANGER.Don't waste your time...even if you like the Alex Cross novels and/or Kiss the Girls.  "},{"Title":"Ending not so surprising if you know Hollywood cliches","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I heard a lot of reviewers say that this movie had a 'surprise ending'. It really doesn't after the main 'twist' is revealed the rest of the movie is more than predictable. It fits in nicely with Hollywood's religion the androgynization of society. In excess, in fact. Way in excess.Morgan Freeman is excellent as usual, though the movie is not on a caliber with 'Kiss The Girls'. Monica Potter is a promising actress but unfortunately I think this role will come to haunt her; it will stereotype her in the public mind for years to come. In the film her character change, which I won't give away, is simply not believable because the writers' desire to 'surprise' us leads them to give us no hints and thus her character comes off as secondary to their big twist--her character development is thus totally lacking.In the name of 'shattering gender stereotypes', her character is shown doing something at the end of the film that you know that NO male character would EVER be allowed to do. For my part I'm sad to say I will never be able to see Potter in any other role again without thinking of this scene, and it's not because of any outstanding acting on her part.  "}{"Title":"Bone Collector 2?","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is yet another attempt by Hollywood, to cash in on Film Noir. The story doesn't flow right, halfway through I was really bored and unimpressed. The ending is to far fetched, and seems to just come out of no where.  And is it a direct copy of the Bone Collector. Out of work PD detective, who is tramautized by the loss of a partner, who follows the events of a copy cat criminal, by connecting a series of clues he left be hind. Very, boring, and over done. Not worth seeing. "},{"Title":"James Patterson Fan BEWARE","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This was a great stand-alone movie, but for all of you James Patterson/Alex Cross fans out there, this is not your movie.  Without giving anything away, I was expecting something vastly different than what I got with this movie. I'm not sure James Patterson was involved with the screenplay at all. "},{"Title":"James Patterson.  How could you let them do this to your great book???","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If you read the book, you will HATE the movie.  If you haven't read the book, you'll still be sorry you threw your money away.  The theatre I went to, the day after it's opening, was practically empty -- with good reason. There is NO resemblance between the book and the movie at all, except that the names of characters are the same.  Not even the great actor, Morgan Freeman, can save it.  Where were Sampson and Cross's wonderful Nana? Mega's a minor character in the book and a major one in the movie.  Let's hope Patterson's latest book, First to Die, does better as a miniseries on TV, but I doubt it very much.   "},{"Title":"OK Movie, but where did the story come from?","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I was all excited to see one of my favorite books turned into a movie. I figured they would drop a little bit of the book. Well, fans of James Patterson, don't go see this movie! The names of the charactors are the same and there is a kidnapping, but that is about it as far as sticking to the book.If you didn't read the book, it was an OK movie but Kiss the Girls was a lot better. "},{"Title":"it ain't the book","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  As in most adaptations, if you liked the book you'll probably hate the movie.  We I didn't hate it but it ain't the book either.  This story has gone through so many changes that even people on this board are thinking the book ripped off other movies, actually not the case.  The ransom scene is totally contrived, the book had two kids not one and many other very significant changes. It's funny, the occupation of the kidnapped boy's parents in the book is sort-of transferred to the girl kidnap victim in the movie version,how's that for character consolidation. Also,if you had read the book you'd know this was a pre-quel to Kiss the Girls not a Sequel.  I think maybe Mr. Patterson sold out on this one.KTG was a much better adaptation and Ashley made it all the better.  Morgan Freeman is always great but if you want to see him do his thing in a recent film go rent Nurse Betty and skip this flick. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman shines, but can't save a bad movie.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I have always been a huge fan of Morgan Freeman, and I feel that he did quite well in this movie.  His always-calm demeanor is amazing to watch on the screen.  I feel, however, that the plot to Along Came a Spider sucked--to put it bluntly.  I don't want to give anything away, but I've always felt that major plot-twists and character-changes should be grounded on what has already been established in the film.  Certain changes of that type were made that had no basis from the rest of the film and no way to figure out in advance what was going on.  That isn't the sign of great film-making, it's the sign of convenient, lazy film-making.  I recognize that most movie-goers love to be surprised and shocked (as was my companion) and that this film will entertain most people.  For those of you who consider yourselves more educated movie-goers, however, I'd recommend skipping this one. "},{"Title":"An intelligent, intense and immensely intriguing movie","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  ACAS is an intelligent, intense and immensely intriguing movie. It doesn't dumb-up things for the public.Hey, we all watch Forensic Files and Medical Detectives now. We're hip to the inner workings of the police and FBI . Hollywood can now use technical lingo when in our company. The novelist of Along Came a Spider, James Patterson, likes these kinds of serial- profiler- cat play -spiderweb games. He also penned creepy, Kiss The Girls, which was adapted for film and also starred Morgan Freeman.Morgan Freeman is such a calm guy. He's has a Steven Seagal serenity about him. It works in this type of fast twisting, elaborately technical dialog flick. He helps keep your brain relaxed and focused while absorbing tiny bits of information that will later compute into an intricate unique plot.ACAS story goes...Teacher, Mr. Sanje, has a plan. A sinister plan. He's a copycat of the worst kind. He wants infamy through others' misery. He kidnaps a young student and leaves a clever clue . Sanje invites retired cop and profiler/author Alex Cross to spar a bit.Sanje wants the public to notice him. Give him notoriety. To be sure he's properly portrayed as a forensic whiz psycho and not, God forbid, just a plain old psychoCross reluctantly obliges and the hunt is on. But just who is hunting who?Can Cross lead the arsenal of FBI and Police agents to the clever shanghaier before the girl dies? Is the girl even the story? Hmm.If your a die-hard mystery fan you may start to see the fly through the web half way through. But, ACAS still has plenty of surprises to keep even the most jaded of us guessing damn near to the end.Freeman was adorable in Nurse Betty and he's charming and smooth here. He's always flawless. Born with that aura. A general ease about him.Let's discuss this caramel-dipped treat, Michael Wincott! He's cute in a bad boy- that- simply screams to be- spanked- till- he- behaves- way. Mike's yet another example of why everyone should have the following two dvd or videos in their collection as reference material; Usual Suspects - which has been, for years now, the quintessential guide to the upcoming actors as well as all 'round mansteak extravaganza! Usual Suspects is a filmstew of men which includes a barely comprehend-able Benicio Del Toro, a young unknown Kevin Spacey, a super smooth Chazz Palmitieri, new to-the-biz Bryan Singer etc.The other must have is Basquiat.Basquiat is an absolutely chock-full-of-talents flick that one can watch over and over, and yet, never grow tired of...You get bonus thrills as these actor/actresses come of Hollywood age! You simply go back and see them when...Basquiat's celluloid has captured young-n-buff Jeffrey Wright, a super slimy Del Toro shows up (again), a spry Gary Oldman, a bubbly Christopher Walken and Michael Wincott ( our chilling villain in Along Came a Spider) all this testosterone in one hell of a film, directed by out there visionary Julian Schnabel! Wincott stole his scenes with every frame he passed through. He does a wonderful job of creeping us out, and keeping us guessing here.Mikka Boorem, one of Mel Gibson umpteen kids in The Patriot, did a great job playing kidnapped Megan Rose. She held her own gracefully and captivatingly with her elders. Again kudos to both novelist and screenplay writer for her words spoken as if from a real child in a real situation.Secret Service agent Jezzie, played by Monica Potter, was annoying. She was confusing. Sometimes clever like the secret agent should be and other times as dumb as Dahrma. It's a step up from Potter's Head Over Heels role...So the jury still out. Give her a chance and we'll see what this budding actress chooses as time goes on. Snack recommendation Tea and honeyStarring Morgan Freeman, Monica Potter, Michael Wincott, and Jay O. SandersDirected by Lee Tamahori   "},{"Title":"A top-notch thriller, 'Spider' spins a twisted web.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A top-notch thriller, 'Spider' spins a twisted web.  Brilliant as always, Morgan Freeman reprises his role from Kiss The Girls and delivers his best performance since Nurse Betty.  Relative marquee newcomer Monica Potter (Head Over Heels) stretches her acting chops here and shows that she's got all the tools to become the next Julia Roberts (she even sounds like her). These two engaging characters, coupled with a strong supporting cast and a well-crafted head scratcher of a storyline, combine to make this sequel stronger than its predecessor.  When you've third-guessed yourself and still haven't got it figured out, you know your movie ticket was money well spent. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Schlock","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I just saw a sneak preview of this movie and I have to say that, while I am glad I didn't have to pay to get in, I will never be able to recover those 100 minutes of my life back.Sure, Morgan Freeman is great and the plot twist was unexpected, but that doesn't make it a good movie. Besides Freeman, every other performance in this film was weak.The plot and screenplay? If I say Gimme a break! more than once in a movie, then in my opinion it is unbelievable and pure fluff. I probably said it six times during the course of this film. The film is chock full of old cliches and other overused dialogue from other films of this genre.If you like brainless films, this one's for you! "},{"Title":"Not worth the R rating","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I guess that there have been so many movies about kidnappers and criminal profilers that it's become too difficult for the studios to produce a good one... or at least one that doesn't follow all the standard cliches and promises a twist ending that just falls flat. Granted Morgan Freeman and Michael Wincott were excellent in their roles, but the performances don't make up for the plot's lack of originality and the slow pace of the film. Sometimes I wonder what the MPAA considers when handing out their ratings because there really wasn't anything in Along Came a Spider that I would consider R material... OK, maybe cold blooded murder and innocent bystanders getting gunned down every once in a while... but the complete lack of suspense just made those moments seem gratuitous. That or I don't find gunshots to the head to be shocking anymore (until I witness one in real life). Although I thought that this movie was a bore, some people at the screening were actually surprised by the ending. To each his own. One good thing about the film Mika Boorem who plays the little girl who is kidnapped. Her performance was truly refreshing and it isn't often that you see such an ingenious little girl on the screen. "}{"Title":"It spins quite a yarn","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie at a preview screening and was very impressed.  I've always been a big fan of Morgan Freeman's, and he turns in another good performance.  The plot keeps everything moving and also keeps you guessing, although the ending isn't as much of a surprise as I had heard.  Anyway I highly recommend this movie, it definitely won't disappoint you. "},{"Title":"Arachnophobia","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  In keeping with the fine tradition he started with the magnificent &#145;Seven,' Morgan Freeman-cop movies have really cool opening title sequences. Unfortunately, in his latest offering, Along Came a Spider, things went south after that. What a fine actor and how cool to see an African American name above the title. Add to that, Mr. Freeman was one of the best-dressed men at the Oscars last week sporting a very smart silver spider pin on his lapel as a very classy promo for this film. Shame the film isn't worthy of the pin or the man.Director, Lee Tamahori did a Sopranos episode in '99 and this is his first of four features slated for 2001. Gee, those guys really are connected. But this film isn't. This muddled mess from Paramount is a sequel to a so-so cop-thriller and Silence of the Lambs knock-off, Kiss The Girls with Ashley Judd from 1997. They resurrect his character, profiler Detective Alex Cross and team him up with Monica Potter, a new and highly forgettable actress. She's also in Law Enforcement and they are looking for a kidnapped little girl. We start out with a bang, or rather a crash and a plunge, then into model ship-building, a hand pat from an understanding wife (Kimberly Hawthorne) and then it gets really blah. Further in the film there are some left-field plot twists from the &#145;we're losin' em file.'This is a tired cast embarrassed with the drab dialog. How sad to see Michael Moriarty and Penolope Ann Miller as the parents of the victim, Senator & Mrs. Boring from the great state of Vapid. The only bright spot is the villain, Michael Wincott, with his sippin-whiskey smooth voice.(He was the &#145;actor out on loan' in The Doors.) This wonderful actor seems to have painted himself into a corner and is playing a series of by-the-numbers bad guys (Metro & Strange Days) when he isn't in way-cool off beat indies (Deadman & Basquiat).  "},{"Title":"Arachnophobia","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  In keeping with the fine tradition he started with the magnificent 'Seven,' Morgan Freeman-cop movies have really cool opening title sequences. Unfortunately, in his latest offering, Along Came a Spider, things went south after that. What a fine actor and how refreshing to see an African-American name above the title. Add to that, Mr. Freeman was one of the best-dressed men at the Oscars last week sporting a very smart silver spider pin on his lapel as a very classy promo for this film. Shame the film isn't worthy of the pin or the man.Director, Lee Tamahori directed a Sopranos episode in '99 and now has four features on deck for this year. I guess those guys really are connected. But this film isn't. It's a muddled mess. This is Paramount's sequel to a so-so thriller and Silence of the Lambs knock-off, Kiss The Girls with Ashley Judd from 1997. They resurrect his character, Det. Alex. Cross, the serial-killer profiler (no shortage of those guys these days) and team him up with Secret Service Agent, Monica Potter, a new and highly forgettable actress. Then they get to look for a kidnapped little girl.We start out with a bang, or rather a crash and a plunge, then into model ship building, a hand pat from an understanding wife (Kimberly Hawthorne) and then it gets really blah. There are some left-field plot twists further on that were pulled out of the 'we're losin'em file.'This is a tired cast embarrassed with the drab dialog. How sad to see Michael Moriarty and Penolope Ann Miller as the parents of the victim, Senator & Mrs. Boring from the great state of Vapid. The only bright spot is the villain, Michael Wincott, with his sippin-whiskey smooth voice. (He was the 'actor out on loan' in The Doors.) He seems to have painted himself into a corner and is playing a series of by-the-numbers bad guys (Strange Days and Metro) when he isn't in off-beat indies (Dead Man and Basquiat). "},{"Title":"If only I could remember my own passwords so easily","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I think the hardest part of any whodunit thriller must be those moments when the hero starts to crack the case.  It is a moment of revelation, for the protagonist as well as the audience.  But all too often, those breaks come across as too convenient and unrealistic.  And so it is (sadly) in ALONG CAME A SPIDER.  We've seen scenes like this before the good guy faces a computer screen asking for a secret password.  He thinks for a minute, then remembers a passing conversation he had earlier or sees the one object in a room full of them that makes the light bulb over his head go off. A few keystrokes later, he's not only granted access to the computer system, but now looking at the entire crime laid out for him as if the bad guy had a file folder on his hard drive labelled Kidnapping Plot.  Too bad it came so easily, because I was enjoying Morgan Freeman (as usual) and was quite impressed with Monica Potter (who reminds me more of Julia every time I see her).  Nice twists and turns in the plot, too.  If only it didn't depend on silly moments like our hero happening to answer a cell phone that happens to be hidden in the garbage can he happens to be standing next to. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Movie!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came A Spider, was a very well done movie. I saw it at a critics screening at Paramount Studios and I must say, it was very enjoyable. It was carefully thought out and full of plot twists. Kiss The Girls was an OK movie compared to this one, it was much better done(No shaking camera scenes either)maybe a bit predictable but most won`t catch on till later. The feeling of the movie was the same and it really did not change. The reason the movie would probably do so well, is because I have never seen an audience react so much to a movie. Various grunts, ohhhhh`s, and curse words were heard through out. It did keep me on the edge of my seat, and the ending blows you out of your seat. Go see this movie, your in for a ride. "},{"Title":"A solid piece of Hollywood filmmaking and a jolly good thriller","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Based on the novel by James Patterson, 'Along Came A Spider' is a follow up to the 1997 thriller 'Kiss The Girls'. It is a solid piece of Hollywood storytelling, with a cool twist at the end, which had me fooled, and a story in which the Cross character must use all of his skills to save a small child from a would-be criminal mastermind. Freeman is definitely a class act, in any role he gives just what is needed, and this is no exception. His rendering of Dr Cross is highly cynical and equally clinical as he tries to profile the kidnapper in order to save the child. Monica Potter is also on good form as the disgraced Secret Service agent trying to regain her standing with her colleagues after Soneji escaped from her so simply. But Michael Wincott has very difficult role here at times clinically disposing of people who get in his way, but also trying to be reassuring to his captive who he doesn't seem to want to hurt. Check this movie out when it finally gets here, especially if you're a fan of our homegrown police profiler, Robbie Coltrane as 'Cracker'.Clayton Everett  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and unpredictable","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I've seen this movie a few times, and have always enjoyed it. Morgan Freeman is always fun to watch. He has a zen-like calmness and wisdom that's like an inspiring teacher. But the real find is Monica Potter. She has a sincere sense of focus and seriousness that becomes genuinely scary when she's trying to kill the little girl at the end. Michael Wincott is also very impressive as the villain, and Penelope Ann Miller is more intense and emotional than usual. There's some plot holes, but the movie is so effective that I don't mind them. I haven't read the book, so I can't compare it to that, but I find the film to be very entertaining every time I see it. "},{"Title":"Run of the mill kidnapping movie","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Just a few comments ...The movie is watchable if not spellbinding. If you're looking for a late night suspense movie, you could do worse. At least there are a few interesting angles and twists, but nothing you haven't seen before.My primary reason to leave a comment is to say what a terrible performance was given by Monica Potter. She played about 95% of her scenes with same facial expression. And I didn't hear her utter a line that was believable. Her performance would have been underwhelming in a high school play. I kept waiting for her to grow into the role, but it never happens.It wasn't one of Morgan Freeman's best performances, but he was enjoyable and I could buy into his character. He pretty much carries this movie. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching and Good Suspense Film for 16+","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's pretty hard to screw up a Morgan Freeman vehicle, so there's low risk going in. The weak link is in the bad guy. The way he is written is a problem. He doesn't seem REALLY bad and he doesn't seem crazy enough to be really scared of him. So, there is a certain tension lacking. Having said that, this makes the film more palatable for family fare, although probably a bad idea for kids who are sensitive about seeing someone their own age being held against her will.An interesting aspect of the film is that the young girl is not a pathetic victim, but one with her wits about her at all times. The plot has a nice little twist in the middle that leads to some decent suspense. Two f words in the whole thing. Kind of a nice change-up from the all-swearing, all-the-time action pics. Worth paying to rent or own at a reasonable price. "},{"Title":"Hail Surprise!","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Well, this morning I was looking for a movie to watch before I went to work and my mom recommended Along Came A Spider, we are both Morgan Freeman fans, so I figured to give the movie a shot, despite typical endings when you see a Morgan Freeman thriller. So the movie started off really strong, but ended up flaking as usual to a big surprise ending that well... wasn't that all surprising. I don't know, I guess I'm just too smart for my own good because I could just see everything that was going to happen, while it was an alright thriller, I wasn't that impressed with the way things peeled out.Well, Morgan Freeman who plays Alex, has just lost his partner in a under cover crime gone fatally wrong and he has retired, until that is, he gets a phone call from a mysterious man who has just kidnapped the senator's daughter and for some odd reason, doesn't want a ransom for the girl. The secret service lady, Jezzie, who was supposed to be guarding the little girl failed to protect her and well, things of course are not always as they seem.I just don't want to give any spoilers, for those who haven't seen those movies, you know the typical thrillers that are supposed to have a big surprise ending? But any who, it's an average thriller at least in my opinion, the acting wasn't bad or anything, I guess just for a while, you see one thriller, you've seen them all, right? But Morgan does still rock, I will never deny his credit, therefore I will be kind over all and say for the rating.5/10 "}{"Title":"Thriller as Time Filler","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" An absolutely straight down the line, competently constructed, generic thriller. Rather like Lee Tamahouri's subsequent work Die Another Day (Bond XXI), it's solid and follows all the rules laid down by franchise & market history. Good guy, bad guy, female interest, action, twist. The only thing that's missing is a reason for giving this film it's name - there doesn't seem to be a pertinent one.So. Morgan Freeman is particularly surly (one gets the impression that Freeman never phones in his roles but this is quite close) and he has good if uninteresting support from Dylan Baker and Monica Potter. Michael Wincott as the stock baddie is less absorbing than usual; this evening I'm a disappointed fan. Effective time-killer if you're waiting for a flight. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman solves a web of deception...","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This enjoyable little crime story, taken from a novel by James Patterson, has the requisite twists and turns that one always finds in a thriller of this sort--and, as usual, there are a few above average performances in the cast. But so much of the plot defies credibility that you really have to accept a lot of implausible events to begin to enjoy the tale. The opening scene, though, is a good one and has a way of hooking you into the story very effectively.MORGAN FREEMAN is quietly authoritative as a man who seems to have no trouble cracking cases, especially those involving complicated technologies like computers. He merely has to sit in front of one to immediately detect the probable password and the various wiz techniques underneath photos where encrypted messages lie waiting for his detection with a flick of his finger over the keyboard. Highly unlikely that a man of his age would be this computer savvy in the first place--which is probably why, in the original novel, the man was a much younger detective.MONICA POTTER makes a pretty helpmate but goes through her role in a rather expressionless way, as though afraid to give too much away if she changed her fixed stare.Most impressive among the supporting players is MICHAEL WINCOTT as the sinister mastermind of a kidnapping, who gets his kicks by taunting the lead detective on the case with improbable phone calls detailing how the detective must comply with innumerable directions if he wants the kidnapper to release the girl, who is the daughter of a wealthy senator and his wife. His explicit directions are just too complex and readily followed by Freeman in a manner that defies any common sense or credibility.But if you swallow these improbabilities, the story is a swift moving one under Lee Tomahori's direction. Never clear are anyone's motivations, another flaw in an otherwise fairly engaging detective yarn that passes the time. "},{"Title":"Truly intense, exciting, refreshing, edge-of-your-seat thriller!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ALONG CAME A SPIDER, in my opinion, is a truly intense, exciting, refreshing, edge-of-your-seat thriller. I thought that Alex (Morgan Freeman) and Jezzie (Monica Potter) made a good detective team, Especially when they were looking for Megan (Mika Boorem). There was one person that really gave me the creeps, and that was Mr. Soneji (Michael Wincott). When I saw people get murdered, I was scared. I didn't scream, though. I was just scared and refreshed at the same time. In conclusion, I highly recommend this truly intense, exciting, refreshing, edge-of-your-seat thriller to all you Morgan Freeman or Monica Potter fans who have not seen it. When you see it, prepare to be thrilled and refreshed. "},{"Title":"More plot holes than the Trans-Canada","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" James Patterson is a strictly mediocre writer who seems to be ghosting most of his bestsellers these days. Along Came a Spider didn't start off as great material, in other words. But this movie certainly didn't improve upon it, or even make the most of it.The so-called plot twists were more like plot holes. Without giving too much away, there is an unbelievable amount of the plot that is extremely implausible, and that falls apart under even the mildest amount of scrutiny.The acting was just wince-worthy most of the time, with Morgan Freeman providing the only respite from cardboard cutout-like characters. And what's more, this movie has no style, no redeeming qualities, not even a good soundtrack.If you're looking for a good thriller, there are lots of options. Skip this yawner. "},{"Title":"Far from original but worth watching thanks to Morgan Freeman","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Morgan Freeman is an actor that seems to able to pick out the very best scripts Hollywood has to offer. Think of movies like for instance Se7en, The Shawshank Redemption or Million Dollar Baby. These are all movies that are without any doubt excellent. But I guess the man has to pay a lot of bills too and that's why he sometimes acts in lesser movies, like for instance this one. But even then his performance still makes it worth to watch it.Along Came a Spider starts with a terrible car accident, eight months before the actual story begins, which police detective and forensic psychologist Alex Cross survives, but that costs his partner's life. He never really recovers from that loss, but when the daughter from a senator is kidnapped from a school by one of the teachers, he tries to help to find the girl. However, when he digs deeper into the case, he uncovers that there is a lot more going on than what they initially thought and not everything is exactly like it seemed in the beginning...Once you've seen the movie, you realize that you haven't seen much new or original. It feels like it all has been done a couple of times before in so many other thrillers. The many obvious twists, the characters that you'll find in almost any thriller,... it really doesn't give you the feeling that you have been watching something special. But what bothered me most was perhaps the story on itself. Of course the little girl is a brilliant student with some famous and rich parents. And of course there can be no doubt about the fact that she is a lot smarter than this 'average' criminal who has kidnapped her and who is holding her captive... And yet, this isn't the worst movie in the genre. Mainly thanks to the performances of Morgan Freeman and Monica Potter, this movie is above average, without being great or even really good. If you don't mind watching an unoriginal thriller or when you are interested in every movie Morgan Freeman has ever played in, than you should give it a try, otherwise you better stay with movies like Se7en. I give this movie a 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"along came a terrible movie","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I'm one of Morgan Freemans biggest fans but this movie was just terrible from start to finish. The plot twist was rather predictable and anti-climatic while the rest of the movie was completely by the book with sub-par acting and a feel that made you wonder if you had already seen this movie with different actors in it. A very stero-typical film with negative energy. Spend your movie-watching time elsewhere because a lot of the TV dramas are of better quality then this film. I am tired of the same type of movie coming out over and over with similar casts and twists. Crime dramas need a new spin or angle because these type of titles are all washed up. Morgan Freeman needs to get a new agent. "},{"Title":"Holey Story","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I agree with the other commenter. There is more holes in the story than in the Swiss cheese I had for lunch. A teacher at such a secure school would have to have more than a basic security clearance. And if the kidnapper wanted the Russian kid, why did he take the senator's daughter? To get all the security services on high alert? He was going to shoot the kid with a heavy calibre handgun while she lay in the bottom of his boat? Hello. Ever hear that boats tend to leak with holes in the bottom? I could go on, but you get the drift. The worst thing is the movie was well done in all other aspects. The female Secret Service Agent Jezzie handles her gun like a pro. Impressive. Dr Alex Cross is a great character. Please give him a better plot next time. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Thriller","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It was better than I expected. The film has many plots and twists and it takes you on a very intricate and intelligent kidnapping trip. I liked the soundtrack from Jerry Goldsmith and the good picture. Congratulations to the director Lee Tamahori for this good work that I missed very much in his last James Bond Die Another Day. Morgan Freeman did as usual a perfect job as an agent. If you like thrillers don't miss it. If you want to see more kidnapping movies I highly recommend you Ransom, Don´t Say A Word or Trapped. I will add Along Came a Spider in my best of dvd collection. Too underrated votes on IMDd. My wife and me vote 7/10. "},{"Title":"This is a good example of why twists don't always add to a movie","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I got the impression that this wasn't so much a follow-up of Kiss the Girls as it was a new event in the life of Morgan Freeman's character of Alex Cross.  At the beginning of Along Came a Spider, he is suffering over guilt due to a mistake he made in the past that led to the death of his partner. When a political figure's daughter is kidnapped from her school, he feels that it is up to him to solve the case, and find the girl alive.  He partners up with a woman who seems to have been a close friend of the girl's.  The movie is actually quite interesting, and we understand the dilemmas Cross must face, yet instead of winding itself out into a conclusion, it seems the writer felt the need to make this movie different (or not so different since it seems to be the latest thing in Hollywood to add a twist at the end), and we are hit with an unexpected, and not really welcome, climatic scene. It may have worked though, if Cross hadn't simply pulled the answer out of thin air.  It makes this movie a prime example of deus ex machina, which I consider the easy way out, especially if the whole movie depends on this solution, and nothing else.  Which is probably why they needed the twist.  Not to mention the uncomfortable feeling you are left with  since the ending came about due to pure chance.  Though this movie does make you think twice about...stuff.  I don't want to give anything away.  I give this a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The film again did not live up to the novel!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  As is often the case, this film departed radically from the novel. All the characters are superficial and many of the most interesting characters in the novel were unfortunately omitted. Again Hollywood has made a mole hill of a mountain!   "}{"Title":"The book might have depth, the film doesn't!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT'Along Came a Spider' starts off with an interesting, but underdeveloped, prologue involving Alex Cross' (Morgan Freeman) partner. This becomes relevant to the story, but lacks the feeling in other films. The rest of the plot revolves around a kid-napping of a Senator's daughter!For some reason the kid-napper, Sanji (MIchael Wincott) wants Alex Cross involved in his game! Cross teams up with disgraced Secret Service minder, Jezzie Flannigan (Monica Potter)- who feels responsible for Megan the Senator's daughter! The first half of the film is quite entertaining as it draws you in- but it's not entirely gripping! Director Lee Tamahori (Once Were Warriors) doesn't pace this film well, but he does manage to get a decent performance out of Mika Boorem who plays Megan. The film steers badly during the second half, and becomes spectacularly twisty! A little too twisty! Now, I have never read the James Patterson novel, but I'd imagine it has more depth! The performances are okay, but nothing brilliant! Freeman is not bad, but could do better! I think Michael Wincott and Mika Boorem provided the best performances, but then again, they had pretty good characters to play!Oh well, I wasn't a big fan of 'Kiss the Girls' either, but I thought it was better than this film. 'Along Came a Spider' is neither gripping nor  a realistic film. You might not spot the twist, but you probably won't believe it either- as i was like yeah, whatever! during the last third!'Along Came a Spider' scores a **1/2 out of *****!   "},{"Title":"Why won't they let Morgan do a good movie?","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came a Spider, the new Alex Cross movie starring the great Morgan Freeman, is about as lazy and as poorly-written a piece of junk you're ever going to see. It's nothing but a poorly-written TV movie (USA network, perhaps?) with a large budget, nice set design, and one great actor in it.I can't even begin to count how many times during the viewing of this movie I turned to my fiancée (or she to me) and asked why would he do that? or how could he/she know that was going to happen? or how could he possibly know that?. I can't count how many times we each pointed out glaring contrivances, each entirely dependant on coincidence, which the filmmakers tried to pass off as plot. I can't tell you how many times the absolutely cheapest kinds of exposition are used--characters outright explaining plot points we've already caught onto, people tapping a few keys of a computer and having ALL the EXACT information they want just pop right up on the screen (in easy-to-assimilate pictures, no less).Why, oh why can't someone put Morgan Freeman in a good detective movie (Seven was close to being good, but blew it by settling for an ending that was more a juvenile joke than a solution to a puzzle)? He deserves it. We deserve it!I mean, damn, next to Along Came a Spider, even the screenplay of Rush Hour 2 makes sense!In a word crap.  "},{"Title":"great thriller packed with twists and turns","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Very slick and entertaining film is a sequel of sorts to Kiss the Girls, with Morgan Freeman reprising his role as forensic psychologist Alan Cross.  When a senator's daughter is kidnapped the perpetrator calls up Cross and leads him into a web of lies, deceit and clues.  Playing a sort of game, in a twisted attempt to be remembered.  He is joined in his hunt for the spider by the special agent who was in charge of security for the girl.  Played wonderfully by Monica Potter.  Along Came A Spider is the kind of movie that is great fun to just watch.   The plot has some holes in it and it's not very original (there's a money drop sequence that's reminiscent of Ransom) but that doesn't really matter because you'll be entertained all the way through.  It' s suspenseful, has lots of twists and a good surprise ending.  Check it out.  "},{"Title":"Just saw this movie...","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  What a great movie. Morgan Freeman breaks new ground as a tired old detective chasing a psycho kidnaper/killer. Haven't seen that before! His performance is almost overshadowed by the great Monica Potter who proves that she is much more than just another pretty face. The psycho kidnaper is deftly played by Michael Wincott. This movie starts off with a bang, a great car crash that you would never guess was computer generated, and just keeps humming along like a finely tuned sports car. I think they consulted Bill Gates himself for the computer tech. Theres no big gaping plot holes or inconsistencies of any kind. The script is so refreshingly original, I can't imagine how they came up with it all. The fully realized characters, the amazing dialogue... not to mention the totally unexpected twist at the end! Who could have seen that coming! Wow! Go rent this movie NOW! It rocks!!!No, really, I'm serious... "},{"Title":"ouch","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  a friend conned me into going to this movie based solely on the fact it has morgan freeman in it. And im giving it a 2 based solely on the fact it has morgan freeman in it. this movie features three of the most horrible villians EVER. the three stooges could have made better villians than these numbskulls. they leave so much evidence just laying around for morgan to find. the best actor in this movie is not morgan but the fisher man who gets shot quickly. he is lucky that he didnt have to be in this film very long. this movie hurt really bad and i can only hope that morgan knows better in the future. this movie is really, really bad. dont see this no matter what "},{"Title":"Truly intense, exciting, refreshing, edge-of-your-seat thriller!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  ALONG CAME A SPIDER, in my opinion, is a truly intense, exciting, refreshing, edge-of-your-seat thriller. I thought that Alex (Morgan Freeman) and Jezzie (Monica Potter) made a good detective team -- Especially when they were looking for Megan (Mika Boorem). There was one person that REALLY gave me the creeps, and that was Mr. Soneji (Michael Wincott). When I saw people get murdered, I was scared. I didn't scream, though. I was just scared and refreshed at the same time. In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this truly refreshing edge-of-your-seat thriller to all you Morgan Freeman or Monica Potter fans out there who have not seen it. When you see it, prepare to be thrilled and refreshed.  "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman, need I say more...","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie well worth watching. After the somewhat weak and pretty badly done intro with the car hanging off the bridge or whatever, that is...Good plot, with some nice twists in the end, a bad guy who isn't made unbearably unsympathetic and overall good acting.Except Morgan Freeman who is absolutely great, as always. His presence is next to tangible.If nothing else, don't miss Freeman doing another stunning performance. "},{"Title":"Along Came Another Way to Waste $8.00","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  What a waste of time, money and talent.  This is nothing more than an average made for TV movie.  Morgan Freeman seems to put 10 of these movies between each decent movie he makes.  Julia Roberts wannabe Monica Potter is just awful in every scene.  The plot is predictable.  NO SURPRISE TWISTS that a junior high student can't see coming.  This is billed as a thriller.  They are right ... I was thrilled when it ended and I could leave.  Don't waste your Blockbuster coupons on this one. "},{"Title":"Ten million dollars in diamonds are forever.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Okay, that didn't really have much to do with this movie, but hey, neither did the first 15 minutes of it. Along Came A Spider is a very entertaining thriller, but as soon as it ends, you realize that it is little more than a rehash of things that have been seen in countless thrillers of the same kind before. There are several effective twists during the movie, but when you think about it, they are exactly the same twists that you see in just about every thriller. The largely recycled plot is somewhat saved by the always excellent performance from Morgan Freeman (I think he's more than redeemed himself by now for Hard Rain), as well as the wonderfully hate-able kidnapper (Gary Soneji) provided by Michael Wincott, who may not have been given a role as fitting as this since Robin Hood Prince of Thieves (keeping in mind his excellent performance in The Crow). Monica Potter plays the role of the Secret Service agent in charge of supervising little Megan, the daughter of a Senator and the subject of the story's kidnapping. It doesn't become abundantly clear until near the end of the film, but Potter sounds EXACTLY like Julia Roberts in this role, despite bearing no physical resemblance whatsoever. Her vocal similarity to Roberts is downright spooky.One of the things that really brought this movie down was the way that Megan was portrayed as some sort of super girl. I don't expect for her to be just a poor helpless little girl, but just because she is a senator's daughter doesn't mean that she should automatically be able to concoct a brilliant scheme involving exploding batteries in order to escape from her captor, or perform some of the feats that she did while she was held captive in the wooden room during the end of the film. That sort of thing should be reserved for action B-movies like Commando (yes, I know that Commando rocked, but so did Bloodsport and Kickboxer, but that doesn't mean they're not B-movies). You remember that Alyssa Milano, in Commando, was confined to a wooden room in that film, and she escaped by prying a board loose near the floor &#150; EXACTLY the same way that Megan was attempting to escape in Along Came A Spider. Given all of the things that are wrong with this film, it becomes clear that it's value does not lie with the story, but instead with the superior performances throughout. Of particular note, obviously, are Morgan Freeman and Michael Wincott. Freeman is always good in his movies, however bad the plot, and it's just so good to occasionally see an actor like Wincott get a role that fits his iconography so well. Along Came A Spider is not a great movie by any standards, but there can be no denying that it does have its moments. The delivery of the diamond ransom, for example, may not have been too original, but at least it was well done. While it's true that this movie seems to have been assembled from parts taken directly from dozens of other movies, it still manages to barely save itself, although it is still almost sure to be very quickly forgotten.  "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is a really good movie in my opinion.  If you like adventure and action movies, this movie is definitely for you.  It had a great plot and a twist at the end of the movie. If you ever have the chance to watch this movie, please do so.  I don't think you'll regret it! The story line is that a girl is kidnapped and a ex-detective must try to find her.  Along the road though are many events that give the movie a whole different angle. Even though the movie is pretty long it is very good and has quite a few good actors in it as well. Oh, and one more thing. Don't miss the beginning of the movie as you need some of the information given during that time of the move.  Well, that's all but I hope that you found this review helpful! "}{"Title":"Lousy movie, to say the least.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I'm going to review this one in two manners.  The first, as a movie.  The second, in contrast with the book.As a movie, this film has little to offer in way of originality or plot.  Two children are kidnapped, and Detective Alex Cross is called in to investigate.  Basic story that's been done a dozen times.  The action scenes are about all that this movie is really worth (although the direction is god-awful.  Of course, it was directed by Lee Tamahori, so what more should I expect?), and Morgan Freeman's performance is outstanding as always.  I would love to see Alex Cross done in film again, but I have one stipulation to ask FOLLOW THE BOOK!!!  For once in your life, Hollywood, just use the book as a script.  These books sell like crazy, and there's a reason.  They're written by an amazing novelist, not some hack screenwriter who thinks he can do better.SPOILERS FROM HERE ON DOWN!!!For those of you who have not read the book or seen the movie, you may want to stop reading this right now.  GARY SONEJI LIVES IN THE BOOK!  Not only does he live, but he comes back in number 4, which is one of the best novels in the series.  I guess the producers weren't planning on making any more of these books into movies, because they would have to skip Cat and Mouse.  Once Cross killed Soneji in the movie, I just about walked out of the movie right then and there.  I mean, really, it's not that hard to not shoot the bad guy, and keep him around for the next Alex Cross movie.  I hope that James Patterson quits selling the movie rights to his books, because the film industry does nothing but trash them. "},{"Title":"Never Believe the Critics!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"   I began to watch Along Came a Spider expecting it to be second rate based on the critical reviews that I had read. But I was pleasantly surprised to find an entertaining and complex kidnap mystery instead. Contrary to critics, this film holds up very well when compared to its prequel Kiss the Girls (1997). Morgan Freeman repeats his role as Dr. Alex Cross, a police psychologist who has just lost his partner in the opening scenes. In the meantime a powerful U.S. senator's daughter (Mika Boorem) is kidnaped by a trusted teacher (Michael Wincott) for unknown reasons. The secret service agent responsible for the child (Monica Potter) blames herself for the incident and joins up with Cross, who has been drawn into the case, to help find the young kidnap victim. As the story unfolds, director, Lee Tamahori leads us down a road that contains many plot twists and turns and a few unexpected surprises as well. Freeman as always, gives his usual outstanding performance in the lead role and Boorem is more than adequate as his new partner Jezzie who has a few problems of her own. Wincott is alternately good and evil as the kidnaper, Soneji. Boorem gives a convincing performance as Megan Rose, the child who is kidnaped. Also, look for Penelope Ann Miller and Michael Moriarity as the parents of Megan. Along Came a Spider just goes to prove, that you can't always believe the critics. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I thought this film was great. Who cares if it has a few weaknesses, I mean it's a MOVIE!! It's just suppose to entertain you, which it does exceedingly well in my opinion. Michael Wincott (who plays Gary Soneji) is my new favorite actor. He is totally cool. And yes, Monica Potter is Julia Robert's twin, only prettier, I'd say. I think Alex Cross is really a great character, I mean he's so cool and down to earth, he's not real flashy like James Bond or something. I liked Kiss the Girls also, but not as much because Michael Wincott wasn't in it. (He's so cool!) I'd recommend Along Came a Spider (and by the way, the title is explained) to anybody. "},{"Title":"Good plot and thrilling effect","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I had really good time seeing one of the last efforts of Lee Tamahori the same director of Once were warriors (his real first famous film) and later the commercialThe Mulholland drive.If you think are going to see something like Seven or some other typical serial killer's films, forget it.This is in a way quite intelligent because the director brings the audience to a non expected end, full of surprises.The cast is good and Morgan Freeman is in His role.Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Holy","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I have one big question, why did the kidnapper leave clues to his whereabouts in the beginning of the movie then totally forget about that theme for the rest of the movie.  This movie lacked coherence and was full of plot holes.  Morgan Freeman was, as usual, good but was saddled with a poor script.  The rest of the cast were forgettable two dimensional caricatures.  Typically situations were resolved by blowing big bloody holes in people with the ever present guns. The only real suspense was how and when the bad guys were going to be shot.  The movie didn't disappoint since many people were killed.  Gun play was used again as a substitute for decent writing.  The script was also a victim.  It was shot full of holes. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I'm loathe to compare books to movies, since both are completely different media that are intended to stimulate in different ways, but when a movie is an adaptation of a novel comparisons are inevitable. So, the question is what makes for a successful adaptation? If you are in search of an answer to this question, the answer won't be found with Along Came a Spider since I believe it's the worst adaptation of a novel I've ever had the misfortune of experiencing.The method for this adaptation seemed to be to take the well-developed plot, with three-dimensional characters and one of the most interesting and complex criminals I've seen in the genre and gut it down to its very core. What remains is the basic premise of the plot along with the twist, but with all the details and development removed it becomes totally ridiculous. Characters are completely undeveloped and are barely two dimensional. The worst hit is the Gary Soneji character (portrayed rather weakly by Michael Wincott), who instead of being complex becomes a mere cardboard cutout of a psychopath. The basic plot is barely functional and to me was nothing more than a series of events happening one after the other with the movie progressing from one event to the next without any real structure. What this all amounts to is another dire Hollywood thriller that one could confuse for any typically bland made-for-TV movie, if it was not for the name actors involved. Morgan Freeman does the best he possibly can with the material and really is the only reason to watch the movie. I'm not sold on Monica Potter's acting ability, but to be fair her character is as undeveloped as that of the Soneji character.To sum up, Along Came a Spider is the worst movie I've seen at the cinema this year, and as such I cannot recommend it to anyone. For anyone unfamiliar with the book, you'll find a sub-par thriller with a ludicrous twist. For those that have read the book, you'll more than likely wonder how such a travesty could have been made of it.Avoid. "},{"Title":"the maker of this film is an overachiever","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Over the years, many average thrillers were made, and there is nothing wrong with that. They don't keep you on the edge of your seat, but you know what you can expect. Light entertainment and a good thrill from time to time.The problem with this movie is that, as an average thriller, it tries too hard to compete with such masterpieces as 'Seven' and 'The usual suspects'. If the writer kept the story simple and build up the tension till the end, the 'surprise ending' would actually be a surprise. Instead, he tries to overwhelm us with smart twists.Another problem is the truly extraordinary police-work. Cross doesn't need clues from the kidnapper, just a simple presume is enough for this supercop to do the right thing at just the right moment. For instance, he thinks the Russian kid has something to do with it, he goes over to see him, and bang, 5 minutes later the kidnapper is present. It is just ludicrous. With cops like him, there wouldn't be a single criminal loose on the streets, they would all be in jail.Instead of being an average thriller, this is just an overestimated would-be blockbuster. "},{"Title":"A Great Example of a Bad Movie","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of predictable formulaic movie that keeps me renting independent and foreign movies.  This has Hollywood all over it.  The characters are paper thin.  The bad guy is a BAD GUY.  The good guys are DOOG GUYS.  The role of the secret service agent played by Monica Potter was terrible.  I don't think Secret Service folks are typically whiny and lacking in self-confidence.The writing was terrible.  Some of the dialogue was laugh-out-loud funny. The kidnapper wanted SI2 diamonds.  SI2 are pretty crummy consumer-grade diamond.  OK, maybe he just doesn't know his diamonds.  They don't know their computers either.  When they find a webcam to the kidnappers house, why don't they just dump the arp tables and get the TCP/IP address. HELLO! These are Secret Service.  I think they know this stuff.I have tremendous respect for Morgan Freeman's acting ability, but I don't always like his choice of film projects.  The first Kiss the Girls was Hollywood crap, too.  I expected this one would be, but I figured it was worth $3.49 to find out.  I should have saved my money.  "},{"Title":"... But It Didn't Sit Beside Her, It Kidnapped Her","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Based on James Patterson's best-selling novel in his Alex Cross series, Washington, D.C. detective/psychologist Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman, reprising his Kiss the Girls role) and Secret Service agent Jezzie Flanagan (Monica Potter) search for a senator's missing daughter, who was kidnapped by a truly brutal man (Michael Wincott). They discover that the crime is more complex than either of them thought.Good, suspenseful scenes and endless plot twists make this a true mystery-thriller (especially the ending). Not really loyal to the novel, but still exciting and fun. Wincott plays a terrific villain, and Freeman delivers the goods once again as Alex Cross.Fans of James Patterson's Alex Cross series should not find this movie difficult to like. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Great movie.When you said you do what you are.The way Morgan freeman says it defines the entire movie.Suspense ,thrill ,action .You just don't get bored at all.The movie offers you so much be it great acting ,exceptional screenplay and a great story line.Of course it has its own glitches where a police officer is more capable than the entire FBI but then again if every thing was realistic in our movies they wont be called works of fiction.Its definitely worth a watch and its just not a kill time movie.Go for it!Highly underrated going by the ratings it has received! "}{"Title":"Short of Freeman's Factor","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" You Name it he'll deliver, that the kinda of thought comes into my mind whenever i watches Morgan Freeman's Movies. Its really difficult to predict in the whole cast who really was the spider.But nevertheless the plot was perfectly placed as it should be and the movie is worth of money.On the other hand Monica Porter played her part really good, but the movie only deserves to be a one time thriller flick rather than a long run horse.You may find the movie a very predictable and not so different from the movies of the same genre but still Lee put all the efforts to have glued to your seats till the end. "},{"Title":"A pessimistic day.....","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A girl is kidnapped from a school by one of the teachers. She turns out to be the daughter of a senator, and the kidnapper soon makes a call to Alex Cross whose partner died eight months ago, involving him in the kidnapping. One of the secret service people that failed to protect the girl at the school decides to help him. But not everything is what is seems......Kiss the girls was a very good thriller, it excelled partly because it was released on the back end of Se7en, and Freeman was the Pearson of choice to play this sort of role.Plus, it was released at a time when thrillers were pretty similar, and this stood out a little bit more.Jump four years, and we have this second Cross movie, which to be fair, is very, very average indeed.If it wasn't for Wincott and Freeman, this film would have been a bomb. Freeman can dot his stuff in his sleep, and is good company to be with, And Wincott, well after The Crow and Strange Days, I'd watch him in anything.But thanks to the poor narrative, script, and a really bad Monica Potter, this film just happens, and never really stands out like its predecessor.It's one of those films that you will see, be disappointed in, and then a few years later see it again to see if it's got better with age.Believe me, it doesn't, and the recent Alex Cross is better. "},{"Title":"A Watchable Idiotic Thriller","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along Came a Spider is a thriller adapted from the novel of the same title by James Patterson although but many of the key plot elements of the book were eliminated.It stars Morgan Freeman as Alex Cross together with Monica Potter,Penelope Ann Miller,Michael Wincott,Dylan Baker,Mika Boorem,Billy Burke,Anton Yelchin and Jay O. Sanders.The screenplay by Marc Moss and it was directed by Lee Tamahori.Gary Soneji is a brilliant but remorseless psychopath who has landed a teaching position at an exclusive private school in Washington, D.C. Using his extensive knowledge of kidnapping, Soneji abducts one of his students - Megan, whose father Hank Rose is a United States senator. Ollie MacArthur, the detective investigating the case, has strong words for Jezzie Flannigan, the Secret Service agent who mistakenly let Megan slip through her fingers. But when the kidnapper contacts Dr. Cross, the psychologist is brought in on the case, and Cross seeks out Flannigan, who he believes might have a valuable insight into the case. Soon, Cross and Flannigan come to the terrible realization that this crime only represents the tip of the iceberg for the ruthless Soneji.Director Lee Tamahori and screenwriter Marc Moss treat their star with all due respect, and manage to turn out an engrossing, entertaining movie in the process.But still,it isn't a smart thriller like Se7en or Copycat.Instead, it's more of a watchable idiotic thriller. "},{"Title":"kiss the spider","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Although Morgan Freeman is usually an actor who can do no wrong, Along Came a Spider doesn't really give him anything to work with. He plays the same character that he did in Kiss the Girls, and is this time looking for the kidnapped daughter of a US senator, although the case branches out from there.I should admit that I've never read the novels on which Kiss the Girls and Along Came a Spider are based, but this movie just falls flat, which the previous movie didn't. It just seems like the sort of movie that I've seen more times that I can count. All the cast members have done better than this. "},{"Title":"Tight Thriller with Great Ending","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I have not read the Patterson novel so can only speak for the film itself. The story concerns a profiler doctor/writer(Morgan Freeman) losing his partner in a wonderfully shot opening scene being brought into the abduction of a senator's daughter. What follows is a roller-coaster of twists and turns, lots of action, and some good solid acting. Technological advances, psychological profiling, even a bit of international importance are weaved throughout a very taut and tight thriller directed under the capable hands of Lee Tamahori. Freeman gives a wonderfully skilled performance as he is always like to do. He puts pieces together cognitively amidst a sea of clues and red herrings. Monica Potter plays his new partner(and she is lovely to boot)and gives a very nice turn in her somewhat complicated role. The end of the film, for me, was a complete surprise, and I found myself enjoying every minute of this fast-paced film. This is the kind of entertainment thats deserved of such an appellation. While not a great film, Along Came a Spider is an exciting, good film. Watch for Michael Moriarity and Penelope Anne Miller as the parents of the kidnapped child. Nice to see them in film every now and then. "},{"Title":"A simple but effective entertaining film","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The film is rather simple but it works. And it works not because of the kidnapping of the child. Not because of the pathos that comes along with such a case all the time, every time. Not because of the failed attempt of the girl to escape. Not because of the child's father's over-reacting. It works because the plot is too simple to be accepted like that. A solitary man could not have planned and realized that plot in Washington DC, with the Russian security services looking after the son of the Ambassador and the secret service working there full time in that private school. Too much security in that school for such a kidnapping to have been done by only one person. Then there must have been accomplices and that's how the film works because we do not know who he or she or they is or are and we are looking out for the clues, for the punch line, for the final and supreme plotter. And that's just what it is all about, one plotter double-crossing the other or the others, or even maybe three tiers instead of just two, and maybe even four tiers, and we are double-crossed in a magnificent way just the very same way the profiling cop is double-crossed in a very standard way. The profiler is profiled by the criminal and then side-tracked because when you know the profile of the profiler the profiler becomes predictable and then inefficient, impotent. So that helps to take the medicine down indeed, even if the girl survives only because the criminals did not do one thing right, only one thing, one single and unique thing. It only takes one mistake for the best adventures to fail. Just find out which thing and who.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman surpasses himself again with . . .","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Morgan Freeman surpasses himself again with another scrupulously nuanced performance in director Lee Tamahori's old-fashioned but perhaps far too ingenious kidnap caper Along Came a Spider. Con-Air's Monica Potter, Crow nemesis Michael Wincott, and Penelope Ann Miller co-star with Freeman.Unfortunately, this above-average, old-fashioned, but preposterous murder-mystery thriller grabs you by the jugular at the outset with a terrific wreck, then gradually looses its grip and becomes an anticlimactic, standard-issue, cat & mouse, ransom potboiler. Happily, director Lee Tamahori never lets the narrative elements encumber the action. The sound transitions jump out at you, while scenarist Marc Moss triggers one surprise after another in whiplash succession to keep you guessing until our protagonist discovers the last thing that even he had expected. Altogether, Spider qualifies as a solid, respectable, entertaining, middle-of-the-road Agatha Christie thriller with no nudity but a body count. The hero is virtuous, and the villains are the spawn of evil. Older, more mature audiences will appreciate this psychological police story.Freeman reprises his Kiss the Girls role as Washington, D.C. Detective Dr. Alex Cross, a famous forensic psychiatrist with several books to his credit. When Cross's undercover partner dies in a botched field operation, he cannot forgive himself and retires. No sooner has Cross put himself out to pasture than he finds himself drawn into a kidnapping by the kidnapper! Apparently, elite public school teacher Gary Soneji (Michael Wincott) has strangled a teacher and abducted a U.S. Senator's daughter. As Cross watches the TV news coverage about the crime, Soneji rings him up and notifies him about the evidence he stashed in Cross's mail box. Cross finds a shoe that belonged to Megan Rose Dunne (Mika Boorem of The Patriot) and joins the investigation. Disgraced Special Agent Jezzie Flannigan (Monica Potter), who supervised the around-the-clock surveillance on Megan, blames herself for Megan's abduction. Although the Feds want nothing to do with her, Cross teams up with Flannigan to track down the elusive Soneji. The trigger-happy Soneji wants Cross on the case so that he can document Soneji's crime of the century in a book and compare it with the tragic Lindbergh baby abduction..As kidnap capers go, Spider assembles all the standard conventions. Indeed, when the authorities trace Soneji's phone call, he gets off the line just before they can locate him. Later, when the villain issues his random demand, he sends Detective Cross hustling across the nation's capital on foot, answering various phones in multiple locations to see if our hero is acting alone without back-up. Naturally, Cross has Flannigan following him in a nearby car with an earpiece serving as a two-way radio while he scrambles from one phone booth to the next. Anybody that saw either Don Siegel's Dirty Harry or Ron Howard's Ransom knows this old trick.This time around the bad guy demands $10-million in untraceable diamonds. Clearly, Tamahori and Moss borrow the stunt of having Cross pitch a thermos of diamonds from a moving commuter train to the criminal, similar to what happened in Akira Kurosawa's 1962 Japanese kidnap caper High and Low. Along the way, our heroes learn Soneji has more in mind than simply kidnapping the daughter of a little-known Congressman and extorting millions from him.During the last twenty minutes of Spider, the revelations fly as thick as the gunfire punctuating them. Predictably, the FBI is nowhere in sight when Cross cracks the case and rescue Megan. James Patterson's novel provided the source for the film. Although the author's Kiss the Girls showed up a the first cinematic Cross mystery, Spider itself actually appeared in print before Girls. Tamahori and Moss toe the line on violence.You see several people getting shot, and you see brief spurts of blood erupt from their clothing, but the filmmakers never linger on those gory images. Similarly, apart from some harrowing moments involving Soneji's handling of Megan, Tamahori and Moss display great restraint and shun any urge to introduce perverted sexual elements.Alas, Spider is in a sense anticlimactic because nothing occurs after the tragic opening car crash scene that matches it in terms of action so the filmmakers work overtime in twisting and turning the plot until it resembles a pretzel. Younger audiences may find Along Comes a Spider bland and less than compelling, but traditional whodunit fans will appreciate both its red herrings and surprises, even if this well-made nail-biter breaks no new ground. "},{"Title":"Jezzie did not have to go to kill the girl","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" average movie but i guess what sucks more about the movie is that why did she have to go to kill the girl.nobody not even the girl knew about her involvement and she dint know Morgan knew about her,n a/c her ,he could at the most have guessed only about her partner.she could have absconded with the diamonds.what the hell was she thinking?this is not natural. n yes she could have been saved in the end,whats so big a threat from a woman when u have a gun aimed at her,that u don't even bother to shoot at her hand or make her drop the gun more emphatically when u are primarily a profiler???? oh yes he was perfect at guessing the passwords without even one hit and trial. n if Soneji really meant to kidnap the boy ,why not him first...what sort of game has a weak opening? in the end , i come with the feeling that no suspense thriller had been made perfect without flaws till date. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" After reading the novel Along Came A Spider by James Patterson Which is one of the best books I have ever read, I though I would watch the film and see if that was as good. I was extremely disappointed. There is not one similarity between the film and the book. the characters have different names, the plot is all over the place and doesn't bare a single resemblance to the novel. Whilst reading the novel, I couldn't put it down because it grabs you by the throat and doesn't let go, the film however, I was barely able to stay awake to see the end. the action scenes are poorly done, It's set on a boat. A boat isn't even mentioned in the novel. I f you want some helpful advice, read James Patterson's 1993 novel Along Came A Spider and be totally enthralled, and just forget this film was ever made. "},{"Title":"..all I wanted was to be entertained, and I was...","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ....gee - all those pages and pages written by people who hated this film. If they disliked it that much, why did they have to write such long comments? No doubt, all young folk aspiring to be critics......I didn't see one minute how Monica Potter looked like Julia Roberts - did I miss something here? Who wants to look like Julia Roberts? Those lips.......lots of people said Freeman just walked through this film. Did they see Ocean's Eleven, and the DULL performance by Ms. Roberts?I thought Freeman portrayed a very good role for his disgraced detective - he certainly made-up for all the quiet scenes he was in, by running all over D C trying to track-down where the kidnapped girl was. Every scene in this movie kept me glued.....Let's face it - they don't make movies like they used to - and young folk don't have the advantage of having seen the good ones.It only takes a couple of lines to say don't waste your money, or it is entertaining. I was entertained......so, I've bought it on VHS AND DVD. Duh! for me too...... "}{"Title":"Along came a... Oops.","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along Came a Spider is one of those movies that appear to be great at first once you finish it. But as you think about it, the plot holes start to appear. The MORE you think about it, the bigger the holes become.Morgan Freeman stars again as detective Alex Cross, a recently retired detective who is forced to get back into action when a kidnapper (played quite excellently actually by an actor I've never heard before, Michael Wincott) goads him into going after him and the kidnapped Senator's daughter he's holding. He's soon joined by the guardian (Monica Potter) of the Senator's daughter. As Cross tries to unravel the case, mistakes are made by the kidnappers, and soon, someone takes advantage of the kidnapper's errors..While the acting is strong, the story is somewhat wobbly. The ending is totally ridiculous as the surprise seems to be a tad desperate and doesn't really resolve anything but to add a lot more questions then answers. I actually liked the whole Charles Lindbergh thing that was going on, and wished they exploited that a bit more. To add the ending on the ending seems like a real cheat to me. "},{"Title":"cool movie","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This movie was awesome. I saw it two times on TV and I plan to go buy it soon. I would recommend it to anyone who likes great thrillers. I was surprised in the end. I can usually predict movies but this one got me. I'm also a big Morgan Freeman fan. This is a great film for all those other Morgan Freeman fans out there. It also had some great scenes you can appreciate. The plot is solid and interesting and the characters are original. In my opinion this is a solid thriller. It's a great movie for people that love to guess what's going to happen next like me. In my opinion anyone who loves movies with a twist should go buy this DVD. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"disappointed reader","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I read the book and finished a couple of days before i watched the film so the plot was freshly in my mind. The book was a fantastic read, but the movie didn't live up to my expectations. I think the book missed out on many of the key features of the best selling novel. I was disappointed but it is a good film if you haven't read the book, where as i did i was disappointed. But i do praise the director because of his excellent portrayal of the book to film, and also the casting. The book spans an time length of 2-3 years so if made into a film, it would be a very long film. The book character of Dr.Alex Cross, is very 'hard' and a tough cop, with a lot of attitude and has a close friend Sampson, who is very similar. But the film's character is a very softly spoken, polite man.Overall i was disappointed, but it is a very good film if you haven't read the film. "},{"Title":"Cool, but flawed","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is an interesting film, and it had some very memorable scenes. But there were quite a few things wrong with it. It was quite cheesy and had too many twists which got quite ridiculous. But it did have a certain class which redeemed it from being a flop. It features a very nice scene where Morgan Freeman answers a payphone and receives directions to the next payphone which is going to ring. It's quite exciting in some parts. A girl is kidnapped by her teacher and he calls upon an old and damaged cop (Morgan Freeman, who gives an excellent performance, as usual). A nice psychological setup, and it's not a bad film, but save your money for something else if you can. "},{"Title":"Rather Mediocre","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" While possessing a few positive points, this film otherwise has a number of failings and overall is a great example of mediocrity. The plot is somewhat entertaining and has a few decent twists, but it is all basically rehashed material. While it has a twist that is somewhat interesting and not entirely predictable, it nevertheless all gives one the feeling that one has seen it all before somewhere and the entire movie feels tired and overall quite dull.As others have pointed out, the best aspects of this movie are some of the performances. Morgan Freeman is, as usual, excellent, proving like some other actors that he can still turn in a really good performance even when given a bad script and stuck in a world of blandness. The same is true of Michael Wincott who is also great as usual. He is so good at playing villains or just sinister people that it really is a shame that he is not in more good movies. Monica Potter also did a good job, particularly at giving off a kind of intangible unpleasant quality that rather subtly, and not obviously, made one want to dislike her, giving further satisfaction as the film progressed.Otherwise, this was a dull, tired film that while not really bad, and probably worth watching for free, is not one I would spend money on. "},{"Title":"Slick thriller with A-list cast","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ALONG CAME A SPIDER Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound formats Dolby Digital Surround EX / DTS-ESWhen the daughter of a prominent senator is kidnapped from under the noses of her Secret Service bodyguards, former detective Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman) is lured out of retirement to engage in cat-and-mouse negotiations with the kidnapper (Michael Wincott), leading to a surprise revelation...Entertaining thriller, distinguished - as ever - by Freeman's quiet authority in the central role, and Wincott as the cunning psycho who turns out to be a pawn in a much bigger game than anyone could have possibly imagined. A follow-up of sorts to KISS THE GIRLS (1997), Lee Tamahori's OK film delivers the suspense goods in every respect, and Marc Moss' script (based on James Patterson's clever novel) offers a genuine sting in the tail. Music score by Jerry Goldsmith. "},{"Title":"Pretty entertaining thriller","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Along came a Spider is a thriller directed by Lee Tamahori, directed by Morgan Freeman, who (in my opinion) only improves the older he gets. So before I recently watched this film, I was hopeful of a good Freeman performance. My hope was rewarded with class. Pure class.This may be a dumb, fun thriller, but not just your average run-of-the-mill action adventure. Whilst the theme (a kidnapping) is not really that new, many elements of this action thriller contain refreshingly original touches.Freeman, from start to finish, gives another believable, entertaining performance, accompanied by his mischievous side-kick (which you later find out). If you want some good, late night fun, this will definitely suit you. Or if you want a quiet evening, just sitting and watching a dumb-but-fun thriller, this is for your. Or if you just want good thrills and a good movie, this if for you. The choice is yours.Overall Rating ***/ out of ***** (3 and a half out of 5) "},{"Title":"An engaging thriller","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It was a rather enjoyable experience watching Morgan Freeman's Alex Cross solve this case. Freeman of course injects his character with the appropriate dignity, intelligence, and world-weariness, all characteristics he brings to many of the films he has been in (see Amistad, The Power of One). Alex Cross has a bit of the sense of humor that Freeman's chauffeur had in Driving Miss Daisy, though perhaps a bit more understated. The rest of the cast is also more than competent. It was nice to see Monica Potter do something a film like this in the same year that she did Head Over Heels with Freddie Prinze Jr. All in all, a worthwhile and engaging hour and a half of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Average movie, nothing more, nothing less","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is the second movie where Morgan Freeman plays the detective Alex Cross. I must admit that I think the first one is better, although none of them is really really good. It is just one of those movies that you watch, and then 10 minutes later you have forgotten about it. This is just your typical suspense thriller. Something happens and the smart man, Alex Cross has to figure out who did it and why. The story in this movie is bizarre to say the least, and not believable at all if you ask me. But if you can see past that, it is possible to enjoy this movie, to a certain degree. If you have read my other reviews you know that I never talk too much about the movie, because I think that ruins the experience for some people. So in this movie you will see Morgan Freeman doing his usual role as a incredible smart person, trying to solve a crime. I rate this movie 5/10 "},{"Title":"Thilling with a Surprising Twist!","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  *Possible Spoilers*      This is a good thriller and it keeps you guessing. There is a surprise twist in this movie and believe me it will take you by surprise. Morgan Freeman reprises his role from Kiss The Girls as Alex Cross and Monica Potter plays his somewhat partner and Michael Wincott makes you dislike him. One thing I will point out is the scenes where Cross is running around Washington D.C. going from Phone booth to Phone Booth in order to find out where to make a ransom drop. This reminds me of Dirty Harry because Clint Eastwood did a similar thing in that movie. Jerry Goldsmith provides an exciting score which goes well with the film. Good movie! *** out of **** "}{"Title":"A brain dead thriller with horrible plot twists.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I'm not familiar with the book as many other reviewers are, so I'm not about to bash this movie because it doesn't live up to the source (few films ever do). No, Along Came a Spider can be bashed on it's own merits. It's very apparent that the movie has been compressed in a hacked manner from a source with much more depth. Everything seems rushed, pieces fall together way too quickly and worst of all the movie has no depth.For example, at one point detective Cross is trying to guess a computer password, and after thinking for 30 seconds, he guess it on the first try. For a detective Mr. Cross doesn't seem to ask too many questions or look at too much evidence, but he doesn't have to because he is always right the first time.This lack of depth is also in the characters themselves. Cross could be an interesting character, if the audience could connect with him. Unfortunately we are never given the chance. We are told he feels guilty for the death of his previous parter, but we never see it. In fact if you remove one scene (the one were his wife says you shouldn't feel guilty of the death of (your partner).) then I wouldn't even suspect he had these feelings for the rest of the movie. In fact, there are almost no scenes, or even lines in this movie that breath life into a character. All the fat has been trimmed, so each line has a direct purpose. Which makes each character a cardboard cutout.You may notice that many of the reviews here are impressed by the surprise plot twists. The reason they are, I suppose, is because none of them are foreshadowed at all. Your average Scoobie-doo cartoon does a better job of foreshadowing than this movie.  Also the twists are completely illogical. Not that logic is found elsewhere in the movie, but hey, it's only a detective film. Who needs logic for that? I don't actually know how Detective Cross figures out the final twist, because we never see him make the connection. Instead the audience is shown the truth, then we cut back to him and he has already figured it out and is gathering evidence to verify it. But hey, he is the perfect detective, so it's no surprise. "},{"Title":"Lots of dizzying action and chase scenes....","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I actually didn't watch this in its entirety, I only caught a little bit of it-but found it hopelessly similar to a million other movies I've seen so ridiculous I turned it off. Morgan Freeman is so talented-this is not a Terribly original movie,not only does nothing ring true but it's tiresome as well(I was getting dizzy watching Morgan run from place to place so much). The movie definitely didn't hook me or do much for me, there are so many similar movies out there. I suppose it WAS action packed and Freeman fans might want to check it out, because being the talented actor he is, freeman's pretty much great in all he does but I could not get into this movie, though I tried. Not a terrible movie but the major plus is that Morgan's in it. "},{"Title":"Thriller with many plot twists.","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  MAJOR SPOILERSFilm begins with the kidnap from a private school of a congressman's daughter. It's obviously an inside job and criminal psychologist Alex Cross is brought in on the case, reluctantly. I could never figure why him. Many plot twists later it turns out to be the detective asigned as the little girl's body guard who did it. This was fairly predictable although not until late on in the movie.  "},{"Title":"I have followed Dr. Alex Cross through James Patterson's novels.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  As soon as a new James Patterson book comes out I must read it.  The movie leaves out a number of interesting bits about Cross' family and personal life, but I enjoyed it anyway.  Morgan Freeman is a fine actor. However I feel that he is 15 years too old to play this character. "},{"Title":"Senseless Movie","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman leads the cast in this mysterious thriller involving a kidnapping. In the first five minutes of a movie there is a scene involving digital effects that is so poorly done you might think that you're watching a comedy. The acting by the lead female is terrible, and after about 30 minutes you will be praying to God asking him for forgiveness. You will want God to forgive you of your sins so he won't punish you by making you watch this senseless movie. This movie tries too hard in my opinion, and once the mystery is revealed, you will think to yourself, Yeah... I already knew that! "},{"Title":"An entertaining thriller loosely based on it's novel**possible spoiler**","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I didn't find this movie to be as bad as the critics seem to label it. It was entertaining but should have been made by itself. The James Patterson novel is just barely seen portrayed on the screen, the only similar aspects are The Character names, The Crime(just barely) and the final results of the case. In the end of the book Jezzie was put to death by the state, in the film it was by Alex Cross' bullet. They not only screwed that up but they cut the crimes commited by Gary Sonjei. He was a genius maniac in the novel, in the film he's a garden variety kidnaper/two time murderer. I am appauled with the adaptation, I myself could write/direct a better adaptation than the idiots making this one up. When you adapt a novel you dont rewrite it, you portray it on a screen.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing But Not Terrible","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  As a fan of Morgan Freeman, I anxiously anticipated watching this movie for the first time, and unfortunately I have to say that I found it to be one of Freeman's weaker movies. Freeman was cast as Det. Alex Cross, a police profiler who gets involved in helping to solve the kidnapping of a relatively unimportant Senator's daughter. (Michael Moriarty underwhelmed me in a somewhat limited role as Senator Rose, while Mika Boorem - whose performance I enjoyed in Hearts In Atlantis - came across well here as his daughter. I look for her to have a big future.)The first hour or so of the movie, however, was especially weak and rather tedious. Cross struggled with the question of why such an unimportant senator's daughter would be the target of a kidnapping - so did I, and it was never really made clear, although I understand the connection between Meghan and Dimitri (Anton Yelchin, also an alumnus from Hearts In Atlantis; he and Boorem work very well together.) It just seemed a rather circuitous route for Soneji (Michael Wincott) to take to achieve his ultimate goal.To give credit where credit is due, the story picked up speed in the last half and became a decent whodunit story, and I had not predicted the ending involving Jezzie (Monica Potter.) So, this isn't a terrible movie, but it certainly isn't one of the better ones of Morgan Freeman's career.5/10 "},{"Title":"great film!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I will admit that the whole posing as a British guy thing didn't work for Michael Wincott's character at first, but other than that I give this film a 10/10!First off, there's Morgan Freeman and Monica Potter. You wouldn't expect them to be the perfect pair, but they certainly are! They seem to work together well in this film as a detective and a Secret Service agent.Second, there's the amazingly beautiful Mika Boorem, the actress who played Megan Rose. Being a devoted fan of hers, I'd have to say that this was one of her best roles ever! 10/10  "},{"Title":"a lost cause","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  My theater teacher tells me that casting is 80% of a production. If so this movie started out with an automatic 40%. Both actors would have been fine in another movie, but they are not Jezzie Flanagan and Alex Cross. I can not imagine what when through James Patterson's head when he not only agreed to this, but wrote the by the numbers script. What was the point of making a completly different entity that was inferior to the source. Most people agree that a book simply can not be made into a movie intact. The thing is that Patterson did not even try. This movie along with Kiss the Girls seems to be an appetizer for his made for television work. They have none of the ferocity that makes Alex Cross an interesting character to behold. I imagined Denzel Washington as Alex Cross and Angelina Jolie as Jezzie Flanagan. At the time three years before the two would pair successfully in The Bone Collector. Morgan Freeman is too old to play Alex Cross. All of this casting talk is secondary. If the makers had not deviated from the book, it would have been better with the cast it has. They wanted to use a bestselling book title and a star who had already succeded as a cop in the film Seven. As this film is, it stands as yet another surprise finish movie that is forgotten before the credits end. "},{"Title":"An empty movie","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came a Spider is technically good, as you might expect from Lee Tamahori. But unlike his other movies, this movie is pretty much an empty line of scenes after scenes, without suspense, without a story you might believe to really happen.Now the original book had a great story. Somebody along the line spoiled it, which is typical to Hollywood. Instead of believability you have to have lots of noise and big big characters (and a ransom of 12 million dollars, which is paid just like that, like a senator really would have money like that). And instead of the US Vice Presidents son Soneji now kidnaps the Russian presidents son. That's just a bit too much - it just doesn't fit to the story. Sonejis whole point is to match wits with the great cop, Dr. Cross.Tamahori or his incapable screenwriter also made it pretty impossible for anyone to make movies of the other Cross & Soneji books.Many other Tamahori & crew invented things are wrong in the movie the same way, they just don't fit the story.This movie really isn't worth anybodys time. "}{"Title":"**1/2 out of ****","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Acting **** out of ****Screenplay *** out of ****Predictability *1/2 out of ****Stomach Intensity **1/2 out of ****Overall **1/2 out of ****Comments A great followup of Kiss the Girls. Morgan Freeman is excellent as always and the story is solid and doesn't fall apart except for the complete ripoff of a scene from Dirty Harry. I enjoyed it a lot. "},{"Title":"I thought it was very average in the beginning, but some unseen plot twists make this thriller worth watching!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The film starts. I watch eagerly. I am instantly unimpressed. I go on, and a half hour into the film I start to think, What an average thriller. But then something wonderful happens. Something I didn't expect.And now I like this movie.The film stars Morgan Freeman, reprising his role of Alex Cross from Kiss the Girls. In the beginning of the film we are shown a stake-out-type police act go terribly wrong, ending in Cross' partner dying. Eight months later he is summoned to another case that involves a senator's daughter being kidnapped by a disguised schoolteacher. The woman that was supposed to watch the girl, Jezzie Flannigan (Monica Julia Roberts-lookalike Potter), volunteers to help Cross find the kidnapper, and so the game is on.Perhaps the best thing about this thriller is that I didn't expect any twists in the plot. That's why I was so unimpressed in the beginning. I enjoyed this movie about ten times more than most people, probably just because I didn't expect any surprise plot bits. I really didn't.The trailer made it look like an average flick. But this is good, because I didn't expect any plot twists. I remember watching a commercial for The Others with Nicole Kidman. On the advert they quote a critic, saying, With a surprise twist that will leave you breathless. This really lowered the enjoyablity of The Others, because I knew there was a plot twist, and it ruined it. The whole time I kept thinking, What's the twist? What's the twist? And guess what? I guessed it half way through.But that is not the case with Along Came a Spider. Though it is not a great thriller by any means, I really, truly was surprised by the ending and that's why I think commercials for films should not give away plot twists, even if they just mention there's a twist in the film. (Although the purpose of a review is to read about the film, the reader has the choice not to read; on TV, they flash the commercial with quotes at you before you can change the channel.)I have to agree that Monica Potter looks very much like Julia Roberts, the only difference being she can act about ten times better than Roberts. Well, at least two times better.Morgan Freeman redeems himself after Chain Reaction, and serves up a good -- if watered down -- performance.The only thing I thought that SHOULD have been better compared to could have been better is the car accident in the beginning. It looked like a computer game processor had served up the scene. The car looked very unrealistic and cartoonish. But other than that there were only a few flaws worth REALLY picking on.All in all, in the end, overall (my favorite closing lines), Along Came a Spider is in no way a great thriller, but an enjoyable one, with a surprise twist not revealed to me on the commercial (thank goodness). Worth catching some time when it crosses your way.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"A MYSTERY THRILLER WANT TO BE","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The basic set up for this story is that the Alex Cross detective character is to match wits over the kidnaping of a senator's daughter with the kidnapper who insures that he is brought into the case.  Morgan Freeman goes through his acting paces and makes the questionable mystery story adequately entertaining.  The movie allows the viewer to be misled into thinking what the story line is all about, it at first seems predictable and not special. However, things start to change and the real plot and mystery unfolds. The only problem is that the realization about the true criminal situation facing Alex Cross comes too late into the movie.  I am sure it was great reading, but makes for an average mystery thriller.  If you like thriller / mysteries it will be worth the watch.  It really takes off but not until the last 20 minutes of the movie.  Overall it is an average movie with some Morgan Freeman spice to make it passable.   "},{"Title":"An utterly silly, implausible thriller.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  3 out of 10Along Came a Spider is another cinematic addition to the Alex Cross series (the title character is played well by the always superb Morgan Freeman), and it's easily a worse film than the previous Kiss the Girls.  Spider opens with a hilariously awful CGI car crash that acts as an ominous sign of things to come.  Without a doubt, the film is a mess of a thriller, its plot is built upon one silly contrivance after another, and when you're confident the movie can't possibly can't get any more ridiculous, another implausible twist is thrown in for good measure.  The story is riddled with so many questions (How did a certain person know what the other one was up to the whole time?  What are the chances that would be the correct password?  Why do the villains always keep their info on their hard drive, rather than simply erasing it?) it becomes a headache trying to sort it all together by the end.  Then again, you should have an idea of the sort of movie you're headed into when you realize the film's villain is a kidnapper who spent almost every day putting on elaborate facial disguise for two years to pose as a schoolteacher. "},{"Title":"Solid Thriller","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"         Morgan Freeman does a terrific job again, this time as Detective Cross. This starts out in a deceptively simple manner and becomes graduallymore complex until the end.  Fans of suspense thrillers (such as myself) should really enjoy this. SPOILER ALERT  >>>  The linchpin of the film is Potter's character. Notice how Cross immediately insists upon her presence during the investigation.  She has special knowledge, but does he also want to keep an eye on her?  This subtlety (not in the book from what I understand because there they fall in love) makes Cross seem even more intelligent and perceptive. Sometimes movies improve on books in some aspects. The oldest cliche is 2 people working together who fall in love. This trap is avoided here and it really helps the film. Wincott is terrific and his convincing portrayal makes the lone psycho theory seem to be the only possible explanation for the relative ease of his escape from the school and (later) the ransom.  Potter's resemblance to Julia Roberts is uncanny, although I also saw some Sandra Bullock in her expressions.  This is a wonderful movie for actors to shine and those are my favorite kinds of movies. Thanks to Freeman, Potter and Wincott, this is a riveting and underrated film. I give it 8 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** Despite the fact that this movie bears absolutely NO resemblence to the book whatsoever(the book is a million time better), it is pretty good.There are VERY huge differences1. In the book, there are two children kidnapped ad one dies. 2. In the book, Soneji pretends to have multiple personalities to escape responsibilitiy for his crimes. 3. Soneji dos not die in the book. He becomes a character in a future ames Pattersn novel, Cat & Mouse. 4. Jezzie does not kill her partner in the book. He is caught and executed by the law. Also, Cross does not kill Jezzie. She is arrested, convicted and executed by the law. 5. Cross does not lose a partner in the book. 6. Cross has two children in the book. He and Jezzie also become lovers in the book. 7. The ransom payment is much different in the book. The ransom scene in this movie is actually taken from the ansom drop in another Alex Cross novel, Roses are Red(which a little bird tells me has been bought for the movies). 8. The book takes place over a period of a few years.These are just a few.But, the movie is actually very good in my opinion. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Regarding review below by uglykidmatt.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I can only second what my pal Matt has written in his review below from last year. Monica Potter looks, walks, reads a line and probably wears the same scent of perfume as Julia Roberts in this movie. It's absolutely uncanny. Just saw the movie again on cable (no great shakes...and this coming from an unyielding suppoter of the craft of Morgan Freeman) but worth watching just to see if you can tell Monica from Julia, as Matt says, with your eyes closed. Can't be done. Absolutely on the money, Matt!!! Good call. "},{"Title":"Pretty good...","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  but it certainly isn't the type of  movie to win any awards. It is what it is.  Police trying to find a kidnapped girl, and of course, you have your clever cop played by Morgan Freeman.  Don't think to much about the plot or the bad acting by Monica Potter.  Just enjoy the twist ending.FINAL VERDICTThis is your run of the mill thriller. Not really worth paying to see, but check it out if it every comes on TV. "},{"Title":"Sorry Morgan but you are not the man for the job","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who has read any of the brilliant Alex Cross stories will know that Morgan Freeman does not measure up. Don't get me wrong Morgan Freeman is a Fantastic actor and someone I have total respect for but as Alex he is just not tall enough, broad enough & dare I say young enough. I guess we all have a mental picture of what characters look like as we live along side them when reading books and for me the perfect Alex Cross would have been Dennis Haysbert (as see in 24).Also unfortunately, the screenplay is very different to the book, so for the time being I'll stick to reading thanks. "},{"Title":"A solid Thriller but not black enough","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  looks like a usual thriller until the story turns...but I don't like the ending(guessing the password of a bad guy like this? no way!) this is a story the bad guy should win(like seven)  "}{"Title":"Shoulda been...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ...a TV movie. (some spoilers).  Other than the high budget there is nothing that merits more than a spin on the small screen.  There is a surprise but it's not especially crafty.  The main fault is the lack of a truly invidious nature for a bad guy.  Overall a C- flick (too bad for Freeman who deserves a better script). "},{"Title":"Makes its point, but something is still missing","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  While this was supposed to be a  continuation of Kiss the Girls, it seemed  to represent a microcosm of its own  universe as opposed to being a follow-up  to the previous film. Morgan  Freeman  does an excellent job as Cross, but their  seemed to be a rushed quality about this  film. Sure, the action was fairly well paced  and their proved to be plenty of intrigue,  the ending just felt a little out of place, like  it was randomly added in. Nonetheless,  the film was pretty solid. Michael Wincott  gave a great performance in this film, and  let's just hope he can keep finding some work. "},{"Title":"What Went Wrong?","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film starts with a bang, leads into a tense kidnapping plot with the wonderful Morgan Freeman pitting his wits against a very well cast Wincott.The first two thirds of the film were gripping and enjoyable.What went wrong with the ending?The last third of the film fell flat and did not live up to the standards set earlier in the story.The way in which the story unravelled was appauling.Try harder next time folks. "},{"Title":"This itsy bitsy spider washed itself out.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film opens with another creepily done score that suggests that you are in for a scary ride of a movie. But immediately after the opening credits and the opening scene that goes by very fast (with some cheaply done special effects) we are brought into the happy-go-lucky thriller world. Now, this movie entertains, but the one thing it does not do is stick. It has many plot holes.Dr. Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman) has gone into a world of isolation after the death of his partner. But, one year later, a brilliant criminal (Michael Wincott) manages to kidnap the daughter of a United States senator from the heavily-guarded private school. He then draws Cross back into the game where he must team up with the secret service agent that let the girl go (Monica Potter). This film, like many other films, suffers from the one to many plot twist disease. The film is traditional, nothing new here. It is quite enjoyable, but just doesn't stick. *SPOILERS* Like, when Cross is hacking into some computer, he notices something (convenietly) and clicks on something on the computer which just so happens to bring him into some handy-cam that leads him into the home of the kidnapper (even more conveniently). And then there are many more things wrong with this film, but I just don't want to bother going through them all. ALONG CAME A SPIDER 4/5. "},{"Title":"An interesting who done it suspense","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came A Spider is a very an interesting who done it suspense film.  I thought it was very well made with some good actors in it (Morgan Freeman and Michael Wincott).  Though the mastermind was very easy to figure out but many people that I knew that saw it were shocked when they found out who did it.  This is a film that makes you think at the same time as you are watching it.  This is a great film to watch if you like playing the detective or if you like to watch detective who done it films, you will be very satisfied with this film.   "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts off like any other kidnap thriller would be and then just has a twist which will blow your socks off. It was hard though to comprehend what just happened because it makes you think about how is this possible and how they figured it out so well. Monica Potter in this movie does not do much init and is basically just assists Morgan Freeman in the movie. It would have been better if she was more into the plot then she was. Special effecs in this movie waere not needed esepecially at the beginning. That was a big waste of money and dould have been used for something else like better actors to assist Morgan Freeman. Overall good job  "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman and an Attractive Leading Lady","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  With his female colleague dies in a car accident at the beginning of the film, Freeman blames himself for the cause of her death, and is exploited by his new female colleague that helps him to investigate a case. After she kills the main suspect, she unconvincingly attempts to kill Freeman. "},{"Title":"Step on this insect and drop it in the trash!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  One reviewer said Along Came a Spider 'works'. Well it didn't work for me. I haven't read the book but I can imagine author James Patterson squirming with embarrassment when he viewed the final editing. The plot is almost incoherent and motive and motivation of key characters were baffling to me. Morgan Freeman looked tired and bemused by the plot twists and seemed bewildered by the logic behind his shuffling from one obscure clue to another. Monica Potter's acting is dreadful and she should do something about her diction and enunciation. She sounded to me like a reject from Alicia Silverstone's Clueless speaking through clenched teeth with affected speech patterns. Even the talented Michael Wincott couldn't grasp the shallowness of his character. The only redeeming performance was Mika Boorem as the kidnapped girl. While the adult actors were floundering in a sea of drivel, her portrayal was spot on. Forgive my scathing criticism; I've had a bad couple of days of movie viewing. I watched the dreadful Gossip yesterday followed by 'Spider'and I need to recuperate by reading a couple of good books. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Good role fore freeman but the finish was kind of weak.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Sure, the greatness of M. Freeman lifts this movie but the final plot should have been a bit better. The movie falls a lot when it closes to the finish. Still recommend this for Freeman lovers. Mika Boorem is great in this one. Remember her in the future, she could be a big one. "},{"Title":"Same Old Stuff","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I kinda liked Along Came A Spider even though there was nothing new in it.Standard Action Thriller with a predictable twist at the end.Morgan Freeman looked bored and appeared to be just going through the motions to get his pay packet.That said,it kept me interested enough on a hot Sydney Saturday afternoon.Watchable at least. "}{"Title":"Totally naff,implausible thriller","Date":"31 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsWhen you can see plot holes just 10 minutes into a movie,you know you're in trouble.It's hard to believe that director Lee Tamahori previously helmed the superb Alec Baldwin/Anthony Hopkins wilderness adventure The Edge.Or that an actor as good as Morgan Freeman could headbill something so ludicrous.One to avoid.** "},{"Title":"Freeman saved the day.","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 103 minutes.Along came a Spider should have been a run of the mill thriller and it comes very close. Freeman almost singlehandedly lifts the movie above the mundane but he alone cannot conceal several plot flaws.I enjoyed seeing Micheal Moriarty Sen. Rose, Law&Order again - the young Mika Boorem Megan Ross carries her part well and for the most part Anton Yelchin bad/mad guy is very convincing. What doesn't work are the pivotal computer sequences remote cam, the Russian kid, the multiple twists near the end.The great unanswered question remains - why did Starodubov bother with Megan at all. Perhaps the answers are on the cutting room floor, certainly another 10 minutes of plot development would have been time well spent.Worth watching but destined to be soon forgotten, 6/10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Thriller","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The opening sequence for this really got me hooked.  I will admit that the movie bogged down somewhat in the middle (which keeps my rating to a 7/10).  Other than that I was thoroughly entertained.  The movie paced itself well and did a good job of building suspense.  Morgan Freeman was excellent (as he always is).  It will be interesting to follow Monica Potter to see how she develops.  I was hooked through the whole movie.   "},{"Title":"Blah.  Definately not Kiss the Girls.","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  That's what I felt.  It's not a scary movie.  Heck doesn't even try to be. It's like they decided it's a prequel and so it was supposed to be weaker so as not to defeat Kiss The Girls.  I did like it a little,  but this isn't a horror movie.  Kinda like Hannibal I suppose.  Both aren't scary.  Think I'll go watch The Omen now and see if that'll scary me an inch......4/10Quality  3/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable 7/10 "},{"Title":"Holes and nothing but holes","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  `Along came the spider' is infuriatingly bad. Not that it had holes, but it had nothing but holes. Stupid clichés thrown together in an incredible mess. You know types the let's watch the video that we saw a hundred times again so that we can discover something that should have been plainly obvious the first time. This movie was never able to figure out what it wants to be A psychological thriller, a political thriller or a clever double and triple crossing suspense movie. The wise producers must have thought that throwing three movies in one will make three times the money. Their wisdom probably did not reach the height to realize that such attempts never work.The film can keep your attention, cinematography is good and Morgan Freeman is an excellent actor who can project integrity even if the world and the story around him have none. Her co-star on the other hand fits with the story perfectly. Equally dumb and pretty. I doubt that we will see too much of her in the future but maybe for the same reason we will. If you do not mind lack of logic watch it. I did not walk away from it, but maybe I should have.   "},{"Title":"Like most, movie fails to live up to book.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  As a person who has read the brilliant book by James Patterson, Iwas skeptical, and the director managed to meet my expectationsof making a bad movie based on a good book.  For years peoplehave been abridging books successfully.  Why can't they make thestory shorter without completely changing it.  I guess if I hadn'tread the book, it might have been rated a few higher, but it stillwouldn't be a great movie.  Basically, there are better moviethrillers to watch and plenty of books you could read instead ofwasting your time watching this. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman was, as usual, at his best","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The only thing this movie lacked was a better villain, Gary Soneji. Michael Wincott was not convincing in the character one would expect in a film with Morgan Freeman acting as the profiler. Other than this one small fault, the picture held our attention from beginning to end.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Kiss the Girls was surprisingly good.  However, this newest installment to the series of Alex Cross left me frowning.  The script was dull.  The twists were silly.  And worst of all, the opening sequence attempts to dazzle the viewer with some not-so-good CGI; immediately planting that Oh boy, here we go eye-rolling seed in your brain.  I rated it 5 of 10.  It's good for renting (when there's nothing better in stock at the time...) "},{"Title":"A First-Rate Thriller","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Why did this movie get such bad reviews? It's much better than Kiss the Girls, which was praised by the critics (well, maybe not, but it was still received better than this one). This is a very suspenseful, clever thriller that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Morgan Freeman & Monica Potter (she reminds me of Julia Roberts SO much) give excellent performances. And there's a twist at the end that'll make your head spin! Rent this movie, see how you like it, but I guarantee that it will keep you interested right up until the brilliant climax. Grade A "},{"Title":"It's got Morgan Freeman","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The only reason I saw this was that Morgan Freeman was the star, and he, along with De Niro, Pacino, Samuel Jackson and a couple of others, are actors whose movies you see simply because they are in them.This is not a great film and it has a lot of plot holes. Plus the fact that Cross comes up with clues out of nowhere that would make Adam West's Batman jump with envy. There's no way anyone would come to the conclusions he does in half the stuff in this film. And the worst thing is the figuring out someone's password. I can't stand that. Oh, wait, she said this thing to me earlier, so let me see if it works...yes, it just happens to be her password. Man, I'm smart. Whooee, that's annoying.But with that said, besides Freeman being the star, there are two things that I highly recommend from this film. First, Monica Potter, who is just so camera ready, I think I could just watch her reading a book at the library. What a perfect face she has. And, the best thing about this film is the twist. I certainly did not see it coming and I had to say, I was impressed and happy with it. Because of that, I'd recommend the film. "}{"Title":"Now THIS is pod racing!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If you like mystery thrillers, you're in for a treat. This is one of the  best. No boring dialog; no long, drawn out character development that's irrelevant to the story and slows it down; no car chases and 10 minute gun-fire scenes to pad the movie. This is solid plot that keeps you glued to the story, constantly trying to guess what happens next, and builds to a surprising climax as it moves along.  "},{"Title":"Far superior to Kiss The Girls","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A far more superior movie than Kiss the Girls,this is perhaps Morgan Freeman's best role since playing Red in The Shawshank Redemption.I was disappointed with Monica Potter in Head over Heels,but am once again a fan after seeing her best acting to date in the role of Jezzie Flannigan. I thought this was an awesome thriller that completely surprised me when the movie reached its climax. A definate Must See! "},{"Title":"You can live without seeing this movie.","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is a classic thriller movie. Classic to the bone! Kidnappers, detectives, politicians, little girls, young female agents...Everything you need to create a nice thriller movie. Well, this movie stands out for its outstanding first part. The game between the kidnapper and the psychologist(Morgan Freeman)is exceptional and very clever! I would say it was intriguing. The second part is not that good. It has two or three plot twists that are exaggerated and could be omitted or substituted with something else. This is what lowers the total impression of the movie. If you are a fan of thriller movies, it won't disappoint you. If you are not, you may like it or you may don't!! (OK, that was clear, huh?)  "},{"Title":"Transparent and it's clumsy.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came A Spider is a load of hoary old dick clichés strung around glaring plot improbabilities into something remotely resembling a story.What really galls about the movie is that it sets itself up as a middlebrow psychological kidnap hunt (You know, the sort where the lone cop tries to keep the man talking on the end of the line where he traces the call? The sort of film you feel you've already seen at least twenty-seven times in the last year?) yet never gets out of gear. It brags and postures over its own believed intellectualism, yet we find out nothing that's even remotely deep-felt throughout the entire duration. Instead lots of second-rate actors trudge through a fifth-rate script trying to look vaguely interested.Morgan Freeman, the one decent actor in the piece, struggles gamely to keep awake as all around him descends into formula. You can almost hear him thinking this was so much better when we did it in Se7en. Yet Se7en had Caucasian pretty boy Brad Pitt, and so the aged black Freeman finds himself with a lacklustre script merely due to the fact he's not Hollywood's preferred type. As a sequel to the superior &#150; yet still run-of-the-mill &#150; Kiss The Girls, it's too gimmicky and lacks the cinematic genius to stage its final confrontation to the sound of Little Richard singing Goodnight Irene. The only element that holds any kind of interest is the twist ending, but it's one that's as ludicrous as the rest of the underdeveloped film. For a surprise twist Morgan could've pulled a bunch of pineapples out of his back passage, mooned at the camera and joined the rest of the cast in a rousing rendition of Boney M's Ra Ra Rasputin. Just because something is unexpected does not mean it's any good, or even plausible. A twist ending does not just equal something you didn't expect, but something that should arise logically out of the plot. In fairness, I should have seen it coming anyway. I guess sleep had set in by that point.The really worrying thing is that the makers of this tired by the numbers thriller (Is the film in violation of the Trades Descriptions Act?) seem to think audiences will be too stupid to realise what a lame movie this is. Disrespecting your audience is an indefensible crime. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Truly intense, exciting, refreshing, edge-of-your-seat thriller!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  ALONG CAME A SPIDER, in my opinion, is a truly intense, exciting, refreshing, edge-of-your-seat thriller. I thought that Alex (Morgan Freeman) and Jezzie (Monica Potter) made a good detective team -- Especially when they were looking for Megan (Mika Boorem). There was one person that absolutely gave me the creeps, and that was Mr. Soneji (Michael Wincott). When I saw people get murdered, I was scared. I didn't scream, though. I was just scared and refreshed at the same time. In conclusion, I  recommend this truly refreshing edge-of-your-seat thriller to all you Morgan Freeman or Monica Potter fans out there who have not seen it. When you see it, prepare to be thrilled and refreshed. "},{"Title":"Or is it a Fly? A Secret Recipe?","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Neither actually. The plot is given away in the trailer, but in case you missed that it's gone over meticulously in the first fifteen minutes. Psycho-kidnapper hatches devilish plot for perfect kidnap. Only the audience know who it is. Watch the poor detectives bumble along. After much yawning they get close, so scriptwriter kindly adds a bit more plot (a popular device in bad British  thrillers of late - each twist gets more unbelievable than the last - they were ALL afterthoughts!) "},{"Title":"This is a must see film for fans of actor Morgan Freeman or writer James Patterson.","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** 30 Second Bottom Line A detective, with a doctorate in criminal psychology, tries to locate the kidnapped daughter of a US Senator. The kidnapper is a man determined to be highly regarded as a criminal mastermind, which makes him more dangerous than one who wants a ransom.Story Line Soneji (Michael Wincott) is a schoolteacher at the prestigious Cathedral School, a private institution in Washington, DC, for the children of government officials and diplomats. He is also a terrorist, doing the Mission Impossible bit (TV version) with a peel off face, and kidnaps Megan Rose (Mika Boorem). She is the daughter of Senator and Mrs. Rose (Michael Moriarty and Penelope Ann Miller), who seem to be unlikely candidates because of their relative anonymity in the Congress. The kidnap plan is a meticulous one that Soneji has been fine-tuning for years.When the FBI is called in to assist the Secret Service, who under the watchful eyes of agents Jezzie and Ben (Monica Potter and Billy Burke) allowed the kidnapping of Megan, a minor turf war develops. The game begins when Soneji allows Detective Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman) to make a tape of their telephone conversation and provides Cross with a material clue proving that he has the child in his custody. Technically, Cross has no jurisdiction in this case.FBI Agent McArthur (Dylan Baker) heads the task force to retrieve Megan. He thinks that the kidnapper will want a huge ransom, while Cross believes that Soneji sees it all as a big game in which he seeks the recognition of the world and `respect' of law enforcement agencies such as the DC Police, Secret Service and the FBI. Cross is a popular author and Soneji is projecting that one day a book will be written about him.Nine months prior to the kidnapping, Cross's partner was killed in a sting operation, which Agent McArthur thinks the kidnapper is using to work mind games with Cross's self confidence. The plot thickens when it appears that McArthur and Cross are both right.McArthur reluctantly agrees to include Jezzie in the initial kidnap debriefing after Cross makes the point that although Megan was lost under her watch, Jezzie more than anyone else knows about Megan and Soneji because of her three years of observing them at the school. Soon Cross and Jezzie are working together to solve the case. When they stake out what they believe is another news breaking kidnapping, they meet Megan's kidnapper face to face.This fast paced story will keep you guessing as Cross and Jezzie pursue Soneji and attempt to rescue Megan. She is a smart young lady, about the same age as the girl in Spy Kids but with even more savvy. Megan truly takes matters into her own hands to control her fate.The story unfolds with a number of scary moments interspersed with humor, and Cross's consummate mentoring of Jezzie.Tell Me More About It This is a must see film for fans of actor Morgan Freeman or writer James Patterson. It captures the essence of Detective Alex Cross and the evil characters that Patterson is so masterful in creating. Along Came a Spider is a thriller not for the faint of heart.Some of the things that are good about this film are not readily apparent. As events unfold you question the motivations or reasons why a person did or did not do something. Why did Jezzie not call security before rather than after she broke in the door of Soneji's office? Are agents Jezzie and Ben as weak as they appear and do they deserve to be on a baby-sitting detail for three long years? Is the psychological match only between Cross and Soneji or should Cross be looking in more than one direction?The casting of Potter is interesting because she looks like she belongs in her last film, Head over Heels, rather than being a FBI agent. She has the charm of Sandra Bullock, a wide-eyed innocence, plus the smile and possibly the intellect of Julia Roberts in Erin Brokovich. Stereotypes do tend to tug at our minds as we try to not just be politically correct, but fair to others, as we'd like for them to be with us. These factors are directly related to assumptions you make about Jezzie.Morgan Freeman is such a good actor that he makes it look easy. He's comfortable in literally any role from a chauffeur (Driving Miss Daisy) to the President of the United States (Deep Impact). Freeman is a master at saying a lot by saying little, and conveying more with his eyes about what he is thinking.Like another best-selling fiction author named Patterson (Richard North), James Patterson knows how to write strong female characters in the midst of what appears to be a story revolving around a group of macho men. In addition to Potter and Boorem, Penelope Ann Miller portrays considerable strength, intelligence and resolve as the concerned parent of a kidnapped child, without the slightest hint of patronization.In the middle of the film, when I thought it was lagging a bit, it was drawing me into the spider web that turns out to be a surprisingly strong ending. It's even more fun than What Lies Beneath, 1) because it's a better story and 2) you can enjoy being surprised as the story unfolds. I can't wait for the next Alex Cross movie based upon a book by James Patterson.both are just that good. Kiss The Girls was good and this is even better.R (violence; language) George O. Singleton © 2001 www.reelmoviecritic.com  "},{"Title":"Great Thriller!","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"                    ****** BIG SPOILERS******Along came a spider, is a really good film with a great twist. At the  beginning of the film we are at the school where Gary Soneji (Michael Wincott.) teaches. At first he may seem like a normal teacher who's been working at the school for about two years but of course he isn't.A few minutes into the film we see him asking a student-Megan Rose (Mika Boorem.) to come to his office. Once she's there Gary kidnaps her and makes a run for it putting her in a 'box' . The school is under close security but sadly they don't make it in time and once they find out that Gary has kidnapped Megan, he's already gone and taken her onto his ship.Once they're on the ship, Gary puts Megan into a small room and peels of his mask to unveil his real face. The news then goes around that Megan, who's the Senators daughter has been kidnapped. Gary then calls up Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman.) and tells he knows Alex is going to on the case to find him. Alex though is still mourning after his partner in crime died eight months earlier. He then decides will go on the case, once he does, he meets Secret Service Agent Jezzie Flannigan (Monica Potter.)She wants to work with Alex on the case so Alex agrees and they become parters. After,that we see the search for Megan Rose begin. In the middle of the film, it gets a little bit slow but then it starts to get better again.After a long search for Gary, no one can find him until Gary turns up at Alexs office alone. It looks as if he's going to give himself up. But, then Alex kills Gary but why, he's the only person that knows where Megan is. Not true. Gary did kidnap Megan but doesn't have her anymore. But, who does.A little bit later the twist the occurs it turns out that Secret Service Agent Jezzie Flannigan was the one behind it all. She and her boyfriend Secret Service Agent Ben Devine (Billy Burke.) (Also in with her.) knew that Gary was going to kidnap Megan so they thought they would get in the act with no one else knowing. Then Jezzie ends up killing Ben and takes the jewels which everyone thought were given to Gary as ransom money.Jezzie then looks for Megan who has somehow locked herself in a room with a bed holding the door shut, when Jezzie comes to the 'rescue.' (She really wants to kill Megan though.) Megan is happy and is about the open the door. She then realises that Jezzie is alone and thinks that a little strange. She doesn't open the door then Jezzie tries to find a way in. Megan quickly runs out the room and runs into Alex who tells her be silent. Alex by now obviously realises that Jezzie is the killer. We then find out the when Gary kidnaped Megan, Jezzie could of stopped it but somehow made sure Gary got away. Alex then shoots Jezzie. He and Megan walk away and the film is finished.Along came a Spider is a very exciting thriller and I'd advise anyone to see it. Good performances from everyone too. 8/10  "},{"Title":"I LOVE JAMES PATTERSON AND MORGAN FREEMAN!!!!!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie was phenomenal. It varied quite a bit from the book, but I understand that Hollywood has its own way of doing things. Don't get me wrong as I'm certainly not complaining. The characters, especially Morgan Freeman as Dr./Detective Alex Cross, came off the screen at you like you were right there. If they ever make another James Patterson novel with Alex Cross in it and they don't use Morgan Freeman, I WILL protest. When I read books with his character in them, I hear his voice. Thats what kind of impression he made on me in Kiss The Girls.Monica Potter was amazing as Jezzie Flanagan. She was just the way I had pictured her when I first read the book. Don't believe everything you see in this movie. It moves in circles.If you liked Kiss The Girls, you are sure to like Along Came A Spider.  "},{"Title":"Wow!How can you go wrong Morgan Freeman, Monica Potter..Patterson!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  You can't miss with all the ingredients in this movie suspense, twists and turns. Different than the book. Monica Potter beautiful, talented and headed for super stardom, Morgan Freeman spectacular again as Alex Cross and with the material of James Patterson. It was a very enjoyable evening. Patterson is a master of suspense and can't wait for the next one. Just read new book 1st to die and that will probably be a terrific movie as well. "}{"Title":"Weak, not even in same class as Kiss the girls","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Very weak thiller, with not much going for it except decent acting. The plot in this movie was predictible to say the least.  The only saving grace for this movie is the always wonderful Morgan Freeman.  You would be wiser to save your money and rent it later.  This goes in the Renter class of 2001. "},{"Title":"What a sequel...horrible movie.","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The sequel of Kiss The Girls was just horrible. Seeing that movie was a waste of time. At the beginning, I was interested, but after few minutes, only the deception was standing. Bad acting, terrible plot. Mr. Freeman, don't sign up for an another one, please! "},{"Title":"Clever if sometimes not that great thriller","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came a Spider is a suspense film about a cop who goes into a case with a man who has kidnapped a little girl just for fame.  While the film may have some over-acting and loopholes (I won't go into them here because they are spoilers), the film is also a clever chiller with good, if squirming, twists and a performance by Freeman which is great as always (in fact nearly every minute Freeman is on the screen he's compelling). B+ "},{"Title":"Decent thriller, carried by Morgan Freeman and a strong cast","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Overall I enjoyed Along Came a Spider, it wasn't absolutely brilliant, but it sets out to be a good thriller and does that. Even with some plot implausibilities, a so-so performance from Monica Potter and one or two moments of forced pacing, it is well made and suspenseful. The cinematography is skillful and stylish, and the music is nicely done and adds to the suspense. The pace in general is brisk, apart from it being forced on occasions when it tried to fit in too many plot twists, and the story springs from an interesting concept. The script has some very good moments, and the direction is very good. The performances apart from Monica Potter are strong, with Morgan Freeman great as always and Michael Wincott solid as the kidnapper. Mika Boorem shows promise as a blossoming young actress, and Penelope Ann Miller does a very nice job as her mother. Overall, decent thriller, with problems, but carried by its cast primarily. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Not spectacular, but pretty much what one comes to expect from Lee Tamahori","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" After seeing The Edge and Mulholland Falls, I can't say I'm really surprised by the quality of this film. Still, I have to say that I did find this movie to be quite entertaining and thought it did what it was supposed to do, for a mystery-thriller. It takes off almost immediately, and succeeds in being thoroughly interesting. The plot is pretty good, and experiencing it unravel is pretty intriguing, possibly even more-so than that of other later and contemporary thrillers. The pacing is solid. The acting is good; Freeman is stellar as always, and Potter gives a convincing performance. Wincott surprised me with the high quality of his acting, but maybe that's because I've only seen him in Alien Resurrection, and that movie can make even the most impressive actor seem talentless. Boorem was pretty good for a child-actor, but I have seen better(even at younger ages), so it's no massive accomplishment. The characters are fairly well-written and interesting, but I'm not sure they're entirely credible. The dialog is fairly well-written and equally well-delivered. The special effects are pretty standard stuff, except for a short car-sequence in the beginning which looked entirely convincing. I'm almost certain I know how they did it, but at the moment I saw it, I didn't think about it at all. They pulled that off quite nicely, I think. The film is, like many other recent thrillers, kept going through a number of plot twists, one more unlikely than the other. This is unfortunate, but it seems like that's the way thrillers are going these days. I will say that the twists could have been much, much worse. Overall, a standard mystery-thriller with a good cast and good for at least one attentive viewing. I recommend this to fans of one or more of the actors, the director(if he actually has fans, that is) and/or of the mystery and thriller genres. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came A Spider is great movie. It has become one of My favorites. Morgan Freeman was really neat and Monica Potter put on a good performance and looked good. Michael Wincott was awesome with his voice changing and psycho facial expressions! Penelope Ann Miller looked great and Michael Moriarty was good. It would be could good to have a couple more movies about Alex Cross.He is a good character and Kiss the Girls and Along Came A Spider isn't enough in My opinion. I love the music by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith! He created an excellent theme!If you like Morgan Freeman and saw Kiss the Girls and liked it then rent or even buy (like I did) Along Came A Spider because its awesome! "},{"Title":"slow at times but still good","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film is well worth seeing.  First of all, Morgan Freeman is always worth seeing.  Secondly, Monica Potter is definitely Julia Roberts in a blond wig.  I guess Julia works as Monica when they can't pay her the full salary.  I mean, it was Julia right down to the voice.  Anyway, Along Came a Spider was produced by Freeman and, though it moves slowly at times, is still entertaining and has some really sustained suspense going for it.  Other than the pace, my criticism would be that the little girl's character was just a little too smart.  Way too smart.  If a screenwriter submitted this film to a contest or a class, that would have been the main comment.  Which just goes to show you - keep writing and don't listen to anyone.  Someone will like what you do. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I'm not sure why I didn't hear more bad things about this movie before I watched it, but I've got plenty to say after seeing it myself.  The attempts to reference technology were poorly written (it's like the writer just learned about something called the internet and treats it like no one else has ever heard of it).  Some formerly respectable actors turned out terrible performances, most notably Ms. Miller.  I didn't have any expectations before watching Along Came a Spider, and it was still unable to meet them.  "},{"Title":"...but Kiss the Girls was so good.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  the good things about this movie were Freeman and Wincott. the bad things were the soap opera acting, a predictable and dead script and bad computer animation. i cant stress enough the bad story and horrible sequences. things just happened off screen that were not explained just so they could fit the story together. "},{"Title":"Freeman can't save this monstrosity","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman is a fantastic actor.  In this movie, he once again proves why he has such a prolific career.  When he is onscreen, your attention is drawn to him and you want to believe what he is saying.  Too bad the writers didn't give any thought to the rest of the script.  When a bad guy doesn't really have a motive to do what he is doing, why should we be afraid of him?  The original plot didn't make much sense as it was, and then a plot twist is thrown in that was in no way foreshadowed and was completely pointless. (They even took a sequence from Die Hard 3.) The acting is good, but not worth the two hours of agony.   "}{"Title":"A truly awful adaptation.","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I usually shy away from slating a movie and give a constructive critique but after reading the book of 'Along came a spider' and then watching the film I have to say that the director/producer/screenwriter have made an absolute hash of an above average thriller.I am aware that not everyone will have read the book but even so the character development is non existent and the characters and relationships between them have been so changed and watered down that it becomes nonsensical.For instance, it does not delve into the reasons for Gary Soneji kidnapping the child and trying to make a game out of it. The actual reason is that Gary was abused and locked into a basement by his stepfamily leading to him having quite a warped outlook on life. He is also very very intelligent and had supposedly murdered more than 200 people. Gary believes that he is intellectually superior to others and can make a game out of the kidnapping because he doesn't believe that he can be caught. He also named himself the 'Son of Lindburgh' after an unsolved kidnapping of a small child in the 1930s, a kidnapping which he admires.Alex Cross is in his late 30s, has children, lives with Nana Mama (as his parents are dead) and has a relationship with Jezzie Flanagan from which the twist appears. The story also unfolds over a period of two years not a couple of weeks as seems to be the case in the film.The problem with this is that Morgan Freeman has been brought in to sell the film on the strength of his performance in Se7en. Unfortunately this is a mistake and they should have hired a younger actor who could have been more like the character in the novel and left the story to sell itself. These days a film that tanks at the box office can recover through word of mouth and DVD sales. The Shawshank Redemption being an example.Also, the plot requires too many leaps of faith and the fact that what the clue was that Alex Cross has picked up on is not very clear and is badly edited making it confusing for the viewer.This story would have been better if it was half an hour longer and used the time to examine the psychological aspects of the film in greater detail. I even believe that it would have been better as a TV mini series which would have allowed the massive FBI manhunt to unfold with greater dramatic effect. "},{"Title":"Dead Bug","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I didn't expect a good film, but I did expect a good story, and with detective fiction that's good enough. But you have to play fair. You have to tease the audience into trying to figure out what the hell is going on. `Playing fair' means that when a surprise occurs, you recall all the clues that you've seen that should have told you what was just revealed. It gives you encouragement to be cocreator of the narrative. Once this trust is broken, you just don't try, and the whole thing turns out bad. Your mind wanders. For instance, you notice Monica's (surgically?) exaggerated nose and how it's strong upsweep complements Morgan's, perhaps exactly if turned upside down. When you reach this stage, you've lost everything.Nothing in this film plays fair. Worse, there is scant detection, limited to 1) noticing a disconnect in a dialog with the bad guy, but this dialog is itself so artificial that everything in it is a disconnect and 2) guessing a password which even if known could have been spelled a dozen different ways.Freeman does his patented wise cop thing, and we forgive his lazy acting because he is has such an avuncular calm. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman IS Alex Cross","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Fans of Detective Alex Cross will not be disappointed in this film adaptation of the book. Morgan Freeman, one of my very favorites, does an outstanding job of translating Cross to the big screen. So the script wasn't the best and there are implausible details in the film that will give you pause, it is always worth two hours of your time to see Morgan Freeman. As one reviewer states, Freeman's performance -- one of laser-like perspicacity shining through eyes made narrow by a laconic, been-there-done-that cool -- is the film's ramrod-true spine. So, don't get too worked up over details and just enjoy Freeman and the lovely Monica Potter (Con Air, Saw). "},{"Title":"What a lovely nose!","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is another of those James Patterson-inspired Alex Cross movies that has all the profundity of an episode of Diagnosis Murder. Although it has a fine cast and enough twists and turns to keep you watching (without doing house work at the same time), after 100 or so minutes, you're asking yourself, What happened this evening? Did I miss the 10 o'clock news? Ashley Judd is missing from this one, but Monica Potter, whose best feature is a cute little upturned nose, is the female lead. Morgan Freeman is the all-knowing, all-seeing Dr. Cross. Freeman has such a fine, modulated voice and pleasing countenance that you almost forgive him for being the cinematic equivalent of a yeast infection--if we'd just stop watching these silly pieces of garbage, if we'd just treat the infection correctly, they and it would go away!Unfortunately, smearing Monistat on your TV screen won't help. "},{"Title":"Along Came One of the Best Thriller in Years","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  . Along Came a Spider .Shortly after this suspense thriller hit theaters, Bill Diehl from ABC exclaimed that this movie was a knockout with a surprise twist. Wow, he was right.The movie alone had a great story. After his partner brutally died by falling down a dam, Alex Cross Morgan Freeman went into a stage of depression. However, the daughter of a semi-famous senator was kidnapped by her school teacher, Gary Soneji Michael Wincott, so he went back in action investigating in this uniquely stunning movie.Soneji was a very creative man. After kidnapping Megan Mika Boorem, he took her to his boat and locked her in a small room. It was in the boat that a major surprise unfolded - he revealed his 'true' identity. Because he changed his look, investigators were very confused.Soneji left clues for the detectives all over the place, including in the very classroom that he taught Megan in for two years. One clue lead to another until finally the detectives believed that everything is solved. That was where the fun begins.Spoilers are no fun, so I am going to let you watch the movie and find out what happens in the end. Believe me, there is a major twist in the end! This has to be one of the best thrilling movies I have seen in a long time. It combines a perfect story with great acting, unique settings, and superb directing. Even though this movie is rated R, I greatly believe that it is appropriate for anyone that could handle the Ring, Road to Perdition, Chronicles of Riddick, or Secret Window. This movie is a must see, so take your family along for a thrilling ride!In the end, I give this movie a 10 / 10... it was a perfect movie in my standards. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Nothing Special","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The acting is weak (even Freeman seems uninspired). The dialog is horrible. The directing is benign, having little impact on the viewer. The film has no suspense, and the viewer is constantly waiting for an interesting twist that ends up being lackluster. Overall, the movie is very predictable. "},{"Title":"Edge of Your Seat Thriller, Cross does it again....","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" As an Alex Cross fan and a fan of Patterson's books, this new one with Morgan Freeman again portraying Forensic Detective Alex Cross was intriguing and in the end, a shocker.  When a Government Official's daughter is kidnapped, Cross is brought in by the kidnapper, to break the clues. There is double-cross and triple cross in this thriller movie. Jezze (Monica Potter), a Secret Service agent who was assigned to guard the girl,  joins him in his search for the kidnapped girl.  In twists and turns, the plot thickens when Cross realizes that the kidnapped girl is a ploy to get an even bigger prize, a Russian diplomat's son.  Morgan Freeman is Alex Cross and gives a fine performance as he did in Kiss The Girls with Ashley Judd. However, when the kidnapper starts him on a running journey to answer one payphone after another, it stretches my belief limit.  Potter turns in a great performance as the partner he really didn't want but said, If he didn't let her help him, she would just follow him anyway and the ending was a shock to me.  I never would have guessed it.  I won't give it away here but let's say that Monica Potter has a big future in movies and her resemblence to Julia Roberts was not overlooked and can't hurt.  This movie is all you expect from a mystery thriller and I cannot see anyone but Freeman playing Detective Alex Cross.  If you enjoy a thriller that thrills and gives you unexpected turns, this movie is for you.  Well done, well acted, well made and well worth your time.    "},{"Title":"A serious plot flaw in an otherwise good story.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  uglykidmatt hit it right on the nose. Not only does Monica Potter sound like Julia Roberts, she could pass for her sister!I was really enjoying this film. The story was intriguing and very tight. However, there's a major plot flaw with this film. Just how did the bad guys (I won't give 'em away here) manage to KNOW the kidnapper was going to kidnap who he did when he did? Just knowing that they'd kept tabs on the guy ain't enough. It's too bad; this film has a lot going for it, otherwise.It's worth watching, but I wish the writer had stepped back and looked at the plot a bit more logically. A wee bit tighter and it could go down as a classic. "},{"Title":"This movie was definitely Stand Alone sequel","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  While the feelings of the film are still fresh in my mind, I would like to say that Along Came a Spider was better than Kiss the Girls. It has the atmosphere of a classic detective thriller. First of all, it is a sequel to Kiss the Girls.(Which is often forgotten by many). It's a sequel that stands on it's own,(like such not considered sequels as U.S. Marshals,and Hannibal just to name a couple)which is why I like it. It does it's own thing, rather than proceeding to take off where it's predecessor left off. I really don't want to ruin anything for you so I'll just say this.GOOD qualities Morgan Freeman delivers another good Alex Cross performance The rest of the cast is good The suspense is top quality And there's a Surprise Plot twist! (You'll never see it coming) It's not too long and over drawn like Kiss the Girls(Don't get me wrong Kiss the Girls was awesome, just a tad bit long)BAD qualities You can tell the opening action sequence is CGI(But it still is a good action sequence) Jay O. Sanders is back(He was in Kiss the Girls too) but for only 2 minutes The deleted moments of the film were deleted,but why? They were good!(I had seen them in the theatrical trailer)So Along Came a Spider gets a 9/10, ****1/2 out of *****, 92% out of 100%, A- from an A+, Very GoodP.S. Not considered sequels usually have the best character from the predecessor and don't need a number to indicate that they're sequels! They really don't need their predecessor to be good or even be possible. These movies could be possible even if predecessors didn't come out! (Like I said before, they stand on their own)   "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman was very good in this movie. I would definitely see this movie again because i really enjoyed it. it kept you on the edge of your seat the whole time and it was full of suspence througout the whole movie. I rate Along Came A Spider 10/10 "}{"Title":"exciting","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A taut and exciting thriller. Come to the theater or rental place expecting a decent thriller movie, and you will not be disappointed. Morgan Freeman turns in his usual great performance as Detective Alex Cross, and the rest of the cast does a decent job of carrying the film. A good story contributes, too, as a man kidnaps a senator's daughter wanting to be famous and commit the Crime of the century. I liked it.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"DIDN'T ANYONE READ THE BOOK?","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  My goodness!  Everyone who has written a review on this movie hasn't read the wonderful and amazing book.  I'll just say this, as a classic movie thriller, it just doesn't live up to the caliber of it's predecessor,(or chronological sequel) Kiss the Girls.  Another problem THE SCREENWRITER DIDN'T EVEN READ THE BOOK. And *SPOILER* obviously they don't plan on making the 3rd movie Cat and Mouse since they killed Gary Sonjei *SPOILER END*  Michael Wincott is the worst choice to play Gary Sonjei, along with the fact that the character is so badly written.  When or if you read the book, you can go inside Gary's mind, and in the end, you'll agree with me about Michael Wincott.  The end of Monica Potter' character Jezzie Flanaghan (Who was yes very well casted) is bloated and cruel to the character making her completely awful.  And what in the world is up with the beginning?  Who thought that up?  There is absolutely no mention of that anywhere in the book!  Must have been some stupid thing that the screenwriter thought up to further the plot.Beware fans of the book, you will not be pleased.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Oh Morgan","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I've always liked Morgan Freeman. While I've never thought that he was one of the great actors of our time, he could always make a bad film better. And let's face it, Morgan Freeman has made a lot of crummy movies. In fact lately, that's all he's been making.I wasn't expecting much from Along Came a Spider. I don't particularly remember liking Kiss the Girls that much. I mostly remember that Alex Cross was a leather coat wearing, sport car driving, earring sporting detective that looked more like he should be pimpin' girls than busting the bad guys. But again, he was the best part of an otherwise dismal movie. I think I see a pattern here.Along Came a Spider is more of the same. Alex Cross is a cool, collected character that never seems to get antsy even when the stakes are high. He's also the main character in yet another movie that isn't as good as he is. There are plot discrepancies that are so big that I could drive that cool Porche through.  I really feel badly for Monica Potter.  She's certainly a likable actress in her own right, even if she was in Patch Adams. And I actually liked her in Head Over Heals. It's certainly a sad, sad state of affairs when you make two movies in one year and the better one has Freddie Prinze Jr. in a starring role. Ouch.Even as blah as Along Came a Spider was, with it's retarded characters and plot twists that can be seen coming a mile away, I still wouldn't mind seeing Morgan Freeman play Alex Cross again. Sure, this was a messed up movie and Kiss the Girls wasn't any better. But I can't help but feel that one of these times Hollywood is going to get one of these movies right. I don't know why. If anyone should know better, it's me. Maybe I'm just stupid. But I'm sure that's not the case.  "},{"Title":"OK crime thriller","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Morgan Freeman, with Monica Potter tagging along, goes after the kidnapper of a senator's daughter.  The picture has a quick, violent, slam-bang opening then quiets down.  The plot is very familiar and the script has some dull moments.  Also, at the end, the film throws all plausibility out the window and throws in some totally unbelievable twists and turns.  Thinking about them after the movie, I realized that they made absolutely no sense and couldn't have even happened!  Two performances save the movie--Morgan Freeman, good as always and Michael Wincott who's very good as the kidnapper.  He gives the character a lot of depth and is riveting whenever he's on screen.  Monica Potter, however, is terrible.  It's not entirely her fault...her part is very poorly written and things happen to her character at the end that come out of nowhere.  So, all in all, just an OK movie.  There are worse movies of its type, but there are better ones also. "},{"Title":"Wow! A new twist at every turn!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great! It kept me guled to my seat. Morgan Freeman and Monica Potter did a fabilous job in acting. The director was great. GO and see this movie! I saw a interview with Monica Potter and she said that it was hard to tell you about the film without giving away the ending. IT is! Twists and turns! A great piece of American film. It is the film of the year! "},{"Title":"minimal enterntainment.","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Along Came a Spider had me groaning with disgust and pitty for holywood. This movie is a cookie cutter kidnaping movie, they might as well have just titled it hey, we can write a 100% unoriginal movie that just cuts and paste pieces of kiss the girls/seven/ransom together and end up with a ridiculus plot that is full of holes yet still make a ton of money!  At each plot twist i couldn't help but just laugh, the screen writer should just be sued for infringing on copyrights, then tard and featherd and run out of LA with the producers.  At each turn of events i couldn't help to feel a very strong case of deja-vu, just like 'hey i saw that in (insert kidnapping movie here.)'  In general, i have a big gripe with movie producers, if a movie or genere of movies does well then we as movie viewers are submited to a bombardment of copycats and just general rip offs. In closing, if you watch this movie looking for a good suspense movie, you will be dissapointed at the non ending awful cliches. "},{"Title":"Yet another Monica Potter flop","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I got this movie because I'm a big fan of Morgan Freeman, even though I suspected this might be very similar to his other serial killer movies.  I think he did his best, but the combination of a poor and hackneyed plot and the ever bad (Julia Robers wannabee) Monica Potter really tanked it. "},{"Title":"SOMEBODY SQUASH IT, QUICK!!!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Go to a grocery store and buy a piece of limburger cheese.  Hold it under your nose for 90 minutes while inhaling deeply.  That's the olfactory equivalent of watching this film. I can't imagine any reason other than contractual obligations why Morgan Freeman would agree to be an accessory to this.  From the soporific sequence in which Freeman and his blonde mannequin like partner drone on and on for what seems like hours, to the lame, cliched games of the kidnapper (including a direct ripoff of Dirty Harry) to the absolutely ludicrous 'plot twist' which seemed as if they ran out of script before they had 90 minutes worth of story, to the endless mouthing of the kidnapper's name, (Soneji! Soneji! Soneji! over and over and over) and especially the idiotically contrived scene in which Freeman guesses a password, complete with the use of '&' instead of 'and' on the FIRST TRY, this 'movie' absolutely reeked.  If I was a director and had dropped this turd of a film, I would have credited it to Allen Smithee and gone back to working in a video store.  Don't go and see this.  Remember the names of the director, Lee Tamahori and the screenwriter, Marc Moss and boycott all of their future 'work'.  Do this and you may strike a small blow for good movie making.   "},{"Title":"What's in the bowl? I'll tell you Crap!","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Now, I don't want this to be a bashing. So I'll try keep my voice down..This is amazing. A perfect example of Hollywood being in control of everything in a movie production. Either that or the writer and/or director has gone raving mad!Nothing in this movie can't be foreseen. Every little detail is spelled out - so the stupid people in the audience can keep up. Actually I find this offensive!And what's with the computers/software in movies these days?? Is Hollywood making fun of us? Don't they think that we know how computers work in this day and age? These kinds of scenes almost make me leave the cinema... Combine the hacking of the Unix system in Jurassic Park with the look around corners in Blade Runner. And there you go.The Actors do their best to keep the story afloat, but not even Mr. Freeman saves it. Sad. Sad.Hmmm, I have to say something good.. Morgan Freeman's acting is, as always super. Monica Potter is.. well, nice to look at ) all do their best despite the bad bad script.Oh, and it was a GREAT laugh! I really recommend this movie if you've had a couple of beers and need a laugh with your friends!I'm sorry my first review had to turn into a bashing anyway, but I guess this movie just triggered me... "},{"Title":"Great Entertaining Film With Great Stars!","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"       Always enjoy a picture with Morgan Freeman(Alex Cross),The Big Bounce,'04, Alex was a profiler and was called in special for killings that were driving the police department and the city officials crazy.  Alex gets connected with Monica Potter(Jizzie Flannigan),I'm with Lucy,'02, who is also a detective and works with Alex as his partner.  Alex is very attractive and adds some excitement but very little romance.  The film deals also with a child being kidnapped and there is also mention about the Old Lindburg case in the 1930's.   Michael Wincott(Gary Soneji),Treasure Planet,'02, plays the bad guy who is very sick mentally and keeps Alex and Jizzie on the run through out the entire picture.   Morgan Freeman was fantastic in this picture which kept me on the edge of my seat just wondering how the ending would turn out.  Sit back and enjoy this picture, it is worth viewing. "}{"Title":"a great movie with a twist","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I was enthralled in this movie. IT was on TV last night, I'd seen Kiss The Girls and was most impressed with that so I'd give it a try.Senator Hank Rose's daughter is kidnapped by her teacher Gary Soneji, from under the secret service's nose. Soneji decides that he will only deal with Alex Cross (Freeman). Here starts the game.This film had me captured from the word go, yes It has type cast Freeman slightly in his profiler/cop mode, but he is so good at it. Michael Wincott, who is probably best known for his appearance in the Crow, was fantastic as the kidnapper. The twists in the plot were very good and kept me on the edge of my seat.Well written and well acted a definate buy on DVD for me. "},{"Title":"This should've been SO much better!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  What looked to be the next `Seven' turned out to be disappointing.  Freeman is a detective who has to help find a senator's kidnapped child.  Very basic and routine suspense flick&#133;..and way too many scenes which make you say to yourself, &#145;How stupid do they think I am if they want me to believe that?'  To bad&#133;..a good book&#133;..but a bad movie.  D+ "},{"Title":"So much to the much awaited movie. Not livin up to the standards of Morgan Freeman's usual perfomance.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  In the age of graphics, it was really disheartening to see a movies image crash because of its very own crash scene at the begining. The graphics of the Car Crash was too bad, i should say too kiddish. One would loose their very image of the movie after that, no matter how well it was shot. Tried to cash on the perfomance of the Child Artist in Bless The Child, Ol tricks dont work anymore. Over all the tempo of the movie was not maintained. I lost interest in the first 20 minutes of the movie. A bag of Pop Corn kept me busy for the rest of the show. Along came the spider and along went my money. "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I love Kiss The Girls, both the book and the movie (the book more than the movie.) I had already read Along Came A Spider a while before I read the book Kiss the Girls, and hated it with a passion. It was a boring read, and I wondered before I went to the movie theater why they bothered to make a movie from such a crappy book. But, I went and paid my money to watch the movie anyway. The movie is a disaster. As much as I love Morgan Freeman as an actor, this is one of the worst movies ever made. My advice is to watch a better Freeman movie, like Power Of One or Shawshank Redemption. Don't waste your time on this movie. (Its not Freeman's fault- the script/plot stunk in the first place- no where to go from there but downward.) "},{"Title":"Good story, poor acting.","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The most disappointing vehicle I've seen Morgan Freeman in for quite awhile now, considering his abilities as one of the best actors around. It's a good story, but the acting and lines are almost laughably bad in parts. Monica Potter is gorgeous, but delivers her lines with little drama. Why is it that so many directors these days are intent on the ladies' hair always being in such perfect shape, and even after severe exertion don't show any sweat?! Anyway, wait until this is on video; no, better yet, wait until it's on television so you can see it for free!  "},{"Title":"Perhaps Too Many Twists","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  ALONG CAME A SPIDER gets off to a surprising start due to its downbeat opening , though I must confess it was spoiled slightly by its CGI a problem this director had with DIE ANOTHER DAY , but it still retains a certain impact lacking in a lot of Hollywood movies these days which gave me hope that I'd be watching an above average thriller Truth be told ALONG CAME A SPIDER was above average but only by present day standards . The premise of having the daughter of a senator kidnapped isn't all that different from the very overrated SILENCE OF THE LAMBS ( And umpteen other thrillers of this ilk ) so in order for it to stand out we're treated to a lot of plot twists . Unfortunately I think we have a couple of twists too many by the end of the film . Remember that line  With your TV switched up loud a whole SWAT team could have come in here unnoticed  ? Didn't you just know by this point that another twist was going to happen and that it held no more surprises ? Not to be totally negative this is a very entertaining thriller for the most part and as you can expect Morgan Freeman is always good to watch  "},{"Title":"Along Came a Spider","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I didn't realise the leading actor's character is from another film, Kiss the Girls, but I think this is the much better crime drama thriller. A young little girl is kidnapped and ransomed by a very clever but unknown criminal living on a boat. Morgan Freeman is the detective hired to try and find the girl, he recently lost his partner in a car accident and is still trying to forget it. He has a look at the last place the parents of the girl saw her and he discovers that nothing has been moved or touched and he planned the kidnap very carefully, as sly as a spider (hence the title) Monica Potter (from Patch Adams) is partnered with Freeman to help him, and he doesn't know it, but she is involved with the kidnapper and she turns into a real bitch. Good! "}]