[{"Title":"A thought experiment for humanists (and for humanists only)","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"54 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The Afterlife is best thought of as a kind of thought experiment, perhaps in the same vein as Groundhog Day. The point is not that this may be what we experience after death; it is rather that we need to think more about what it is in this life that we'd really like to keep with us forever.This point needs emphasis. When asked what we want most in life, most of us will talk about our career, or a business venture perhaps, or some other accomplishment. This movie suggests that these kinds of things may not, at the end of the day, be so important as some other experiences we may have. In any case, it challenges us to rethink what it is we really value.Some reviewers complain about the quite ordinary surroundings and poor production values of the movie. I prefer to think of the choice of sets etc as humble and realistic. Could any movie, whatever its budget, ever possibly do justice to this subject matter?Much of this movie is devoted to explorations of the lives of a number of rather ordinary people, trying to identify their most cherished memories. Some reviewers have condemned The Afterlife as boring, boring, BORING on this account. It all depends on whether other people interest you. If all you want to see is car chases, sex, explosions, cool special effects,...avoid this movie. Only, it's worth noting that the lives and thoughts of others may help us to better understand ourselves. And nowhere more so than in this movie.  "},{"Title":"The quality of our life","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"45 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When we come to the last moment of this lifetime and we look back across it, the only thing that's going to matter is 'What is the quality of our love? - Richard BachOne of the most commonly reported aspects of near-death experiences is the life review, the seeing and re-experiencing of major and trivial events of one's life, sometimes from the perspective of the other people involved. Most say that the single most important lesson they learned is that the actions we think are trivial and unimportant turn out to be the most important, especially ones that involve spontaneous acts of love. While not exactly a life review, in After Life by Hirokazu Koreeda, a group of recently deceased people are asked to look back at their life and choose only one memory from their life that they want to take with them to eternity. The process compels people to look at their life in its entirety and see what worked and what was missing.Set in a dreary barracks-like way station, civil servants meet with those just crossed over to help them choose the experience they want to hold on to. For some, the choice is easy, for others it is difficult. Those that will not or cannot choose are consigned to work in the substation with the newly deceased until they are ready to move on. The counselors work one on one with each individual telling them that they have three days to make their choice. Once a memory is selected, a film crew recreates the memory-- sets are built and the little touches of sights and sounds are selected until the deceased are satisfied that they are witnessing a perfect recreation of their experience. It is that film that they take with them, not the original memory.At first some choose things such as a trip to Disneyland, a sexual encounter, or a memorable bowl of rice but later gravitate toward experiences that are more meaningful. The center of the film revolves around those who are unable to choose. Ichiro Watanabe (Taketoshi Naito) is a 70-year old management consultant who has led an uneventful life and is challenged to find a memory he thinks is worth preserving for all time. To help him in this process, he is allowed to scan through piles of videotapes representing each year of his life. One young man wants to choose a dream instead of an actual event. Another wants to forget his past entirely, and an elderly woman is stuck in the mindset of a nine-year old girl.After Life is the story of the caseworkers as well. Takashi Mochizuki (Arata) has been stuck in limbo because he cannot find any happiness in his twenty-two years until he realizes how his short life deeply affected someone else. His perfect realization also affects a co-worker Shiori (Erika Oda) who has fallen in love with him. After Life is a beautiful and touching film that allows us to reflect on the things that brought us joy in our own life, and to recognize that true happiness lies, not in outward symbols of success, but in giving ourselves to others. "},{"Title":"Beautiful.","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Afterlife is another film offering an answer to the unanswerable question What happens after you die? . Although this has been asked many times through cinema in the past, few films have answered as elegantly as Afterlife.Directly after dying the departed are received by a group of counsellors who assist them in finding what was, for them, the most beautiful and perfect, single experience of their lives. For some the choice is easy and they are instantly able to provide the moment, which, once recreated by technicians, they remain in forever but the majority of the film concentrates upon those who are unable to find their perfect moment, and need extra help to recall past loves and lost days of their youth.  The institution has the perfect means to assist this choice, with the complete life of everyone on grainy home-video, perhaps a comment on the tehcnology and recording-obsessed Japanese.Many of the scenes are visually exceptional, especially those in the snow and everything seems very real, and, ironically, down-to-earth, especially the school building being used throughout the film giving an institutional feeling, but the interaction between the staff is where the film holds its true strength. Especially interesting is the relationship between Shiori, a newly employed worker, and Mochizuki, her mentor, which develops throughout. The film is slow to start due to the documentary style often used, but proceeds in an enveloping manner holding your attention to the end. Along with Heaven can wait and Beetlejuice this film offers another novel look at life, death and the hereafter.The Japanese title was Wandafuru raifu (wonderful life, after Frank Capra) and, even though the film is dealing with death, it is a statement of how wonderful life is.I loved this film and it stuck me stunningly and reminded me of how good films can be when they try. "},{"Title":"Wandafuru movie!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really loved Kore-eda's first feature Maboroshi No Hikari, so I had been looking forward very much to seeing Afterlife (named Wandafuru raifu in Japanese, after Frank Capra's movie It's a wonderful Life) during its run in London.At first I noticed that the film is formally very different from its predecessor; while Maboroshi No Hikari owes much to the influence of Ozu, and especially Hou Hsiao-hsien, Afterlife draws more on the directors background as a documentary filmmaker. What the two films share, however, is the theme of memory (Note also a theme with Hirokazu Kore-eda's documentary work - check out Without Memory, about a man suffering of severe amnesia). In Maboroshi No Hikari Yumiko is not able to forget the memory of her dead husband, whereas in Afterlife the recently deceased must chose one memory that will accompany them into eternity.I feel that Kore-eda handles this entirely hypothetical premise in the best possible way, by steering completely clear of the stylistic superficialities with which so many other films about life after death desperately try to make themselves believable. The unspectacular old school building as a setting, the ceiling window with its interchangeable templates for the different stages of the moon, a character who himself has doubts as to whether this is really the best way of going to the next world and the absence of any religious connotations, among other things, all serve to keep the focus on the characters and their memories - many of whom are actually real. Apart from tongue in cheek humour, the lack of music also prevents over-sentimentalization and makes the memories the people recall the more sincere. The no-budget filming of the recollections of the deceased in order to trigger their personal memory, toward the end of the movie, also illustrates that the director is fully aware of his own limitations and possibilities as a film-maker. Rather than just trying to create the illusion of some half-baked version of the hereafter, he wants to challenge the viewer to reflect on what would be his/her most important memory - and succeeds in every way.This is a movie that surly can be appreciated by anyone who possesses at least a tiniest inkling of openness and willingness to experience cinema as more than mere entertainment. Top mark for this one! "},{"Title":"The Best Moment of Our Lives","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Every Monday morning, a team of advisors welcome in a facility a group of people that has just died with the mission of helping each one of them to select their best memory that will last for the eternity in the first three days. On Thursday, filmmakers begin to recreate the selected memory, and in the end of the week they screen it in a movie theater and he or she moves to Heaven.I bought Wandâfuru Raifu, or After Life on DVD, since I was very intrigued with the summary on its cover. I saw this low budget movie spoken in Japanese with English subtitles and I found the story very original and provocative. The premise of rebuilding eternity along a week, like God created Earth, and Heaven be a projection of a movie of the best memory one could have, is fantastic. In spite of having unexplained points, like for example the need itself of lasting with only one single memory, and inconsistencies, like why the need of shooting the memory, if the staff can bring videotapes of the entire life, what matters is the originality of this unique movie. One point that has always impressed me in cinema is the fact the actors and actresses last forever in the eyes of the audiences along generations. In this movie, each one of us has the chance to be an actor or actress, and write our own screenplay. Further, I personally recalled many good moments of my life just because of the storyline of this movie, and I found how difficult it could be to select only one good moment of my life to last forever. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Depois da Vida (After Life) "},{"Title":"A quietly stunning fantasy as documentary.","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the few masterpieces of the year, and a rare sighting of a new talent who will surely become one of the greats.  Fantasy is once again shown to be the most flexible of all forms - it can sustain profound metaphysical questions as well as examinations into Japanese history, culture and society.  But, most importantly, it is the true form to examine people - their hopes and desires, fears and failures.  Despite the buff hue and downbeat tone, AFTER LIFE is a comedy, it celebrates life even as it ends, even as it disappoints.  It also makes the strongest case for - and against - filmmaking in recent memory. "},{"Title":"Illusion and memory in cinema","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think this film is as much about film-making as it is about Heaven.  I think the previous comment about creating lasting illusion on limited budgets pointed to the heart of this film.  It is about a love of cinema much like Cinema Paradiso.  A small crew of people have to create memories that last forever with shaky props and jury-rigged effects but it doesn't matter.  The viewer is an active participant and memory can be revived with the barest of props and sets.  Isn't that the ESSENCE of film, memory and active participation by the audience is why a film delights.  The more you can relate to a film and understand it in terms of your own life, the more satisfying the whole experience is. "},{"Title":"Visually electric","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Afterlife is without a doubt one of the greatest Japanese films I've ever seen. Visually it is truly stunning. Kore Eda is known for his own obsession with lighting and his skill for casting shadows and beams of white light are second to none. Combined with an innovative, creative and enjoyable story that takes on a slightly supernatural docu-drama and at the same time is set in a dull, down and out halfway house between Earth(life) and heaven(afterlife). Fascinating scenes take place as the deceased have one week to decide on a single memory from their lifetime that they can keep for all eternity. He also includes elements of documentary with talking head scenes of the deceased talking about their memories. Kore Eda throws around some extremely interesting ideas and themes on life and human emotions for our memories and he genuinely makes you think about what he's said once you've finished watching.This is a film that not everyone would enjoy due to its slow moving pace, mood orientated lighting and partly improvised script, but it is a creative masterpiece that is definitely worthy of high praise and attention. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favourites","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theatre.  It is always a pleasure to be at a viewing where there is spontaneous applause at the end.  This is one of those movies. It speaks to your very soul.  I understand that quite a few of the cast were not professional actors, but spoke from their own lifetime experiences.  There is a very simple premise  you get to choose the most favourite moment of your life after you are dead and then help to recreate it, staging, cast of characters, scene - and the total non-professional manufacturing of this moment I found very touching - so that it can be savoured for all eternity. The perfect heaven. Of course some recently dead people can't think of anything, some remember very simple things, some are given assistance, like the record of their entire life in video form to review and extract a memory, if they can. The cast and direction is brilliant. I shudder to think of what modern Hollywood would do with this (What dreams may come being a case in point).  It was all extremely simple and believable and has certainly had me talking about it for quite a while since I have seen it.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Documentary like realism of people and their re-examination of their life","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie is told in such a way that the people coming in reveals themselves in such a way that they all realize that there is a part of themselves in which it is truly good, even if it is deeply buried.  The way it is filmed, as if it is a documentary, provides the cunning realism that you would not ordinarily achieve in regular film.  Even at the end, we discover the true reason one of the counselor stayed around instead of moving on.  Truly a touching and thought provoking film.  It will make you try to think for yourself which memory you would cherish forever, even if it is single one. "}{"Title":"In Heaven...There Is A Shortage Of Chairs","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What is the happiest moment of your life? If you had to pick one moment, one memory to keep with you and the rest were going to be erased what would it be? This is the central question of Afterlife a film about life, memory, happiness, movie making, and only in tangent, death. A group of dead people arrive at a dilapidated building where they are told to select a single memory that they will dwell in for all eternity. Heaven as it turns out is only a memory. The film is mostly these people talking directly into the camera documentary style reflecting on what was most important to them.I recently told a friend about this movie, who told me it sounded corny, and if the film had only been about these people I, might agree. I told my friend that I liked the film because while watching it I reflected on my entire life, and what happiness had meant to me during it. I was almost shocked and a little saddened by how quickly I came to realize what my moment was, like the movie as a whole it leaves a bittersweet taste. My friend told me they didn't think about their life that way, and that it would be too depressing to do so. I told her that someone in the movie says that too, and what made the movie as a whole so good and not just a clever concept was how honest it was about the complications between notions of a meaningful life, nostalgia, and personal happiness.The dead have a half a week to choose which memory they want and the rest of the week is spent filming the memories in a sound studio. The screening at the end of the week is to be their moment of ascension. Though silent at first the counselors shooting these memory-movies are not separate from the process, they too are dead. Takashi and his trainee Shiori we see handle most of the cases.Afterlife despite its title is not a film about death, but about memory and self-reflection. Two characters become problematic early on, one an old man who says he cant remember his life clearly enough to choose a specific moment, the other a young man who refuses to chose a moment, insisting it would be avoiding responsibility for his life and a surrender to empty nostalgia. Takashi becomes interested in the old man's case(for personal reasons we discover later), and has the man's life sent to him on videotape so that he may observe and report, in a quieter variation on Albert Brook's Defending Your Life (a conceptual cousin to Afterlife).Afterlife is about producing films that capture only a single moment and that only have meaning to single person; films that will only be screened once, but will be remembered literally forever. They are so personal as to be inconsequential to anyone but their intended viewer, but I couldn't think of a more meaningful type of film to make both for an audience and their creators. I think this is why many people watch films, at times to identify and at others to connect with what is unidentifiable.Russian silent film director Aleksandr Medvedkin used to travel the USSR on a train stopping at random villages and asking the people what their problems, issues, and concerns were and then asked for their assistance in making a film about just that. Doing this Medvedkin wanted to give cinema to the masses. The world of Afterlife likewise gives cinema to the individual.There are sprinklings of melodrama in the film towards the end, but they allow the characters to actually reach important conclusions that the film wouldn't have been able to connect together otherwise. Even if you can't remember your own moment, isn't it possible that you are an extra or a main character in someone else's, and nothing as dramatic as some old flame pining over you, but maybe a moment spent with a friend or a family member. Maybe your parent's happiest moment was when you were born. It's only from an imaginary position like an Afterlife that we have the distance to reflect on such grand feelings intimately and sincerely.Since were not dead, this question can be written off as sophomoric or corny, our best days may in fact still be ahead. But I wonder if without some prior sense of what is truly beautiful, meaningful, and warm fuzziness incarnate whether we can know true bliss when we finally see it. This is assuming it's something you can even know when you see it, and not something that only occurs with memory. I was once told in a Sunday Sermon, happiness is predicated on happenings and events, but joy was something internal that had little relation to the outside world. Personally I think real happiness is created when memories generate joy that later events cannot soil or touch.The only objections I could reasonably see are often spoken by the characters themselves, particularly the young man, who thinks the entire system is flawed; what do they do if a baby dies for instance? My own moment (and no I will not tell you nor anyone else) was actually quite corny, in fact it was the first time in my life I realized why a certain kind of sentimentality existed. This movie is sentimental for sure, but it's definitely sincere. If we get lucky in this universe and there is an Afterlife, we would all be very fortunate to find ourselves in a movie theaters like these with kind hearted counselors to help us grieve for and accept our lives, and if there isn't well at least there's still movies like Afterlife; things worth seeing, things worth talking about, and things worth sharing with each other. "},{"Title":"Can you pick your best memory?","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This was a perfect film for watching on a quiet Sunday morning. It made me reflect on my own life, and realize that I would probably be one of the counselors in the afterlife.It was brilliantly written and directed and one of the most innovative stories I have seen on screen. After death, you spend a week in a way-station to reflect on your life and take one memory with you. It is not an easy process as I discovered.I was interested in the fact that some people can remember all the way back to the womb. Picking a happy memory before I was an adult is almost impossible for me, so I cannot imagine going back that far. Most people remember only to age three or four.I was fascinated with the man who wanted to leave behind some evidence of his existence. One man could not remember any happy memories in his 70+ years, so he had to sit through video tapes, one for each year of his life, to help him. It seems that there was a connection with one of the counselors and this played out in an unusual way at the end. Choosing your best memory as the fact that you were someone else's best memory and that you made one person happy.Most of us fall into the category expressed by one man. I had a so-so education, a so-so job, a so-so marriage, and a so-so retirement. How do you pick a happy or important memory from that? I also liked one man's response when he picked his memory after lamenting that most of the memories of his life were bad. After being told he would forget all the bad memories, he exclaimed, That truly is heaven. An unusual film that will be in my memory for a long time. "},{"Title":"A story of life, death and the power of memory","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It is probably safe to say that very few films these days know very much about real life. Safer to say that most films these days know even less about the nature of death. A lot of movies about death are more interested in the celestial wallpaper. The afterlife on film is usually a perspective on what Heaven and Hell might look like and those who die are usually more interested in tying up romantic loose ends or returning to unfinished business. Very few films have ever matter-of-factly considered the afterlife from the point of view of the traveler who has crossed the threshold to the undiscovered country.Hirokazu Koreeda's Afterlife is almost alone in it's contemplation on the importance of the single moment or moments that shape our humanity. In 1999, Koreeda created this absolutely beautiful examination of the stopover between life and death where the choice of a lifetime must be made What single memory would you carry with you to your eternal reward? The examination is vessled by 22 travelers who, for various reasons, have died and arrive from a white light to a place that is neither here nor there. They are in a way-station between the end of life and their eternal lodgings. The counselors who work here meet and interview several recently dead people each week. The travelers are tasked with choosing one memory from a lifetime that they will carry over into the eternity that awaits them. Once a memory is selected it will be turned into a film and screened before the patron vanishes with the memory, all other memories having been eliminated.But what memory? What single memory is worth an eternity? Carrying the best memory would be heaven while surely carrying the worst would be hell. To that end the travelers find this a difficult task for various reasons. One man discovers that he has no memory that he wishes to carry on. Another discovers that he has too many. One decides that it was her experience on the Splash Mountain ride at Disneyland.We meet these people through interviews while the staff works diligently to create the productions for the films that will be screened. We learn very little about the staff who have apparently chosen to spend eternity at the station helping others select a memory. There is a moment when we come close, a connection between one of the patrons and the man who didn't think that he had a memory (of this I will leave you to discover). This moment provides one of the most emotional moments in the film and provides him with a reason for choosing the memory most precious to his heart.This is the most profound examination of the nature of humanity that I have ever seen on film. There are no special effects, no gimmickry, no scenes that are thrown together to hold our interest. This is a movie that very gently reaches out to those lucky enough to be caught up in it's contemplative spell and to be spellbound by it's message The message is that memory is all we have. No matter what financial or possessive objects we have gained in our lives our memories lie at the core of what makes us intelligent beings. It is the thing that connects our learning, our maturity and shapes our social connection. It is the core of our being, the connection point of our humanity.On the emotional level, the film works through contemplation, through imagining ourselves as the wayward patrons. The movie sees the selection process as very matter of fact. Koreeada is more interested in the people who have arrived here than in the place to which they have arrived. That spareness allows us to contemplate their process rather than their surroundings.I saw After Life shortly after it's initial release in 1999 and years later it still resonates in my mind. When I am idle, staring at the ceiling when sleep refuses to settle my mind, I contemplate the question posed by Koreeda's film and to this day I am nowhere near a decision. If I had to choose one memory it might be agony because my number of candidates would go as high as five hundred or if I wrote them down closer to a thousand. For that, I feel fortunate, fortunate and grateful that my life can contain that kind of contentment. If I am given the kind of task given to the people in After Life, it is my hope that whatever I settle on can be turned into a film that is as gentle, peaceful and affirming as Koreeda's beautiful work. "},{"Title":"A brillant and moving reflection on what life might mean to the dead","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not a film for those who have no patience. If you like your entertainment fast and noisy, indeed, as one other reviewer commented, then you should look elsewhere. If you are willing to give a great artist some time and close attention, then I believe you will discover the most beautiful and thoughtful film on life after death that exists. Each time I see this film, I love it more. The plot is simple the newly dead are given a few days and some careful coaching by an attentive staff (who turn out to be dead, also)in order to select one memory to carry with them into eternity. That memory is then filmed and only after a communal screening, each dead soul may truly move on to whatever the afer life may be. This film explores not only the social shaping of our favorite memories (a silly teen girl first selects Disneyland, but then later prefers a tender everyday moment shared with her mother), but also it stresses the contingency of our memories - when the chosen memories are finally put onto film, each person has to accept a certain degree of compromise in the final product - their memories are perhaps as fictional, as artistically shaped as is this film itself. Most memorably, After Life offers an almost redemptive possibility perhaps unknowingly we serve as memories for others - our seemingly insignificant (and forgotten) actions may turn out to be a source of joy to someone else. I am leaving out a lot - the interactions between the dead and the staff, the relationships between staff members, the remarkably quality of the acting, the wonderful seedy beauty of the half-way place where the dead spend their last week, all of these elements are worthy of comment and praise, too. It isn't a film for everyone, obviously, but I think thoughtful viewers will love it and will appreciate the artistry behind its disjointed narrative. Since when has life, (or the after life - for all we know) made narrative sense anyway? "},{"Title":"This film is both wonderful and very difficult to watch but in a good way.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This small and low budget film creeps up on you, like the eventual realisation that the person you truly love is no longer in your life, and this film makes you realise that too! It is set in a kind of half-way house between death and the place you go afterwards. A limbo of sorts. Once in this limbo you have a week to choose a single memory, that is later recreated in film for you to keep, to take with you forever and all the rest of your life vanishes which as one person who we see choose says what a good idea to let your life be largely forgotten. The paradox is of course that as you watch this film memories come out of everywhere passed loves, childhood memories first day at school, immature early teen moments, regrets. That's why this film is difficult, not for anything in the film but for what you get out of it, and the difficulty you find concentrating on it, memories come from everywhere to interrupt the film and take you away from watching it. This is the first film I have ever seen that has been able to do this all the way through. Like some universal filmed diary; and I've seen this film twice now and it does every time and the same memories too! And if you've seen this and thought well it was all right I suppose, watch it again at a later date and it really does get much much better the second time; I can't wait for the third time I see it it'll probably become the best film I have ever seen.But the film itself once you've managed to push yet another of your own memories away long enough to actually concentrate on it is full of little wonderful tiny touches that just resonate in you. One particular scene, that gives nothing of the film away, is when an old lady, who has no real memories, chooses the time she used to just sit and watch and feel cherry blossoms brush and fall over her in a park, and once this is filmed you can see such joy in her eyes and then later she saves some of the blossoms which she in turn gives, in an old plastic bag, to the guy who was in charge of her choice so that he can in turn remember the times spent with his three year old daughter, which he said earlier reminded him of her. The end is also particularly moving when we learn about one of the other workers there who help people decide what memory to keep with them. He is the star of the film without question his very distant and beautiful screen presence makes the end once you get to know who he is all the more difficult to watch the knowing that he eventually comes to terms with his life enough to be able move on, and his very simple film(memory) remains with you for a long time afterwards. This film is very slow to begin, but once it grabs you, which it eventually will even if like me it took until the second time, it stays and makes you wonder long after what memory you would keep. But I guess everyone thinks about that after seeing this. Better make sure that before you die there is something good to choose.   "},{"Title":"Don't let the literalists steer you away from this film","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Time after time, this lovely little movie gets trashed by western critics (and would-be critics) who are so absorbed with imposing their own strict guidelines as to what a movie about the afterlife should be about (just as they may with the idea of the afterlife itself) that they too quickly write off this wistful meditation on the beauty of ordinary life and the power of human memory.Yes, the film is slow, but I don't think a moment should be trimmed. It takes time, after all, to follow the paths of some 20 odd newly dead characters, as well as the half dozen caseworkers assigned to them, to their conclusions, and After Life does so in a surprisingly clear-headed and satisfying way. Not for a moment is the viewer confused as to who is who - a special feat for western eyes viewing an Asian film.That a film can have the power to make disparate viewers reflect upon their own lives afterward is significant enough to highly recommend Afterlife to anybody currently alive - the grouches of this comments page notwithstanding.And a special nod towards the casting I deeply admire the ability of many contemporary Japanese films (such as Shall We Dance? and Welcome Back, Mr. McDonald) to create such a wide variety of well-formed and memorable characters with just a few gestures and the right faces. It's an ability that was once mastered by Hollywood studio films, now since entirely lost - the notion of the character role replaced by an outbreak of barely indistinguishable, poorly fleshed-out types. "},{"Title":"Humor, pathos and intellect all in one film!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely loved this film, although I realize it's not for everyone.Most of it consists of delicate little snippets of conversation with a group of recently deceased people. They relate stories of moments in their lives, with such beauty and poignancy and realism that one could imagine this a documentary. The acting (although it hardly seems to be acting at all!) is uniformly excellent.In tiny snatches, we come to know quite lot about them. Best of all, the movie makes you think about life -- have we lived the kind of life that creates a memory we'd want to spend eternity with? Kore-eda Hirokazu (the director) manages that rare combination of humor, pathos and intellect that makes this film a winner. "},{"Title":"gentle, a little slow but lovely","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have now watched this film twice on DVD. It grows with re-watching. The subtle development is easily missed in translation, my wife fell asleep during several key scenes and this film is now added to the list I can only watch alone, late at night after she has gone to sleep. By current film standards it is very slow. There is very little action, only occasional background music, and no special effects. However it is gentle, sweet and the themes fairly profound. This most recent time I watched it right after I watched another what have you done with your life film called defending your life They make a nice pair, similar concept but different approaches. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wandafuru raifu is a TRULY BRILLIANT film.  It asks us to ask ourselves what one memory we would take with us to the after life if we could only choose one memory.  It then tells its story of a group of people choosing their memories and the staff helping them choose.  Combining documentary reflections with legit actors works perfectly.  The film's tone, style, performances and execution are all simple, yet immensely powerful.  It's also a movie that improves with each viewing, as you come to learn more and more about the characters and their individual stories.  After watching this movie, I have come to appreciate more the experience of life, taking each event as a memory to treasure.  This is a small gem of a movie that's truly unlike anything you'll ever see. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, measured, striking...","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films of all time.  It combines documentary footage and acted footage seamlessly.  The performances are subtle and powerful at the same time, the structure of the film is elegant.  It's the kind of film that makes me want to laugh and cry at the same time--a story about redemption. "}{"Title":"A Simple, Happy Reflection","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After Life does what so few American films today are brave enough to do--it addresses metaphysical issues and offers its own modest solution.  I can't say that I find the philosophy advanced by the film to be terribly useful or even informative in any meaningful sense.  It is, without a doubt, somewhat frivolous.  But what a happy frivolity!  What a nice thought to toss around. Not to mention that the film will make you think of all of the happiest moments in your own life, which is something to be grateful for.  In the last analysis, After Life is a sweeping success because it affirms the value of human experiences of all kinds.  I can't imagine anyone would regret seeing this film. "},{"Title":"why does my life suck","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie was lovely.  i could relate to the people and what they chose as their memories.  i wanted to find a memory but i couldn't find one i would want to spend eternity with.  so this movie has actually made me want to create beautiful memories before it is too late.  see this movie, it might make you evaluate your own life. "},{"Title":"nicely child-like.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  clever watercolored film--dying has never been this somber and quirky--pretty memory loss dialogues. vibrant really--not lacking a single wiping of Japanese ghost story genius. afterlife in a movie studio setting--hmm--sitting in a park with a soldier--cherry blossoms snowing down on a silky old granny bench--i have great respect for this pretty slowing bright movie. perhaps the best film of all since--since--nevermind. it's very dreamy-- "},{"Title":"everything i´d hoped (possible spoiler?)","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The moment I first heard about this film three or four years ago, my expectations started forming, and they were very high indeed. I finally got an opportunity to see it in a theatre, and am happy to say that those high expectations were more than fulfilled. Other commentators have provided adequate descriptions of the content of the film, i´ll just say that the moment i´ll bring with me from it, is the realization that the gates to eternity is within a movie theatre.  "},{"Title":"If it makes you think, it's succeeded. Production values do not a great movie make.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  its been a while since i've watched a movie could make me cryand not during, and not for the sheer cinematic majesty or the humanity of it all or whatever. its a simple little japanese show from the film fest called afterlife and basically its about how after we die there isnt quite heaven or hell but rather a purgatory stage in which you choose one memory you wish to take with you and after a week in this purgatory you're gone and beyond that all you remember from this life is that one memory. the ppl around recreate the scenario and they film it.so the ppl in the show slowly choose, and their choices range from the simple - looking up as cherry blossoms fall, flying a plane - to the bittersweet - the last moment a guy sees his fiancee before he goes to a war he knows he will be killed in, or a moment spent talking to his wife, a memory chosen because there is no better alternative.and what would you choose, what would you choose? do you have that range to pick from even?i'm watching the film and i'm sure everyone in the cinema is like me reviewing his or her own life and trying to pick that moment. and its a film for which the premise is uplifting - no hell, but an infinite memory to enjoy - but you come out of it and its still the same old shithole life you're in. and whatever the moment you've decided on its not going to happen that everything around will vanish.so what do you do? do you thank the heavens for the fact that you've even had that memory to recall? do you determine to live a life full of such memories that not a regret holds sway in time to come? or do you look down in the painful knowledge that that moment has come and passed you by, and that you've lost everything about that picture that made it special and made you for that one moment in this lifetime happy?not to say it won't happen again, and i'm sure everyone gets other shots at it; but it breaks the heart you know.one guy chose a memory not for his outright joy but because he was part of someone else's happiness - what a wonderful discovery. and if only i knew this was true, at least the consolation would make what went by worth the while. but time goes on and suddenly nothing's the same any more and you reach or call out but don't find anyone.another girl is stuck in purgatory because she has had no real happiness in her life i can't bear seeing many more people forget me. and you realise that maybe that's what happened to you, that while the world went by you were too busy looking the other way, or were too stupid or inept to do anything about it.its been a while since a movie could make me cry, or even think quite so hard. and i don't know whether it meant to be uplifting or thought provoking to the point where what thoughts come to mind are ultimately depressing. the moment i'd choose is still so fresh it hurts to know its gone and won't happen again in the near future. what now, do you go forth and work for it? and what if you can't? what if all your mind allows you to do is linger on it and harbour multitudinal regrets? what if you can't fight it?and what memory would you choose? "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is how you make a movie. After you die you don't go to Heaven or Hell,instead you meet a team of case-workers who give you 2 days to choose your favourite memory. They then recreate that moment for you and that is what you have for eternity. The constant memory of when you were happiest. The film deals with one such group of caseworkers and their latest batch of customers. The caseworkers, while having to deal with the recently deceased, also have their own problems. From unrequited love to regret over failing a child. The movie is simply beautiful. The movies makes use of visual poetry and the enthralling stories of the people who are simply trying to pick their happiest moment.There are no big, sappy, emotional breakdowns - the kind you would get in a Hollywood production. Instead, the emotional value comes from the way even the most minor characters are made three dimensional and realistic. I just pray that no Hollywood exec sees it and thinks it could do better if it was remade. "},{"Title":"What do I take, what do I leave?","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A brilliant film, honest and without any distracting action. Although it might seem only to tell about live, death and the hereafter, it shows us our battle with memory and the subjectiveness of this memory. What am I going to take with me, what do I leave? It is a question everybody who has ones moved between houses must have asked him- or herself. In this film it is probably the center of the action. Some find it difficult to choose what was/is important, others don't want to, and for some it is so clear they don't need to choose. In this way the movie tells us the story of our lives that we live separately/alone, whilst believing/imagining we live it together with others. Who would you take with you, who would you leave behind?The film is very philosophical, but leaves a lot of phrases open for the viewer to fill in. And most important of all this is one of the movies which does not put a clear world-view/view of life on your lap that you either should accept completely or discard and not think about. It is, so to say, userfriendly and has a lot of respect for all visions on the life that we leave and the life that we get afterwards, if we get it... "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the best movies I've seen in a while.  In an age where CGI and explosions dominate Hollywood filmmaking, AFTERLIFE dazzles viewers with simple storytelling.  The central conceit -- taking your most cherished memory to heaven -- is genius.  Watching it, you can't help but reflect on your own life, whatever your age or place you live in.The characters are varied, warm and complex, and despite the large cast, the storyline is clean and uncluttered.  The director, who comes from a documentary background, shoots simply.  No flashy camera moves or effects.  More often he lets the characters tell the story.Rarely has a film ever moved me like this. "},{"Title":"another fascinating examination of memory from KOREEDA Hirokazu","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A film that presents an interesting perspective on life, death, and memory, After Life (originally Wandafuru Raifu) is a subtle and pensive, yet powerful film by the talented Japanese director Koreeda Hirokazu.In a seemingly normal Japanese office, employees assist their clients with producing a hard copy of their most precious memory - the only one they may take with them into the afterlife. Lacking the sentimentality of the Frank Capra movie alluded to in the original title, this film's portrayal of the afterlife is also a beautiful and very Japanese examination of the nature of memory itself, a favorite topic of the director.In addition, like Edward Yang's Yi Yi (2000, Taiwan) After Life explores Koreeda's role as a filmmaker, by comparing the act of filmmaking to capturing memories on celluloid. Interesting and thoughtful, this film is one of the strongest Japanese movies of the last five years. "},{"Title":"a nearly excellent film","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I agree with some others here in that it did start a tad slow (but I'm an American, so it's not entirely the film's fault...).  But it was still very engaging and beautifully done, and it ended up sweeping me along in a most subtle yet powerful way.  The way that the filming of the memories was handled in that very making of.. style was brilliant, and the almost excruciatingly sparse music track was also quite wonderful.  I only wish there had been a couple more close-ups during some scenes between Mochizuki and Shiori.  Speaking of them, I'm sure we'll see more of Arata and Erika Oda in the future, they were fantastic.I would suggest buying this film and showing it to others to get people thinking about their lives again... it sure got my wheels spinning... "}{"Title":"enlightened and original viewer experience resolving the mystery of Life and Death","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Hirokazu Kore-eda's After Life presents an enlightened and original viewer experience resolving the mystery of Life and Death.  It's refreshing unsupernatural reality comes from the believable characters.  Characters who are not actors but people interviewed documentary style about their lives. Kore-eda own background in documentary film  began with this production by interviewing several people and posing them the question of which memory they would take with them in to the Afterlife . He came to understand that the authentic and moving responses he was getting were more interesting than the scripted ones he had for his professional actors, so he incorporated them in the film.  Kore-eda's inspiration was his father who became ill with Alzheimer's and his inability recognize his son.  The films essence is reminiscing and our memories of our own life and its importance as to who we are.  For example, how much of what we recollect is even true or have we internally idealized it? Is there a reason for every connected moment no matter how painful?  This film opened my mind to another possibility of death and the beyond. "},{"Title":"Beautiful people in a beautifully shot film","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a wonderfully surreal yet warm and human movie. Sometimes it feels like a documentary about ordinary people. Soon we discover there is inner beauty in every character (sometimes very well hidden) and you can't help yourself feeling forgiveness and love towards everyone generally, not just the people in this tranquil masterpiece. I left the cinema with feelings of peace and some kind of an eternal order - a rare achievement for a movie nowadays. "},{"Title":"An original story immaculately told","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Think of the last film you watched. Was it a comedy? Maybe a drama, or an action flick. Perhaps it was even a combination of several genres, a sci-fi horror or a musical thriller, that kind of thing is quite common. However, the last film I saw completely defies definition and therefore I can't answer that question. It was just Afterlife.Occasionally a film like this comes along with such a fantastic premise that it is completely unlike anything that has come before. It doesn't follow any of the well used paths trodden by previous pictures and is so unique that it cannot create a new genre, there's simply no bandwagon for anyone to jump on. The only thing it can possibly have in common with other films is its singularity; you could think of it as a Japanese 'Being John Malkovich'.The inspired question posed is if you could choose just one memory from your life that you would relive for eternity, what would it be? The film follows a group of people trying to decide on their own personal heaven and includes several diverse characters, showing how different each person is and even answering such questions as what if you couldn't or even wouldn't choose? Watching them re-examine their life is by turns poignant, upsetting and uplifting. Meanwhile the plot that maintains the film's momentum, involving the councillors who help people choose their nirvanal afterlife, is great and ensures that the film never loses direction.I would struggle to put into words exactly why this film has such an effect on me. It is a thought provoking concept so well delivered by all involved, with such a great examination of people and what makes them different or brings them together, and also brings up themes such as responsibility and the same event meaning different things to different people. However, there is one thing I can say for certain. If I had to pick a film to relive for eternity it wouldn't be a drama, or a thriller, or a comedy. It would just be Afterlife. "},{"Title":"A Mind-Stimulating Movie","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The idea is really genuine and brilliant. The storyline is very engaging. The characterization is entertaining. And overall, the movie is very mind-stimulating.It's a story that takes place somewhere between earth and the underworld, where dead people gather together to relive their sweetest memory to be brought over to the next world.A different kind of movie that will make you see life from a different point of view. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Wonderful!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Not many films will make you think about your life and not many will make you think about your life for more than half an hour. This one does.A wonderful film with a special pace, a subtle humor, good story and lovely cinematography. 10/10  "},{"Title":"A bold, brilliant film that will move your heart and mind...","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I walked into this film knowing nothing about it...I left the theatre after many moments of contemplation a changed man. Never have I seen a film deal with our mortality in such an elegant, gentle fashion. From the moment I realized what was happening with the many colorful charectors, my thoughts and vision never wandered off the screen...not once.After Life is a beautiful film, the cinematography wonderful, the acting exquisite and deeply passionate. The story itself is laced throughout with moments of humor, and much of the film is deeply romantic in it's own way. The story, a reflection on what makes the individual from the mass, and what moments in our lives have impact and stay in memory. I found myself haunted for days, reflecting on the simple question posed to the many characters that inhabited this graceful gem...'If Heaven were a single memory from your life played in your consciousness for eternity, which memory would you choose?Bravo!10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Thought provoking","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised when I first viewed this movie. The subject matter provided a unique approach to what happens when we move on. I think most people would be able to identify with at least one, if not all of the characters. I enjoyed this movie so much that I think about it even though I first saw it about a year ago. I hope it will be available on video for others to see (especially my Mother and friends). And now I wonder 'what memory would I choose to keep forever....' "},{"Title":"If you can find it, After Life is a wonderful experience.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw a good movie the other day, and there is no doubt in my mind that it was truly a good movie. When I walked into the Roxie, on 16th between Valencia and Guerrero in SF, I was afraid to stop at the popcorn stand, and was concerned about who would be sitting next to me, and how they'd smell during the movie. The upholstery on the seats was this awful gold, worn out so that you could see the spongy stuff that makes up the chair. The lights went out. There were no previews, no dancing bit of 35mm film telling you that silence was golden, no flashing lights telling you to visit the popcorn stand, nothing. There wasn't even a studio clip introducing the movie to let you know that it started. It just started out with the producers and then the title. From that moment on, I forgot that I was in a horrible movie theater. I forgot that I had to move twice before finding a seat far enough away from the guy who probably hadn't bathed in days. I was so mesmerized by what was to follow, that when the lights came back on, I was actually sad to be back in reality. The film is After Life and is directed by sophomore filmmaker Hirokazu Kore-eda. No real movie stars, that I'm aware of, just some magnificent performances, in a memorable film, to be sure. Just what is this all about? If you are a people-watcher, then this is your type of movie. When you die, you go to purgatory. We've all heard this concept before. But, purgatory is not some place of nothingness. Nor is it someplace with fire spewing below you or cold winds freezing above you. Instead, purgatory is a nice Japanese hotel where you are allowed to think, and reflect upon your life. You arrive on Monday, and you are given three days to think about your most precious memory of your entire life. This one memory will be the sole thing that you will be allowed to carry into your next life, and it will be filmed by the counselors/actors who reside at Hotel Purgatory. On Saturday, you will be allowed to view your memory, at which point you will instantaneously be sent to your next life. What follows is an engrossing, somewhat voyeuristic journey through various people's lives. So touching are the vivid portrayals of the people's memories. This film covers a lot of bases about choosing one single memory to represent your own life, but it also is quite amusing to see the challenges of the purgatory film crew to film your memory. This movie is evocative of the great Italian movie, Cinema Paradiso, in many respects-it's an homage to the movies, yes; but, it also speaks of universal truths such as nature, life and love, and things most close to us.The actors do an admirable job in portraying their characters, and it's interesting to see and hear the philosophy of how the after life works, in this writer's mind. As it turns out, the writer is also the director-which makes sense, because the world, or afterworld, in which we are submerged is so singular, that much of it would be lost in any writer-director transition. This director also has some great camera angles, and his use of sound and silence makes such strong statements. There are certain Akira Kurosawaian elements in this film; but, not all the deft direction is inherited from The Master. This film is also a great film to take someone to and then go to a café. Okay, granted-there aren't many great cafés by the Roxie, so bring a car. But when the film is over, it's something that you can talk about for hours, days, weeks.. What would be the one memory that you would take with you to your next life, if it had to be now? Has there been any one defining moment of your life? Have you had enough life experience to claim such a memory, or has everything that you've done so far been done to create a memory for the future? Four Stars. Josh Bob says check it out. "},{"Title":"Recommended","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie After Life is like a Haiku poetry book; a collection of images, delicate yet precise, the essence of what is important and beautiful in our life. Koreeda took his time to give ample opportunities to his characters to find the truth in their lives and I am grateful to him for that.  "},{"Title":"confused about what I've been reading","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had wanted to see this film since its US release, and when it came to a film festival in my area, I jumped at the chance to see it.  First though, I checked here and a lot of what I read caused me to worry that the film would be a disappointment--too long, too boring, not enough conflict.  And I worried that my male friend who agreed to go with me would wonder what I had dragged him to.No need to worry--this movie is awesome.  Not just the idea but the execution as well.  Both my friend and I think it is one of the best films we've seen ever.  After having seen it, I don't understand all the people who complained that it is too long, that the production values suck, etc etc.  All I can say is, if you are contemplating seeing this film, and it sounds interesting--don't let the negative comments here discourage you. The film is great!!!! "}{"Title":"Great idea, perfectly executed","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Great idea, perfectly executed with both actors and non-actors. The style and atmosphere of the film is superb, occasionally bringing up recollections of Andrei Tarkovsky. Similar idea was literally exploited in 1994 by Giuseppe Tornatore in A Pure Formality, but the latter's sylization into the form of a crime thriller and its overall pretentiousness makes it much less satisfactory than Wandafuru raifu. I only regret that the Japanese film received a very inappropriate English title. Its story, after all, is not about the AFTERLIFE, but about the WONDERFUL LIFE itself. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Intriguing","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Half of it is documentary-style, making the people seem real.  And those people ARE real, they're each and every one of us.  Very good background idea, of having to pick one memory to live with for the rest of eternity. It really makes you think about your own life.  What memory would you take? Very interesting.  Also, the part about knowing that you are/were a part of someone else's happiness is one of the happiest feelings in the world is just wonderful. It is paced a little slow, but still holds your attention.  Worth seeing. You won't regret watching it or what you take away from it.  "},{"Title":"It feels so real...","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was extremely lucky to have a chance to see this at a film program at the university. I went on the recommendation of a Japanese friend. It's an extremely vivid and real movie, and the characters are extremely well portrayed. One important thing to realize is that this is a Japanese movie, and their social sensibilities are very different. The dialogue does often seem unnecessarily circumlocutory to Western sensibilities, but that is in large part because of Japanese sense of privacy and not talking about the self as much. It is a very sparse style, which leads to a very different atmosphere than most movies.Minor spoiler details aheadSeveral portions of this movie were filmed in an unconventional manner. A number of non-actors were told to select a cherished memory, and the producers would produce a movie of that memory for them, and the producers would make a documentary-style movie of the production of their movies. However, they were not told any other details of the movie. That is why several of the characters' memories and the filming process are so deeply personal, and their descriptions are so clear. Although there are professional actors involved, some were completely unaware of the subject of the movie during the filming. "},{"Title":"Far better than any plot summary could suggest.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When considering all the things that could have gone badly wrong with this film, it's something of a miracle that it's so singularly wonderful. A film about the after life that's not treacly, sentimental, mawkish rubbish (which is what any American film-maker would give us -- and don't we know it all too well).In fact, it's not even really about the after-life (which is rendered functionally, a literal half-way house). It's about coming to terms with our lives and the memories we have, resolving conflicts, moving on.What's more, it also manages to explore the process of film-making itself, recognising that dreams/memories/fantasies are the very stuff of movies.Most importantly, though, for someone who is watching the film, it is consistently enjoyable -- by turns, funny, witty, touching and poignant. Admittedly, it can be slow, but once you adjust to its rhythms, the experience is every bit as transcendent as the title promises. "},{"Title":"Interesting Premise","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I must say that I found myself thinking during he movie about what most of the characters were coming to terms with during the film, what one memory would you want to retain in the After Life. It was very thought provoking. I was very intrigued by most of the characters reactions having to come to terms with death and what they could take out of it. The ending was a little surprising. My one real gripe with the movie were the production values didn't always give the feel of being in the after life. But I'm sure it was the best they could do with the budget provided. If you like foreign films, I recommend going and seeing it. "},{"Title":"Mindblowing!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If I could recommend one movie to people who enjoy an absolute cinematic treasure, this would be it.  A modern Japanese movie that should win every award it's eligible for.  I would have paid 50 dollars for my ticket and still would have gotten a bargain.  Profound, moving, and stellar.  Can't say much more about perfection. "},{"Title":"Dante it's not.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After Life is an examination of significant elements of the human condition, i.e., what has import, what function memory has, and how we relate to friends and family. It compels the viewer to reflect on these matters.  It is simple in its sets and shots, but is nevertheless visually satisfying. It runs a little long, but that flaw, if it is one, is easily forgiven. "},{"Title":"touching, nice surprise","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was one of the many films I picked for the Toronto International Film Festival (1998?). Without knowing much about it beforehand (thanks to the brief description in the film festival guide \), I did not have much expectation, and I would say it turned out to be a pleasant surprise for me. Somehow it touched me profoundly, and I was left pondering long after. I wish it would found its way to Toronto's mainstream theatres... "},{"Title":"Excellent, thought-provoking","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Great, creative movie. In the midst of the mindless summer blockbusters, here's something new, or at least a new look at an old topic. At an ordinary-looking office building, those who have just died have one week to select one, and only one, memory from their lives to keep for the rest of eternity. This film tells the story of one group passing through and of the staff who works there. Of course, it would've been better to understand the original dialogue, but even without fully understanding the subtle nuances embedded in language, I found it a thoughtful and finely crafted film.  "},{"Title":"thoughtful - best movie I've seen this year","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think many of the people posting here have missed the point of the movie. After Life is not a movie about death at all - it's a movie about life. The clever set-up - that after you die, you go to a government-type office where you choose the one memory you wish to keep with you for eternity - is really a device to get people (the characters and the audience) thinking and talking about the essence of their lives, what gives their lives the most meaning, what's real life and what's artificial, what is the source of their truest contentment.See it with a friend and share memories afterwards. You'll see what I mean. "}{"Title":"This movie definitely gets you thinking about where you've been...","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" So you're dead, and what happens next? Where/how do you spend the rest of eternity? Now, one of my friends tells me that this is a love story...hanging on to the one you love forever and not letting go! I had to think about that one. I saw the movie for what was most obviously presented...what is your most precious memory in this lifetime. This film made me ponder the entire night...I actually reviewed my life up until that point in time. Poignant? You bet! This film will set you thinking about the human experience. I purchased this film for the library I work in. I recommend it highly. Very artistic, the setting, the characters...so real. Definitely a 10 in my book. "},{"Title":"A Haunting, Everlasting Image of Forever","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I only saw this movie once, probably three agos at one of those art houses.  I am only writing now because my past reflects are probably lost on some outdated, unused website in the computer universe.  This movie, however, is one of the most penetrating and reflective movies - simple yet deep, elegant and almost childlike, strange but poignant.  I have labored over my one simple experience that I would want to live forever and it escapes me...I always imaged something that I wondered how could one, however, brilliant duplicate that experience for me.  Most of the images from the movie as I recollect were isolated people without relation to other people...so there was never any request for an experience that connected one person to another.  I course I was going through some pretty horrible times and the reaching out to that someone...but still.  This movie really retains is power for reflection, for the important elements of living - one of the most crucial messages of any movie that has been made. "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was interested in seeing After Life after reading some goodreviews, but was hesitant because it was only playing at atheater 30 miles away, and was only available on Sundaymornings.  Well, I can now say, it was well worth the trip. After Life is an absolutely gorgeous film.  It deals with itssubject matter in a most genuine and sweet fashion, nevercloying or smug about its concept.  The characters approach thesubject of life, death, and memories from every angle, and theresults are sometimes sad, sometimes hilarious, but always real. The setting was also chosen perfectly.  This building whichserves as a crossroads for people who have died looks just likea youth hostel.  The building is old and plain, but comforting,like a memory in itself.  It's interesting that the rules forthe film's concept are actually very shaky.  For instance, thedeceased will experience their memories through a recreationdone by actors, even though they have access to videotapes ofthe actual events of that person's life.  Why use actors toreenact the event when they have film footage of the originalevent?  But this doesn't matter because the film seems to beabout the way humans deal with the situations.  And since humansare flexible, the rules a "},{"Title":"Look at what this film has, not at what it doesn't have","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Granted, Wandafuru raifu is a very slow-paced, minimalist film.  It has a pretty drab set, the cinematography is far from flashy, the acting is so reserved it comes off as somewhat wooden, and it takes a lot of patience to get through the long takes.  The entire premise of the story is very artificial, and there are a lot of valid But what about...? questions you can ask.But to add any more would ruin the movie, because even though there are a lot of things you might find missing, there's already more than enough there.  The concept is original and poignant, and the presentation is such that it allows for viewers to put themselves into the story right alongside the characters and think, What memory would I take with me?  If that thought even crosses your mind (as it apparently did even for those who thought the film boring or poorly presented), then Koreeda has succeeded.  It leaves us not with an answer, but with a question.If you want a movie that presents a complex story and ties up all its loose ends in a nice pretty bow at the end, go see the blockbuster-film-of-the-week at your local cinemegaplex.  If you don't mind open-ended stories that require a little more from your higher-order brain functions, take the time to watch and wonder at Wandafuru raifu. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies, ever.","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not going to bother summarizing anything; at this point, the other 22 comments have done a pretty exhaustive job of that.I want to point out an element of this film's appeal that hasn't yet been emphasized in this forum its modesty. (I don't know if anything I'm about to discuss could be taken as a spoiler, since this isn't a very plot-driven movie, but if you don't want to take that chance, please don't read further.)Yes, you could certainly see many of the characters' cherished memories as hopeless cliches, and the soundstage on which they're filmed is in fact pretty damn rinky-dink. I can't argue with that. But I will say that such a dismissal of this movie's content seems to me to indicate a real failure of empathy Are folks so hung up on novelty, on the extraordinary, that they can't see any beauty at all in a perfectly humdrum life? (What about your life, or mine?) Are the only people worth caring about all full-color glossy hundred-foot-high superstars?For me it's not boring or disappointing that, say, the indecisive gentleman chooses to sit on a park bench for eternity with his wife. Return to his decision in your mind for a moment What is it saying? I think it's a comment not on the afterlife but on just how little will do in the here and now, how little we'll wake up for in the morning, how absolutely unkillable our hope for ourselves is, how abjectly we devote ourselves to enduring our lives even when there's no reward waiting for us. It's saying that any tiny moment, no matter how empty it may seem, can contain enough to sustain us forever.Can contain enough what? I can't say, exactly. Under this movie's quiet surfaces, it seems desperately urgent to answer that question Enough what? Yes, yes, it says, this is what your life is made of! Frowning at newspapers and sitting on trains and eating hundreds of breakfasts in silence. This is it! So what does it mean? What is it for? Better make it mean something, because no one else can do that for you. Nobody's waiting to buy the film rights to your last fight with your girlfriend, father, roommate, whatever. Nobody cares what your favorite song is. Nobody cares how you feel whenever you walk past that one willow tree, where the two of you kissed for the last time.That's the mercilessness at the core of this otherwise very tender and beautiful story You mean nothing. Nobody means anything. You have to look inside yourself and choose to cherish something, any damn thing, because otherwise you might as well be dead already.I don't know. I'm just running off at the mouth. I'm not going to convince anybody to see this film, I don't think. It's an obscure Japanese number, and the subtitles are often hard to read (white text against snow--ouch). But for what it's worth After Life will reward your patience. It's sweet and understated and funny and deeply moving. For once, you may cry at a movie without resenting it later.  "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A fascinating film taking place in the after-life, where the recently deceased are given three days to pick their one favorite memory.  As the others will be erased.  Those memories will then be re-enacted and filmed, to carry over into the afterlife.The film goes beyond this gimmicky concept (I love gimmicky concepts) and delves deep into the meanings behind it.  What if someone didn't choose? What if someone is insane and still basically living in that memory?  What if someone doesn't have a memory yet?The method of the film is interesting as well.  The latest batch of recently deceased are a mix of professional actors and genuine interviewees.  Most of it is unscripted, and the results are realistic and energetic.The pacing sags a bit near the second third of the film, and some fundamental questions (like, isn't living with one memory basically a hell?) are missed.  But it's an amazing experience nevertheless.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Meditation On Life And Death ... And Movies","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is among my favorite recent Japanese films - it's actually among my favorites ever. As an exploration of themes of life, death and the transitory delicacy of memory (I'd heard that this film was inspired by the alzheimers-related decline of Hirokazu Kore-eda's grandfather) it approaches the subject matter with a unique grace, playfulness and humor, which only serves to strengthen the overall impact. I like the look of the film - the occasional hand-held camera work lends a spontaneous and personal tone to the film that underscores many of the most touching moments.The 'reenactments' of selected memories also struck me as great, affectionate allegories for the process of making movies, or at least personal movies like this. The allegory itself is simple, but in this film it adds yet another level of complexity and grace.Overall, a moving, quietly dazzling film. Very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"This very Japanese tale of a Zen afterlife is at its best when focusing on real people telling their best stories.","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While sporadically fascinating as a foreign art film, the movie nonetheless is likely to be of interest only to a specialized audience in the U.S.  It represents a very Japanese version of such films as WHAT DREAMS MAY COME or DEFENDING YOUR LIFE.One of the points of interest is the film's Buddhist Japanese attitude towards death and eternity, so different from what most Americans and Europeans think of.  The key plot point of the movie is that everyone spends eternity in endless contemplation of one perfect moment from their lives. This notion differs drastically from the western emphasis on variety as the spice of life -- or death.  Compare Wim Wenders' film, UNTIL THE END OF THE WORLD, in which a group of westerners are emotionally and intellectually crippled by having to sort through their inmost thoughts and memories.Our hell is usually depicted as a place where one must carry out pointless repetitive tasks or where one is forced into an obsession with the past (as in WHAT DREAMS MAY COME); heaven is usually thought of as listening to music, living in palaces, and socializing with a wide array of friends and loved ones.  The Buddhist heaven suggested by this movie comes all too close to resembling a Sartrian hell in a westerner's eyes.  Thus most American filmgoers would have no idea what the story was hoping to convey by insisting on the choice of a single cherished memory.  Those with an interest in a different perspective may find the film thought-provoking.It's less clear what the movie is getting at by suggesting that the afterlife is a place where people must make movies of their lives on limited budgets and with inadequate props.  Perhaps the filmmaker is merely making a joke about filmmaking.  Or perhaps he's trying to suggest that film is the ultimate artistic format, most closely tied to people's actual experiences of life.  A little movie magic is all that's necessary to capture the gist of reality, even if the technical aspects of production seem cheap and mundane.  Either way, the filmmaking references are likely to be lost on mainstream audiences.Even when judged as a Japanese film, the movie is successful primarily when it relies on actual documentary interviews with old folks.  Listening to these non-actors trying to describe the best memories of their lives is absolutely fascinating, whereas the drama narrated by the film is considerably less engaging.   "},{"Title":"Once over lightly","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After death, people are stationed in a low-tech holding facility where they are required to choose a single memory from life. This moment of joy--or whatever's closest to it--becomes a loop that is their experience of eternity.The gingerliness of the filmmaking, combined with the warmth and zeal of the afterlife staffers, who resemble idealistic Greenpeace volunteers, gives the movie a pleasing, judgmentless humanism. The atmosphere is gentle, reassuring, love-imbued; the scenes of old folks recalling a childhood joy have the mood-stabilizing affect of a Jewel song. But after a while, the lack of real conflict makes lethargy. And the movie's low-budget conception of Heaven Construction--one's prized memory is preserved on video, with Blair Witch production values--starts to seem claustrophobic and iffy. After a while, malaise rolls in like fog. "},{"Title":"love the idea","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The dead arrive at a way station where counselors guide them to choose one memory to live with for eternity. The place is an overgrown administration building. After the counselors help the arrivals pick their memories, the film crew recreates the memory and the arrivals watch the tape. After watching the tape, they disappear into the next stage. The counselors await for the new week and the next arrivals.I love this idea. It's got great potential. However it feels a little like watching some kind of government bureaucracy. No matter how touching it gets. This has a DMV type of pacing. There is one fun section where they are recreating the memories. It could funnier but I like that section. I love this movie idea but two hours is a stretch. "}{"Title":"Introspective Beauty","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Every so often, a film is made that allows the viewer to take his or her own life and experiences into consideration while watching. After Life, a film about a place beyond death where the recently deceased are tasked with choosing a memory in which to spend the rest of eternity, is that kind of film. Shot in pseudo-documentary style with actors and non-actors alike, many of the film's characters spend a lot of time thinking about the best and worst times of their lives.Simple, almost beautifully drab visuals never pull from the movie's main focus, figuring out what experience had the most meaning in one's life. These stories are sometimes scripted and sometimes real memories told by real people, ranging from a fun trip to Disney Land to dancing as a little girl. The simplicity of this film won't knock your socks off with visual appeal, but the weight of its message will surely stick with you long after viewing, while you think about what memory you might choose to spend the rest of time reliving. "},{"Title":"Great discussion starter","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Several people arrive at a rural terminal; we soon learn they are recently deceased but not quite in the after life. They are at this way station to choose one memory, one favorite time in life in which they will live forever. This will be filmed for them, and, upon viewing, they will pass into that memory for eternity. The staff at this way station are also deceased, but have not chosen their favorite memory. One of the guests, Ichiro, cannot choose a memory. His counselor/interviewer, Takashi, pushes him to remember something, and through his interviews, discovers that Ichiro married the woman that Takashi loved, before his own death at a young age. At turns comical and bittersweet, AFTER LIFE will get you thinking about eternity and life. What memory would you choose? "},{"Title":"A Special Film","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" After Life is a film by Japanese director Hirokazu Koreeda that features Arata, Oda Erika and Terajima Susumu.After Life is a brilliant meditation on death and memory. The premise of the movie is simple over the span of a week, twenty-two souls arrive at a way station (which looks like an old junior high school) between life and death, where they are asked to choose just one memory to take into the afterlife. The new arrivals include an elderly woman, a rebellious dropout, a teenage girl, and a 70-year-old war veteran. Once they have chosen a memory, it is recreated and filmed by the staff of the way station, using all the tricks and illusions of cinema cotton balls are used to mimic clouds, a fan is used for a summer breeze.The movie is set in a building resembling a decrepit travel lodge or social services institution. Every Monday, a new group of recently deceased people check in, and the social workers in the lodge explain to each guest their situation. The newly-dead have until Wednesday to identify the single happiest memory. For the rest of the week, the workers at the institution work to design and replicate each person's chosen memory, thereby replicating the single happiest moment of that person's life, and it is filmed.At the end of the week, the recently deceased watch the films of their recreated happiest memories in a screening room. As soon as each person sees his or her own memory, he or she vanishes to whatever unknown state of existence lies beyond and takes only that single memory with them, to live and relive for eternity.The story revolves around two of the counselors, Takashi and Shiori . Takashi has been assigned to help an old man, Ichiro,select his memory. Takashi reviews videotape of Ichiro's life and learns that Ichiro had married Takashi's former fiancée after Takashi had been killed during World War II. Takashi has Ichiro assigned to another counselor, but is still troubled by his memories, causing both him and his quasi-romantic interest Shiori to re-examine their afterlivesThis film is not a typical Hollywood feel-good film; but its unhurried pace and lack of melodrama, like its subject, may linger in the memory long afterwards that viewers may engage in a discussion about this movie.With its meditative, humanistic tone, it is the cinematic reminiscence of limbo itself, this transitional space of contemplation and nostalgia.Finally,it is an affecting and unpredictable film that lingers on one's mind long after viewing.In short,it is one special film. "},{"Title":"Cherry-blossomed clouds go by","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This review is dedicated to Chris Marker who passed away earlier today, the man who showed so little of himself because he was busy showing so much of everything. RIP.Good film, a good life in general, is not just about a view of the ocean, that may be beautiful one day but stormy the next. Good film is reflections on the waters of the moon that adjusts the tides. This is a recurrent insight of Zen among other things, and you can't be a Japanese filmmaker and not respond to the conundrum posed by Zen, even if it means outright rejection (as many Japanese New Wave-ers did). So it is not just a view, life isn't, it is both reflection and mechanisms that control the view, and these mechanisms entail motion and flow, and that flow is only near the surface the everyday narrative of life. The conundrum? You have to express complicated in-sight with a simple view.This guy, Koreeda, is still in his early steps here, but wants the adventure. In Maborosi, he chiseled a bit at the transcendent flow, even if it came across as a simple homage to Ozu it was good work. This time he challenges himself with layered narrative.He's still in his early steps means, in our case, that the mechanisms are entirely movielike, usually they are. The premise is that a group of people die and come to a house where each one will have to settle on a single memory to carry with them to eternity, this is the part that references old Hollywood fantasy (A Matter of Life and Death, the Capra Christmas staple also referenced in the title).The French touch (most notably Resnais and Marker) each memory is going to be made into a film, and films are going to be screened for the audience in a way that they grant transcendence. Each film poses a challenge to the crew, so the filmmakers have to seriously puzzle how to film a flight on ground level, the sound of darkness, or the simplest thing, the feel of a summer breeze. Another problem is that others won't or can't even choose their film.In new Hollywood hands, say Jonze's, this would be done with an abundance of quirks and forced cleverness. One or the other from the usual group of selfaware actors - Julianne Moore, Seymour Hoffman, Malkovich - would be likely brought around to be the center of multiple overlapping vision. We'd get a big, complex synecdoche of the various threads, that is in line with the Western understanding of life as a complicated narrative.But, this is Japanese and derives all its power from subtle flow in the view one aspect of this, is that we never see the actual transcendent films except a few glimpses, and only glimpses of them being put together, usually involving camera set-up and rehearsals from memory. The action often takes place in some blurred foreground. See, it was never about the actual films as vaguely artistic tokens. It was about sculpting a feel that guides you back to the light, and that is left entirely in our sphere of having discovered our cherished moment, and rehearsed that moment as the film provides the framework of cinematic space around it. It is pure Zen cultivating the air you breathe.The other aspect is that we have actual people reminiscing. Oh, some of it was staged, some of it real, but you can't know most of the time and there's no point to that. It matters that all of it impresses as a seamless flow of graceful reminiscence.I'd have liked less obviously scripted romance and more of these people and filming the air, which is one of the coveted memories anyway, but Koreeda probably needed a safe anchor he could control using ordinary - dramatic - means. That should be his next adventure.I recently discovered a wonderful Russian film a bit like this, that one a documentary, this one ostensibly a drama, but the boundaries are slippery, about aged ballet dancers in their 80's and 90's conducting between them a wonderful ballet of remembrance. It felt graceful because the people telling their story were, and each breath from that story infused the cinematic air, and so it is here, except in a much more quietly ordinary way, since the people are ordinary.Chris Marker would have liked both, I like to think. He did his own film about a Russian filmmaker reminiscing on a journey of staged dreams and fleeting memories. It's called The Last Bolshevik, the Russian documentary is Ballets Russes. You should look them up.And so it comes full circle. "},{"Title":"The opposite of purgatory","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A run down school, a seemingly random group of people conducting awkward interviews with new arrivals seems an odd way to look at the afterlife, but Kore-eda has created something really special with this film. He somehow makes an enormously unlikely scenario for purgatory - where the dead are asked to select the memory they wish to hold onto forever, and (most unlikely!), this is recreated by a ramshackle low budget film crew, and turns it into something profound and beautiful. The film is a truly remarkable ensemble effort - there are no real stars in this film (despite a beautiful minor part from that truly great actress, Kyoko Kagawa), even the most minor characters (including an adorable old lady in the throes of a mercifully pleasant dementia) are given their own time and space and are depicted wonderfully. Dull looking salarimen who struggle to find memories that are worth keeping are shown to have lives of real depth and quality. A schoolgirl is dissuaded from a clichéd remembrance of a nice day in Disneyland, and instead remembers a beautiful moment with her mother. A mouthy, sex obsessed older man is shown to be boastful simply as a way of hiding the real love he has for his daughter. The film is obviously open to all sorts of interpretations, but for what its worth it seems to me to be about the importance of those small moments of joy, of grace, that make life worth living. Interestingly, he implies that those moments don't necessarily have to have really happened - it is the memory that is important, not the reality. Just one moment of ecstasy is maybe just enough for a life worth living.The film sounds quirky and slow, and it is paced at the speed of life - slow, but all too fast at the end. But it is never less than engrossing and in the end, beautiful and moving. Kore- edas films are not disposable entertainment, they are real art of the type that will stay with you forever if you allow them to wash over you. Try it, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"God gave us memory so that we might have roses in December - J. M. Barrie.","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" People often feel most alive when they've been closer than ever before to death so it shouldn't really come as much of a surprise to find that movies concentrating on death and what happens to people when they die can also be immensely life-affirming. However, it does come as a surprise because few films really go with the idea and aim for something special and unique. Few films are like the wonderful After Life.This Japanese movie provides viewers with a very particular interpretation of just what happens to people when they die but it uses the premise to remind everyone of the joys of life and love and small pleasures. Think of Amelie with ghosts and without the added sweetness that many seem to resent and you're getting closer.It turns out that when you die you don't go to heaven or hell. You go to a building full of counsellors who are all there to help you with the one, most important, thing - picking your favourite ever memory and recreating it for you. Because then, and only then, can you move on and you will keep that one memory with you forever. Nothing else.Written and directed by Hirokazu Koreeda, After Life is a movie that really captures fleeting moments and feelings quite unlike most other movies. Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind came to life, as did It's A Wonderful Life, as did Perfume The Story Of A Murderer and Amer (as much as I disliked that one). This movie just somehow manages to turn the ethereal, intangible fabric of memories and sensations into things that you can feel emanating from the screen.I was about to go to great lengths to check out just who was who in the acting credits and to overcome my ignorance of those involved but that would be a bit pointless in this instance because a) my ignorance seems to grow, exponentially and paradoxically, with my knowledge and b) everyone is just perfect so it's quite impossible to single anyone out. Erika Oda and Arata seem to get many of the better moments but Susumu Terajima, Kei Tani and everyone portraying a dead person struggling to pick a perfect memory all do brilliant work.Gentle, moving, effective and yet not dripping with false sweetness and emotional manipulation, After Life really is something quite special and well worth seeking out. It feels as unique and fragile as the precious memories it focuses on. Do see it. "},{"Title":"stunning","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What a concept and executed with confidence and consideration to the audience.You don't really know coming in but the lighting kind of gives it away. Still the movie trust that you are smart enough to pick it up. It doesn't go to the Sixth sense hyperbole.Albeit some of the stories are not as real as it could be, but it takes the time, tells you about the typical human nuance of regrets, hope and dreams.It is slow but it needs to be slow but it worked out its logic and and sets the pace of this place - into our heart. "},{"Title":"Confused","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Alright, I seem to be more excited about the reviews than the actual movie. So many people seem to have gotten so much out of this film and that is wonderful. Often our perspective is a reflection on where we are in life. I initially went online to understand what the was the point of the movie because I was confused. It was the highest rated film that I had watched in a while. Unfortunately, I am not one to give up on things, but I was in pain for it to end. I had hoped it would have some redeeming quality.The premise of the film is certainly a novel thought as far as movie plots go. I have often found foreign film plots to have more substance and reality than many of the American films. The plot reminds me of someone who is going to have Alzheimer's except they can retain one memory. To me, Alzheimer's is s very disturbing form of existence. Basically our hereafter is a loss of memory with only one thought in tack. The other reviews that I read tend to avoid this literal interpretation and speak of increasing our own perspective of life and I can see that. I thank them for sharing their interpretation. Some of the things we attach ourselves are trivial in scheme of things and this is a great awareness, I just didn't get that from the movie. I guess, I have more of a question about our perspectives than the movie. How is it that we can watch the same movie and range from excitement to sheer boredom. I do love the diversity of this world, so for those who get indignant when someone doesn't agree, just let it go.I suppose I was looking for meaning in the movie and only found a greater meaning in the reviews. I did get a kick out of some of the poor reviews because those folks had a great sense of humor. Let's agree to disagree. Just don't invite me over for another viewing. "},{"Title":"Life-affirming meditation on the nature of humanity","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The premise of this story is that upon your death, you stay for one week at a nondescript establishment where sympathetic councillors help you to select ONE outstanding memory from your life. Whatever you chose, (if you decide to chose) will be made into a short film, and you will live within that life-defining memory for all eternity. Many of the after-lifers are non-actors and it is their memories that give an emotional weight to this beautifully realised piece; the elderly lady whose wartime memory of dancing for her brother in her new red dress is beautifully poignant; the man who discovers that he has wasted his life by devotion to a job that he hates, and the teenager who cannot chose between a trip to Disneyland and the smell of her mother. Every once in a while, a movie come along that astonishes and delights, and it is for wonderful movies like this that I cheerfully wade through hundreds of hours of mediocre, derivative dross. This is a life-affirming and deeply humanistic meditation on what it means to live a good life. I absolutely recommend this beautiful, uplifting movie. "},{"Title":"What best memory would you take with you to heaven?","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The premise of this movie is quite simple If before you are allowed to pass into heaven you had to live out one memory from your life forever, what memory would it be? Sounds simple enough, but is it? The span and breadth of experiences we go through in our lives, the moments, the good, the bad, when we think about it, a lot of stuff happens to us so imagine having to review your whole life and find one time or memory of life that you had and make it the memory you take with you to heaven forever. What WOULD you choose? Not so easy after all, hm? Our characters find that they are only given about a week to go about this quite monumental task and this is where the story begins. We are introduced to our counselors at the so called way-station between earth and heaven who's job it is to help the dead along to heaven. We see the careful interplay between the young, the middle-aged, and the old play out in a very patient manner as each person is tasked with rifling through their memories with a little bit of help for those a bit ambiguous about their former lives. Some find the process quite hard while others are easily able to figure things out. As in real life, we begin to see the examination of life's principle tenet that who we are is really a summation of how we live. One thing I appreciated about this movie is that, other than the main actors, the wayfaring actors are just regular people with no acting skills and you just fall in love with their idiosyncrasies, quirks, and genuine reactions. You can very much imagine yourself in their shoes. This is a very simple movie that examines a very deep question. So simple, it's brilliant. "}{"Title":"Mochizuki The Dynamic Character","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I would like to observe the character arc of counselor Mochizuki and how he grew within the one week period at the afterlife institution. He is introduced as a seemingly average individual; one who does not attract much attention let alone curiosity. In fact, my attention was originally geared heavily towards Watanabe's story simply because his struggle to choose a favorite memory evoked a lot of interest and mind participation. Contrariwise, Mochizuki seemed to possess no inner conflict that was worthy of inquiry, although his outer conflict, too, at first seemed mildly intriguing (i.e. having to help Watanabe find a memory). Ironically, however, as the beauty of Watanabe's character unraveled, it carefully led to the discovery and beauty of Mochizuki's character.Both of their worlds merged together during private interview sessions, creating long awaited answers and long lost harmonies between their pasts. They learn in one particular session that they both share the same dilemma the battle to choose a perfect memory. In addition to sharing the same dilemma, they also share the same generation as well as lover (Kyoko). With these discoveries, they both become, in a sense, the symbol of overlapping ovals portrayed on the institution's flag; a metaphor for how it takes two people earnestly involved in the other's life to discover self-identity. Each needs the other and each becomes part of the other person's discovery of happiness.Given these revelations into Mochizuki's past, his character suddenly becomes incredibly dynamic and provocative; one who is on the same empathetic level as Watanabe. We learn that he is not simply at the institution to help others find their memories, but that the entire staff, including himself, is placed in counseling positions because they themselves never chose a memory to live with for eternity. It would seem, then, that the staff is being poetically revealed by the director as restless beings living in purgatory.The idea of restlessness and inner turmoil (in the staff) is illustrated by the contrasts of camera movement. In the beginning, most of the shots are static and evenly framed. We are observing the majority of shots through the staff's eyes, which gives the film a documentary type lens (especially during the interviews). As a result, this type of camera-work creates the illusion of making the audience think that the staff is well-balanced and in control, both internally and externally. After all, they are the ones with the camera and choose how to focus the shots during interviews. The irony of this, however, is later exposed when we learn that each staff member's progression towards heaven is stultified because they never chose a memory&#151;hence their positions as staff members. As soon as we learn this (which if I recall happens on Thursday) the camera-work becomes more hand-held, shaky and off kilter.This contrast in camera-work becomes even more beautiful and poignant because it also reflects the two stages that the staff undergoes during both preproduction and production of those whose lives they wish to change. In preproduction, they gather all the material they need from the recently deceased (via interviews) in order to recreate their memories on film. The preproduction sequences (the interviews) are shot with well balanced and controlled frames (perhaps an expression of the more controlled side of film-making). As the staff travels into the actual production of recreating their guests' memories, the camera-work then turns towards the more shaky and imbalanced frames (perhaps an expression of the more difficult and chaotic part of film-making the actual shooting itself).It was as if the camera was making a philosophical commentary on the nature of freewill and its relation to heaven and hell. That is, to choose explicitly one's destiny (or in this case, one's memory) means to live a well balanced, evenly framed existence; and contrariwise, to explicitly not choose one's destiny, but to neutrally balk on the sidelines means to live an existence of uncertainty and imbalance.This leads now to the reason I chose Mochizuki. Unlike most who surround him, he willingly chooses to end his inner pain by realizing (with the help of others) that true happiness is not found by dwelling upon one's own memories, but by being a part of some else's memories. When asked about his earliest memory, he recalls an intense and vivid memory of snow. Snow is a symbol of his rebirth; the delicate and soft coat that whitens out his previous life and gives birth to his new life&#151;a life that he was only able to discover through the people he met at the institution, and more especially his relationship with Watanabe. The memory he chooses, then, becomes his realization into the insight of what happiness is; a simple moment that came full circle into his mind as he sat on a nostalgic park bench thinking about those in whom he loved. "},{"Title":"Heaven is a low-budget film studio","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The rather simplistic plot of this film involves a sort of way-station for souls passing on into the afterlife at which they must choose a single memory to take with them. This memory is reproduced on film in true low-budget fashion, then as the film is screened each person disappears into the great beyond as their memory is played. The conflicts arises out of the different ways those passing through choose what memory to take with them and the experiences of the staff.This is probably the most accessible of director Koreeda's films, especially for a Western audience. His low-key directorial style is expertly matched to the tone of the film, which is set in an abandoned school. The sort of running gag throughout the film is the general shabbiness of the proceeding, which stands in stark contrast with what many of us might imagine the hereafter to be like. In one scene, where the staff tries to reproduce a man's memory of flying in an airplane, cotton balls suspended on wires serve as clouds.Overall this is a very poignant, low-key yet satisfying film that is very watchable and a good gateway into the world of Koreeda's films. It lacks the social commentary of other works such as Distance or Nobody Knows, but makes up for it with a touching story and emotional content, and is very accessible even to those with little interest in foreign or Japanese films. "},{"Title":"Probably the best movie I ever saw!","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was a turning point in my life, meaning that it got me into non-commercial films. I remember we had an assignment for art-class involving Asian cinema. We could pick one of three films. I alone chose this one, which led me to being the only person in the theater (which was pretty cool). After I saw this movie I started searching for similar movies and have been ever since. This movie really has everything I want to see in a movie an original plot, lots of moods-wings, great acting and a true feeling of amazement. After almost ten years this movie is still in my top 10! All into Asian cinema should see this film! "},{"Title":"Frivolous, yet profound","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw After as part of the Hirokazu Kore-eda retrospective at the Melbourne International Film Festival. This film should be compulsory viewing for film students. It proves that a good story put together inventively is all it takes to produce a compelling film. With scarce resources and mostly non-professional actors, Kore-eda has ingeniously contrived an alternate reality, where people go at the time of death. No pearly gates, no angels, no hell-fire - just bureaucrats in government buildings (or so they seemed to this writer), processing the dead, and extracting from them their lives' fondest memories to be made into videos.This idea is almost comical, yet it works beautifully. Clearly there's a humorous element, but Kore-eda plays it matter-of-fact serious, almost like a documentary. For me it strongly recalls some of the early fiction films of Kieslowski (like Camera Buff) which evolved out of the documentary format. The film shares the beautifully raw aesthetics of Camera Buff and Blind Chance and with the latter's metaphysical exploration. Having seen at MIFF all but one of Kore-eda's films (Distance, which I plan to see on Tuesday), this is my favourite so far. But each of the films I have seen thus far are very different in content and style to each other. This film is both enjoyable and moving. "},{"Title":"one memory","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What happens after one dies? Does one's soul ascend to heaven, descend to hell, or is it reincarnated into yet another earthly form? Does an individual simply cease to exist after he or she dies? In Kore-eda's second feature length film Afterlife one goes to a way station where one selects his or her favorite memory to be filmed and then one takes that memory and that memory alone to one's final destination.In order to help individuals decide which memory to keep counselors help individuals comb through their lives to find important memories. Many of the individuals, of course, select times from their childhoods as their best memories. One man selects a summer day in which he rode a tram and enjoyed the scenery and the cool breeze that blew through the window. A radiant older woman chooses a time in which she was dressed in a red, Western dress and danced for her older brother and dined on chicken rice afterwards. One bitter man chooses a time in his life when he had a small fort and was able to hide away from the world.On its surface Afterlife might seem a bit hokey and one wonders why spirits have to create videos of their memories, they also eat and drink, to take to the next world. However, isn't it true that are life experiences are nothing but memories and besides the current moment we live everything else is a memory? Kore-eda, whose other feature length films Maboroshi and Distance focus on death and memory and memory as well, delves into mankind's worry of being forgotten. One character in the film, an older man who considers every aspect of his life to be so-so, is reluctant to select a memory because he does not believe that he had a life affirming moment that will be remembered by others, but, as one of the counselors states very few people do.Slow moving, darkly filmed, and melancholy Afterlife is a deep film that takes an interesting stance to life and death and makes one reflect on one's own life and those small moments that makes each of us who we are. "},{"Title":"What we Feel is More Important Than the Memory Itself","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I thought this was a great, thought provoking movie about what truly makes us happy and that Heaven is ON Earth if we truly take the time to experience life and enjoy the moments within it.Eternal bliss being a favorite memory being played over and over again seems like an interesting concept. However, after watching this movie several times, there were so many other messages that were subtle and that most people who watch it may not get the first time.I want to comment on the simplicity of the sets/scenes that many people who watched this movie thought were out of place or inappropriate and the way they recreated the memories for the characters. Ask yourself, can anyone truly remember every last detail of a memory? Don't we alter it, don't we change certain things, we want to remember what we WANT to remember, and leave certain things out that may not be important to us personally.At best, a memory is a subjective and fragmented interpretation of an experience. I think what the movie wanted to emphasize with the cheap sets and scenes they used to recreate each character's memory, is that, the FEELING of that memory, more than anything else, was achieved.My 2 cents. "},{"Title":"incredible","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I had only heard a little bit about Wandafuru raifu (called After Life in English) when it came out, but I was blown away by the movie. Focusing on some people in Japan considering what will be the memory that they take with them when they die, the movie really holds you. The story is somewhere between metaphysical and psychological, but incredible nonetheless. I don't know director Hirokazu Koreeda or any of the cast members, but if this is any indication, they all must be masterful.All in all, you have to see this movie. You may never feel the same about life or death again. "},{"Title":"Fresh, Original and Magical","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Without knowing much in advance about After Life (Wandâfuru raifu ), I loved it. It's like a Wim Wenders angel movie, with similar pacing, meets Frederick Wiseman documentary style meets Francois Truffaut's Day for Night paean to movie-making as watching movies is in fact what heaven is all about.This is a week in the life of a bunch of caseworkers, only the bureaucrats happen to be purgatory processors helping the dead select the key moment in their life to relive for eternity, as then recreated on film stock by these helpful crews. It turns out, like we might have suspected, life is a movie, kept on video in giant warehouses for handy reference.As in all movies about social workers, much of the movie is about the impact of the clients on the workers, as we gradually learn not only more about them but about the process of making movies, um, life, um death, as well. After all, that's what film artists try to do, just make us forget everything else but what we're watching.Written, directed and edited by documentarian Hirokazu Koreeda, it is a completely fresh, original and magical movie.As the credits were barely translated I have absolutely no idea if the participants were real or reel, much felt improvised with non-actors making a documentary feel for so much of the memories. (originally written 6/27/1999) "},{"Title":"Is there a heaven or hell?","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Maybe not. According to this film we get to pick one lasting memory to last us for eternity. I can't believe how great foreign films are in getting me involved with characters when I'm only reading subtitles. There are three ladies who really made this film work for me. The lady with the red dress seems like the sweetest, kindest person in the world. She made me think of my Grandma Stell who lived with her brother until his end. The character always had a smile on her face but could never make it into a Hollywood movie where Americans are only interested in how good you look. The lady who had built her life on memories of flowers had already taken the step everyone was about to take. Then the young lady who could never recapture her mother's warmth, goes berserk in the snow scene, so upset she was going to lose the friend she had made. Maybe we can see the after, after, life to see where all souls go. "},{"Title":"cinema in Paradise","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film is provides an unexpected answer to the question 'what happens in after-life?'. Well, contrary to the well spread beliefs there is no Hell and no Paradise and it is not Saint Peter who expects us but a rather dull team of what look like government clerks working in the rather dull building of a Japanese reception institution. They receive the people, they discuss with them their memories, and ask them to keep one - just one - significant moment in their lives which they will take with them into eternity. All the rest will be forgotten. The rest of the week the fresh dead spend in the institution is dedicated to making an amateur film based on their single memory. They go to the projection room, the lights go off, the films are projected. When the lights are turned back on there is nobody left. We do not know what happened with them. Only the boxes with the films remain to be archived forever.It is the first film of director Hirokazu Koreeda that I see. It is an unusually sensible, smart and simply made movie. The first part is filmed like a documentary, with fixed camera, style professional interviews. The second part uses hand-held camera, looking as the amateur films would have looked like. Actors are wonderful, there are many different characters, but each one is an individual, and that feeling of 'all look the same' that an European viewer has many times with Asian films is not present here at all. 'Wandâfuru raifu' is a film that makes the viewer think about their own lives and their meaning. Few films succeed this so well. "}{"Title":"Existentialism in film.","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What happens when you die? Are you transported to a state of eternal happiness or do you spend the rest of eternity in damnation? The Abrahamic religious view of the afterlife is very black and white. It leaves little room for the imagination. However, non-Western cultures have different concepts of the afterlife. Through watching various anime and reading graphic novels, I've come to the conclusion that the Japanese, at least partially, may view the afterlife as determined by the individual. In After Life, (the English title) Hirokazu Kore-eda elaborates on this concept. In the film, people attend a camp to determine which of their many memories they wish to keep before departing to the afterlife. They crew at the camp reacts this memory into a mini-film and the recently deceased live with this memory for the rest of eternity.After Life employs non-actors for the majority of the screen time. These people have no formal training, which makes their lines appear all the more genuine. When they speak, their words have an honesty about them which cannot be staged. Something remarkable about the film is that it doesn't distinguish its characters by developing them, but with the unique nature of the memories they have. Furthermore, their memories are realistic and touching. Some people wish to cherish the memory of a lover; while others (especially those who were young when they died) choose a memory of childhood. A prominent theme is the comforting effect that memory has for individuals.The staff at the unnamed camp is the most mysterious of all. We are not told why they are there, but once we think more of the film's premise. The staff is composed of those who could not choose a memory and remain there to guide others to afterlife. Are they condemned live in a purgatory-state of anxiety or are have they chosen to remain there? The film offers a slight answer to this query, but it isn't necessary. The means by which it does this is the interaction of a staff member with an arrival. We learn that some of the staff wishes to take responsibility for their actions by not forgetting them.Kore-eda treats the question he proposes with much earnestly. He doesn't present anything to distract this message. There is no antagonist other than the people themselves. This does much for the film's credibility. There is no problem with the progression of the plot, nor is there a plot hole. Some criticize the film because the dead attendees sleep, eat, and why must the memory be recreated. If someone you know reads a review and asks you this, suggest that they shouldn't the film. Such petty criticism is unjustified. The film doesn't attempt to convince us of its reality. Kore-eda wants to show us his idea, and he adds these scenes to help us identify with the workers. This is why the leader reminds the others that they shouldn't become attached to the patrons.How can a film with no protagonist, no character development, and no special effects be so warmly received? After Life is able to do this because it takes a different approach to entertaining its audience. It presents an actual topic (death) and elaborates on its idea of what happens thereafter. This approach mimics the technique used by several documentaries. The end result is the viewer's satisfaction in having watched director Kore-eda's proposal of the afterlife. One may fastidiously criticize the non-essential scenes of the film, but this criticism ignores the existential question the film proposes. While few will see this film, those who do will recall the experience vividly. The film distinguishes itself by analyzing a concept with no superlatives. "},{"Title":"The Great Beyond","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This sobering Japanese fantasy has a delicate veneer, but beneath that lies an extraordinary power.Taking place in a kind of subway stop between life and the afterlife, the movie charts the efforts of a crew of technicians who attempt to faithfully reproduce the one memory that the recently deceased wish to take with them into forever. That's all they will have with them. Gently but with great confidence, the movie slowly examines the interactions between the workers, the guests, and their own miniature conflicts in choosing those memories with exquisite tact but honesty, as well. Listen to the man who does not know if he has had any memorable moments in his life.A rapturous film, and a life-changer. "},{"Title":"Rare sensibility and compassion","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd seen Mr. Kore-eda's Maborosi and immediately knew I would want to see anything at all that this director had created.  So I ordered the DVD of After Life sight unseen, and watched it the other night. I was not quite as impressed by it as by Maborosi, mainly because of the ending of After Life, which seemed a bit contrived and unnecessary to me.  Actually, I could have wished the film to consist merely of the interviews that occupy much of the beginning third or so of the film.  (And I learned from Roger Ebert's review that some of the interviews are the real thing, though the viewer is not privileged to know which.  That explains why I was sometimes thinking as I watched, I can't believe this is an actor!)Still, despite some weakness, I found this a powerful film, especially up till the final twenty minutes or so.  As in Maborosi, Mr. Kore-eda treats his subjects (real or fictional) with the utmost dignity and with what seems to me a very rare compassionate insight, warmed with humor of the gentlest sort.  His humanist outlook is extremely unusual in this day and age and is what, along with a phenomenally sensitive eye for composition, lighting, and color, signal to me that this is one of the most important filmmakers to come along in a long time.There's a a sudden revelation at one point in the film of just why the caseworkers are doing their tedious, onerous job.  You're wondering about it till, casually, in conversation, the truth slips out.  This was such a shocking moment for me that tears literally flowed down my face!  Oh, my God, I exclaimed aloud.  I wonder if audiences in theaters gasped at that moment...Highly, highly recommended.  Both this film and Maborosi are the kind of work that cannot help but change your view of life in some way.  For me, they serve as a reminder that there is goodness in people that I tend, in my unfortunately cynical middle age, to overlook.  I feel I owe Mr. Kore-eda an enormous debt of gratitude for his sensitive, heartfelt, and very humane films. "},{"Title":"On celluloid you become immortalised... Or something to that effect.","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The after life is a transit location before you move onto the other side. Here we have a group of newly arrivals, each given the chance to relieve their fondest memory that will be filmed and taken with them on their journey beyond. We enter the dilemma that each character faces with deciding what was their most memorial time on Earth as well as the difficult task faced by the organising Angels who have their own secretive problems. Absolute cuteness rips through this film with a clever twist and satisfying ending. "},{"Title":"Very good but too long","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie at the international filmfestival of Rotterdam (the Netherlands) and it was announced that this film is going to be an instant classic. Although it has one of the most original stories ever I don't think it's going to be a classic. The story takes place in a building which, you soon find out, is the place where people go when they die. The film follows a group of people who just died and end up at this depressing looking place. The group gets an assignment which is to choose only one memory they don't want to loose. After they made up their mind the chosen memory is put on film which they can take with them on their further journey. This very interesting plot lends itself for many twist and turns which are all in the film. (What happens when somebody can't make up his mind and how did the people who work at this place get there?)The problem with this movie is his length. The director Hirokazu interviewed many people on the streets of Tokyo and ask them the question of the movie If you could bring just one memory with you to the hereafter what would that memory be? By asking this question to so many people Hirokazu made it hard for himself. Hirokazu got the most beautiful stories from the people and the difficult thing now was to select a good number of stories without damaging the plot. I personally think the director here failed. The movie has too many stories which leads to an overkill. The movie is almost 2 hours long where 90min. was enough. It's a shame because everything else is perfect especially the directing and the actors. I recommend this movie but make sure you're not too tired when you go see it.    "},{"Title":"Good movie, definitely worth watching, but I would have liked more philosophy","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The underlying premise and theme of this film is extremely thought-provoking. Within the first 20 minutes, your brain will light up like a Christmas tree as you think of the implications and how you would react in a similar situation. It has the magical ability to awaken nostalgic memories of your own, and several times I had to pause the film so that I could indulge my own private thoughts for a while. Hats off to the director/writer for achieving the necessary balance between fantasy and realism (i.e., taking you to a surreal place whilst not destroying the human perspective).But the downside... I feel that the director failed to cultivate some of the excellent philosophies which were barely touched upon. This could have been accomplished with more dialogue. Don't get me wrong, there's plenty of *talking* in the movie, but it's mostly anecdotal (people wistfully reminiscing about the past). There wasn't enough analysis and barely any *dialogue* (people communicating with each other).Without ruining anything, I'll give you one example. The premise is, of course, if you had to pick one memory to relive forever, which would you choose? One character simply refuses to pick. This is brilliant. As soon as he takes his position, which he does in the first 10 minutes of the film, it woke me up and made me wonder why he would choose this unconventional act of defiance.But much to my disappointment, this central theme is abandoned. The character is hardly seen again. He does deliver an interesting monologue towards the end which is encapsulated in a single powerful statement he says (I won't tell you what it is). But I couldn't help feeling as if the director didn't really follow through with his philosophy.Perhaps that was the intent of the director to present us only with fragments so that we may ponder the philosophy ourselves. But that approach somewhat betrays the nature of art. Art, I believe, should do its best to communicate a complete idea, and *then* open up the floor for discussion. Anything less is a mere Rorshach test. Or whatever you call those inkblot thingees that psychologists use to probe your mind.As you can probably guess, I'm not a big fan of the Minimalist movement.Another gripe... Some of the interesting philosophical points were shoved aside to make room for the romantic sub-plot, which I found to be a bit forced and unbelievable. I would have preferred to see the director stick to the heavier issues. If this is truly a film about deep spirituality, why dedicate so much time to a teenage girl's crush on a guy?So my overall criticism is that there wasn't enough substance presented. I admit there IS the possibility that the dialogue/philosophy I craved was lost in translation. It is possible that the English subtitles didn't convey the philosophy inherent in the original Japanese. That's been known to happen.But still, I think this film could have truly benefited by a good old fashioned Shakespearian soliloquy, like Hamlet Act III Sc 1, to help clarify the director's message.Well, here I've wasted my whole review babbling about philosophy, and I haven't touched upon the technical merits of this film. Let me just wrap up by reiterating that THIS IS A GOOD FILM despite my criticism. I love the way the director achieved a surreal feeling without using gimmicky, schlocky clichés like pearly gates and angels and pixie dust. Everything about the production is firmly rooted in reality despite the very unrealistic nature, and that achieves a very bizarre and clever paradox. Also there's no music at all. It's an original, I'll definitely give it that! Give it a whirl. I'll probably watch it a 2nd time myself. "},{"Title":"Poetic in script, industrious in tone","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After Life is a very odd movie in that it seems to have been directed against the script.  Where the story is delicate and poetic, the movie is shot in shades of Orwell.  Dream purgatory is in an ugly school.  And the decision to take only one memory to the after life is treated as if a transistor radio was being assembled.  Ultimately, the film ends on a beautiful note, with memories being reconstructed, but for the most part, After Life is bizarre and maudlin. "},{"Title":"After life in this is boring","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Some might find the premise of this movie to be ridiculous, but the premise isn't the main part of this movie although it seems like it was trying to take itself seriously. The premise is about a normal looking building where dead people gather and alive in spirit and there is counselors and trainee that will help the people that died choose one memory that they will take with them for all of eternity. So basically the dead spirits are in a hotel until they pick a memory and move on. Also the memory is shown to the spirits through videotapes. I found it sort of humorous that the dead people in this are all Japanese with Japanese counselors and trainee and they all only speak Japanese and where clothes that look like it's from the 80's although there is a reason behind the way they are dressed, but like I said the premise is part of it, a lot of it but still part of it. The movie sort of feels like a documentary with interviews of the dead during part of the after life although the premise is ridiculous and also since there is almost no music it plays a big factor in it. This movie has it's target audience, mainly because of it's artsy style but isn't for everyone. I sort of found this movie to be a bit tedious at times and although the life stories of the dead people was believable for the most part but it was boring to listen to. It's like your when your on a bus, train or even on a plane where some old people constantly ramble on and on and just won't stop talking about their past. In fact in the movie Airplane! the people that hear the protagonist's story killed themselves out of boredom. I wouldn't go that extreme but it was boring to watch these interviews, plus the protagonist's life story in Airplane! had some humor in it. Don't get me wrong I enjoy watching artsy films that isn't really for the mainstream, however I didn't enjoy this movie all that much. Perhaps I am missing something because despite the positive reviews this movie has been getting, I didn't think it was that great. On a positive note this movie does somewhat makes you reflect on certain parts of your life and the humanistic aspects is done pretty well. The movie moves very slowly but sometimes it can be slightly absorbing, but the only thing that kept me watching was to find out the ending and that was the main reason. This film has some good elements but it just isn't utilized that well, I probably won't be seeing this movie again seeing how I struggled while watching it the first time. But like I said this movie has it's target audience, I just wasn't really one of them.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Absorbing yet slow-moving drama...","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 1st watched 2/6/2010 &#x96; 6 out of 10 (DirKore-eda Hirokazu) Absorbing yet slow-moving drama about a station between death and everlasting life where people go to choose one memory from their past to forever be presented to them in the rest of their existence. The movie is kind of filmed in a realistic documentary style as we are shown the workplace, the workers and then the 22 people who have recently died and have to choose their one memory this week. The way it works is they have three days to choose and work with a counselor who helps them. The workers then recreate the scene with the person from the memory kind of directing the piece that they will forever see. Once they are shown the final cut they miraculously disappear and are sent to their final resting place. The movie is initially about the deceased and the process they go thru, but then we learn about the workers and why they are there also. They are there because they were unable or chose not to choose themselves when they died -- so they are kind of sentenced to help others choose until they figure it out. OK, so the process is complicated but the power of the movie is what it does inside you while watching it. You start thinking about what you'd choose (if anything). The slow pace almost kills the movie's effectiveness despite it's message though as you wait patiently for an ending. This is definitely a unique movie but it would be hard to watch more than once &#x96; but it would be worth the one watch. "},{"Title":"A film that takes space","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's a good film edited badly. And that's why? Because the whole film is minimalistic. The cinematic space is grainy and empty. The walls of the building where the film takes space play a major part in the film. A bit like Allen Rene in Miranbad. The film is happening in no space. Only time exists in this wonderfully shaped site. A place of no seasons. The house and nature mingle together and becomes unseparateble. The old woman brings it in. She is nature. The representation of nature inside this house, which is the house of time, which man built, where nature have a role in. We invented time, why not play with that? I agree with the way the film used all the sequential montage possibilities. But it failed in playing with the images themselves. Because there is no, one, slow motion in the film.Think about it, Hirokazu  "}{"Title":"Lives of Quiet Desperation","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Afterlife is a major disappointment.  Taking the lives of everyday people in Japan and making a statement about memory and eternity would seem to be a fascinating construct.  But the filmmakers managed to botch their nifty idea with a largely superficial film, lengthily without much substance.  The one interesting and surprising conflict in the film, about a melancholic 21 year old soldier, takes so long to develop that much of its impact has been stolen by sheer boredom.  Afterlife is about patiently waiting, something that a Japanese mind understands but the payoff for the rest of us isn't enough. The one important love relationship that, frustratingly, never materializes is between the two interviewers - one, a young soldier killed before he could return to his true love and the other, a mysterious young woman who fitfully loves this man who cannot return her love.  Afterlife should have been a reaffirmation of this fragile life experience, a life of vibrancy, hope, and color.  Instead, it reproduces on screen, in black and white, in grainy and melancholic texture, the adage that we all lead lives of quiet desperation.  Hardly a movie one would want to endure and suffer through.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing, but slow...","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Like most foreign flicks, After Life is slow and quiet. The premise is fairly good, but you've probably spoiled the surprise reading summaries of the film. The movie's ending, however, leaves you wanting more; you wish the film wouldn't end, because there is more to tell. "},{"Title":"What are you watchin'?","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This picture is a snore, and were it not for some darn nice reviews, I wouldn't have spent the half price for a matinee ticket to see this exercise in banality. Somebody could have made this picture three minutes long, and we would have gotten the idea.Why reviewers take obscure and declare it deep is beyond me. What movie did they see? This film has a hot three minutes of something, the rest is four Tylenol PM's chased by a Vodka up. "},{"Title":"Intriguing premise poorly presented","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After Life demonstrates along with the awful Life Is Beautiful that all that is foreign is not automatically good. After Life takes an intriguing, even profound, idea--what do we take with us (memories and the like) when we pass over to the other side--then proceeds to develop it in an utterly shoddy fashion. This more like the rough draft for the actual film than the film itself.I mean, really--putting together a high school-play quality reproduction of the memory instead of the memory itself? And that the social workers at this hereafter way station are there because they haven't yet chosen their memories? (Maybe after having seen the cheesy way they're constructed, they don't want that to happen to them.)For those who haven't seen the film, the general idea is this. The recently deceased arrive at a facility on the way to their final destination for one week and are given a few days to decide on the one memory they can take with them to their permanent afterlife. Once they have chosen it, the way station crew re-enacts it, films it, then screens it for the afterlife travelers to take with them. Those who don't declare a memory cannot pass on and are fated to become facility workers.I'll admit that during the screening I found myself thinking about which memory I'd take with me. I'm sure many others did the same. But then I began thinking about this movie, and the memories are not pleasant.First of all, it is set at what looks like a shabby, abandoned university. (I was reminded of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy when earthman Arthur Dent, upon first glance of the inside of his first alien spaceship, which happens to be the messy living quarters of the cooks and stewards, remarks, It's a bit squalid, isn't it?) The staff of this way station are essentially social workers, most of them oddly young, while their cases come in all ages. But never do we learn how most of them died, nor do we learn their attitude towards having died. The older ones we can assume expected it as natural cause, but what about the younger ones, like the teenage girl? Don't they feel cheated? If not, why not?This whole premise was better presented by Albert Brooks in Defending Your Life and much more hilariously stated by Tim Burton in Beetlejuice where Sylvia Sydney, having committed suicide, is condemned to spent eternity as a social worker.Then there's the problem of why this after life crew has to recreate the memory for each traveler. First off, they often cannot match exactly the circumstances of each memory, which alters it on a literal, material level, but even if the memory were matched exactly, isn't that really a new memory (a metamemory, if you will) that merely recalls the original? What's the point of that? Or is that the point? Maybe Koreeda wants us to meditate on these questions, but his presentation is frankly so mediocre that I found myself ruminating on his flawed methodology instead.I'll wrap up by noting that the movie drags on after its conclusion in an attempt to tie up loose ends that weren't addressed during the previous acts. After Life had an intriguing premise, but Koreeda presented it poorly.On the IMDb scale, I gave it 4 stars out of 10, and those mostly for broaching thoughtful material.Darryl  "},{"Title":"Terribly disappointing","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is a critical darling, I listened to Roger Ebert call it one of the years best.  Sorry Roger.  This IS a wonderful story/concept, but a very disappointing film.  Every opportunity  for exploration, emotion, or simple cleverness becomes a missed opportunity.  There is little here that is compelling.  You meet characters who have just died, and you meet the people whose job it is to guide them to their destiny.  None of the characters develop much, their stories are nostalgic drivel at best, and boring at worst.  The best part of the film is the slap that it takes at organized religion by proclaiming that there is no hell, everyone ends up here!  I give the filmmaker credit for taking a shot at moralism.  I wish I could say more for the film itself--because this COULD have been a great one.  "},{"Title":"Once again I let myself to be fooled by critics","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Once again I let myself to be fooled by critics and I became the subject of the two-hour-long bore called `After Life.' Along with `Eyes Wide Shut', `After Life' illustrates the simple wisdom that an interesting idea alone is not a guarantee of a good film. By some reason, unknown to me, if something is slightly different from the Hollywood gloss and schmaltz, it is always proclaimed brilliant and refreshing. `After Life ` is about a group of recently deceased people who are required to choose the fondest reminiscences of their lives. I understand, that in most cases people would choose little things that they hold dear but that may be of no interest to anyone else. Still, a good half of the film is devoted to extremely boring conversations shot in documentary style. I also understand that this is a fantasy but even a fantasy or a dream has its internal logic. If this place is not real and set in afterlife so why does it look like an old school or hospital building? Don't they have enough funds to repaint it? Why these &#145;afterlife social workers' try to re-stage people's memories on what looks like a low-budget film set if they could easily obtain videotapes of a person's whole life? (That is what they actually do in the case of one man who can't decide which memories to choose.) Where do those &#145;actors', used in the filming of people's memories, come from and where do they go afterwards? If all the people in the film are dead why do they need to drink tea, to sleep or to read? The film leaves a discerning viewer wondering about all this but it fails to give any answers.  "},{"Title":"Terribly disappointing","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is a critical darling, I listened to Roger Ebert call it one of the years best.  Sorry Roger.  This IS a wonderful story/concept, but a very disappointing film.  Every opportunity  for exploration, emotion, or simple cleverness becomes a missed opportunity.  There is little here that is compelling.  You meet characters who have just died, and you meet the people whose job it is to guide them to their destiny.  None of the characters develop much, their stories are nostalgic drivel at best, and boring at worst.  The best part of the film is the slap that it takes at organized religion by proclaiming that there is no hell, everyone ends up here!  I give the filmmaker credit for taking a shot at moralism.  I wish I could say more for the film itself--because this COULD have been a great one.  "},{"Title":"Ranges from flimsy at best to silly and unconvincing at worst.","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If this film had been made by Atom Egoyan, then we might have been treated to a serious, interesting and complex reflection on media, memory and surveillance. Instead, we end up with a foolish, naive, thin and superficial film that has nothing to say about the myriad connections between memory and cinema/films. A ragged, laboured effort, held together by a few bits and pieces of amusing characterisation. Don't bother. "},{"Title":"How to make a bad art house film","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There seems to be this idea that just because a film is a low budget art house film, it must be good.  This attitude is not much different than saying that every big budget action flick must be good.After Life is a perfect example of how an art house flick can fail.  A good picture must have meaning AND be well put together.  A film that has meaning but is poorly put together is no better than a film that is well done but has no meaning.  After Life is an example of the first.Sure After Life is based on an interesting idea - what one memory would you like to keep for all eternity - but it is very poorly put together.  Scenes are long and boring, extending on for several minutes when a minute would do.  After a while, scenes grow highly repetitive.  The plot development is so ridiculously slow that the viewer could easily fall asleep for 20 minutes and miss nothing.I'll give credit to After Life for making the viewer think, but as stated before a movie must also be well put together.  The single sentence If you could choose only one memory to keep forever, what would it be? invokes as much thought as this movie.**Warning minor spoilers ahead**Furthermore, the movie is so full of clichés it is hard to believe anyone could find it inventive or insightful.  For example, there is the old man who chooses a memory of sitting with his wife alone on a park bench.  Sadly, this character was the main focus of the movie.  Other characters are nearly as cliched.  The film professes to have some great insight on life, but ends up saying very little.  To remember ones friends, it argues, is what is really important.  In conclusion, After Life is a perfect example of how an art house film can suck.  It takes nearly 2 hours to state what could be said in a couple sentences.  The film fails to draw the viewer in, as it rambles on and on.  After Life might have meaning, but has very little else.  Overall, one would be much better off talking with real people about their favorite memories than watching this extremely long and boring film.  Rating 2/10    "},{"Title":"A mediocre idea done poorly","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie is basically about people and after they die they go to a place and have 3 days to choose one memory from their life that they will take when they move on to heaven (or hell maybe?). That idea in itself is decent at best. But the execution of the movie was rather poor. You get to hear a bunch of Japanese people reminise about their lives. Yawn If I wanted to go hear people reminise about their lives I'd go to a nursing home.The basic idea is that once you pick you memory they make a video tape of it. HUH??? You're dead. You're in the afterlife. But the only way of preserving a memory is making some garbage flik about it using circa 1965 video equipment? What would happen to those who died before videocameras were around. Plot holes abound in this movie.There are two main parts of the movie. The first I already mentioned is about the Joe Schmoes who talk about what memory they want. The second is about the staff members (who work there for a special reason) who are all of course 20-somethings. You get a bleh plot about them figuring out their memory.So if you want to see a slow, boring drama about a bunch of Japanese people then I guess this is your flik. Otherwise, don't waste your time or money.  "}{"Title":"This movie is horrible","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It seems if a movie is foreign and deals with an apparent important subject matter, people are gonna call it beautiful and thought provoking when in fact it is neither. It takes an interesting idea and turns it into the most boring movie I had ever seen. How can you come to care about any of these characters. The memories that they all select are so stupid and uninteresting. It tries to be important but ends up just being silly. 1/10 one of the worst movies I've ever seen "},{"Title":"Booooooring","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I like thought proving movies, but I just didn't get it. The philosophical concept was interesting, and it is that that led me to enjoy the first 5 minutes of the movie. But, after the initial concept was revealed 5 minutes into the movie, I found the rest of the move to be completely boring. It amazes me that so many people rated this movie highly. I truly don't see the entertainment value in the movie that the others reviewers have seen in it (it is currently rated a 7.7, and that blows me away). Being engaged in an interactive philosophical conversation on what occurs in one's afterlife is entertaining, as is watching a GOOD movie on afterlife such as the sixth sense. But thhis movie, Afterlife, is just plain slow and boring. "}]