[{"Title":"Action with Depth.","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"48 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Not usually a fan of this type of all-out Action movie, Romeo Must Die knocked me off balance when I found it to be one of the best films I have ever enjoyed. Producer Joel Silver (Who also produced The Matrix) describes the film as an Urban rendition of Romeo and Juliet and although this is a very simple way of looking at the film, it's not far off the mark. Like the great Shakespeare work, there are two opposing families in this film, each looking to make big commercial gains in the world of real estate development. Caught up in their lies, greed and violence are Trish O'Day (Played by Aaliyah) and Han Sing (Played by Jet Li). The story revolves around their quickly blooming relationship and the opposing families around them.The film boasts some serious eye candy with some of the best special effects you'll see. Luckily, this is not the only good thing going for the movie as the eye candy is wonderfully supported by some fantastic performances from the cast. In her first feature movie, Aaliyah is absolutely breath taking as Trish O'Day. Showing the kind of charm and 'x' factor that few will ever have, she alone makes this film a must see. Jet Li's performance is, as always, about his skills as a martial artist but his scripted acting continues to improve. Another stand out performance for me was that of D.B. Woodside who plays Trish O'Days brother - Colin. Although not such a major role, D.B. excels in this role. High end production values mean the film has a real style and gloss to it and everything fits in place and the story moves along at just the right pace. In fact, Romeo Must Die is a shining example of how good story telling does not need to be lost in a sea of special effects and glossy American values. Jonathon Ross describes the film as Fast, Furious, Fun, which is definitely true, but there is more to this film that the audience can take away with them. The reason the film works is that it works on two levels - storyline and action. You can enjoy both aspects and take from them what you like. This is a brilliant film and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Superior Gangster Film; Mediocre Kung Fu Film","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ROMEO MUST DIE is one of those rare films which, while not particularly good for its genre, is surprisingly good for other reasons. Most of the black characters, even the villians, are sympathetically portrayed, even though the hero is Asian. Aaliyah is wholesomely sexy and quite beautiful.  Russell Wong is phenomenal is a very short role.  This guy has the looks, style, and presence of Russell Crowe. Jet Li, however, is very humane and appealing, though his character is underwritten. Most of the asian characters are shortchanged dramatically. However the white (primarily Jewish) characters are shortchanged the most.  They receive the brunt of the ugly stereotyping. The kung-fu sequences are nothing special.  They are too fast and too confusing to be completely effective.  Though neat, the Xray effect detracted from the realism, sort of like the old split screen and slo-mo effects of the 1960s films. Bone-crunching is far more effective; and, would someone please dispense with this flying nonsense?  I don't want to see anything up there or the screen that is not physically possible. Special note must be made of Francoise Yip, the Female bike / fighter.  If Ms. Yip did all her own stunts, she's not only stunningly beautiful, she is also awesome. One quibble, which I feel follows a disturbing pattern in motion pictures.  Though Jet Li and Aaliyah are quite obviously in love at the close of the film, they never kiss.  In a film which shows two beautiful asian dances french kiss, and one bares the other's breast and kisses her erect nipple,would it have been too much to ask to have to people of different races who are obviously in love share a romantic kiss? "},{"Title":"The most violent interpretation of Shakespeare I`ve ever seen","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is definetely the most violent interpretation of Shakespeare I`ve ever seen.  Okay, interpretation is not the right word to use, but that is nevertheless what this movie at some point wants to be. I really liked Jet Li in this movie, and I`ve liked him since I first saw him in Lethal Weapon 4 a couple of years ago. Fighting and betrayal is what Romeo Must Die is all about, and the fighting is very entertaining, although sometimes a bit cheesy, because some of the Matrix-scenes, which is out of place outside the world of science-fiction. Still, Romeo Must Die is an actionflick you wouldn`t want to miss.   It manages to be interesting enough, but the fighting is what makes it really good. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A good action movie!","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" jet Li rocks, and this film was great. Sure, it's silly, but it's never boring, there are some slick fight scenes, and the soundtrack is pretty neat. It manages to be a romantic film without being sappy and stupid, it manages to be an action film where the action rocks but isn't too over-the-top, and it manages to make good use of the Shakesphere story, ROMEO AND JULIET while still respecting the themes and the humor. Generally, the film is pretty silly. The acting isn't particularly good, the characters are two dimensional, the plot holes are numerous, and events are sometimes quite predictable. However, I don't regret watching it. I was entertained and was satisfied by the film as a whole. It worked really well. If you're looking for a good film that doesn't require a lot of thought and investment from the viewer but is at least entertaining and energetic, ROMERO MUST DIE is a good film to check out. "},{"Title":"Good...but over-the-top Chineseness","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I read some not-so-great reviews about Romeo must Die so I really didn't have my hopes up high. I only decided to watch it because I love Jet Li. Good thing I did watch it!! It was SO cool!! Jet Li didn't disappoint - not only was his fighting as 'wow' as ever (and I know, a lot of people think too much CGI was used, compromising his true abilities. I agree with that, but you have to admit, it still looked pretty dayam good), his dramatic acting is amazing too!! However, living in Hong Kong, I DO have a few problems with the film. Firstly, it REALLY exaggerates the whole Asian thing, making it seem like we Chinese all practice Kung Fu in our backyards while drinking Oolong tea every day...which in fact, is NOT what Hong Kong people do (yes, I'm sorry if I'm shattering some dreams here - Hong Kong people do too watch television and shop and do things other than learn Kung Fu. In fact, you'd be hard-pressed to find one person in Hong Kong who knows martial arts Jet Li style). The Chinese people in the film all have names like Po and Han and say things like let's show them our true strength...I'm surprised they didn't put some phrases like Let's summon our family's ancestral dragons in. ALSO, I was really confused when they showed Hong Kong. It was nothing like the Hong Kong and all but one person spoke in Mandarin (most people in Hong Kong speak cantonese). I'm not sure if that bit WAS actually Hong Kong but...if you're going to say that he's in prison in Hong Kong, why choose a place which does NOT give a proper image of Hong Kong? There must've also been some confusion with Chinese and Japanese because I swear, at times, Han's (Jet Li's character) dad seems more Jap than anything...Still, I liked the film. There wasn't enough development between Jet and Aaliyah but Jet Li still looked really cute. Jet Li really kicks something serious in the movie and so I let all the other things slide - even the idea that the Chinese guys turn out to be the bad guys and the black guys turn out to be actually...awww...really nice people. Lindo was good and Aaliyah was REALLY REALLY good. It's sad - she would have made a terrific actress and I'm happy that she did leave behind at least this movie.Watch this movie. I just realised that my review doesn't actually sound too positive but trust me - I really did like the film. In fact, I'm going to watch it again now! "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 4 was just a starter, this movie delivers!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For those who like cross-culture, Romeo Must Die, show be the one for you! Jet Li who was fresh from Leathal Weapon 4 really delivers in this action-packed movie. Playing Han was a big one for him. Aaliyah(1979-2001), the R&B sensation really got her acting chops in gear playing the alluring Trish O'Day, who is being shadowed by the bumbling Maurice, played by the hilarious, Anthony Anderson. Everybody would call him MORON! Which I think is funny.I liked the X-ray effects of the movie whenever a fight was going to happen. I liked the part when Han refused to a fight a woman, he used Trish to fight her with. It looked more of a swing dance to me. Since Trish's words backed him up, the enemy was impaled through the heart. And after the final fight, Trish's father (Delroy Lindo), wanted to meet Han for himself, and I 'm glad he got that chance, I think it was silly for him to demand a handshake from him, but hey, he wanted to who the cat was, and make sure he did. Han never declined any offer only to know who was the troublemaker behind the war. Before anyone remember seeing Aaliyah in Queen of the Damned, check out this movie first. Rating 4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"One Of The Better Martial-Arts Movies","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"24 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was surprised I enjoyed much of this since martial arts movies are okay but nothing I really get into often. Jet Li plays the only likable character in this Asians vs. Blacks gang story.Some of the stunts were tremendous. Some were so over-the-top, so unbelievable that they were funny. The movie certainly isn't one to be taken seriously. The wild action scenes, fairly involving story and nice colors and interesting sound track all make this movie a cut above the normal martial arts fare. The excellent surround sound and sharp picture make it a good one for DVD. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable enough","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There seems to be several films in this one. A story about corruption and property deals, a story about fathers and their children, a tentative Romeo and Juliet romance and of course martial arts and guns. The actors acquit themselves well. One hoped for more of Michael Wong and less of Anthony Anderson (his constant 'Dim Sum' refrain being quite irritating) but the actors act, the plot moves and the film is enjoyable enough.Jet Li is as usual very watchable and apart from his skill at martial arts (quick and effective but always graceful) he acts OK. His cab scene with Aaliyah is charming and funny and one wanted more of that but their relationship is underdeveloped in the script. It is a pity as Aaliyah is luminous and sassy. Her untimely death in real life was a tragedy.Not as good as 'Kiss of the Dragon' but better than 'The One' and 'Cradle 2 the Grave' but inferior to Jet Li's Hong Kong movies. "},{"Title":"Intrigue, suspense, action - WOW!","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What a movie!This is one of those films that you simply cannot ever be bored in.  At the beginning you are as much in the dark as the hero, Jet Li, and as such your understanding develops as his does.  By not explaining the film the director keeps the intrigue up while at the same time thrilling us with the camera.Jet Li is incredible in his largest role to date.  He proves that not only can he kick but has some acting ability in there as well.  Aaliyah is not great but fills the role nicely as Li's romantic interest.  The other characters are left beautifully in the background until the necessary time when they spring to the limelight to steal the show, however briefly, from Li.Ok so it isn't his best martial arts movie (that was probably the Legend of Fong Sai-Yuk) but his fighting is coupled with an excellent story, one that is far more elaborate than a simple Romeo and Juliet, with less of the soppy love stuff too.For any martial arts, mystery, action, thriller, even dare I say sports (a wonderful American Football scene) film fan will love this film.Definitely one for any video collection!  "},{"Title":"Great Time.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not trying to win Oscars here but it is kick ass fun.Aaliyah's best acting performance by far in her short life, Washington, Lindo and even Anthony Edwards helped Aaliyah's performance with great support and I must say DMX is not bad for a rapper/actor!!!Jet Li was Jet Li! Dialogue is bad often awful but the guy can really perform his martial arts!Romeo Must Die isn't the best Shakespeare adaptation but it is what it is and that is a good martial arts/love/action film7/10 "}{"Title":"In memory of Aaliyah","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It was four years ago on August 25 that Aaliyah was tragically taken from us and the life of another great musical talent cut short. I decided to watch Romeo Must Die with Jet Li in her memory as it has a lot of her music(Come Back in One Piece, I Don't Wanna, Try Again and Are You Feelin' Me?), and it is one great movie that I watch over and over again. DMX was also in the movie and he joined Jet Li again in Cradle 2the Grave , another movie with great action and great music. Thanks, Aaliyah, for the music you gave us.I never get tired of watching Jet Li in action and look forward to many more movies with him. "},{"Title":"Best Jet Li movie","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Romeo must die is the Best Jet Li movie till date. It is packed with amazing fight scenes, plenty of jokes and a great atmosphere sorrounding the movie. This is Jet Li's second Hollyood movie after the Hit Lethal weapon 4. Some of the fight scenes are computerised, but Impresses big time. This is my favourite Jet Li movie, others include Kiss of the Dragon, Unleashed, Born to defend and Black mask. The late Aliyah looks great as ever, especially when she takes Li to the night club. DMX appears in this movie in a small role, he later makes a Decent movie alongside Li in Cradle 2 the grave. It wasn't exactly a Blockbuster Hit of a movie, but it was Great Fun. There is a large number of actors, another actor that provides laughs are Maureen, who also appears in cradle 2 the grave. One of my favourite scenes is when Jet Li plays football, and is sarcasticlly fouled on purpose. He decides to take advantage of the rules and hit back in a Great Way. Recommended, if you enjoyed Jet Li Movies. "},{"Title":"humor drama action suspense","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This was by far, one of the best movies I've seen.Even if action movies are not your scene,this one is guaranteed for your enjoyment.It had everything you could want in a movie,humor,action,drama,suspense,and good actors.The actors,they were just brilliant.I just like Han's cool.Aaliyah was very good,considering the fact that ,that was her first movie.The tag-line was not your common one,where good guys run after the bad guys and at the end the bad guys are arrested,and everybody lives happy ever after.This movie was more realistic,something you can believe.The directors did a fantastic job,so did the actors.Sheer enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly average, with a few elements above and below that","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Have you ever felt cheated because you never got to see a movie before that includes X-ray POV footage of a person's spine being severed, a football game that turns into a Three Stooges episode, a part where a Chinese crime lord has his colleagues chained up in a refrigerated boxcar before they're murdered and dismembered with meat-cutting instruments (thankfully off-camera), and mentions that the Oakland Raiders moved again? Fear not, once you see ROMEO MUST DIE.There isn't much else to say about how this movie's tone jumps all over the place. It's a predictable but decently engaging movie. What makes it worth renting is the presence of Aaliyah, Jet Li, and especially Delroy Lindo. There's little doubt this movie did well off the marquee value of those first two--and they're both good here, separately and together--but Lindo is a great actor and invests Isaak O'Day with a dramatic presence that insists we take him seriously. It's a huge tragedy that Aaliyah died so young, and a great loss for the movies she would have been superb in; she saves her thin, poorly developed character from being useless and makes Trish interesting.  Jet Li shows he can be tough or funny, whatever's needed at the moment, and it's nice to see an action star who seems to LIKE doing action film roles. Note I have to agree with Roger Ebert that seeing Li doing FX-aided fight scenes was pathetic; Li's a fighting FX just by being himself, and we saw that in LETHAL WEAPON 4 and hopefully will again in the future.For all that, this and GONE IN 60 SECONDS were the quintissential average films of 2000. As far from great as awful, both got 5 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"OK movie, OK plot, OK acting...just OK.","Date":"1 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Let me start by saying I adore the late Aaliyah. For her first role, she did a pretty good job. She played the part well and this part was made for her. However, I enjoyed the soundtrack more than the movie itself. Not saying it was a horrible movie, it was just OK. I wish the fight scenes were more authentic. You could tell they were choreographed. When I watch a movie like this, I want it to look like people are really fighting each other. I also felt that Jet Li and Aaliyah lacked in the chemistry department. Sure, they look good together as friends and/or partners in crime, but nothing more and I mean nothing. Anything beyond that seemed forced. I actually felt the entire cast lacked in chemistry. There were a couple of twists that were unexpected and the plot was OK, but nothing to really knock your socks off. It is entertaining if nothing else is on TV, or if you just want to watch the beautiful Aaliyah in action. For me, it is a bit nostalgic for that reason. Also, I was still a teenager when this came out and this was the movie to watch at that time. Again, not the worst movie, but not the best. I will admit that I have probably watched this at least 5 times. Sometimes, I just can't say no because although it is not perfect, it is still entertaining. "},{"Title":"Good action film with awesome martial arts sequences!","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a pretty intriguing and action-packed movie starring Jet Li in one of his first Hollywood appearances. His plays former Chinese cop Han Sing who breaks out of prison after hearing of his brother's murder in Oakland. When he gets there, he gets entangled in a money scheme plot involving two rival families, where the daughter of a crime lord, Trish O'Day (Aaliyah), is also caught in the middle.It's almost like a modern-day Romeo and Juliet, but with Han and Trish caught in the chaos and them helping each other to stop the war and bring the criminals to justice. What resulted were some awesome martial arts sequences courtesy of Jet Li; seeing him grapple with the gang members left and right were both great and funny, especially him throwing around Anthony Anderson. The humor in the movie was also pretty top-notch and gave me some chuckles, but the acting was a bit average to me and the hip-hop soundtrack was pretty awful. However, Jet Li and Aaliyah had some great chemistry together; in her first motion picture, Aaliyah delivered a pretty witty and dramatic performance.Overall, it's a good action film with a well-paced plot.Grade B "},{"Title":"potentially good idea","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Asian gang leader's son Po Sing is killed which could potential start a war with the black gang. Mac (Isaiah Washington) is gang leader Isaak O'Day (Delroy Lindo) second-in-command. Maurice (Anthony Anderson) is guarding Trish O'Day (Aaliyah). Han (Jet Li) learns of the news and escapes from Hong Kong prison. He arrives in Oakland stealing a cab and Trish just happens to catch his ride. Han investigates and finds a murky land deal.This has a potentially good idea. Both Jet Li and Aaliyah show some acting skills but they don't have romantic chemistry together. There is no real heat in the relationship. Also shouldn't Han be called Romeo? It would make life so much easier. The story is even more complicated than Shakespeare. The Vancouver locations lack a certain edge. Jet Li and his friends get in some good action. Actually, this movie may have worked better if it gives up on the Romeo and Juliet romance. It should make Trish an equal partner in the investigation. "},{"Title":"Excellent Fight Scenes Jet Li Is Awesome","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadReviewing Jet Li movies is rather easy. Like his best, Kiss Of The Dragon, the fight scene at the end between Li and his father's enforcer is worth the price of the movie. Li's speed and agility are unreal. Like Bruce Lee, the speed of the blows, the body control is astonishing. It is free of ideology like the dreadful Fearless, here it is a straightforward crime drama. No, there will be no Oscars for acting but come on this is a Jet Li movie. Action fans will want to know, are there great fights and stunning action? The answer is a resounding yes. I still prefer Kiss Of The Dragon for the villain in that movie was much better. There is some comedy to lighten the movie most of it at Anthony Johnson's expense. Washington is good as the double dealing Mac short for Machiavellian. He double deals his way through the movie chasing Aaliyah who looks really hot in the movie. If I could change Jet Li's movies it would be his choice of soundtrack music which was the usual awful. It could be worse, at least it wasn't the high pitched screaming guitars in The One. Li always injects lots of situational humor into his films. Watch for the Jet Li football player who changes the rules a bit when they try beating him up within the football game.Li throws in this X Ray thing that shows when he does wicked damage to people. No movie is perfect, even within the wide latitude of a Jet Li movie, the scene where he lifts Aaliyah and uses her to beat up a Chinese hit woman is painfully silly. On the whole, it has some great action and humor. If you are looking for acting, please watch something else. Admittedly, Kiss Of The Dragon had much better acting but the action is what we are all looking for. Besides the climactic, spectacular fight with its funny use of the phrase, give me some skin; there is another prolonged fight with Li using a fire hose only the way Jet Li can do it. If you are looking for a great action flick, forget the critics, this delivers. "},{"Title":"Romeo Must Go Away.","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Romeo Must Die (2000) Dir Andizej Bartkowiak / Cast Jet Li, Aaliyah, Delroy Lindo, Isaiah Washington, DMX We know from the title that Romeo must die for something. It could be an unpaid parking ticket, farting in an elevator full of strangers, or dumping his trash in someone else's yard. Unfortunately it regards none of those things because that might render the film somewhat interesting. Or at any rate, better than it is now. It regards a territory war between the blacks and Japanese. Jet Li enters when his younger brother is killed. After serving time in prison for someone else's decision he breaks out and searches for answers. After a series of double-crosses he befriends a young black woman whose father is buying off land. Directing by Andrzej Bartkowiak is fast with Li kicking ass about every five seconds. Aaliyah has promise but a broader role would have served her more justice. She is more or less the female contact, not necessarily romantically, but cardboard nonetheless. Delroy Lindo tries to keep the peace but when violence rules a screenplay then that is a near impossible task. Isaiah Washington is also featured but not to the superb degree that he had in Clint Eastwood's True Crime. Finally we have DMX in yet another role in this film that doesn't equal a good career move. The result here is an agonizing action farce that should die. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Romeo Must Die could have shorter and snapper but its has some amazing characters and overall is it worth the experience.","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" 'Romeo Must Die' is a film so loosely based on its original Shakespearean source material, 'Romeo and Juliet', that I believe that their relationship to one another does disserves to both. The plot of the film focuses around two rival gangs vying for more money than the other and how this affects the main characters Han and Trish. The rivalry takes the form of plans to develop a sports stadium. This is easily the least engaging part of the story. From boring golf meetings to uninteresting characters this unique plot point offers simply a backdrop for the events of the film. This is a flaw the film carries throughout the story whilst I can confidently say that the characters are the saving grace of the movie. Unfortunately they rarely develop engaging drama for the characters to be involved in. The major issue I had with the film was pacing. This movie definitely would have been aided by heavy cutting. Roughly the first twenty minutes, in my opinion, are completely unnecessary and I believe the movie should have begun with the prison scene. Not only is this the first time we are introduced to our protagonist Han but his break out is the most interesting action scenes in the entire film. Arguably one of the best I've ever seen in film but it is heavily truncated but terribly executed exposition; and when I say that it was the best action scene in the film that actually holds a lot of weight because this movie is abundant with action. Obviously with Jet Li as the main actor you should set your expectations at a certain level but this movie goes far and beyond that. Action after action after action with the bare minimum of story during the first half leaves the viewer feeling disconnected. It would have been of far greater value to cut some of the fight scenes and replace them with more interaction between Han and Trish, the female protagonist, especially since the chemistry between the two was very palpable. As stated previously the characters and their relationships are what I found to be the peaks of this film. The three core relationships in the film, Han and Trish, Han and his father, and Trish and her father, all hit the correct notes. From the flirtatious nature of the protagonists to Han's damaged past with his father the actors are very crucial in the portrayal and the strong response they encourage. Whilst I know the romance plot is very important to this movie I particularly found the conversations between Trish and her father Isaak the most powerful. Isaak is the leader of a mob family but is not blind to the realities of his world. He is making plans to secure a legal income based future for his children. This comes to a front when Isaak's son and Trish's older brother is murdered. Isaak only wishes to help his children and whilst Trish initially blames him for her brother's death she doesn't play the stereotypical spoilt child. She instead recognises what her father is trying to do and agrees to trust him. Every time these two interacted I felt as if the film should have dropped the unnecessary ties to Shakespeare's writing and had a larger focus on these very dynamic characters. However, that's not the film we have and it leaves us with the relationship between Trish and Isaak and my greatest take away from the film. The third also falls apart in minor ways. Firstly due to the pacing issues it feels a long time coming and as result I was thinking about it more than I should have; this lead to me realising the slight twist ending where the henchmen of both of the families would betray their respective superior. I feel like this was supposed to hit a lot harder than it did but I feel like it was communicated and foreshadowed far to on the nose. Perhaps this also on the actors playing the roles, especially the Mac character because from the second he appears on screen you can't help but question his motives. This is contrasted nicely against Han's father who we are ambiguous about until he opens up to his son. However, before that moment he genuinely could have gone either way showing shades of good and bad; and coincidentally that is how I would also describe this film. There was huge potential here and the execution is done very well in regards to the primary characters. Unfortunately pretty much everything outside of that from the music, to the editing falls flat or worse. Overall I see Romeo Must Die as a platform for the main actors and the screenwriters and bar that it is a lackluster action film with untapped potential. "}{"Title":"Nostalgia is what makes me watch this over and over ...","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I remember watching this when it was first released. I remember renting it when it came out on DVD. But unfortunately, I don't remember it once the end credits roll. It is a nice film. You can see that Aaliyah was going to have a good career in this because she is so pleasant to look at. Her smile..wow.. Mr Jet Li also has the charisma that will keep you coming back for more. But this movie somehow missed something. It's funny. The fight scenes are very good. But not any of these things make it memorable. The reason why I keep watching this, is because I see her face on the cover and part of me is sad that I can't immediately remember this film. So I try again "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Above Average Martial Arts Movie","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There is plenty of action in this martial arts movie along with a convoluted plot that plays out in a mirror-image of Lucky Number Slevin (2006) with Josh Harnett. The cultural Asian and Black atmosphere is rich with suspicion and the raw performances are steeped in dramatic flare. The actual martial art fighting, though seemed a bit overly manipulated and artificial, even considering the more artistic display of Crouching Tiger, Flying Dragon (2000) or the more sharp and crisp physical encounters found in Bourne Identity (2002). What makes for the above average score of this movie is Jet Li and his persona and substantive nature of the storyline. "},{"Title":"Not even Jet Li's sweet moves can save a bad movie","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" To sit through ROMEO MUST DIE is to go back to that (mercifully) short period when it seemed like every movie was aping THE MATRIX. But this one doesn't have parody going for it. When Jet Li isn't creatively using the props around him to kick some bad guy ass, he's bouncing drop kicks off of walls and nailing ballet scissor kicks in midair. It's East-meets-West insofar as the really obvious wire-fu meets lots of American action-movie gunplay. Throw in the awful hip-hop soundtrack and sore thumb Isaiah Washington, and you get the gist. And were it a little more lighthearted, it might actually be fun. But the quasi-Shakespearean business dealings (Romeo, Machiavelli, it's pretty on-the-nose) come off extremely forced. It's certainly not the worst I've seen, but it's . . . well, it's not great. Although I did crack up at the suitcase machine gun trick they cribbed from GHOST IN THE SHELL.Man, this was lame.4/10 "},{"Title":"Action Packed, OTT Entertainment!","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed Romeo Must Die on the big screen. It was crazy, wild, funny, and featured some ridiculous over the top wire-work that seems to have been hailed by many as a wow factor!Personally, I thought the wire-work was a mess.As a huge fan of both Jet Li and Corey Yuen Kwai, with over 3000 DVDs in my Hong Kong collection, I felt that the action in RMD was created by studio pressure to go wild which resulted in a complete shambles that made said fights look unprofessional and wrong.I have been watching much better work, even from 70's Hong Kong cinema, and while the action still had its moments, felt let down by it all.Anyways, with my gripe out of the way, I did actually enjoy the film. It was funny, Jet Li looked great and there was nice chemistry between him and Aliyah. In fact, I think I went to see it a few times!Then I got it again on DVD last week and gave it a watch for the first time in 10 years...And yes, it still entertained! Its hard to believe its already 15 years old, but regardless, it still does the job. Far far far from perfect, but entertaining and action packed.Mindless popcorn fun! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Everything kicks but the screenplay . . .","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When Jackie Chan faces off against five or six tough guys at the same time what makes him so much fun to watch is the way he beats them up with chairs, ladders, pool cues or steering wheels and needs no visual tricks and no special effects. His talent is that he does it all himself.That was my first problem with 'Romeo Must Die' which doesn't star Chan but Hong Kong action star Jet Li and when he faces five guys, special effects allow him to suspend himself in the air while fighting. He needs help from the special effects artists.This trick did work in the 'The Matrix' because we knew that we were inside a virtual reality world. But to watch a guy do this on a football field in a real setting whirling around in the air and kicking people just looks silly.The story doesn't fair much better. It's borrows one idea from Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet when Li travels to America and falls for an African-American woman (Aaliyah) whose father (Delroy Lindo) was responsible for his brother's death in Hong Kong. The two lovers don't generate much chemistry because every moment alone is interrupted by a violent encounter. Li plays Han, who was once a cop in the far east. His detective work leads him to a plot by her father to build a stadium by threatening local merchants to sign over their businesses &#x96; or else. Mostly the merchants fall under the 'or else' category and for some reason there doesn't seem to be any investigation into their deaths. Their deaths are quick, violent and there are plenty of them.Li is probably a fine actor in the right movie. He has a genteel face and a calm manner. But those attributes are hidden here in a noisy movie full of broken glass, bone-crunching and an over-zealous rap soundtrack.Maybe I was concentrating on the story too much. In Chan's films I forget the hacknyed story mostly because I go to see his flying fists. 'Romeo Must Die' is a very violent action movie, so violent that is distracts from anything else even when there isn't much else to see.Final Note Why is it that latest film versions of 'Hamlet' seem to be new and inventive (the best being Branagh's 1996 film) while the latest versions of 'Romeo and Juliet' seem to be tired and silly. Mr. Branagh, perhaps you should look into this. "},{"Title":"Quite dull & heavy-handed","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" (Credit to IMDb) An avenging cop seeks out his brother's killer and falls for the daughter of a businessman who is involved in a money- deal with his father.I'm fully convinced that Jet Li & Jackie Chan's talents were wasted in America! They had no idea how to properly use them, and this film is proof of that in my opinion. I'm all for some great drama in an action movie, but the storyline is awfully clunky & heavy-handed. There are some decent action scenes for sure, but it forgets one main ingredient...fun! This movie suffers from the same problems that Exit Wounds suffered from! (Even with some of the same cast from that film) Andrzej Bartkowiak tries to make this film hip, funny, and action-packed with poignant drama. He doesn't have the skill to pull this off, and the cast certainly doesn't help. There is plenty of cringe-worthy dialog that is supposed to come across as cool, but ultimately fails. The family drama wears thin on you quickly as well.. As I said...there are some good fight scenes. That doesn't mean they are without issues though. For some reason, Jet uses wires in certain fight scenes! Why? He has so much natural ability. He uses that natural ability in many of them, but the wires were a bit of a buzz kill. I also got annoyed at the X-Ray of bones breaking. I didn't need to see that! It was pointless and ruined a lot of the impact for me. I will give this movie credit for something. I've never seen anyone kick somebody's ass like Jet Li did, while being hung upside down and hand-cuffed. That was rather creative. The acting isn't great. Jet tries his hardest, but is let down by the mediocre material. Listening to Jet use the word Brother was amusing at first, but the novelty wore off eventually. His chemistry with Aaliyah was awkward and unconvincing. I didn't buy their relationship. His best fight scene is the prison escape. Aaliyah is certainly beautiful and doesn't embarrass herself....i'll say that. She handled her part adequately, but she was out of her element when it came to being emotional. Delroy Lindo is on auto- pilot! He seems to be going through the motions in a big way. His son dies and all he can say is They killed my boy! with half-assed emotion. Anthony Anderson plays the unfunny comedic relief as usual! Nothing more to say about him. DMX is barely in this movie! Thank god for that. Isaiah Washington is OK in his role. This was one of Jet's misfires that he made in the states! He isn't used to the best of his ability by a long shot. Boring story, decent, but underwhelming fight scenes, and unlikable characters sink this one. I can only recommend this to Jet's die-hard fans. (Chances are, you've already seen it)4.8/10 "},{"Title":"Violence instead of Romance","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sorry Romeo, but you got to die! Two households, both alike in dignity, In fair Oakland, where we lay our scene, From anew grudge and people fight 'n' kill, Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.With Romeo Must Die, another modern Shakespeare adaption has made it to the big screen. Featuring Jet Li, it is rather unlikely expecting something similar to a Franco Zeffirelli or a Baz Luhrmann adaption of Shakespeare. Romeo Must Die is much more a martial arts action film which introduces us to a world where two rival families, one Chinese, one African-American, both struggle for territorial supremacy in the harbor area. The film starts with the mysterious killing death of Po Sing, son of the Chinese clan boss and its consequences. When both sides have to deal with loss, the situation gets out of hand and the rivalry between both clans intensifies. As our main character Han Sing (Jet Li) hears from the death of his brother, he flees out of prison to travel to Oakland seeking for revenge. That is when he meets our modern Juliet, Trish, played by R'n'B singer Aaliyah. Gone is the melancholic, young and infatuated Romeo and we are introduced to an ex-cop who was sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. With impressive martial arts skills, he defeats his enemies who come in his way. On the other side we have Trish, an African-American woman, who is independent and cares for her own well-being, instead of getting into her father's business. As a empowered female character, she does not care about others opinions and follows her own path. While their fathers do not accept their choice of love, they seem not to care much about their opinion and the both &#x84;star-crossed lovers are going on a trip to seek revenge for their brothers' deaths. Instead of romantic lines and sword fighting, one rather experience martial arts performances or gun fights, often both at the same time. The lack of a deep and thoughtful storyline or interesting dialogs is expressed through flat jokes and no authentic romance between our protagonists. What really makes the film interesting are the martial arts fighting scenes which are often destroyed through badly animated Matrix fight-flying moves. These are misplaced and seem somehow ridiculous and as Jet Li proves in other films are totally unnecessary. In addition, the X-Ray sequences try to give the film a special touch, but are more disturbing for the style of the film. Furthermore, the soundtrack features a lot of rap songs, which try to underline the gangster-sh atmosphere, but often distract from dialog and action. As bad as this seems to be, the film is not only a dull beat-up movie, but also has its humorous moments. For example, we have a football game where once again men have to prove their masculinity, and Jet Li takes all the other players down to impress his girl. Additionally, Jet Li impresses the viewers with his skills to handle a water cannon and beats all his gun-using enemies. There is no real clarity who is responsible for the many killings and manipulation in both clans. Somehow the plot twist gives the film an interesting touch, but it is getting kind of obvious throughout the second half of the film. The only thing that reminds me of good old Shakespeare is the rivalry between the two families and the name of the main character. Especially, typical clichés are more unnerving than enchanting. However, fans of action movies, who love a touch of comedy, are welcome to watch this film. Others may enjoy this if they are bored on a Sunday afternoon and have nothing better to do. Those who are expecting romance should switch their interest into admiring fighting. "},{"Title":"Not exactly Romeo and Juliet","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Despite the title, Romeo Must Die is not truly an adaptation of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet. While the main characters are children of two families of equal standing and bodies accumulate throughout the film, that is where the similarities end. In fact, contrary to Kai's initial exclamation of there's a war going on, the families' heads are actually in a business partnership when the film opens. Even the underlings seem to be working in tandem, with both Kai and Mac killing the sons of their bosses in order to further their careers. There is some fighting between the two groups (both with martial arts and with automated weapons, prompting the ever-popular guns don't kill people, people kill people), but it seems to be over turf disagreements more so than any real hatred.Han, son of the Asian gang boss, is like Romeo in that he is not present for the initial fight scenes and rising action. Unlike Romeo, he is not away on the waterfront mourning a love unrequited. Instead, Han is serving time in a Hong Kong prison for having protected his brother and father from the barred enclosure. He is much less sheltered than Shakespeare's Romeo, an effect brought about by Han's older age, work as a police officer, and lack of reluctance to violence. Han is also more isolated than Romeo. Where Romeo has a good relationship with his parents and his gang of friends like Mercutio and Benvolio, Han's mother is dead and his father betrayed him and Kai, the friend he thought he could trust, murdered Han's brother because he was getting in the way of business.Trish, daughter of the African American gang boss Isaak O'Day, is like Juliet in her beauty but little else. Where Juliet is passive, Trish makes her own decisions at every turn. She runs her own business, has her own apartment, and avoids her father's men whenever she can. Unlike Juliet, Trish stands firm in her romantic prospects. When the Paris figure (who also seems to embody Tybalt), propositions her over a meal, Trish continuously shuts him down using dry wit, sarcasm, and a disgusted sneer.These representations of Romeo and Juliet, Han and Trish, do not have the all-consuming, riotous emotions typical of Shakespeare's protagonists. In fact, the two seem to use one another to fill the gap left by their deceased siblings. They team up to get to the bottom of the two murders, fighting and joking together, but never showing romantic inclinations. At one point, Han and Trish literally fight as one entity so that Han can avoid hitting a girl. Trish kills her other suitor in order to save Han, much more active and protective than other interpretations of Capulet's fair daughter. In both cases, Han tries to protect Trish from the horrors of death by turning her attention from the body. He tries to protect her in more ways than just physically. Romeo gets confused and then angry by Maurice asking if Han had really thought that he was gonna get them panties, now did you? While this could simply be a translation issue, the fact that the reunion of the star crossed lovers was not sealed with a kiss hints at a more platonic interpretation.Without the completely biased and long standing war between families and the all-consuming love between doomed lovers, Romeo Must Die is really only linked to Shakespeare given the number of times people derisively call Han Romeo. Despite the expectation (and subsequent let down) of this film being a Romeo and Juliet adaptation, it is an interesting watch. A mix between mystery, mob, and martial arts, Romeo Must Die is an engaging, fast-paced, violent two hours. "},{"Title":"People kill people......","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The death of Han Sing's brother catapults him out of a Hong Kong jail to the San Francisco waterfront, where he vows to find his brother's killers. It lands him in the middle of a three way deal between businessmen who will stop at nothing to create a new money making stadium. Han finds help from Trish, a woman with close connections to the mob, and together they work to find their brothers' killers.....One thing that I really can't understand is that this movie was Li's big Hollywood breakout movie, and whilst it's not the worst action movie out there, the Director and star have made some astonishingly good movies since (and in Li's case, before) you really cannot believe that Hollywood gave them this vehicle, its a little disrespectful.And it's down purely to Joel Silver. Now this chap has produced some brilliant movies, he produced my favourite movie of all time, Die Hard. But after the phenomenal success of The Matrix, he became a sell out, and thought that this was what the people wanted.For an athlete like Li, its cringe inducing to see the wire work, it's really bad, and wreaks of Matrix cash in, and the inclusion of the Hip Hop soundtrack disrupts the flow of the narrative.But, it's not a bad film. Li is a brilliant screen presence, and Aaliyah shows that she could have been a huge star. The rest of the cast are good, but you just can't get that after taste of making a quick buck from The Matrix out of your head when watching this. "},{"Title":"This film says, 'Sorry Romeo but you gotta die,' to a character called Han. There is no Romeo. Shakespeare fans will be in tears for the wrong reasons.","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Romeo Must Die (2000) Genre Action, Martial Arts, Hip-hop. Starring Jet Li, Aaliyah, Russell Wong, & Delroy Lindo. Filmed in Vancouver, Canada. Warner Bros 120 minutesRMD should be worth the effort of popcorn and cherry-cola but I disliked this hip-hop meets Kung Fu creation. Directed by Andrzej Bartkowiak and produced by the same people who brought us Lethal Weapon 4 (1998) and The Matrix (1999), RMD is a weak blend of these film concepts with an unreliable script. There are too many issues including being filmed in Canada and not sunny Oakland where the action takes place.RMD is a dreadful remake of Abel Ferrara's China Girl (1987) which is set in the back streets of Manhattan between Chinatown and Little Italy. The nineteen eighty-seven Shakespeare inspired Romeo and Juliet co-stars Russell Wong as the headstrong and mutinous Yung Gan to RMD's Kai. Ferrara's gangland re-imagining reflects Franco Zeffirelli's Romeo and Juliet (1968) in its avant-garde telling of teenage love against impossible odds. The sex scene image draws the strongest comparison showing Romeo (Leonard Whiting) and Tony's (Richard Panebianco) bare bottoms. In China Girl Tony is a level headed lover, something Li tried to emulate in RMD in the guise of a sweet talking Chinese boy although he has a hard time keeping it together as he fights his way towards his brother's murderer. Comparisons of images from ROM and China Girl include the club scene in China Girl which offers a sexy Tony and Tye (Sari Chang) dancing versus RMD's cocaine-punk Po (Han's brother). Both club scenes cut to brawls between the various gangs. And the hanging image appears in both. The actions of the younger generation is something to watch here.Putting China Girl aside (unlike RMD), most adaptations of Romeo and Juliet have a hyper-romantic element. RMD has almost zero on-screen chemistry between Li and Aaliyah. Li is as sexy as a cement block compared to the tall and handsome Russell Wong. It would have been a very different story if Wong and Li swapped characters, like Schwarzenegger and Biehn swapped in The Terminator (1984). Schwarzenegger was originally asked to play the hero Kyle Reese. In RMD the closest we get to romance is when Han uses Trish as a weapon to beat a woman to death.Particularly disliked the Matrix like combat moves. In the initial club scene Kai spins after a kick to deliver another kick while suspended horizontally in mid-air. At another point Han is suspended mid-air and runs along his enemies chests, then bounces his foot off a wall and... impossible. Han is a cold blooded guy. When he is escaping prison he beats officers unconscious and breaks the arm of a guard. He goes onto steal cars, break into apartments, kill... Can somebody call 911? The football scene is an example of the inconsistencies in this film. Han uses Kung Fu on the football field to win. There is no punishment for kicking other players in the head although they are gang members with guns and fiery tempers.Disliked The flashback with the basket ball serves no purpose. Flashbacks should bring greater meaning but this diminishes the film overall. Who wants a flash back about a dirty burst-up old basketball? The in-combat X-ray special effect should be reserved for films that have more violence. Instead of Matrix spins and jumps Bartkowiak could have offered more than three X-ray punches to excite the action fans a little more.Things that are stupidly funny pimp stick with a secret compartment for cocaine. The male with an ample afro in the club scene. A white dude pulls an automatic machine gun from a transforming briefcase and shoots an office up.I enjoyed the action of Han's prison escape and the fight scene outside Trish's apartment. These scenes used elements of what a Martial Arts film is supposed to deliver such as unarmed combat and balanced choreography. Now if Han could just loose those one liners. Not spoiling the ending for you hardcore hip-hop Kung Fu fans! I feel it is necessary to point out that the FBI would not allow something like this to happen as most films follow the rules of fiction. In The Godfather III Don Corleone does not mount and fly off on a pink unicorn before cutting to the credits.It seems RMD was slopped together at the after party of Lethal Weapon 4 and The Matrix. Bartkowiak is indeed fortunes fool for thinking that he could direct this all by himself with the help of ego driven actors and producers. Although RMD fared well in the box office its first weekend, grossing just over eighteen million dollars, probably due only to its title, we are not left begging for a sequel to this one. "}{"Title":"Stylish, pacey and entertaining.","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Romeo Must Die was not something that I was looking forward to watching. My expectations were of a Segalish type movie. Definitely more B than A. One that focused on improbable displays of over choreographed martial arts action complimented by acting of a quality found on the low budget DVD rack and which is only used to set the scene for further unlikely fight culminating scenarios featured solely to showcase the leading star's talent. I could not have been more wrong. The opening titles had barely rolled by when I found myself leaning back in my seat and enjoying a stylish, pacey and entertaining action movie with a great Hip Hop and R&B soundtrack. Through a plot-line based, about as loosely as possible, on William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet the protagonists Han( Jet Li) and Trish(Aaliyah) struggle to unearth the truth behind the murders of their respective siblings. The alchemy between the central characters Han and Trish feels both natural and credible and the lighter romantic episodes work well at balancing the sometimes menacing violence of the attempted takeover of the Oakland waterfront around which the plot revolves.Their efforts to unravel the circumstances behind their losses is a task made all the more difficult by their families' long term feuding and the ethnic clannish behaviour surrounding it. The weakish central plot of the film has few direct references to Shakespeare however it does contain some token elements. The opening scene where the families clash and almost brawl, albeit in a nightclub rather than a market place, is a nod toward the opening of the play and works similarly to give some background and establish the existence of the long running feud for the viewer. Also with a Romeo in the title there must be a balcony scene and we are not to be disappointed for there is when Han comes to visit Trish at her father's house as he does enter her room from the balcony. These are however low key and the central reference to Shakespeare's play in the film is the established nature of the feuding between the two families and the difficulties it creates for the relationship between Han and Trish. So for those who had hoped for a more authentic retelling of the story there may be disappointment, but only if they cannot fully appreciate Jet Li's mastery of the Hong Kong action genre in which case they are in the wrong cinema anyway.However, they may be consoled by the fact that Andrzej Bartkowiak has directed a funny and clever film. Although some of the martial arts action has been obviously assisted by computers and editing Jet Li's skill and ability still shine through. The theatricality of these scenes combined with some intensely visual cgi special effects interpreting the physiological impact on the fighters bodies make for gripping viewing. While Li's wushu prowess far exceeds his mastery of spoken English he is given few lines for the first half of the movie and allowed instead to concentrate on displays of his skill-set. This he presents in the choreographed showy style expected a of an accomplished Hong Kong martial arts movie star ,that is impeccably delivered and embellished with a little slapstick for good measure. Matrixian concealed wires, obligingly inept opponents and an improbable motorcycle stunt-jump, that is more Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon than Evel Knevel, can only add to the excitement.Essentially, is this a fun movie, a romantic comedy or is a crime movie with a darker side? While Bartkowiak has used strong elements of violence to counter-weigh the romantic and comedic side of this movie does he in the end favour the lighter side over the tragic? Or will he present us with a Shakespearean sad ending worthy of the bard himself? What happens to our protagonist Han as he draws closer to the person responsible for hanging his younger brother from a lamppost? When confronted with those he seeks will he stray from the noble path to which he has adhered so well? To find out you must see the movie but rest assured that in waiting for an answer to the above you will be entertained with a stylish action packed crime movie cast with mostly competent actors and directed by a master of the genre. But it ain't Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"Action movie with Jet Li and Aaliyah without any emotional depth.","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Film review Romeo Must Die Action movie. USA 2000. Main starring Jet Li, Aaliya, Isaac Washington. Oh Shakespeare, where art thou? Besides the name, Andrzej Bartkowiak's action movie Romeo Must Die has not so much in common with Shakespeare's tragedy. The first scenes sound promising and I felt encouraged to expect a modern, innovative, of course different, but still somehow close adaptation of Romeo and Juliet. The Chinese and the African American clans who are fighting over the control of the Oakland waterfront seem to be appropriate representatives of the Montagues and the Capulets but after a while, every relation to the known storyline seems to get lost. The only parallel is the 'love story' between Han (an ex-cop who breaks out off a prison in Hong Kong after the death of his brother to find his murderer) and Trish (the daughter of an African American mob boss) who belong to the different houses. ut different from Romeo and Juliet, the relationship between Han and Trish does not seem to be one of the most important conflicts. The two clans rather try to beat each other in making money by criminal intrigues and they do not like the idea of seeing their children in a relationship with a member of the other family because the Capulets and Montagues do not either &#x96; that is how I feel about it. It is rather a 'forced' parallel between the Shakespearian play and the modern movie and not one that develops naturally. In my opinion, the Romeo-and-Julia scheme is just a clever strategy of advertising for the movie to attract viewers. Jet Li (Romeo) makes obvious that he is a great martial artist who really knows Wushu. He is able to beat five prison guards while he is hanging upside down with his hands manacled. If you like Kung Fu movies, you definitely should watch Romeo Must Die. The fighting scenes are actually the only ones that are really worth watching. Do not be scared of too much romance and love story since Romeo is not a romantic hero at all. Between Romeo and Juliet &#x96; in this case Han Sing and Trish O'Day (played by American R&B singer Aaliyah) no sparks are flying at all. Jet Li plays his role quite charming, playful and always with a little wink. He even mocks himself by pretending to be a Chinese deliverer. It is a pleasure to watch him play but he does not fulfill the expectations raised by the title of the film. Trish, the modern Juliet, is played by Aaliyah who has her film debut as an actress. Trish is portrayed as a modern, emancipated, and good-hearted woman. She is working in an institution for children which is her own business. She does not really see why she should obey to her father and stay inside the house or under surveillance of her guides all the time and takes every chance to get rid of her bodyguard Maurice. When he recognizes that she has left him he follows her shouting &#x84;Trish! I'm gonna find your Aaliyah-lookin' ass! &#x96; one example of the funny details that Bartkowiak implements into this movie. The main problem of the movie is that it does not use advantage of any of the genres it combines. It is neither a love story, nor a comedy, nor a full action or hip-hop movie. In total, it does not have a stringent storyline. It tries to put everything into one film comedy elements like a group of men, caught in a deadlock with their guns pointing at each other, fat Maurice who is not able to look after Trish because he is so busy with dancing and flirting or Han who has his problems to drive in San Francisco; all the hilarious fighting scenes where we can only see flying fists and feet or where Han beats all the African American guys in football just by using his Kung Fu or Wushu techniques; a mob story that includes different ethnic groups and a love story that should link everything but fails in doing that because there is actually no romance or at least flirting between the protagonists. Even when they are dancing in a casino, we cannot see any feeling evolving at all &#x96; and as many movies have shown us yet, dancing is always a good way to get closer together. In sum, I would recommend this movie to people who like Kung Fu and Jet Li in action &#x96;that is what you get if you watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Romeo Must Die","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Romeo Must Die (2000) Romeo must die is a modern variation to Romeo and Juliet, this action/thriller film consists of a mixture of martial arts and hip hop. This film was directed by Andrzej Bartkowiak and was released in March, 2000. The actors chosen to play the characters in this film are very well matched and suited to the genre of the movie such as Han Sing (Jet Li), Trish O'Dayn (Aaliyah), Isaak O'Day (Delroy Lindo) and Mac (Isaiah Washington). In this film we see two rival gangs, between a Chinese mafia headed by Ch'u Sing (Henry O) and the black gangsters ruled by Isaak O'Day. The soundtrack is very well suited to the genre of this film there is a mixture of rap/R&B music and also Chinese music which is mostly played at any fight scenes, in this very action packed mafia/crime film the music adds tension and creates an exciting build up to the fights. Han Sing (Jet Li) is an ex-cop who went to jail for taking the blame for his father's crimes, in his first scene in the film we see him escaping from prison after hearing of his brother's murder but not before he takes down the guards with his exquisite martial art skills. This fight scene is one of many throughout this film which is like Romeo and Juliet as it is famous for its many dwelling scenes also. Han returns to America to seek answers and revenge for his brother's dead, while in America he falls for Trish O'Day daughter to the ruler of the black gangsters. This romance is very similar to that of Romeo and Juliet's as Han and Trish's relationships is forbidden because of the rivalry between their two families. However, the love between Romeo and Juliet is more passionate and it is clear to see that they are very much in love, as for Han and Trish in Romeo must die, they come across in the movie as friends more than lover's there is no spark between the couple. Unlike in Romeo and Juliet we don't see any intimate scenes between these two characters. As an action film we see many violent scenes which all of them mainly involve Han and his very creative martial art skills. However, it is clear that some of these scenes and stunts are exaggerated and not humanly possible. We also see some x-ray images of bones breaking with the use of special effects throughout many of the fight scenes. Some of the fight scenes between Han and the black gangsters mainly Maurice (Anthony Anderson) very humorous, we see Han battle against many men on his own and still defeat which leaves them all lying in the yard not able to move, we then see Maurice and the gang try to get Han back by making him play American Football with them, which he knows nothing about, but this swiftly turns into Han once again defeating them. We see the rivalry between the two gangs get worse when both gang leader's sons are murdered which we find out is all for a business deal in which both gangs are involved in. Ch'u Sing's son Po was killed because he was a threat to the business deal and his people did not want anything or anyone getting in the way of this. Han comes across as a very strong and quiet character in this film, he does not show much emotion unlike Trish she is a very talkative individual and we see her reminisce about her childhood when she learns of her brother's dead. She is very open about her life compared to Han. Isaak O'Day comes across as a very serious business man but we also see a caring father side to him too when he orders full time protection on his two children when he learns of the murder of Po Sing. He also shows this side of him at the end of the film we see him put his differences with the Chinese mafia aside as he shake's Han hand because he is happy to see his daughter happy and safe. This scene is very like the ending of Romeo and Juliet when the Capulets and Montagues agree they should settle their differences because of the deaths of their children. However, in comparison we see no relationship between Han and his father Ch'u throughout the film and perhaps this is why Han does not show any emotion and is quite a silent character. Han does the right thing at the end of the film as he makes his father pay for all of his mistakes especially the murder of his own son. "},{"Title":"'Romeo Must Die', where Romeo swaps swords for martial arts.","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" 'Romeo Must Die', where Romeo swaps swords for martial arts. This action, martial arts film was released in 2000, where Andrey Bartkowiak made his debut as a director. It stars Jet Li and Aaliyah, who play Han Sing and Trish O'Day, respectively. The storyline focuses on Han, who seeks to avenge the killing of his brother. On his journey to finding out the killer, he falls for the daughter of a businessman, who is carrying out a major money deal with his father. As the film is categorised in the genre of action, you may think that it is not for everyone. However this would be a wrong assumption to make. The film does have a lot of scenes, which showcase the amazing martial art moves of Jet Li, but there are also other scenes which show emotional sides to the characters, which is why I really like this film. There are underlying themes in the movie, concentrated around the emotion of Love. The first, is the romantic love between Jet Li's character Hans and Aaliyah's character, Trish O'Day. This brings me to the title of the film, 'Romeo Must Die'. The name 'Romeo' has connotations with the character of Romeo in William Shakespeare's, 'Romeo and Juliet'. There are parallels between the character of Romeo in the play, and Hans in this film. When Romeo meets Juliet, he is instantly in love with her, this is the same with Hans and Trish, after their first meeting, he seems smitten by her. Trish comes across as a strong, determined woman, who does not always see eye to eye with her father. This is like Juliet, who acts rebellious towards her father, when he arranges that she is to marry Paris. In the film, it appears that Mac, who is Mr. O'Day's right hand man, is similar to the character of Paris and seems to think he has a chance with Trish. The most interesting similarity between the play and the film, is that Han's family are at war with Trish's family. This war between families adds another dimension to the film, which is not expected in this genre. This dimension is that of being human, which makes the film realistic to the viewer. Action films often concentrate solely on the action, with a bit of a storyline, where the main characters survive anything that is thrown at them. It is almost as if they are indestructible. However in this film, it combines these fight scenes, with a main storyline containing emotional scenes as well. These scenes of emotions, are at the core of the second type of Love, which is family love. This is mostly demonstrated through the father- son relationships in the movie. The relationship Isaac O'Day and his son, Colin have is one of love and protection. This is in contrast to Hans and his father, Ch'u Sing, where there seems to be tension and resentment, over the reasons why Hans went went to prison . These family dynamics also centre around the term loyalty. It is clear from the beginning where loyalty lies within the two families. However, as certain events occur, you begin to question the loyalty of some characters. It is worth mentioning, that as it is mostly an action film, there are some disturbing scenes, which the viewer may find distressing. I would like to mention that I thought the way the director showed these graphic scenes, was unique, as I never seen that been done before in film. So what else can the viewer expect, well there are car chases, fighting, guns and shooting. As some of the content in the film, is quite heavy at times, it is balanced out with the emotional scenes, and also some comical scenes. These comical scenes come mostly in the form of the character of Maurice, played by Anthony Anderson. One is where he is in a music store, with headphones on. He gets so into the music, that he ends up knocking records of the wall. In conclusion, the film does have everything that you would want in any film, a hint of romance , comedy and a lot of action, martial arts. If there was one critique to this movie, it would have to be that unlike Romeo and Juliet, we do not see the passionate scenes between Hans and Trish, but it could also be argued that a relationship is not just based on the passion. In this way, the director may want the viewers to enjoy the growing chemistry between Hans and Trish, with a view to the audience believing that by the end of the film, there is a happy ever after for the two characters. This critique aside, I would definitely recommend this film. The best way to watch this film is to have an open mind when viewing it, as you will enjoy it. It is not one of those films, where you have figured out what's happening next, there are a lot of shocks and surprises along the way. I would also go on to say, that after watching the film, it has made me see Jet Li as more than just a martial arts professional, but an actor. This is down to the main reason that the film is not just about fighting, but love, family and loyalty. "},{"Title":"Quite good but has its own flaws","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A good film if you like martial arts stunts and if you are a Jet li fan.Story is about a martial arts expert who escapes from prison in Hong Kong and comes to USA to find and eliminate his brothers' killers, amidst gangsters and his own family issues.The good- the action sequences, the story, Jet li's acting and stunts. The bad -the background music-which is more of rap...rock would've been better for this film, AND the draggy nature of the film-it is not a continuous action thriller but intertwined with romance, drama, etc.Watch if if you like Jet li. "},{"Title":"Great Film, Great Star, But Too Many Chiefs And Bit Parts","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The star of this film was Jet Li. The Star. I cannot fault his performance at all. His first real scene was incredible, this involved a jail breakout. That scene set the film and had you cheering for Jet Li from thereon. But after that it all got to be pretty confusing he was supposed to be an ex-cop? We were not introduced to the other characters slowly or at all. It would have helped to know that some deal brokered by Vincent Roth, Edoardo Ballerini, was being set up to buy waterfront dockyards and shipping wharfs. Delroy Lindo was introduced as a leading Black American mob boss whose role in this property deal was never defined and because of this his part went downhill. I thought he was a drug dealer. We then had another Chinese Mob boss who was also buying up properties for the mysterious Vincent Roth, but, we never saw any property deals done or any waterfront properties being surveyed for buying. The Chinese gang boss figure mentioned was probably the best mature actor in the whole film but got a hell-of-a-poor script to work with. This film could have done with a large number of roles being cut including the female star part, Aaliyah, Trish O'Day, Her role was simply the candy-floss role with no depth or adequate performance from her. This is a film in which the audience has to second guess what was happening on screen and tie in the various scenes, and the ending was poor. Acting honours go to Jet Li, Russel Wong, whose role was highly believable, Delroy Lindo and Matthew Harrison. "},{"Title":"Who is Romeo?","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When I sat down to watch this I expected a martial arts thriller as promised by the TV guide&#x85; what it had neglected to say was that it also contains quite a few comic moments. Jet Li plays Han Sing; a man who escapes from prison in Hong Kong and goes to Oakland when his brother, the son of the senior Chinese crime boss, is murdered. At first it looks as if he was killed as part of a rivalry between black and Chinese crime lords even though the heads of the two groups are working together in a major property deal. Han's first lead takes him to Trisha; she owns the shop to where Han's brother made his last phone call as well as being the daughter of Isaak, the senior black crime lord. When her brother is also killed it looks as if the two groups have started a war despite their shared business enterprise. Han gets close to Trisha as he investigates and ends up fighting her unwanted minders on several occasions; often with fairly amusing results.While this wasn't exactly great it had plenty of fun moments; the fight scenes were all well choreographed and in earlier parts of the film they were rather funny; later on the tone got more serious and the outcomes more deadly. Jet Li did a decent job as Han although I often found myself comparing him unfavourably with Jackie Chan; the master of martial arts with a comic twist. Aaliyah was good enough as Trisha and Delroy Lindo was good as her father. The ending wasn't a total surprise and the biggest mystery was who is the Romeo of the title? After all none of the characters has that name! It is explained although it was almost as if somebody thought up a cool title then needed a way to use it. Over all I was a bit disappointed although that might be because it wasn't quite what I'd expected; it isn't too bad though so if you see it is going to be on TV and there is nothing else on it passes the time well enough. "},{"Title":"Good martial arts action film.","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Romeo Must Die is set in Los Angeles where Po Sing (Jon Kit Lee) the son of a Chinese mobster is found murdered hanging from a street post, back home in China his brother Han (Jet Li) hears of Po's death & escapes from prison & flies to Los Angeles to avenge him. Po & Han's father Ch'u Sing (Henry O) is in the middle of a big property deal along with black mobsters lead by Isaak O'Day (Delroy Lindo) who are buying up waterfront properties to sell to NFL businessman Vincent Roth (Edoardo Bellerini), some of the tenants don't want to sell but that's where things get ugly & rivalries start. Then Isaak's son Colin (DB Woodside) is also murdered as tensions between the three parties rise, meanwhile Han is on a mission to find his brother's killer & with help from Isaak's daughter Trish (Aaliyah) which increases the hatred between the two families even more...Directed by first timer Andrzej Bartkowiak this was Jet Li's first starring role in an American film & came on the back of producer Joel Silver's promise after he appeared in Lethal Weapon 4 (1998), while not the best action film out there Romeo Must Die is still watchable enough if your into martial arts fights & action. First of all it has to be said that although the title Romeo Must Die is obviously a play on the William Shakespeare play Romeo and Juliet any connection is tenuous at best, sure there are two opposing families, sure the daughter & son from the heads of those families form a relationship (it's more of a warm friendship than out & out love affair here) & that in itself causes problems & tensions but otherwise Romeo Must Die has little connection to the Bard's immortal work. Anyway, Romeo Must Die is a pretty cool film, it's also quite long at over 110 minutes & there's surprisingly quite a lot of dialogue & exposition here with various subplots that the script tries to juggle around including the romance between Han & Trish, Han looking for his brother's killer, Mac double crossing his boss, the corrupt property deal with the NFL guy, the murder of the two family heads sons & a bunch of Isaak's men that Han keeps running into & beating up. It never really gels together that well & the eventual plot twists at the end have little dramatic impact, sure there's more plot here than one might expect (& more than is needed) for a Hollywood action film but it bogs the overall pace down, it's nothing original or particularly deep & it gets in the way of the action which is really the only reason anyone is going to want to watch Romeo Must Die anyway. The character's are OK, the dialogue is alright & it's watchable enough I suppose but there are better action films out there.So is Romeo Must Die worth watching for the action? Well, yes I would say so. Even though he has no real charisma or presence or stature on screen Jet Li know's some moves & his martial arts fighting scenes stand out, from fighting prison guards hanging upside down to spinning & flipping through the air to taking on bad guy's with a water hose to all the usual head butts, wrist snapping & neck breaking moves you expect. The fights are well staged & quite fun although they are violent & some of the stuff that goes on here would really hurt someone. There's also some shoot-outs, a car chase & some explosions just to add a bit of variety. The film has an unusual feel as the majority of the cast are either Chinese or black & the soundtrack is full of horrible hip-hop rap songs which I just hated (even a supposedly sombre moment like when Trish has to identify her murdered brother Colin has a really inappropriate hip-hop tune playing in the background) although some of the techno dance type stuff that played during some of the fights sounded quite cool & energetic.The IMDb says that this had a budget of about $25,000,000 which isn't that huge actually, certainly by Hollywood standards (the aforementioned Lethal Weapon 4 had a budget in the region of $120,000,000). Shot mainly in Canada apparently. The acting is alright, Jet Li is OK, Aaliyah is fine while Delroy Lindo brings a bit of warmth to the film. Rapper DMX has a small role.Romeo Must Die is a watchable martial arts action film that gets bogged down with a needlessly complicated plot that thinks it's cleverer than it is, watch it for the action rather than the drama & most will like it. Director Bartkowiak along with Li & DMX teamed up again to make Cradle 2 the Grave (2003) which is also well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"A lively but by-the-numbers film...","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In what is hyped as the first hip-hop Kung Fu movie, Jet Li plays Han, a disgraced Chinese police officer incarcerated in a Hong Kong prison for refusing to spill the beans on his Chinese gangster family. His family have fled to Oakland, California, where they are now engaged in a bitter gang war with Black-American mob family, the O'Days. When Li receives news that his little brother has been murdered, he breaks out of prison and heads to the States to track down his brother's killer etc., etc. Once there he steals a cab, and who should jump in the back but Trish O'Day (who'da figured?) who, like Han, despises her family's criminal activities. When Trish's brother also turns up dead, presumably in a revenge strike against the O'Days, the two team up to find out what's going on. Oh yeah, and there's some big property scam going on with some white guys about buying up waterfront properties to build, of all things, a football stadium. It's pretty much run-of-the-mill-stuff, but as usual, Jet Li's fight scenes, aided by veteran Corey Yuen's choreography, are enormously watchable.Although not completely unfathomable, the choice of title is an odd one. Okay, we've got two rival families and the son of one family (Li) fancies the daughter of the other (Aaliyah). Fine. A Romeo and Juliet scenario, but if you expect any further Shakespearean allusions, forget it. At no point, unless I missed it, is Li's character referred to as Romeo, and I don't think there is any desire expressed anywhere in the movie that he must die, except maybe in the climactic fight. No-one is even looking for him (except presumably the Chinese Police, though strangely there is no evidence of this either. Nor is it explained how, after breaking out of a Chinese prison, he can just board a plane and fly to, and enter, the United States). It's a lively but by-the-numbers film, with some VERY obvious wire-work (which Li doesn't need), and is notable only for marking the directorial debut of cinematographer Andrzej Bartkowiak, the cameraman behind SPEED, LETHAL WEAPON 4, and THE DEVIL'S ADVOCATE, and for being Jet Li's first lead role in a US movie following his supporting appearance in LETHAL WEAPON 4. It also introduces a charming X-Ray special effect where we get to see Li's victims' bones breaking. Whoever dreamt that one up needs therapy.Most touchingly it features the first and only movie appearance by hip-hop star Aaliyah. Undoubtedly talented and beautiful, she shows great promise and screen presence and is the only bright note in the movie. The movie showcases her musical and more than passable acting talents and she even gets involved in a fight scene with Li, who says he cannot hit a girl and uses Aaliyah's limbs to fight a female opponent. Tragically she was killed in a plane crash the following year. "},{"Title":"The story could have worked","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Such as it is, Romeo &#133; is not a good movie&#151;on the contrary, it is mere trash. It suffers from the worst directing ever&#151;or,rather,there is no directing at all. Bartowiak seems entirely insensitive and indifferent to the subject's charm&#151;a violent story of gangsters and passion. Being given the subject's very real possibilities and the exciting thing it could have become with a real director and a true script, Bartowiak's incompetence appears all the more flagrant , annoying and ugly. A director like Leone would have known how to turn such a story into a wild amazing melodrama. It is extremely stupefying that such ignorant impostors like this Bartowiak who obviously knows nothing about cinema get to direct movies that need some budget.Only think of the idea of bringing Jet Li and Lindo on the same set&#151;it is like teaming Olivier with Belmondo, or something.The movie could of been done well&#151;but it needed first a script, it needed to be written. Romeo &#133; has an execrable rudiment of script. Then, given the script, the thing had to be directed. Bartowiak is obviously not the man for such a job. Even the (too few) fight scenes look misplaced and mishandled, despite Jet Li's good approach. The movie is also strangely deficient in attitude&#151;its like the Verona lovers for the kindergarten. In fact ,except for two or three of its actors, and the subject, the idea, everything in this movie has to be criticized. But then again, it is marvelously obvious that Shakespeare gave to so many subjects and stories an imperishable and disturbing shape. They are very exciting even when they've been disfigured by idiots (you have to excuse the following savant parenthesis ,but it is so evident that no other dramatist&#151;not even Goethe&#151;managed to underlie his plays with so strong stories&#151;with stories so powerful in themselves&#151;Faust is not interesting when transposed in other dramatic terms&#151;the thing has already been done, and unsuccessfully). The Shakepeareian plays are also good stories, good subjects&#151;this is impressive.Romeo &#133; can not be taken in any way, but it clearly had the possibilities of a thrilling melodrama.It has no trace of composition, of narrative flair. The large-sized gangster melodrama in a Romeo and Juliet form still has to be made and still waits for its deserved Leone-like director. The canvas would be huge and quite difficult to manage, but the thing is worth being made. Bartowiak is a nullity, but a director with a taste for melodrama and with skills for finely-paced thrillers could make wonders with such a subject. The transposition ,the translation of the Shakespeareian subject into the multiracial world of the gangsters is not a displeasing idea&#151;good things may be made of it.To mention briefly the good things, they are Jet Li and his father-in-law, Lindo. Unfortunately, not even they have well&#151;written roles. The script is garbage. This incompetent Bartowiak certainly makes even Joel Schumacher or Sidney Furie&#151;or FO Ray,or &#133;,or &#133;--look like Welles or at least like Jeunet!The film is very disparate and heterogeneous&#151;it is made up of different pieces&#151;the martial arts sequences, the gangsters sequences&#151;and much crap &#133;.However, four good things in it--the imposing Lindo;--Jet Li, fine as almost always;--Aaliyah (the name tells me nothing, but I have read she was a celebrity)&#151;much better than I expected from such a movie;--the subject&#151;the movie has a very good subject, this verifies the enormous value of Shakespeare's plays (or of the literary sources from which he himself borrowed his subjects) in terms of stories. The story is not written at all&#151;but it could of been a great story&#151;one feels this during the whole movie. I know who this film needed&#151;it needed a Leone. With Leone as director, and with a real script, this story could of been sensational. "}{"Title":"Jet Li Rules","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jet Li is so awesome! He makes kung-fu look so real. Can you imagine him and Jackie Chan fighting! Aaliyah, God Bless her soul, is just an angel in the film. The character she plays really brings out the wild side of her. It's sad to see her life end so tragically. Anthony Anderson was really funny! The way he got beat up by Jet Li twice! That was hilarious. DB Woodside is really hot in this movie. I love action movies especially with Jet Li in them. If he's in the film there will always be action. Non-stop action! As for the rest of the cast they did a good job. When I saw that Chinese guy hanging from a tree it gave me goosebumps! It looked so real! The special effects in the movie were totally authentic. I wish they made a sequel! "},{"Title":"You can have fun with this ...","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ... only if you don't try to hard to hate it. Because of course it's not the greatest movie and in no way does this ever touch the greatness that Jet Li's HK movies had ... but then again it's a nice story (one that has been told million times before, sometimes with less action, sometimes with more). The clue to the origin of that story can be found in the title ... ;o) Jet Li plays the main role, but you could expect what you'd see from him. But you couldn't really foresee what Aaliyah's performance would be like. She turned up a good performance and it's a shame that she died a few years ago, much too early ...See this movie and you'll be entertained lightly! o) "},{"Title":"Turn off your brain and have some fun","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The plot is ridiculously unrealistic. As a martial arts film, it's a failure. As a crime film, it's amateurish at best. Some (but not all) of the acting in this movie is just plain abysmal. Even the musical score just doesn't work right for an action film. What makes Romeo Must Die worth watching it the fusion between the two genres, along with the entertaining chemistry between its two stars.Perhaps my enjoyment of this film, one of my personal guilty pleasures, is simply due to the fact that I'm a huge fan of martial arts films (Jet Li being my favorite martial arts actor), crime films, and Aaliyah (one of the very few mainstream R&B singers from the past 20 years that I actually enjoy). The two, despite Jet Li's imperfect English and Aaliyah's inexperience in acting, have a surprising amount of chemistry, which leads to some of the movie's warmer and more comedic moments.The story is relatively simple. There's just enough complexity and mystery within the plot to maintain interest throughout the film, but it's definitely not a mental workout. Some of the moments in this movie are simply corny, most of all being the digital x-ray effects added into some of the fight scenes and the monologue delivered by D.B. Woodside before his character's death. However, these moments are rather short, and don't ruin the movie as a whole.While a far cry from Once Upon a Time in China or The Usual Suspects, Romeo Must Die is still a fun movie to watch when in search of some simple fun. "},{"Title":"I can watch it over and over again","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I don't know, maybe I'm biased (even though I can't imagine why I would be), but I can watch this movie over and over again. I know it's not perfect by any means (hence, I gave it a 9 out of 10), but if you have a somewhat decent imagination, I'm positive you can really get into the movie and enjoy it. Aliyah (I'm sorry if I spelled her name incorrectly) played an amazing role; it's such a shame to remember what happened to her. Between the acting, fight scenes, and DEFINITELY some good music, it was overall a great movie to watch. It came out when I was in college and the soundtrack was blasting in my car all over Baltimore! Enjoy it and let us know what you think!!! "},{"Title":"A huge waste of potential and talent.....","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was sorely disappointed with this movie, which is a shame because the basic idea was interesting and there was a lot going for it. When i first heard of the title, i was thinking that anyone hoping to do anything like a Romeo and Juliet with the rival families being Afro-American and Chinese, the couple played by an R&B singer and martial artist must be out of his mind. It would be the boldest thing in cinema history, a turning point in popular racial/cultural thinking. OK OK, viewed in such a climactic sense, this flick doesn't even scratch the surface, and obviously wasn't hoping to. I guess it did deliver the R&B and martial arts though....So what was good. Not a lot. Aaliyah was as hot as ever and yes i was hoping for some romance between her and Jet Li, even if the whole Romeo and Juliet thing could never really have worked. Thing is, it would have been the rarest things in cinema history. I can not think of a single film which would even attempt romance between a female Afro-American and a male Chinese, and i stress the sexes here. By not realising what potential this had, this film was never going to be good. I can understand why the romance was not quite there though. The coupling was hardly possible and Jet Li was about 17 years older than Aaliyah. And also, Jet Li's not cut out for it. He's not really a male icon even in the far east...He's known for one thing, martial arts.....A kissing scene would have been bizarre yet unmissable...given how he reacts in the few romantic scenes he has done (none of them have kissing)...The bad. I don't know how it is for the Afro-Americans here but as an ethnic Chinese i found the stereotypes tiresome. I've been to HK and i'm pretty sure they don't beat prisoners hung upside down with batons (they do talk about horse gambling though). They don't call HK one of the Four Tigers for nothing. I advise anyone who wants to know anything about HK and not just the stereotypes to watch how they portray themselves to a Chinese audience. Something like Infernal Affairs for example. And yes HK is distinct from China. Jet Li was actually using Cantonese with that guard, not Mandarin, which is what he uses for the rest of the film. And you would be very lucky to meet anyone in HK who knows proper kung-fu. Your better chances are in fact in China. All HK did was produce a lot of kung-fu movies and start-off the genre because they had a thriving a movie industry which the mainland didn't have at the time.Also, like a lot of the critics here, i have issues with the fight scenes. What's with the unrealistic wire-work. We all know what Jet Li can do without the wire, and even with the wire i have seen a lot better. What made it worst was the enhancements, speed-ups and x-ray sequences. For a moment i thought i was watching sci-fi and no longer took the film seriously. What were the director and choreographer thinking.Yeah OK, so i didn't really didn't like this movie and i don't think i'm the only one given the IMDb rating. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Kung Fu Action","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Romeo Must Die is a very slick competent action flick with some great wire-fu provided by Jet Li. The film has a fairly basic plot about two rival gangs but all the twists can be seen coming it's the likeabilty of Li and Aailiyah as well as some very cool action scenes that make this film entertaining.The action scenes are way over the top but Li remains super cool throughout, the bad guys are mostly comedy villains apart from a nasty yuppy who seems to come straight out of Wall Street and the main baddie (who i wont name as it's meant to come as a surprise!). DMX turns up in a supporting role as a club owner and luckily doesn't have to act to much. DMX and Li would later team up with the same director and much of the cast again on 2003's Craddle to the Grave which is inferior to this movie in terms of both action and plot.An enjoyable hour and a half of a flashy western take on wire-fu.6/10 "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) Romeo Must Die (2000)","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've been a fan of Jet Li's movies, but have been quite disappointed with his latest offering Danny The Dog/Unleashed. While the action was great as usual, somehow the storyline isn't compelling enough. I'm still eagerly anticipating his Fearless in 2006 though, as the publicity stills so far have been promising, and it's touted as his final action movie.Which brings me back to Romeo Must Die. It's his first feature length Hollywood film as the protagonist, after his villainous start in Lethal Weapon 4 opposite Mel Gibson. And to compensate for the lack of classic martial arts action in LW4, there are tons of wire-work/CGI laden kung fu in this movie.The storyline's pretty decent, with a gang war between an African American gang, and a Chinese gang, in which Jet belongs to. He and Aaliyah play the offspring of their respective mob bosses, and decide to team up to discover a recent spate of killings between their gangs, as their siblings become the latest victims.As part of the plot, we see both gangs trying to engage in legitimate business, with a crooked NFL dealer thrown into the mix. It's of little surprise that both gangs, although different in race and culture, are run in the same way - a strong figure head, ruthless second-in-commands, and bumbling assistants.What appeals probably is the chemistry between Jet and Aaliyah. The latter was an up and coming singing starlet, but unfortunately perished in a tragic air crash. Romeo Must Die is her first movie released when she's alive (the other being Queen of the Damned), and I'd thought she would make a decent actress too. She seemed to partner Jet Li well, and looked credible in some of the action sequences.Much of the action is stylized, meaning you know, and in a very obvious manner, that the fights all involve wires (since it's HK's Cory Yuen choreographing, and Joel Silver producing it). A pretty nifty x-ray CGI effect comes up on screen each time Jet Li breaks someone's bones. Pretty cool, and not used to often to make you sick.It's a decent movie which will engage you, especially on a lazy weekend or holiday.The Code 3 DVD is stocked full with special features, making of documentaries, music videos, and if put into a PC, even leads you to a simple fighting game online. "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is how an action movie should be. I had no expectations whatsoever when I first sat down to watch it. After i was finished, i was satisfied. Extremely satisfied. I'd watch it again and again. It's cool to see how Jet Li and his martial arts adds up to the ghetto style of DMX and Anthony Anderson. I also found the story cool; a little twist on the original Romeo And Juliet story. And not bad, like the Romeo and Juliet remake from 2000. Also, Aalyiah plays great, despite being her first movie. When i saw she was playing, it even made me wanna watch the movie even more, since i was exited to see someone like her play movies. "},{"Title":"A worth-while film","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I think that this was a brilliant take on a modern Romeo and Juliet-style story. Aaliyah was a brilliant actress, and her monologue scene when she's talking about her brother was very touching I had tears in my eyes the first time I saw it. She is a real loss to both the music and acting scene.The music from the movie was good too, and I think it fitted in with the film well. The soundtrack complimented the whole film.One thing I definitely liked about this film was the x-ray scenes with the bones braking. Though it was disgusting to watch, it was a good touch. The fighting scenes were also very good, though it wasn't as natural as I would've liked it to have been.All in all, I love this film, and think that even if there was a Romeo Must Die 2, it wouldn't be the same without Aaliyah. "},{"Title":"Nice adaptation of classic...","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ** HERE MIGHT BE SPOILERS **Po, son of Chinese mafia boss is found dead. Although swearing his organization is innocent Isaak O'Day (Lindo) takes steps to ensure the safety of his son and daughter. At the same time, word of Po's death travels to Hong Kong where his brother Han (Li) is imprisoned. He breaks free and travel to Oakland to find out who is responsible for the death of his brother. Naturally he runs in to Isaaks O'Day's daughter Trish (Aaliyah) who is not really happy being put under the supervision of her fathers goons. Friendship evolves between them as the big deal all of the branches of the mafia is slowly, and violently, coming to a conclusion.One could say that there are two aspects of this movie that coexist, thanks to the adaption of a classic story and making it into a modern action movie. First this movie is about betrayal, revenge and love. All actions revolve and evolve around these themes. Second, this movie is about martial arts and choreographed fights. With a cast being very proficient in martial arts with Li and Wong among others there are a lot of scenes with spectacular fighting. Although this risks to put the story in second place because it might seem that the story is just there to put the hero in scenes with fighting. Romeo must die succeeds to keep the story and fighting on equal foots which is fundamental. One piece to accomplish this is the other actors that don't fight (martial arts style) all the time like Aaliyah, Lindo and Washington. So, in conclusion this is a decent classic story with spectacular fights. Enjoy.6/10  "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is one film that I truly liked because it was not filled with 120 minutes of action, it actually had a story to it.Jet Li seems like he never lost a step from his breakout American debut in Lethal Weapon 4. I can't believe that he didn't come to America sooner because he is incredibly talented and excellent martial artist. Li is so good that he can perform with his eyes goods. As with Aaliyah, Jet Li is an actor who can act with little direction. Romeo Must Die seemed to me to be an updated version of the romance between Romeo & Juliet. I thought it was not cliché because the writers added some new stuff and tweeked the rest just enough to make it very good. This film also works on other levels because it shows that Jet Li is a man to be reckoned with due to his versatility as an actor.Two newcomers who almost stole Jet Li's thunder are also two musicians. Aaliyah and DMX were so good I forgot they were relative newcomers because every piece of dialogue that flowed out seemed to be unrehearsed. I hope and wish these two stick with acting because they are destined to be great actors one day.I was very impressed with Romeo Must Die because it is not a one dimensional action film, it has substance to support and balance the action. My congratulations to Li, Aaliyah and the rest of the cast for a job well done.  "},{"Title":"great action movie","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  although it meets with all the same problems that any action movie does, such as a classic an over used story line. but it does have reprieves such as impressive action scenes, jet li truly is a master of martial arts and shows this well throughout the movie. as for the topic of racial abuse, i honestly never thought about it, an if you take movies that seriously you shouldn't be watching action movies. there really aren't a great many movies that have altogether well choreographed action scenes but this is one of the few that do, jet li is well known for doing all his own stunts (mainly cause i don't think there are many if anyone that can quite do the same things that he does)which is another reason for the great action. a movie worth watching if you after some impressive but kicking.  "},{"Title":"Way too underrated","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li plays Han Sing who falls in love with Trish O'Day (Aaliyah) but their families disapprove their romance.That sounds awfully familiar.That's because this is kind of a modern day version of William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet.Andrzej Bartkowiak's Romeo Must Die (2000) includes lots of kung fu action.Jet Li, who is one of the coolest guys on the planet, gets to show his skills in this movie.He can't only fight good, he's also a fine actor.Aaliyah is also superb in this movie. This great actress and R&B singer sadly died in an air crash on August 25th in 2001 at the age of 22.She was incredibly beautiful and talented woman.There are also other great actors in this film, like Delroy Lindo, Isaiah Washington, Russell Wong and the rap artist DMX.Many critics don't like Romeo Must Die too much, which is a shame.This movie is filled with amazing action sequences.Many things work in this movie just great.I certainly liked it, so why don't you give it a chance. "},{"Title":"ROMEO MUST DIE (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the first movies of one of the most recommended cinematographers, Bartkowiak, was in fact one of the pioneermovies that would set us up with terrible things like The fast and the furious or Biker Boyz but still this actionmovie has a grip on the viewers. Don't try to understand the plot as the ongoing maffiawar between the Chinese and the Black ghettos is as stupid as your usual Chuck Norris-script but still thanks to some terrific actionscenes and good performances from both Jet Li and the sadly passed away Aaliyah (those lips...) made this more than your average actionmovie. Sad enough we also must accept the fact that this movie was one of the firestarters from overrated and unrealistic movies that rely on fast cars and motorbikes, but still...  "},{"Title":"Romeo Must Die (2000)","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is an action / drama that centers on a street war between two crime families, the Chinese and the Blacks.  Both are in cahoots to gain waterfront property that is to be used to house a new NFL franchise coming to the area.  During this street war, two members of the respective families develop a Romeo & Juliette type relationship that strains the relationship of the already estranged groups.   Performances by the late Aalyiah and Issaiah Washington are not to be missed.  The action sequences are a little too Hollywood for my tastes but they are enjoyable nonetheless.  A pretty good story and a powerful soundtrack drive this movie beyond mediocrity.   This is a decent film to have in your collection as it has made it's way into mine.  I rated it an 8/10.Peace and enjoyBuggieblade  "},{"Title":"Awesome in every way","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is one film that I truly liked because it was not filled with 120 minutes of action, it actually had a story to it.Jet Li seems like he never lost a step from his breakout American debut in Lethal Weapon 4. I can't believe that he didn't come to America sooner because he is incredibly talented and excellent martial artist. Li is so good that he can perform with his eyes goods. As with Aaliyah, Jet Li is an actor who can act with little direction. Romeo Must Die seemed to me to be an updated version of the romance between Romeo & Juliet. I thought it was not cliche because the writers added some new stuff and tweeked the rest just enough to make it very good. This film also works on other levels because it shows that Jet Li is a man to be reckoned with due to his versatility as an actor.Two newcomers who almost stole Jet Li's thunder are also two musicians. Aaliyah and DMX were so good I forgot they were relative newcomers because every piece of dialogue that flowed out seemed to be unrehearsed. I hope and wish these two stick with acting because they are destined to be great actors one day.I was very impressed with Romeo Must Die because it is not a one dimensional action film, it has substance to support and balance the action. My congratulations to Li, Aaliyah and the rest of the cast for a job well done.  "},{"Title":"This is not a remake of Romeo And Juliet you FUELS!!","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  'Romeo' is the Chinaman who comes to America and hangs about with the black Alaya (or however you spell it).  He is not an actual Romeo or seeking a RELATIONSHIP with her outside of them helping each other - him to avenge his dead brother and her to distance herself from his father's crimes.  It's like the 'Hey Romeo stay away from our girl' thing, not 'Oh Romeo where for art thou my lovy dovy bubesey tubesey'.The plot is you got 'the man (whitey corporate)' who is trying to leverage a waterfront by proxy with warring Chinese and black organized criminals to build a new stadium.  The man don't care who gets jack, just get the jack - Mack PThis is actually a surprisingly good movie.  One because it does not pretend that Alaya and the kung fu dude are hot for each other - just becoming friends trying to help each other, in a jam so to speak.  And second, because it is very 'real' in it's 'feel'.  It is something hard to describe. I have lived in the bay area, and much of this movie (I think all of it) was shot there - as was much of 'Undercover Brother'.  It has the feel of real California businessmen and guys trying to get ahead, and the things they say are actually not far off base - that is how they talk here.  I like also how they play football instead of just shooting the guy - a refreshing touch.  But most of all I like Alaya as an actress.  She has genuine personality and you can feel a sweetness there I do not see from most actresses.  She is dead now, but I bet she was a decent human being - unlike most of the shallow types you meet here.  I dunno - if you watch the movie you will see it - she has a knack for coming off like a real person, more so than many of the more 'seasoned' (if you want to give them as much credit) actors in the film.It's a good movie.  See it NOW! o)  "},{"Title":"It was ok.","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw the movie. It was okay. I would like give it a 6. Most of the characters were good looking, a plus in a movie but I didnt really get the plot. I didnt understand why the title was Romeo Must Die cuz it doesnt fit and besides I didnt see any connection between the Han and Trish. Although DMX was advertised along with Jet, and Aaliyah, I felt that DMX didnt do much. I enjoyed those two scenes with the audience seeing what happened to those people who made contact with Han which was a cool effect. "},{"Title":"Action and music for amoebas","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fantastic flick for those who want to listen to their 5.1 system a couple of hip-hop tracks and see some kung-fu choreography. If you are one of those passe guys who think that a movie should have a plot and some character development than stay away. "},{"Title":"Straight popcorn.","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It was better than I thought it would be. It has some nice action, no bad acotrs and some poppy tunes. It's mainly style above content. What is bad about are the stereotype gangs, the missing chemistry between Aaliyah and Lee and some questionable SFX. Overall a six for me, if it was only out of respect for Aaliyah. "}{"Title":"a fun action","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What worked Romeo Must Die is a good action film which displays the acting talents of each of its stars and newcomers like Anthony Anderson whose career looks promising, But Aaliyah actually is good as Trish O Day she almost made me cry a couple of times,u actually connect with her character, and Jet Li injects some emotion to his character,coming off as lovable but furious(especially when he fights!) This movie unlike most other action films actually tries to develop a story and even though it is somewhat predictable it's still watchable but the second half of the movie is when it actually gets better,the action is well choreographed. And the music is possibly the best soundtrack that I've heard that blends orchestral music with a hip-hop and r&b soundtrack.What didn't work The story is too predictable and it outweighs the story making the film seem stretch a bit too long. The romance between Li's and Aaliyah's characters is more hinted at than actually developed,the character tend to flirt more than develop a full fledged romance. And everyone in this movie flying doing two kicks in the air, now I like films that have wire-work but this movie pushed it at times.This movie has good acting,good action,and is a good movie overall, just suspend your belief a little. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Lack of Direction","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is nothing more than a jumble of comedy, action, and drama. There are a few interesting martial arts scenes, but it is not worth the watch of this entire sh*tfest. The acting in the movie was worse than that found on porno films, and the script was not any better. I enjoy action films, but this movie's lack of direction and seriousness made me hate this and want to never see a Jet Li film ever again. "},{"Title":"Jet li at his best !","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really love this movie !!!The fight scenes are just fantastic !!!!Jet is kicking assNo spoilers whatsoever ! "},{"Title":"A good imitation of the original with a martial arts twist.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die was the first Jet film I've ever seen. I enjoyed it emmensely! I'd highly recommend it for any Jet Li fan. With humor, FANTASTIC martial arts sequences and jolting performances! The best Jet movie I've seen yet! "},{"Title":"Kung fu with a hip hop beat.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a pretty decent action film starring Jet Li and Aaliyah (who tragically died in a plane crash the year after this film was released).  It involves a struggle between two gangs, one black, one Chinese, over waterfront property to be sold for a sports stadium.  Jet Li gets involved when his brother is killed.This is director Andrzej Bartkowiak's first film, and being a cinematography with an impressive resume, he does very well in the chair.  Shot mostly in Vancouver, B.C. (filling in for San Francisco/Oakland), it is visually appealing.  The action scenes aren't as good as the top Hong Kong directors but still decent enough - I'd prefer a lighter touch on the computer enhancement.Jet Li will never be a great actor but he does pretty well here as the love interest of Aaliyah, daughter of the black gang leader.  Aaliyah does very well in her one and only complete film, and it's too bad she didn't live to do an encore.Nothing deep, but fun to watch anyway. "},{"Title":"Good Action Movie","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good action movie that delivers but does not really impress. Just delivers all the basics. Tries to have an uncompromising feel to it but actually, they chose to water this one down a lot. The acting performances was not bad but there was not enough fight scenes. Quite entertaining enough though as long as you are not looking for a Masterpiece. Only for fans of Martial Art Action Movies and big fans of the lead actors....... "},{"Title":"Pretty good.....","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great movie! There was lots of great action and cool moves done by Jet Li. That X-ray thing was also very cool. The movie even had its funny moments, which is great. The only real problem I had with the movie was the predictability of it. There were several parts of the movie where I could guess exactly how things would end up. But all in all it was good. 8/10 "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was trying to be like the matrix too much. The fight scenes were ok, but seeing where someone was hurt inside their body wasn't even remotely interesting. It made me feel like I was being patronized like I don't know where the people were hurt. If it' supposed to be a Romeo/Juliet type story, where's the star-crossed lover angle? Aaliyah and Jet Li are like good buddies the entire movie. There's really no sense of rivalry between the two families. They seem to be on the same side actually by trying to find out who killed their sons. I think this tried to get by, by using big names throughout the industry. The movie itself is a little boring and we know the good guys'll win. Nobody has any character development. They just have to fight at some point in the movie and look mean. Anthony was amusing of course, but the movie was slow. "},{"Title":"too much wire fu","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay when you are making a Matrix movie (who's characters can defy the reality of a virtual reality existence and can actually fly) its appropriate to use embellished fight choreography but when you are making a movie about a cop in the real world then its just pathetic. If this movie was made before the matrix and maybe post rumble in the bronx then this movie would have been almost perfect. Remember when you use to watch movies like drunken master or enter the dragon and afterwards you would practice until you could get the moves right? Well now a days thats impossible. Now every body wants to fly around on wires. It would be okay if they didn't actually look like they were flying around on wires. Lets say if Superman was to jump 15 feet in the air and kick somebody then it would look like he was flying because he can fly but if jackie chan were to do the same thing then it would look like he jumped 15 feet in the air and kicked somebody because he actually did it without the use of super human flying abilities. That is if it were possible. This is just my opinion but when you go to see martial arts movies and I know it might sound crazy but actually you go to see  real martial arts. The storyline overall was not that bad. If you can come up with an interesting excuse of why these guys are feeling so froggy that they have to leap on each other than its a pretty good story for a martial arts movie and romeo must die does that. The only bad thing about this story is the fact that it doesn't seem like Jet Li and Aliya are actually in love. He never kisses her or nothing. I think I gave this movie a 7.   "},{"Title":"Fantastic Martial-Art film!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not since The Matrix have we seen so detailed martial art sequences and meanwhile a great story. Joel Silver has produced and the famous photographer Andrzej Bartkowiak has directed one of the best action films in the new millenium.Han Sing (Jet Li)is an ex-cop who is sitting in a prison in Hong-Kong, when he hear that his brother is found hanged in the US, Han escapes from prison and goes to America, where he is hoping to get his brothers killer. Meanwhile he falls in love with Trish (Aaliyah), but she is the daughter of the man that Han's father is in battle with (like Romeo And Juliet). Han and Trish are trying to find out of why the to famillies fighting each other, without knowing that it will put them both in great danger.A very good movie, and i am sure that this will be an action-classic, if you haven't seen it then WHAT ARE YOU WATING FOR?**** out of ***** "}{"Title":"Kung fu movie for The Matrix-generation","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If I would have to analyze Romeo must die purely by its martial arts scenes, I would probably come to very obvious conclusion that its quite a masterpiece because the visual side in these marvelous sequences is simply fantastic. But a really good film should still be little more than just a handful of really good action. First of all I have nothing against this fellow Jet Li but he just unfortunately isn't a very skillful actor. On the other hand you don't have to be an extremely good actor in order to get some name and respect in Hollywood. Let's take Schwarzenegger for instance man only needed big muscles to become a superstar. But it will take Jet Li some time to win enough audience to his side and despite the fact that this motion picture certainly gives the lad some more fans he'll never be the new Bruce Lee. Naturally if he would die young (just about this year or so) it would help him to reach his target of becoming a legend, but nevertheless let's not hope it happens. Luckily Romeo must die contains performances from couple of actually notable guys. Isaiah Washington (True crime) and Delroy Lindo (Feeling Minnesota) were both excellent. Mildly tangled story contains elements from dozens of other action movies and William Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet. If you're just after a brilliant kung fu film Romeo must die is a dream come true for you because it's visually incredible artwork, a real eye candy with a superb, stylish camerawork and highly choreographic fight scenes. If that's not enough for you try something else. "},{"Title":"RMD's Main Cast Members Seem A Little Breathless","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After leafing through all the RMD reviews I felt driven to respond. I saw it twice in the multiplexes and have it on tape. The plot of RMD is too fast-paced to please the intellectual film fanatics, but perfection doesn't matter because RMD is all about a good time. As for Ch'u Sing's casual comment that Roth is a little antsy, I say that Big Poppa Sing (he is sexier than either of his two sons and his enforcer has nothin' on him!) is more than a little breathless and Isaac O'Day is in over his head. As for Jet Li's Han Sing, he should have had more time to improve his game with the lovely Trish O'Day and give a gift to Isaac. Li possesses that adolescent charm and leaves me with the impression that he has a lot more life experience to taste and feel besides the opening scene. If the editing seems a little clipped, that's because this is really fast-paced. Xi Reng Jiang (sue me! I like his original name because it's more becoming to him) gives his portrayal of Mr. Sing this unique Southern drawl and this laid-back stroll so the audience forgets for a moment that he's not U.S.-born. I am blown away because he makes sure the audience never misses a beat. I am throwing his name into the hat as a dark horse sensuality demigod because of this reason alone. Also, Mr. Jiang's being bilingual is an asset for the lithe cat man. Delroy Lindo adds brusqueness and daddy wolf protectiveness to his Isaac O'Day. Watch RMD for a boys' night out and have a nice ride.  "},{"Title":"Jet's US starring role debut","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo and Juliet for the MTV generation two warring Chinese and African American factions dispute heavily over possession of Oakland's Waterfront, and things get hairy when the son of the Chinese boss is found dead. Enter prisoner Jet Li (in his US starring role debut), brother of said victim, who escapes his confinement and investigates. As the war heats up, the Afro-American leader's daughter (played by the late Aaliyah) becomes entwined with our hero Jet, and our star-crossed lovers are soon headhunted by the rivalling families. Neither side are presented too well in this enjoyable, rapid-fire martial fest, standing as a much better US vehicle for Jet than the awful Lethal Weapon 4. Hyper-stylised and wire-enhanced fighting abound, this is a great example of the US action new wave, yet you can't help feeling it's all just a rather slick and aggressive music video. "},{"Title":"Simple action flick that entertains","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie. I saw it before Aaliyah died so throw out the sympathy vote. I have always loved Aaliyah and didn't want to see the movie in the theater because I thought she would be horrible.  Was scanning through the channels one night and saw it on HBO.  It was the BOMB! First of all, Aaliyah is not that bad.  She has that typical role that all musicians play in movies(cocky kind of arrogant attitude, all lines they say have arrogant inflection, aka Whitney Houston in Bodyguard, Will Smith early Fresh Prince).  But she comes off well.  The plot is interesting enough as Aaliyah's pops tries to protect her while the Chinese and African Americans settle the beef.  The action scenes were not deathlike but then again the movie was not serious like that.  People were expecting Bruce Lee type junk i.e. helmets that have spikes on them being thrown at enemies, spikes dig in, pull the helmet away and the person's head comes off. Crap like that. No.  This was meant to be light, entertaining,with some action and a lot of comedy(esp. memorable, Li using Aaliyah as a tool to fight and she walks along the wall).  The comedy is hilarious. Anthony Anderson was hilarious if not your stereotypical brother.  Some people have wrote comments about not developing the Chinese characters.  Wasn't meant to be here. This movie is about the African American characters.  There are only 130 minutes I think. No time to develop an Art and Entertainment Biography on minor people. Same thing happens in films where African American characters are outside listening to rap in the background while Steven Siegal or somebody does work.  It is all stereotypical, simplistic stuff and take it for what is. If you want real depth and racial meaning read something by Langston Hughes or W.B. Dubois, not an action flick!  One love to Aaliyah.P.S. This was certainly better than the The One. Hopefully, there will be only one of those. I'm out like the Knicks and the playoffs. "},{"Title":"Romeo Must Get A Director Who Knows Action","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has only one real problem, but it's a big one  It doesn't understand action.Jet Li can act, but so can a heck of a lot of people.  But when he moves from acting to action, he does what not a heck of a lot of people can do. Unfortunately, you wouldn't know it, based on this film.This is supposed to be an action movie, and they hired an action star, and then they give us a few minutes of amateurish wire work, some mostly ridiculously fake fighting, and ill-advised special effects.  The fight scenes will probably impress pre-teen boys who haven't played any kung fu games or seen many action films, but as Jet Li movies go this one might as well be The Sound of Music. "},{"Title":"A great movie and my introduction to Jet Li","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is very disappointing to me when I see so many negative comments about a film such as this. Most of them are based along the lines of 'Jet Li wasn't used properly' or 'The plot was too complicated' These comments detract from the new ideas displayed in the film and the directors attempt to put a modern twist on an old theme. This is a slick action thriller with great fight scenes and CGI. Some seem to think the effects weren't up to scratch, well I'm sorry I just have to disagree, they were done by Manex (matrix anyone??) and took a few new ideas and brought back the 'wow' factor with CGI, you know it isn't real but you didn't know they could do it! This movie really needs to be seen twice to be fully appreciated and so I added it to my ever expanding DVD collection where it takes one of the most used spots. This is not a martial arts movie per-se, it wasn't billed as such and should not be judged as such, it is and excellent movie with breath-taking effects, a solid plot and some wicked and funny fight scenes, oh and don't forget Maurice!! 9/10 with ease!! "},{"Title":"Not Jet li's best movie.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is not Jet Li's best movie,because he don't get to show of his best fighting skills. Even though Jet Li dosn't get to fight all the time,it is still an entertaining movie with lots of humor. This is also Aaliyah's first movie and unfortunantly her last. She was actually a good actress and a sexy one too. This movie brings something new into the action genre, and that is the x-ray vision when something breaks.We actually get to see inside the body when Jet Li breaks their bones,quit cool. A good action movie,but not the best fight scenes. "},{"Title":"what a fantastic film","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  what can i say, i know, this film was fantastic, aaliyah was really good, although some of the fight scenes were a little bit fake but they were soooo good. the story is conceivable but there is a little twist in the works, which from about a quarter of the way through becomes obvious, well it did to me anyway. but i deffinatly recomend that you watch this film. "},{"Title":"abosulutely wicked film, definately an all time great, seriouslym, i am not jokin","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  great storyline/script, great drama, great Action! This film has everything - guns, kung-fu, great action scenes (eg football scene!!), drama, twisted storyline, bit of romance- i rarely watch a film twice in a short period of time, but with this film I have watched it in the region of 5 tiems, and because I have it on DVD i can skip 2 the fight scenes etc. The filmography is great and the filming technique is great, and the soundtrack is immense - perfectly in tune with the action.The actors (especially Allijah, Isaah Washington are very believable, not so much with Jet Li, but it doesn't matter, he definately makes it up in the fight scenesi'll just say this - U HAVE TO SEE THIS FILM! - im bein serious, if anyone doubts me then u obviously dont know a good film when u see oneRating  10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"great martial arts/action film starring late Actress/Singer","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  great martial arts/action film starring late Actress/Singer Aaliyah,I was at first sceptical of Aaliyah's acting capabilities, till I bought this hearing it was like the Matrix, I was pleasantly suprised with her acting, she was a natural actor,I however don't think it had quite as much martial arts as some people have made it out to have, I was kinda hoping a Matrix meets Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, as they had the same director, the fight scenes were few and far betweeen and weren't as spectacular , but still a great film7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"This is the best movie ever!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best movie ever! Jet Li is so hot and he's the coolest guy ever. He did great, but i think the martial arts could have been a little better. Aaliyah was great. I think my favorite character was Silk. He didn't have a big part, but he was cool. I didn't like how Ch'u sing put his brothers i the meat locker. I thought that was really gross. I really like the sound track in it too. "},{"Title":"Not very good..........","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die stars Jet Li as a Hong Kong cop who finds himself in the middle between a war between his family and a group of blacks. Things aren't made any easier when Jet Li falls for the daughter of the kingpin.Romeo Must Die's problem is it has too much plot and that it doesn't use Jet Li right. Jet Li is doing stuff that can't really happen and he has no particular reason to.........He just does stuff that defies the law of gravity. The action scenes are rather disappointing and this movie isn't very entertaining......*1/2 (Out of four) "},{"Title":"I like the movie","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I like this movie, because it does not have a lot of fighting. It has comedy and a good friendship between Jet Li and Aaliyah characters. I love when they mix cultures and they are able to work together. I'm happy that Joel Silver did not make a romantic story line between Li and Aaliyah, because it would have been the same old predictable story line. The movie was excellent. Congrats goes out to all the actors for a job well done.  "},{"Title":"how not to make an action movie","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Utterly rediculous actioner has Asian action star Jet Li trying to find out who killed his brother. Along the way he falls in love with the daughter of a crime boss who happens to be the arch rivalof the family his brother was in.  There is some other plot about land deeds too, but that's not important. The only thing that keeps this from becoming a complete disaster is the action scenes, and even they are pretty stupid.  Li defies the laws of gravity with his kung foo moves to the point where you wonder if producer Joel Silver thought he was still in his last movie The Matrix.  But at least in that movie it looked real, here it just looks dumb.  There's another equally stupid scene were Li decides he can't hit a women so he uses his girlfriends body to beat up the women who's kicking his ass.  I'm in favour of unrealistic action movies but this got to the point where it was just nonsense. "},{"Title":"Promises a lot, and delivers nothing new, or too exciting.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film looked good from the outset. With the promise of Jet Li's martial arts skill and the effects of the Matrix, coupled with a title sequence that excites and tantalises, I was set for a cracker of a film.Unfortunately, it was a standard plot and just didn't deliver. Yes, the effects were good, but they did nothing but detract from the fight sequences, and having just watched Police Story with Jackie Chan, even these weren't up to much. Straight fighting would have been much better, and a decent plot!It's nice eye candy, but don't take it out if you expect something more.  "},{"Title":"Entertainingly Average","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this on DVD because it was in a special offer and found the whole film to be entertaining if nothing special. The standouts for me were Delroy Lindo's performance (why isn't this man bigger?) and Jet Li's fighting. Although the wirework dampened the effect of his skill, his moves are still great and he possesses enough charm as an actor to carry the film. Aaliyah's performance was nothing special (although she was a beauty) and I was left wondering if the makers had decided against an inter-racial romance to avoid offence. "},{"Title":"Jet Li at his best amercian style","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die has everything a martial arts flms should. Amazing fight sequences, good action seqeunces and a bitchin star. With this film, Mr. Li crossed over to Amercian sucess with all the wire fu. The film's only down point is thta it doesn't display Li's full talent. But other than that it's a good eye candy flick. Aaliyah also showed her acting talent in this movie and she is stil missed. "},{"Title":"Saved by Jet Li","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Let me first get this out of my system I can't wait to watch The One. Anything with Jet Li is sheer heaven, even when he isn't speaking in Mandarin (he has the SEXIEST Mandarin accent!). Anything, except Romeo Must Die.It has been a while since I saw the movie, and I did see it on a crappy disc, but I don't remember ever being bored by a Jet Li movie. Romeo Must Die bored me senseless. The fight scenes aren't enough, and when Jet *does* fight, the sequences are so murky, you can't see his moves properly. I was terribly disappointed by its fight sequences. The main reason I even bothered with the movie is to watch Jet Li. I guess I'm too used to his Huang Fei Hong movies, whatever they're called in English, where his moves are actually visible, but Romeo Must Die was just...an incredible let-down. And the plot? I don't remember it.Hopefully, The One would be much better. "},{"Title":"Decidedly average","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not one of Jet Li's better films, his performance is OK but this is let down by the script and the directing.  The late Aaliyah is competent enough, but otherwise it's passable and definitely not a priority on your must see list.Li is far more watchable in The Kiss Of The Dragon. "},{"Title":"pretty good.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Joel silver may have gained success with the matrix but it doesn`t mean that every movie that uses special effect would be good to watch. But then I found it pretty good to watch the plot that is. The plot was good as it has a twist in the end. But as for the action and everything. I didn`t like it much. Jet Li seemed to rely too much on strings and the way he spoke english made it seem like he just learnt it off set.     "}{"Title":"Cool fights...when they happened.","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  All in all, I'd consider this movie a flop.  The plot *could* have been decent had it not been so slowly drawn out.  The fight scenes were great but too few and far between to keep the movie interesting.  Ever since the Matrix I've been addicted to gravity defying impossible kung fu battles through the use of wires and computer effects.  I know not everyone would agree with me, but I think Jet Li's already fantastic martial arts abilities are (usually) enhanced by the use of wires (the firehose battle in particular comes to mind).  Sadly, even Jet Li's matrial arts acrobatics couldn't save this movie, and his debut North American film had me returning the DVD before I even finished watching it.Fortunatly Kiss of the Dragon redeemed Li and not only proved to the purists that he could kick ass without the use of wires, but he could act too. "},{"Title":"Anything but poetic.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you're able to sit through this more than once, I salute you. You obviously have seen something in this flick I haven't. Romeo Must Die is an action movie that is strictly vanilla and there's nothing real euphoric to feel about this flick. It doesn't go anywhere you haven't seen five or six times before. Jet Li's got the stuff, but his Americanized stuff has been iffy. After a wasted appearance in Lethal Weapon 4 and now this, I can only wonder what next train wreck he'll be involved in. He deserves better material and if he wants to join the Asian crossover ranks besides Jackie Chan and Chow Yun Fat, he should really fire his agent.He brings his moves and some nice screen presence (ditto Aaliyah), but everything else is basically a demerit. The story is a complete dud, predictable at every point and there is certainly no room for brilliant acting in a cookie cutter product of this type. Delroy Lindo adds his respectability while Isaac Washington chews on the thinly written turncoat role. Worst of all, the fighting pieces have no visceral energy or excitement and when they start to, they're ruined by liberal sprinkles of noticeable CGI tinkering and wire work. I'm talking inhumanly jump kicking someone in mid air. Yeah that kind of silliness. It drags down the stunt choreography and the fights are likely why you bothered to see this movie in the first place. The ending is in the tradition of the entire movie too ... a letdown. "},{"Title":"a original no gun use action hero for film","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must die was a urban retelling so to speak of ROMEO AND JULIET. The film was a martial arts/gang ;land actionpiece in which BLACK MASK star JET LI uses his wits and hands and feet to fight crime and does not use firearms. There is something unusual about Li, he is a good actor and has original moves and a fighting pace that is potentially greater than BRUCE LEE's. The film was one of several that has come out with LI. Recently, he came out with one featuring BRIDGET FONDA but myself in a budget crunch this past summer was unable to see it yet will catch it on video. ROMEO MUST DIE is a film that mixes darma, gangsterism and martial arts for a film that appeals not only to african american audiences but also die hard martial arts fans. ROMEO MUST DIE represents a move in film that says a martial arts film can be fun and yet have a plot. The action revolves around JET LI who gets caught between to battling gang families in a LOS ANGELES like urban city. A interesting action movie.  "},{"Title":"character played by Danny Glover","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  So how come the movie did not show Danny Glover's character sitting on a throwing star? Nor did the movie show the back of Danny Glover's character's suit jacket all sliced up. And what was the reason for Gibson's character whistling at Wah Sing Ku's front? "},{"Title":"excellent but needs more romance","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Now, that was trully excellent. The plot was exciting (non predictable at all), screen effects are superb, and cast were carefully selected (especially aaliya and her father). Though it was clear that the movie needed more romantic scenes. I mean it was crystal clear that both, aaliya and jet lit had a crush on each other, but i can remember no scene were they said it, or even looked in the eyes!! i'd give it a 7/8 action and a 1/2 romance. "},{"Title":"4 out of 10","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this is why i tend to stay away from american cinema. putrid film-making all around. bad directing, bad script, bad acting (except for Li), the only thing good about this film was that Jet Li was very appealing even though he cant speak english very well. and it was never boring. just not fun, either. "},{"Title":"More than just a great martial arts flick","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie... unexpectedly! I say that because the reviews were so bad, but I wanted to see Jet Li nonetheless. So starting with low expectations, I was really impressed.OK, let's start out by saying that Jet Li is a terrific athlete and martial artist. In this flick, some of his stunts are wired but that doesn't take away from him in the least. All the fight scenes are inventive and crisply executed. The serious scenes, like the Hong Kong jail and the final fight with Kai, are packed with action and creativity. The funny scenes, like getting away from the gang of bodyguards and the football game fight, are just the right combination of comedy, parody, and serious moves. So the fighting is great. See it for this alone.But two other things stand out, which provide the unexpected pleasure.First, the characters and relationships. Although the plot is a little muddy (OK other reviewers, maybe it's downright turgid!), it still makes sense and is much better than most martial arts flicks. But the plot allows for excellent character development. I was surprised at the dialog that exposed the depth of both father-son relationships... the brother-sister relationship... the betrayal by the #2 men... the black vs. Chinese gangs... the subtleties you don't pick up until the second viewing... and many good scenes. Somebody tried to put together a great script. They didn't quite succeed, but it's still pretty darn good.Second, the love story just worked. It was not overdone, and developed slowly and believably during the film. There's no sex (unfortunately, given how great Aaliyah looks!) but there's still a tenuous initial connection growing into a subtle but effective matching of unlikely bedfellows. The Romeo and Juliet theme is not overplayed at all... just a realistic story of two people from different camps but with a common perspective. Hot it's not, but rich it is.Finally (I know this is three, but give me a little Li-way), the overall quality is excellent. The music, cinematography, motorcycle and car chases, smart & funny gags thrown in, and all the other technical aspects are first rate.So my friends, see Romeo Must Die if you want a martial arts flick with a little extra kick and emotion! "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked the movie.  Most people's comments and opinions of it are poor because Jet Li's stunts were wired.  But it didn't take away from the movie quality.  Besides a few bad voice overs I really liked the script and even the action sequences.  If you're upset about the wires, get mad at Jet Li, but it doesn't mean the movie didn't look cool, because it did.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing and confused martial arts vehicle","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My Shakespeare may be a bit rusty, but I cannot see the link between Romeo & Juliet's star-crossed lovers and this drivel.  There are plenty of non-action sequences here trying to form a plot, but they don't add much.  The action itself is not spectacular and nothing new.More style than substance. "},{"Title":"Recycled plot with an entertaining result.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't expect much from Romeo Must Die so I was pretty surprised by how much I liked it.  Nothing about the story is new or innovative but some good actors and entertaining fight scenes save the movie.  Aaliyah is a very natural actress and her chemistry with Jet Li is just right.  Li demonstrates that he is an incredibly skilled martial artist and has charming wit and style.  I look forward to seeing more of his work.  The supporting performances are good all around, especially from veteran actor, Delroy Lindo.  The one problem I had with the movie was that the fight scenes depended too much on special effects when Li's talent on display should have been enough.  I did however enjoy watching a bone chilling special effect that is used to show the core of combatants before their ultimate demise.  Overall, I give it an 8/10. "}{"Title":"A good outing","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This isn't so much a remake of Romeo and Juliet as it is a variation on Yojimbo or Fist Full of Dollars.  Essentially a man is caught between rival gangs vying for control of a certain part of the waterfront in Oakland.THe romantic tension between Jet Li and whatever her name is totally absent. But this isn't a romance--one of the reasons it's not much of a remake of Romeo and Juliet, it's name notwithstanding.Still, there's some fun, and some interesting aspects of the movie.  It has almost no white characters--even the preppy businesmen that the two gangs are involved in seem to be Jewish.  Most of the action entails Jet Li, who's likeable enough, beating up black gang members.  The action seems designed to be more of a dance than fighting--though not as disturbing as in West Side Story.If you like high quality Karate movies, this movie seems to be for you. the fighting is impossibly acrobatic, but that's what you get in karate movies. It's not as highly stylized and acclaimed as Crouching .. whell whatever that movie is called.  But there seem to be enough jumps and kicks to keep the actioners happy.  And I for one though the plot moved along quite well, it wasn't reallly entirely clear until the very end exactly what the machinations were behind the various manoevres.  I applaud an action movie that has some intelligence to it and is willing to try out a complex plot.  "},{"Title":"not the best I've seen","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo must die is loosly based on romeo and juliet with jet li as romeo and aaliyah as juliet in the inner city. The movie starts off promisingly with jet li breaking out of prison by fighting off 4 guards while hanging upside down. But that is a lone bright spot in an otherwise average action flick. Jet li has done better films and had better action sequences. see this only if you have 2 hours to kill.  "},{"Title":"What went wrong?","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, nobody was expecting Shakespear. That said, how did this film, which had all the earmarks of a romantic action film turn into such a lousy action/buddy film?I'm guessing that the secret probably lies in the original script for this film. I don't have that script, but I imagine that in that much of the plot revolved around the romance between Aaliyah and Jet Li. Unfortunately, Jet Li has no noticeable acting ability, and could not in any credible way create a believable romance between himself and his sexy co-star. Realizing this, the director settled for making them friends, threw together a couple of hours film and said to himself I'll try harder next time if I don't have to work with Jet-Li. This rates as one of the worst films I have ever seen. My sister in-law got it free with her DVD player, so it didn't cost me a cent to watch. Only a 11 year old child from the getto could find anything worthwhile in this film, and that would be the musical score. "},{"Title":"Confusing but ultimatly  enjoyable flic","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   This is ANOTHER   gang war film, this time  Black vs.Chinese   Its confusing at times, as most of the people are new to this reviewer   Jet Li is the star  & since he is a martial art expert, there are plenty of well staged & exciting choreographed fight scenes,Exciting chases,even a romance between him & a Black actress (not sure of her name) but she  is quite  good.  Delroy Lindo as usual excells in his role as her father,  I was not too fond of the musics score, as the lyrics were hard to understand.  over all I did like  the movie   & give it   ***.  It is good entertainment  & well worth a rental or cable viewing as always jay harris "},{"Title":"I LOVED this movie...Jet Li is so cool.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I must say that I loved this movie. It is similar to The Matrix in some ways (it was produced or directed or something by the same people as The Matrix) so some of the action scenes are recognisable. Jet Li is an awesome martial arts guy, specialising in Wushu. Li plays Hon, a chinese man escaped from a prison in Hong Kong, he goes to America to find out who had killed his little brother, Po, (who is the cheif chinese guys son) and gets caught up in a racial war between the Chinese and Black Americans. Ultimately, he beats everyone to a pulp, and he doesn't need weapons himself because he basically is a weapon. He meets one of the Black American guys' daughters and she helps him out. Of course in the end everything turns out ok, but there is some doubt in some of the parts. It has a heap of laughs, and funny comments that Hon makes and the action scenes are pretty funny too. The plot becomes a little confusing in the middle, but later on it becomes clear what is happening. The only kinky part is right at the beginning with Po and his girlfriend in a club but other wise its basically clean. The sound track is cool too, prodigiously mastered to the scene, making it seem the songs are being played in the background (they usually are) of the room. This is a very good movie though, and i do recommend it to anyone who likes martial arts movies and anyone who has seen Leathal Weapon 4 or The Matrix. It doesn't have as much special effects as The Matrix but its still good. I rate it 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people have reported","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw Romeo Must Die and I have to say that it was not as bad as people who saw it before me had said. They told me that Aaliyah's acting skills were terrible, the fight scenes weren't all that special, etc. I am not saying that this is a must see breakout action film, but it is worth renting. The only problems I had with it were Jet-Li's horrible english (which he makes up for with his incredible fight scenes) and some of the other actors, such as the thugs of the O'day family who sound like they came straight from the 70's (check out the dialouge in the football scene).Aaliyah plays her part right, as a semi-snobby rich girl who doesn't really approve of some of her father's dealings. However, I don't think that she is incredibly beautiful. They should have had Nia Long or another black actress who's a little more attractive. Another thing that I had a little problem with is what I'd like to call the death blow graphic that you see in three different instances in the movie. It adds an edge to the fight scenes, but it feels out of place. It seems like it belonged in a movie like the Matrix instead.All in all, Romeo must die is not the best Jet Li film out there, but it has its moments. "},{"Title":"When kung fu isn't enough.....irony is extremely necessary","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit I've never had many chances to watch many movies with Jet Li starring as the main protagonist.I was even  told, and I then  even read that Black Mask had been a real fiasco.Well,actually I didn't watch Black mask. But if Jet Li  acted in that movie in the same way as   he did in Romeo must die,well, goodbye Hollywood dreams! In this movie in fact I find that the other members of the cast,especially Delroy Lindo and newcomer Aalyaah but also the other apparently less  important black actors in the movie went really beyond Jet Li's poor acting. I mean, they added irony to a movie which 'd have otherwise told the same story of the importance of honour for  Chinese warriors. "},{"Title":"Crap......Good","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First of all,I like the movie because it has the beautiful Aliyahh and be cause it had good drama but the thing I hate about the movie are the mind boggling special effects,the wire work and the computer effects like Jet Li flying into the air and knocking nine guys with his feet then landing on the ground and also think why did they need computer enhancements when they already had wires.Of all the kung fu movies that I have seen(And I seen a lot)this one has the most wire work,the Iron Monkey had balance as had The Matrix but this is still a decent kung-fu movie. "},{"Title":"somewhat disappointing","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The biggest problem with this movie in my opinion is that it tried to combine two totally different genres - martial arts  and drama. To have any chance of success in such a project one needs a star who is a good actor as well as a good fighter. With all due respect to the amazing fighting skills of Jet Li, a great actor he is not. His beautiful co-star Aaliyah is better but  still I think it was a big mistake to give her a leading role in her very first film. Another thing that  really turned me off was the way the relationship between Li's and Aaliyah's characters is portrayed. I thought that the intent of showing an interracial love story was pretty courageous. Therefore I was extremely disappointed when they ended up holding hands. How can this happen in a movie which is supposed to be based (however loosely) on the greatest love story of all times?! Anyway, because of all this as a drama the movie sucked.However, the action part was really pretty decent. I'm not a purist and I don't see anything wrong with using computer enhancement in the fight scenes. They have to be original and look cool. Both missions accomplished as far as this movie is concerned. There were a couple of other nice surprises. I was very impressed by Russel Wong. Now here is a guy who is good at both fighting and acting. Unfortunately he has a very limited screen time in this movie. The guy who plays Moron ( oops sorry, Maurice) is great too. Overall I would say rent at your own risk and don't expect too much and you just might enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Good, but could've...should've been better.","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First off, let me say that I really enjoyed Romeo Must Die.  The plot is good, if it at times does seem overdeveloped to the point of slowing the film down, and the action is excellent.  Jet Li is quite the performer, and does a great job both portraying the character and performing the stunts in the film. That said, Romeo Must Die makes several serious errors.  The most glaring one is what I am now officially calling The Matrix Problem.  When The Matrix was released, it showed off some excellent special effects and enhanced stunts that added to the computer-world feel of the film.  As is only right, these effects astonished filmmakers and moviegoers alike.  The Matrix Problem, however, is that many, many films have felt the need to use these same effects- with no explanation as to WHY the characters can do these insanely unrealistic things. In Romeo Must Die, Jet Li performs several amazing stunts by his own power.  However, there are also some obviously enhanced ones.  The one that most easily comes to memory is a video-game like super-high jump kick (play Marvel vs. Capcom or a similar game, and you'll know what I mean).  Sure, it looks cool.  But it also looks incredibly fake, ruining the dramatic fight scene that was going on before it.  Special effects should enhance the fights, not screw them up like they do in this film. Also, as mentioned above, the plot is occasionally overdone, for an action film.  I'm not saying that I don't like intricate plots...far from it, I prefer plots with twists and turns that you have to think about the whole time.  But in Romeo Must Die, the producers seemed to be trying to make a fast action movie and an intricate, involving mystery at the same time.  The combination just ends up not working right, slowing down what could have been a great action film- or skimming what could have been a great mystery. Romeo Must Die is a good film, and one that was fun to watch for the most part.  It just could have been, should have been, a lot better. "}{"Title":"Dazzling Action with Little Else","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li has done better films when he was involved in Hong Kong Cinema than he has so far in Hollywood.  There are a few films that he did in Hong Kong that are way better than this film.  Jet Li plays an escaped ex-cop who goes searching for answers to the death of his brother.  He ends up in the middle of a supposeled gang war.Hollywood has done a horrible job in failing to utilize Jet Li to the best of his abilities.  Delroy Lindo brings an air of quality and respectability to this otherwise uninteresting film.  Unable to mix East with West ideas successfully.  The fight scenes are not as good as they ought to be.Romeo Must Die(2000) is loosely based on the Romeo & Juliet story because it doesn't even retain tragic element of that tale.  Russell Wong is cool as the villainous Kai.  Russell Wong has been in two films that were based on Romeo & Juliet(Romeo Must Die2000 and Abel Ferrara's much better film with the same ideas, China Girl1987).  Aaliyah has the makings to become a major presence in the cinema. "},{"Title":"This is a decent movie that really pulled you into it.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There has been talk both here on IMDB and other conversations I have had about CGI and cable stunts in movies like this, especially with talented athletic performers such as Jet Li.  I think that many(may be a gross exageration!) people watching movies today don't watch movies like this as if it were JUST a movie.  This is a piece of art which is a display of imagination.  Using CGI and cable harness stunts simply allows the director and writer to showcase that imagination.  This does not diminish the actor's ability by any stretch.This was a classic film with a very Eastern flavor given the dynamics between Jet Li's character, brother and father.  I also thought that the use of the X-ray effect was effective because of the uniqueness of it. It was something new, however cheesy or unnecessary, was kinda neat to see employed. "},{"Title":"Romeo Must Die Sucks","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you think Romeo Must Die is a good movie you are wrong. There is to many talking. And the idea of the movie is not knew it's old, many movies have already used. If you think to buy it don't!!! It's very bad. Only Four fight scenes, isn't that little for Jet Li. If you Wanna see a good movie with Jet LI you should see Black Mask, The Defender (The Bodyguard from Beijing), High Risk!!!   "},{"Title":"Romeo Must Die Sucks","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you think Romeo Must Die is a good movie you are wrong. There is too many talking. And the idea of the movie is not new it's old, many movies have already used. If you think to buy it don't!!! It's very bad. Only Four fight scenes, isn't that little for Jet Li. If you Wanna see a good movie with Jet LI you should see Black Mask, The Defender (The Bodyguard from Beijing), High Risk!!!   "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie, it as good to see an asian fall in love with an african-american. Not many asians would even think about dating someone black,because they believe blacks have less power then whites and if they were to date an american it would be a white person. As for as Aaliyah, her performance was off the hook, she can do it all. Jet was great as always, and ooh my  Russell Wong he is so sexy!!that man look so fine, somebody need to slap him on a plate with some honey and suck him up with a hot biskit LOL. "},{"Title":"Not a good movie.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen a massive amount of Chinese and American Martial Art films and I am glad that the Americans are finally catching up.  Hong Kong cinema is not exactly the best in their quality of films and storyline, but when it comes to action (especially Fantasy-style Martial Arts) they are the best. At first I thought Romeo Must Die was a pretty good movie at first, but then I watched it again on DVD and found a lot of mistakes in the film (most of the goofs on IMDB are from me).  I literally tore the film apart. What I do not understand is how such veterans in choreography such as Jet Li and Cory Yeun, do jobs that make them look like amatuers?  On most of the stringwork you can see the actors hold on to invisible wires, most obvious in the last fight scene and the double barrel kick in the club near the begining of the movie.  It is obvious to Jet Li fans that Computer Generated Images were not needed, if Hong Kong films can make fight scenes better than this, using old fashioned cinematography why can't the Americans?Hollywood just can't get the fact they are not the best in certain areas.Even with this failure, I still look forward to Jet Li's next film as I am a fan of his.  I just hope the film does not bring down yet another fine import from Hong Kong. "},{"Title":"Do you realize?","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First, I'd like to say that since this film has been released that I've read several comments on Romeo in press, magazines, and IMDB, but I'll comment on that later. I thought that this was a brilliant star vehicle for Jet-Li to make his film debut as the leading actor in Hollywood. The intensity was there throughout the film, as well as the humor, and the needed seriousness. I personally think that Russell Wong stole every scene that he was in (which was not that many). The cinematography was very ground breaking (i.e. the scenes in which you see the characters internal wounds as if they were being viewed on x-ray), and Aaliyah made a stunning debut as well.Now, on to the subject at hand. I've read several comments about Jet-Li's acting ability in Romeo Must Die. A basic summary of a lot of them was that he's a bad actor. Well as a theatre major, I can tell you, that he honestly held his own. His character went to Oakland to do a job - not solely to mourn his brother, therefore he was not going to breakout in a poetic monologue conveying his emotions. Do you realize that in addition to making several films over seas, that this man in two years, has excelled in his English (the World's hardest language), come over here, and successfully delivered his lines with ease? Bottom line is this - until some of you that called him a bad actor can establish the following that Jet-Li has over seas, learn a foreign language FLUENTLY, act in a movie, AND win a Golden Globe Award - SHUT UP!!! "},{"Title":"Only Good for Aaliyah","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The lovely, sexy, beautiful Aaliyah is the only reason worth checking this schlock out. Hollywood has now become clueless and politically correct with martial art films, thinking that real fights are just not only real, but not exciting so they re-invent the martial arts genre and feature some of the most unbelievable, frustratingly fake kung fu I have  ever seen, frustrating because Jet Li is a very good martial artist, but he isn't allowed to display his techniques here. DMX is another reason why this film is schlock. He's a terrible rapper and his acting is funny, not because he is intentionally funny. The only saving grace here is the beautfiul Aaliyah. Check it out for her. "},{"Title":"Nice try, but...","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was quite disappointed seeing this movie, the reason... It's always the same. Good ideas, good potential, average ( not bad ) realization. Two big things, Hip-Hop music ( and related performers ) and kung-fu  stars ( to mention Vanishing son main character ), but the script was a bit too weak, especially thinking about the fact that the story has already been told many times ( I think that Romeo+Juliet is a good Romeo & Juliet movie).Another thing to consider is the producing crew of Matrix wrote the movie so, is it too much asking for a decent movie where the martial arts are choreographed in a decent way? I mean not putting all those unbelievable jumps and shots, even if in the right measure they really help to enhance the action impact, but in this case they just make it almost funny like in the worse Hong Kong movies. "},{"Title":"Did I miss something?","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die * 1/2 I rented this when it came out over the summer. I got bored so I am writing this review*Spoilers*I rented this with high expectations. I heard it was very good. Except for Roger Ebert, who disliked it very much. I watched it with my friend. He seemed to enjoy it. But I felt like I missed something. A plot key, or something. I couldn't put my finger on it. Then I thought, what WAS the plot? I found it hard to follow, I dunno. Maybe I'm just not smart, but it was confusing. I understood that it was an action take on Romeo and Juliet. Aaliyah was Juliet and Jet Li was Romeo. But what was the war between the races about. They mentioned it... but they didn't take it any step further.The action scenes were very good, I though. The hose scene was cool. But what are good action scenes without the action taking place in the story? It defeats the scene. And what was with Anthony Anderson? He was there for comic relief, obviously. But was there a point to him? And, gee, I didn't predict that he was gonna lose her! How shocking.That leads me into another thing, it was way to predictable. I mean, who would have guessed it was gonna turn out great for the good guys and the bad guys were gonna lose? That was shocking! One scene I did find interesting, though, was the scene where he used Aaliyah to fight the girl because he couldn't hit girls. That was a clever scene. But what about the rest of the movie?Jet Li has great talent, but what's talent when the rest of the movie is horribly bad? If you want to see Li shine, rent this. But prepare to be stupefied . Rent Lethal Weapon 4 for Jet Li. That is much better. (I know it was critically   battered but it was still fun.) As for this one, throw it away with The Matrix and Down to You and DON'T recycle it.  "}{"Title":"Well Done.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Contains minor spoilers.  Now on with the review. I wanted to see RMD at the movie theater, but due to a busy school year, I missed and I didn't finally get a chance to see until it came out on tape.  Romeo Must Die stars martial arts legend Jet Li(Lethal Weapon 4) and R & B singer Aaliyah in her film debut.  The plot to Romeo Must Die surrounds Han (Jet Li) who after learning that his younger brother has been murdered, escapes from a Hong Kong prison in a rather impressive escape scene.  He heads to America, only to find that his father, a Chinese gangster is a war with black gangsters.  He also meets up with Trish O'Day (Aaliyah) the daughter of the head of the black gangster family.  Together the two go out and find Han's brother's killers.At first, I didn't know where the title came from, although I thought it sounded a little silly.  From reading further reviews, I learned that RMD is modern retelling of Romeo and Juliet.  ***Spoilers*** Now, the special effects in Romeo Must Die were cool, in fact I loved them.  The x-ray effects were cool too.  Now, the special effects were great, but they could've have been made more believable.  Seeing Jet Li jump in the air and kick four guys in the face, then take out two more (while still in midair) and land on right on his feet is something we can root for, but at least try to make it look real.From the minor problems with the special effects, Romeo Must Die is still a decent film and Aaliyah is pretty good looking in some scenes. 8/10   "},{"Title":"It's both-sided","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's offbeat and unconventional the lovebirds are adults, they banter a great deal, the result unexpected.  Of course, it'd be nice if they didn't focus so much on Mac and said more on Han's background (why was he arrested again?) or Trish's work. Besides, it shows that, ultimately, that we poor, stupid, deluded humans are more-often-than-not destroyed by those closest to us.  Ok.  That sounds dangerously like a spoiler, but it's not.  It's just what I think. And I didn't (I say this a lot) expect it to be so subtly expressive.  Really. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie...but...","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  *Spoilers ahead*I must admit that I have never seen a movie where the actions of the two main characters (Aaliyah and Jet Li) did not matter whatsoever. If you removed them from the plot, all events except the pointless final battle would have occured anyway. The plot itself is propelled by the gang leaders.It is nice to use the effects that were used in the Matrix, but in the Matrix there was a reason that people could do amazing things and unhuman kicks and leaps - because reality was not real. In Romeo Must Die there is no explanation. Men from China and Hong Kong can simply do supernatural stunts - we just have to believe it.If the movie tried to be a shakespeare spinoff, it  failed miserably, because Romeo should have died.Having said that, the movie was good entertainment anyway.My mark 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant film, tacky special effects","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film should have answered whether Jet Li really is better than the other current Kung fu hero Jackie Chan. But it didn't...too many special effects in the fight scenes meant that although the moves looked better than Jackie Chan's DIY kung fu they were not Li's own work.Apart from this the film was pretty good. It is based loosely on Romeo and Juliet but does not suffer from the original Shakespearean language of the DiCaprio film. The idea of mixing Shakespeare and kung fu is fairly original and it has worked well. The romance is pretty subtle but there is enough for any die-hard love-story fans but the real theme is Jet Li beating up loads and loads of gangstas. The cast is not brilliantly well developed but then when has it ever been in a kung fu film? The whole plot isn't too bad either but when you throw in an absolutely amazing soundtrack (NY Confidential, DMX) and some blazingly fast cars (C43 AMG) who cares??!!Watch this film for three things Jet Li (despite the CGI), the soundtrack and the cars and you will not be disappointed!! "},{"Title":"Great Unisex Entertainment","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to comment on this movie because it is unique for its kung fu action genre in terms of providing excellent entertainment for both genders. I rented a DVD of it and watched it together with my wife who usually only enjoys romance and she surprised me by telling me that she had really enjoyed this movie. I enjoyed both storylines myself, though as far as romance goes, only because of the good acting of the leads.  Jet Li is really amazing because his acting is on a par with his fighting scenes. I do no know why I expected to find at least some of Shakespeare's ideas to be incorporated in this film, but I cannot say I was disappointed when it turned out that there were none. I am pretty sure I prefer classic versions of classic dramas, though I would appreciate it if somebody managed to pleasantly surprise me with a new approach to some of the classics. So far it hasn't happened. But maybe this is how it should be. Anyway, this is a great film not in terms of its intrinsic values, but rather because it presents such a satisfying balance of romantic story and kung fu action. The DVD assortment of extras is also quite worth seeing. We really enjoyed seeing and hearing the stunt people and special effects artists tell us their stories behind the screen.  "},{"Title":"Should have been like the web should be wireless","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well like many I was drawn to this film by Jet Lee. Sadly its not a good movie but Jet is pretty good as is Trish. It tries to be cool but isn't inventive enough. We still wait for the great Hong Kong / Hollywood crossover. "},{"Title":"'Romeo and Juliet' meets 'Enter The Dragon'","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Basic plot outline Two households, both alike in dignity. In Fair Verona... erm, San Francisco... where we lay our scene. From ancient grudge break to new mutiny. Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean. From forth the fatal loins of these two foes, a pair of star-crossed lovers take their... um... beat the c**p out of a whole lot of people.Sounds really cool, starts off really cool, but ends up being pretty disappointing all in all. Not nearly enough people get the sh*t kicked out of them. Jet Li is amazing, but not even half as glorious as he was in 'Lethal Weapon 4'. It was a nice surprise to discover that Aaaaaaaaliyah is not only cute and can sing, but can act too. This was Bartkowiak's debut in directing.  "},{"Title":"A GREAT FILM OVERALL","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  finally a kung-fu boasting film that can do justice to the art and the industry. let the critics say what they want, this film has a fine blend of unimagined fight moves, fast techno and rap music amidst a backdrop of urban gangwars, comedy and romance. the special effects are breath taking and the acting is good too. i do admit though that the storyline is quite repetitive, but it does make a comeback with the who-dunnit element at the end. i'm not gonna tell ya whats it about, dont wanna spoil it for ya. go watch and be amazed!  "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmm","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"    Well what can isay about this film?  I have just been to see it at the cinema on it's third day of release (there was about 15 people in the cinema) and i have to say that I'm not impressed.  Sure Jet Li is awsome and the fight scenes are great, but there isn't enough for me and it therefore leaves long gaps of bordom.  After all let's face it most of us only went to see it for the special effects and the fight schenes and they did not dissapoint me.  There is one schene where he is playing American Football and takes out about 4 guys without even touching the floor, and the bit where he seems to walk horizontally about 2 metres in the air, i just had to laugh at that one. The X-Ray shots are good, but personally i say buy it on video, at least that way you can fast forward past the boring bits. "},{"Title":"Um. . .well, hmmm","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not to horrible.  Stupid, senseless name, Romeo Must Die.  I belong to a club of three people called the Friday Three, we get together to watch a flick every Friday.  I almost got a lecture for picking this one.  I can't blame them either.  Jet Li was wonderful in Lethal Weapon 4 as a big bad guy.  He does great action scenes, breaking people the wrong way, and such like that, but I wouldn't exactly classify him in the Arnold category if you get my drift.When I looked on the cover of the box it said from the producers of The Matrix, which is the best action  film.  I was expecting similer quality.Not hardly.  If a movie has that on it's cover, it would be only fair for it to live up to that, I mean really.  The main points are as followsActing semi-ok, Trish O'Day, should've considered putting on some clothes, her acting was *OK* but not great.  Jet Li should, with all due respect, learn some English and try some dialog.  Movies aren't just action, their also dialog, plot, costume, setting, etc. (Some blend these flawlessly)  Everybody else was pretty much no name, locked Jet Li targets, bad acting, blah, blah, blah.Plot full of holes, no big deal, no plot twists, I was either scratching my head saying huh? or yawning.The rest really isn't worth mooning over.  If you need a good nights sleep watch it, otherwise just fast-forward to the action and football scenes.        "}{"Title":"Derivative but enjoyable","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I find it hard to take a film seriously when it's marketed on the strength of it's producer rather than the actors or director. Hence, i walked into this film with a healthy sense of cynicism and wasn't disapointed.Derivative of the Matrix obviously and Ghost in the Shell, and presumably a whole host of martial arts films, at times it tries too hard and comes off being too stylish for it's own good - witness the slow down of the characters walking with 'attitude' which becomes laughable after a while thank goodness they forget about it a third of the way into the movie. Also, 'X-Ray time' seems to have replaced 'bullet time', but again feels like an imitation of the superior Three Kings.However, for all it's flaws, it's hard not to get caught up in the sense of style and suave when it's shoved so far down your throat. It also helps that the two main characters Aaliyah and Li have moderately good chemistry, and are easy on the eye. Turn off your brain and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Yawn...I fell asleep during the film...","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li deserves a lot better than this.  I really did fall asleep, a few times.  My 15 year old step son stayed awake - and HE is the one who usually drifts off during videos.  So maybe it is more for young guys, but the comments below are not exactly all positive.Movie producers take note  spend more on a decent story, and let Jet Li do more real (not enhanced) kung fu. "},{"Title":"just good, nothing more","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  How disappointing, the movie could have been better a lot, but this director did not handle the story properly, it had not enough emotion in it, the action is exaggerated in a lot of moments. How sorry for Jet Li. For the next time please try another action director, for example James Wong, who is sadly really underestimated in Hollywood.   "},{"Title":"Hongkong action movie","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  High quality modern hong kong action movie w/ Jet Li. For once quite a good screenplay and a plot, classic but good.Han (Jet Li) breaks out from prison when his younger brother's being murdered back in the US. A gangwar is undergoing and big money is on the move "},{"Title":"This one misses the mark","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was somewhat disappointing.  The premise was interesting--black and oriental gangstas on the verge of a truly ugly turf war.First, not enough attention was paid to background. I personally prefer enough of a chance to get to know the characters that I give a darn what happens to them.  This film did not provide that, but rather dropped us into the middle of things.  Jet Li's character, Han, for example, was in prison. Why?  Although it was said later in the film that he was in prison because he was protecting his father and brother, it was never explained sufficiently for me to feel the least bit sympathetic. For all I know, he had ax-murdered 20 people and richly deserved to be there.The fight scenes were carefully choreographed but the insertion of special effects quite frankly spoiled the effect. Seeing Han do what amounted to a Chun Li chain star kick was just plain silly, and the scene where he used Trish (Aaliyah) as a fighting aid seemed like a poor copy of a similar and much funnier sequence in Jackie Chan's Gorgeous (Bor lei jun).The scenes between Han and Trish and decent acting by most of the cast were what this saved this movie from being a total loser. Maurice (Anthony Anderson) was right over the top, playing the bumbling henchman in a way that gave some good laughs without becoming annoying.  Most of the interactions between Han and Trish also worked very well, they had a nice, light, romantic feel to them without getting mushy or overly sarcastic, although I am still puzzling over why, if Trish didn't want to see bodies, she would go with Han over to them, even if she did have her face buried in his shoulder.Guess it's just another one of those things that make you go hmmmm. And things like that are what made a potentially awesome action flick into a rather run-of-the-mill experience. "},{"Title":"Fighting Shakespeare?","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this is for sure the similarities are hard to see, but they are there, this being a somewhat funny/action version of Shakespeare's great tale.I liked this movie.It has spirit, it has its moments of well captured-on-camera emotions, it has its beauty beyond the kung fu scenes. Jet Li is a nice guy, a good actor by the way, and the rest of the cast does not shine us much, naturally, but overall, I think everybody can watch this one with a smile in the face, not a grimace, thinking Damn, I might as well burn the money I gave for this sh...But Romeo Must Die has its flaws, and they are immense, and inevitable.Hip hop music all the time!!  Tiring, tiring...at least, revolving the story around chinese and black people's rivalry, why not a mix of two types of music instead of just one?You know, some people say the heck with realism, this is cinema, but I, for one, think that Cinema should imitate real life at least in some details, for its stories to have credibility. If someone from you family dies, you will not go out on a disco and dance sensually with a stranger, forgetting all at once (without the use of drugs, wow!) all the pain that death should bring onto people.Where were the Police? The Law? SPOILERS, ATTENTION, ATTENTION, SPOILERS ARE COMING!!!!This story almost reads likefamily A kills someone from family B, family B gets revenge, no one knows or seems to notice the obvious (and the director does not make it relevant enough, instead playing with the viewers lack of attention to detail), that there are traitors, and so on...The finalle is, at least, surprising, although coherent and predictable in a way. It's a sad finalle, which gives some credit to the story.The best thing in this movie, of course, is the fighting. Its speed tops by many notches that of The Matrix's fight scenes; the technics employed by Jet Li and other actors are almost perfect, due to the fact that they really are martial artists. But in The Matrix, the strings pulling Keanu around are less obvious than in Romeo MD - this meaning that some scenes are almost ridiculous to watch.It's a light entertainment movie. Some good acting - and a fine surprise, named Jet Li. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Someone else on this board commented about how they were really disappointed that CGI was used, and that it distracted from Jet Li's outstanding martial arts abilities. He was right-- and as a result the film comes off like a wannabe Bruce Lee flick. At least the acting is good, though Jet Li and Aaliyah are appealing and Isaiah Washington and Delroy Lindo are two very good actors giving very good performances (now if only they could convince DMX that he shouldn't act) "},{"Title":"Above average action film, thanks to Jet Li","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li is an amazing action star.  He was the only thing worth watching in Lethal Weapon 4, and now he helps elevate Romeo Must Die into a better movie than it would have been without him.  It's pretty much the standard Romeo and Juliet plot-boy and girl from two different worlds meet, and nobody is happy about it.  That's the basic framework; a lot more is going on, but the real reason to watch is Li.  He is a whirlwind, moving almost too fast to take it all in.  The fight scenes are absolutely amazing, and definitely make this worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better... (very minor spoilers)","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I didn´t go to see this film hoping to find a love story. After all this is supposed to be a martial arts flick, featuring international star Jet Li, and I wanted to see him in action. But the whole thing turned out to be a mix of excessive talking, a lame attempt in the love department (or should I say just friendship), and an even worse display of martial arts.Just about the only good moment of fighting is when Jet Li is chased out of a house, and he has to fight his way through a bunch of people blocking his path down a flight of stairs, and into a narrow corridor. But during the rest of the film, the fighting just plain sucks. It sucks because it´s all made up, with computers and wire-assisted jumps. Jet Li doesn´t need that stuff to show his abilities. In fact, it just worsens the show, because it looks like anyone could do that, hanging from all those wires. And let´s just try to forget that last 10 foot jump in the end, shall we?Score 4/10 "},{"Title":"not bad, but has some silly uneeded moments","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers!!Especially with those cutscenes into the persons being. An unneeded nude scene. As well as a few stupid Matrix Take offs.  This isn't the matrix idiots!!!Other than that, I loved the plot "}{"Title":"Kinda disappointed","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Because of the Jet Li movie, Fist of Legend I went to go see Romeo Must Die. To my disappointment the people in hollywood thought it would be cool to have an international martial artist try to act instead of what people most likely paid for, which is to simply fight, fast and furiously.The film is okay, but if you are a martial arts movie fanatic like myself, go to the local video store and rent, Fist of Legends. "},{"Title":"Such a thing as too much plot","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Bottom line is I wanted to see fight scenes and what I saw I was mostly impressed by (didn't like the special effects too much, though; they should've just let Li do his thing), but there weren't nearly enough of them.  There was, instead, mostly a lot of talking and whispering and a story I found extremely hard to follow or care about.One other note one reviewer (James Bernardinelli) claims that Romeo Must Die is more entertaining than Jackie Chan's Rush Hour.  Haw.  Rush Hour is way more entertaining, more tightly paced, has better fight scenes and makes fewer (if any) pretentions, as far as story and, *ahem* character development. "},{"Title":"I liked it okay.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"     I just have a bunch of miscellaneous questions and comments about this movie.   I'm not that hard into rap and hip-hop, but I really liked the music, especially Aaliyah's songs(ok, she's more R&B). I really like the subtle sassy/coolness, and yet talent she displays in all her songs.       Although I don't know about her acting, there's something pretty awesome about putting Aaliyah's pretty face and cool outfits up on the big screen. I think she projects real charisma.    I thought Jet Li (if noone else)acted his lines  great throughout the entire movie. (I think maybe the exception would be the guy who played Jet Li's dad, but he annoyed me too much, for some reason.)    I don't know how people got to thinking s&!t like It is a mediocre copy of a Shakespearean romance. Bulls&!T! Why t.f. can't the producers title a movie what they want without dingbat reviewers at the screenings having such  feeble-minded first impressions over a mere title?!(I figure it was from the screenings because before the movie ever came out, people complained about this.) Pathetic. If you're getting paid to sit on your a#@ 'n watch movies all day, at least open your mind a little as to what the rest of the world REALLY wants to watch. Does the public really care about the title? No.       I'm not sure why they used so many computerized action images in this film. Jet Li is a good (VERY good) martial artist and did not need to fake anything, but my guess is they did it for style. I don't think it looked as good as the director wanted it to look. Of the three bone parts,(which I thought were cool concepts) the only one I actually thought was carried out well was the first one; where Han is in jail and breaks the guy's arm. The other two (I thought) were edited weird, so it got an effect on me like, What exactly just happened?   Overall, a great entertainer, but don't expect too much romance(sniff). Have fun with it=)-------------------------------Also, check out Jet Li's Black Mask. I don't know about it being better than Romeo, but my friend thinks it is.-Sep       "},{"Title":"Stupid story but pretty good action","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film is probably entertaining to many, but to those who thought co-producer (of the Matrix) Joel Silver would bring a runner-up before the sequel, they will be mistaken.  But for me, it was OK, despite being a little overelaborate.  The story is a little sloppy in following in a Romeo and Juliet type of thing, but most of the action/fight sequences and a couple of good performances almost make it un-noticeable (almost).  And one more thing, if your renting this to see DMX, don't, because you might be dissapointed for his only 2 scenes and little lines (might as well rent Belly).  B "},{"Title":"Reasonable","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A very watchable film which showcases Jet Li's martial prowess.  A reasonable plot with balanced action/story telling.  The CGI and fly-by-wire stunts are over the top, we all know that Li doesn't need either.  Any chance to see Jet Li in a major film shouldn't be missed and will allow the uninitiated to get to know him outside of Lethal Weapon 4. I'm looking forward to seeing Li in something that will show the world his talents as shown in the superb Fist of Legend. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After having read some of the reviews here, I was looking forward to an asian action edition of Romeo And Juliet.Man was I in for a dissapointment. I don't know who gave alot of the people here the impression, that this movie is a Romeo And Juliet type of movie (except perhaps the Romeo in the title).Romeo And Juliet is a tragic lovestory, centering on two young lovers from two rivaling families, who won't let them be together.I can't even recall seeing Han Sing (Jet Li) and Trish O'Day (Aaliyah) kiss in the movie. Closest thing, is their friendship.Is it a tragic movie? Nope ... they don't die, they just might even live happily ever after.So please ... before branding a movie as a 'ripoff' of something, check your facts -)Anyways, I really like this movie. Granted the stunts are overdone, but so what? The same people that complain about Jet Li and Russel Wong jumping 30 feet into the air, are probably the same people that think that Star Wars sucks, because you can't make a lightsaber. "},{"Title":"The moment I've been waiting for.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, I saw Jet Li taking revenge against the crooks in this film as he plays an innocent person. Li's fighting techniques almost compare to the legendary Bruce Lee. It has some comedy in it. Though, it was pretty good. If you like martial arts, here's a new one for you. "},{"Title":"Stylish and supremely entertaining","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has the style of both a Chinese gangster flick and hip-hop movie, mixed in with stunning fight sequences from the greatest martial arts actor alive and a good plot with an electrifying ending. What more could you ask for? Maybe a removal of the wire scenes in the fights, but in truth they are not used all the time and do not ruin the scenes as much as they are made out to. This movie is basically a more plot driven version of a Hong Kong kung-fu movie, including the obligatory long fight sequence at the end between good and bad guy. Overall, it's the combination of styles, all meshing well together, that create a uniquely entertaining movie well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Man that was funny!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished watching Romeo Must Die with some friends an hour ago, and it was hilarious! What really made the film for me was the much talked-about fight scenes. They were so over-done and blown so out of proportion that I nearly laughed myself hoarse. Especially the last one, where Jet Li and the other guy jump like 10 feet in the air. God that was some funny sh t. "},{"Title":"This is yet another hardcore action kung-fu B-movie, but it does have a few redeeming values.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, there is absolutely nothing to be said for the acting in this film. No one delivered a notable performance at all, so don't expect anything in that department. Jet Li provides some amazing martial arts scenes that are just a lot of fun to watch, but unfortunately most of them were distorted beyond recognition with special effects and obviously faked stunts. There are scenes where he obviously defies gravity, and things like that are just insulting. I can see that Jet Li is a phenomenal martial artist, I don't need all this stuff to make him look even better than he is. That's where Jackie Chan has Jet Li beaten (the ONLY place where Jackie Chan has Jet Li beaten). Chan does his own stunts, and even though they are manipulated by the editing, everything seen on screen is real, it was done right in front of the camera just as it appears in the film.However, despite the computer generated excesses, the x-ray shots during some of the more intense fight scenes were interesting enough, except for the final scene, which was ridiculously unrealistic. Also, I don't like being expected to believe that Jet Li, as good of a fighter as he is, could defeat four prison guards while hanging upside down by one leg with his hands shackled together. That's just too much. But despite his mediocre acting, there is something that about him that just makes him interesting to watch. Ironically enough, I particularly liked the street football game he was lured into, where he ended up adding an element of martial arts to the game. True, this scene was thrown in for no reason whatsoever (in true Big Momma's House form), and his moves were obviously faked, but it was just fun to watch.Romeo Must Die takes a tired theme about powerful gangs turning against each other and molds a tired martial arts movie out of it. There's nothing new here except the somewhat interesting but also questionable use of x-ray photography in some of the fight scenes, and yes, someone even manages to say Guns don't kill people, people kill people. Thanks for the pearls of wisdom there, Silk. I guess that was their pathetic attempt to justify the excessive violence portrayed in the film. What a joke. The film is watchable, but beware of severe acting and directing mediocrity. "}{"Title":"shakespeare goes kung fu","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good points Refreshing faces, lots happening all the time&everywhere around the globe, pure entertainment!Bad points A bit too long, a bit too old laughs here&there, too much bad r'n'b music (and Aaliyah really really shouldn't have sang at any point).I don't know on what basis to review a martial-arts action movie, because I haven't seen so many and I don't really understand what's happening in the fight scenes. But - from this simple-hearted ingenuous point of view I think this movie was well worth seeing as much as any other regular action flick. The opening is promising but in the end the movie starts to drag somewhat.The plot of course is pathetic but then again, shouldn't it be? I thought that is practically expected - it goes with the genre. Of course it would be fantastic to see a slow, deep 3-hour kung fu-saga with dialog so long and masterly their lips would be moving another 40 seconds after each line is over - or then again not. "},{"Title":"Disappointed!!","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong. Jet Li is definitely the man. I love watching this man do his thing onscreen. But this movie wastes him. Aaliyah obviously has some acting skills, but this roles wastes her completely. This is supposed to be a modern day, hip hop Romeo and Juliet, but the characters have no romantic involvement whatsoever. They have a few cute scenes together, and there is chemistry there, but it's not enough. I'm positive someone else, like Lisa Bonet perhaps, could have turned Jet Li out. Isaiah Washington overacts his role. And Russell Wong has some good moments. Would like to see more of him in future films. But this is by the numbers filmmaking. Could have been better. "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is one film that I truly liked because it was not filled with 120 minutes of action, it actually had a story to it.Jet Li seems like he never lost a step from his breakout American debut in Lethal Weapon 4. I can't believe that he didn't come to America sooner because he is incredibly talented and excellent martial artist. Li is so good that he can perform with his eyes goods. As with Aaliyah, Jet Li is an actor who can act with little direction. Romeo Must Die seemed to me to be an updated version of the romance  between Romeo & Juliet. I thought it was not cliche because the writers added some new stuff and tweeked the rest just enough to make it very good. This film also works on other levels because it shows that Jet Li is a man to be reckoned with due to his versatilityas an actor.Two newcomers who almost stole Jet Li's thunder are also two musicians. Aaliyah and DMX were so good I forgot they were relative newcomers because every piece of dialogue that flowed out seemed to be unrehearsed. I hope and wish these two stick with acting because they are destined to be great actors one day.I was very impressed with Romeo Must Die because it is not a one dimensional action film, it has substance to support and balance the action. My congratulations to Li, Aaliyah and the rest of the cast for a job well done.  "},{"Title":"A title change is in order","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  At the end of the movie I wondered why they hadn't name this movie Everybody but Romeo must die.I never completely understood the plot, which tried to combine too many elements to make the movie seem special. From what we know Jet Li was in prison at Hong Kong, he manages to escape to America and fall in love with this black girl, who is the daughter of leader of the Jet Li's family's rival gang. From there the plot didn't make much sense other than they want to build a football stadium in the middle of the harbor.Naturally the two rival gangs are at war with each other, so Jet Li has to get involved for whatever reason. Unfourtunatley it seemed that Jet Li's true martial art ability was lost because the director/producer wanted to make the movie a matrix knock-off. I was amazed at how Jet Li could kick 4 guys, flip around in the air and kick another 2 guys before even landing. In another scene Jet Li, who is playing football, manages to kick 2 guys, jump 30 feet across the football field and tackle another 2 guys and then kick another 2 guys without ever touching the ground. The reason the Matrix was so popular was because the wire effects were used at just the right time, unfourtunatley there wasn't a single fight scene in this movie which didn't involve wires. In almost all of the scenes the wire was used the scene seemed so fake I just couldn't help but laughing.....even a fool could realize that this stuff was fake. The final jump in the final battle was especially lame, and it seemed that's just about where the movie ended.I never really figured out what the plot was, and frankly I didn't care after awhile. The overuse of the wires ruined the fighting scenes, and the acting was for the most part horrible. I'd give this movie a 6 out of 10, it's worth renting, but I wouldn't place it high on my priority list. "},{"Title":"Gets worse by the minute!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"       I have always been a fan of martial arts movies and was excited when this film began. It starts off as being a serious film about gang war but then they start throwing in too many cliches, double crosses and comic relief (What's up with that guy Maurice? How does he keep his job?) The fight scenes rely too much on Matrix-like FX. At some points, you can almost see the cables holding Li up. The director almost turns him into a cartoon. Pretty soon, it gets hard to tell who's killing who and why and what's worse, I stopped caring.  "},{"Title":"This movie sure died!","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw Jet Li in a movie would be like most, which was Lethal Weapon 4. I was pretty impressed by the martial arts performed by him. As for the acting, I really couldn't judge because he hardly spoke any lines in that film. This being his first lead in a film here in the U.S. I was still impressed by the martial arts performed. As for the acting, it was not all too bad, but then it was not anything special.However the screenplay was less than to be desired. Within the first 10 minutes when both the Mac and Kai characters were introduced, I had the movie already worked out. It was too predictable and carbon copy of other movies like this. The movie was not all too bad, the action scenes did keep the movie some what interesting as well as the x-ray scenes, like when they showed the guys arm breaking.I am glad I waited to rent this on video so that way I didn't have to spend as much on a movie ticket or search for a parking spot 1/4 mile away from the theater. "},{"Title":"good vehicle for jet li","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  the action here surpasses much of what we see these days - it does Jet justice when a film as attention grabbing as this comes his way - it has something for everyone (if you like action movies). this is a perfect springboard for Jet to the mainstream American audience, and solidifies his martial-arts credentials. At this rate, fans of the Matrix will be waiting impatiently to see if he does join the cast of the sequel. To be fair, his english is not so good, but his understated performance is a sign of things to come in english-speaking roles. plus, he kicks ass big time!  "},{"Title":"What is this title all about, anyway?","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"     The movie is good...I said good and nothing else. I have seen the movie not long ago and I have to admit that Jet Li totally amazed me. I noticed him in Lethal Weapon 4 and I knew that it will be just a question of time until Hollywood will notice him and give him a leading role. About the movie? The usual Two gangs(Asian & Black Americans)are fighting 4 teritorry, murders, money , power, etc... I don`t think there is anything interesting about the movie story line. But it is very noticeable Jet Li`s acting...he`s not too bad, considering that this is his 1st leading role, in english language, in an American movie. His moves are fantastic but some of it are exagerated. I don`t think there would have been necessary to apply wires (even if you can`t see them) to Li`s moves...it is scary what he can do without the wires. Anyway, if you like the Hong Kong style action movie, you should watch this one...or give it a chance. Don`t belive all the bad things you were reading about this movie, before. I give it an 8 out 10       "},{"Title":"Surprised","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I never saw this in the theater because the commercial for it looked awful. It was a Saturday night second feature rental for me. But I must say, despite a lot of holes, some unnecessary Matrix-like stunts and an absolutely ridiculous plot (with this NFL thing, really dumb), I was pretty entertained.  Jet Li was good and Delroy Lindo should be a big star (he was great as Satchel Paige) but the best thing about this movie is the smoking hot Aaliyah. I had never heard of her before this film but I will definitely take notice now.  She lights up every scene she is in, it's hard to take your eyes of her. And I wonder why you don't see Russell Wong in a lot more stuff.  This movie was pretty well directed and I especially like the x-ray thing, that was something new that worked pretty well.  Check it out if you get a chance. "},{"Title":"A Very Enjoyable Film Taken for What it is","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   I very much enjoyed Romeo Must Die. One thing everyone has to understand is that I doubt the producers of the movie were aiming for an Academy Award when they set out to make RMD. Its an action film, and in my opinion a very good one, with a good storyline. Jet Li is a brilliant martial arts master, and he certainly doesn't disappoint here. Yes, some of the fight scenes were outrageous, but I doubt the producers were going for believable here. There are hundreds (thousands?)of poor and mediocre martial arts films that are completely believable. This is something different. This movie is here to entertain, and it does just that. I felt the acting was good to excellent, headlined by Li as Han and Aaliyah as Trish, the film's lovers. I did have minor issues, such as the excessive screen time of the sub characters relative to Jet Li, the film's star, but that could be a personal bias as I absolutely love Li. I actually liked the hard driving rap soundtrack as well, as it seemed to fit the film's style very well. Go see Romeo Must Die. "}{"Title":"No doubt about it, Jet can fight...","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well i have seen Romeo must die and i liked it very much. What i liked most about it besides Aalyiah, was the story. You don't see many martial arts movie with such a good story as this one. And the fighting was great, except one thing. Wires. They used wires in Fist of Legend, but the trick is you don't see it, you think that Jet does these things. But in Romeo Must Die, you can tell that they used wires and that is quite bad. The six-guy kick thing doesn't look good, and the final kick in the final battle looks ridiculous... It would be cooler if the final hit was something cool that Jet can do without wires...But the X-ray hits is really cool, two thumbs up for that... And the comic relief Maurice (moron) is also quite amusing, especially when he meets Han (Dim Sum) in the stairs and are about to show him that he knows some sh*t)My friends call me Ackbar "},{"Title":"Hong Kong cinema comes to America","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is the closest thing you will find to Hong Kong cinema in America. While the film has some over the top moments, overall it is very entertaining. The martial arts fights in this movie are absolutely stunning, truly amazing. When filmakers want to imitate the Hong Kong style of filmaking they need look no further than Romeo Must Die, it is the closest thing to home. "},{"Title":"Impressive 1st effort","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is a good  sign of things to come, when hollywood adjusts to the wirework of Jet-Li.  I liked the movie very much, with the exception of 2 gravity-defying scenes.  I can't wait for his next us release.  I would recommend this film to anyone that likes action movies.  "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmm......","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well i saw the film, and it wasn't all i expected it to be...especially from Jet Lee anywayz! But i guess its not his fault that the film was a bit of a flop ( And as a true Jet Lee fan, i'd like to urge people to watch some of his Hong Kong films...and trust me peeps, you will not be dissappointed!!! If you thought the fight scenes in Romeo Must Die was good, thats only a 1/3 of what he normally does! Films like Fist of Legend, Black Mask, Fong Sai Yuk, and loads more!!!!!....Now thats what you call fighting! ) So much action! He doesn't need all this computerised fight scenes...he's talented enough to do moves on his own...well being a champion of 7 National Wu Shu contests...don't you think he is able?!? But as i was saying...Romeo Must Die hasn't got enough fight scenes! It's funny in some parts though! And i'd like to add....Jet Lee is the best...and always will be!!! "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmm......","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well i saw the film, and it wasn't all i expected it to be...especially from Jet Lee anywayz! But i guess its not his fault that the film was a bit of a flop ( And as a true Jet Lee fan, i'd like to urge people to watch some of his Hong Kong films...and trust me peeps, you will not be disappointed!!! If you thought the fight scenes in Romeo Must Die was good, thats only a 1/3 of what he normally does! Films like Fist of Legend, Black Mask, Fong Sai Yuk, and loads more!!!!!....Now thats what you call fighting! ) So much action! He doesn't need all this computerised fight scenes...he's talented enough to do moves on his own...well being a champion of 7 National Wu Shu contests...don't you think he is able?!? But as i was saying...Romeo Must Die hasn't got enough fight scenes! It's funny in some parts though! And i'd like to add....Jet Lee is the best...and always will be!!! "},{"Title":"Well acted movie with great fight scenes","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went and saw Romeo Must Die with high expectations and I was satisfied with the movie. Jet Li moves gracefully when he fights the bad guys. He shows that not one person can beat him at anything including football. Aaliyah is very beautiful and makes an impressive starring debut. Look forward to seeing her in more movies. The supporting cast was very good which was led by Delroy Lindo, one of the most unsung actors of our time. The directing was very good by Andrezj, I look forward to his new movie with Seagal and DMX. All in all this movie really kicked butt and I look forward to Jet Li's next movie, hopefully The Matrix 2. "},{"Title":"Simply put, the most boring Action film EVER!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok just imagine a good action film, Die Hard for example now take out every action sequence (aside from one at the end) ok now trade Bruce Willis for a cheap Jackie Chan want to be who has no acting skills at all! Take out any realism, and add the cheesiness of one of the Wu Tang Kungfu films This could be the worst Action film of all time! No high flying stunts minimal Special effects and all that with some bad (at best) rapper who also cannot act on a scale of 1-10 I would give it a 2  (just because no film deserves a 1) "},{"Title":"Bad bad movie","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really don't understand the 150 people that voted this movie with a 10 on imdb. There are only two good things about this movie some of the fighting scenes (about 15 minutes of much too long 115 minutes) and the stylish photography. Thats it. NOT recommended. "},{"Title":"The best combination of Hong Kong and North American film making since Face/off","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li gives an amazing performance along with Delroy Lindo and Aaliyah. Combining the classic tale or Romeo and Juliette with modern day Martial Arts and special effects, Romeo Must Die, is definitely a film worth watching.  This movie is the best example of a North American budget combined with Hong Kong film making since Face/Off.  "},{"Title":"The best combination of Hong Kong and North American film making since Face/off","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li gives an amazing performance along with Delroy Lindo and Aaliyah. Combining the classic tale or Romeo and Juliette with modern day Martial Arts and special effects, Romeo Must Die, is definitely a film worth watching.  This movie is the best example of a North American budget combined with Hong Kong film making since Face/Off.  "}{"Title":"Jet Li the HERO!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was very excited to see this movie because Jet Li is one of my favorite Hong Kong Action movie stars of all time.  I've been watching his films since the release of Shaolin Temple and I must say that his extravagent martial art skills rival those of even the great Bruce Lee.Romeo Must Die does not disappoint and unlike his first American movie, Lethal Weapon 4, Jet Li once again takes the persona of the hero.  The story is interesting and somewhat original.  I cannot ever recall seeing an American made martial arts film that dealt with the relations between the Chinese Triad and Black Gangsters.Jet Li's acting is not bad but not superb either.  It's funny seeing him dress up in hip hop gear when entering the club with Aaliyah and acting all cool.  Kind of reminds me of my early years of high school.The chemistry between Jet Li and Aaliyah was pretty good.  I liked the scene where Jet Li and Aaliyah fight together against the hot Chinese female motorcyclist.  I thought that was pretty well choreographed even though it was mostly done through special effects.The only things that I didn't like too much about this film is that it focussed mostly on the Black Gangsters and the Chinese had very few lines of dialogue.  Also, Russell Wong should have been given more screen time.  His prescence is radiant and it was a shame that the director did not allow the audience see his great acting abilities.  Most people did not like how Jet Li's fight sequences were edited with special effects but I didn't mind it too much.  Still, it would have been better to have let Jet Li do his own stunts because, as in his Hong Kong movies, he can perform any physical activity with ease.Another funny thing about the film is the dialect between the Chinese actors.  One person will start talking in Mandarin and the other will respond in Cantonese.  I thought that was pretty hilarious but if this film is to be marketed towards an American audience I guess it doesn't matter.All in All, Romeo Must Die is a great film that does Jet Li justice. American audiences will love this film and hopefully they will realize just how great an action star he really is.  Also look for a great soundtrack with songs by DMX and Aaliyah.  The rap/hip-hop songs that are played throughout the duration of the film truly enhance the gangster feel of the movie. "},{"Title":"Francoise Yip Fong Wah in Romeo Must Die","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Francoise Yip Fong Wah is so pretty in Romeo Must Die. She has always acted with Jet Li. She's much more beautiful than the other black lady in the movie. In fact, Francoise saved the entire movie.Her special appearance was only a few minutes. She just killed a few guys when Jet Li arrived. Riding a bike, dress in full black leather, she together with another killer chase Jet Li and want to have him killed. During the chase, the other killer was killed. Francoise tried to run but Jet Li attack back by driving his car towards her. She was in danger, but because she was very skillful, she managed to escape unhurt.Later, the fight. When Françoise's helmet was removed, Jet Li realized that she was a pretty lady. Jet Li doesn't hurt lady, especially such a pretty one. Francoise tried to take advantage, but later Jet Li uses the body of this black girl to attack her. Jet Li has no intention of hurting her. In fact, Francoise is so sure that she'll win cause she'll never get hurt. Not to mention her great fighting skill.At the end, during the fight, Jet Li kicked Francoise. She fell down and accidentally dropped onto on a sharp object and died on the spot. You can see from her face, that she was shock to end her life like this. "},{"Title":"A Missed Opportunity of Epic Proportions","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"       This film is quite simply a waiste of two charismatic performers.  Watching ROMEO MUST DIE, one gets no sense of Jets screen presence or awesome speed.  Alliyah, an R&B singer who usually has a sort of appealing yet shy sexuality about her, is given almost no opportunity to show that quality.  The Two have a sort of chemistry together that is stifled by this films poor character development and weak plot.  The film exists simply as attempt to cash in on the current popularity of Hip-Hop Culture and Hong Kong action cinema.      Being a fan of both Hip Hop Culture and HK action films, I feel I deserve more, and better. "},{"Title":"A Missed Opportunity of Epic Proportions","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"       This film is quite simply a waiste of two charismatic performers.  Watching ROMEO MUST DIE, one gets no sense of Jets screen presence or awesome speed.  Alliyah, an R&B singer who usually has a sort of appealing yet shy sexuality about her, is given almost no opportunity to show that quality.  The Two have a sort of chemistry together that is stifled by this films poor character development and weak plot.  The film exists simply as attempt to cash in on the current popularity of Hip-Hop Culture and Hong Kong action cinema.      Being a fan of both Hip Hop Culture and HK action films, I feel I deserve more, and better. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare meets The Matrix?","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start off by telling the producer of this film (The producer of The Matrix, as the trailer told me) that Jet Li is an astonishing fighter, and he isn't more astonishing if special effects aid his fighting scenes. Especially in a movie like this, where the plot relies on fighting to sustain audiences interest. It worked in The Matrix, because there was a reason for people being able to dodge bullets, spin around in mid-air, or fly across a building. Thankfully, Romeo Must Die only had a couple of those scenes. Pinnochio was much happier with no strings, and that should apply to Li, too.The plot is supposed to be based on Romeo and Juliet. I guess the screenwriter saw Baz Lurmahnn's offbeat take on Shakespeare's classic, with all the guns as swords. However, he forgot about the plot, the characters, and the dialogue. The film is actually about Li avenging his friends death by a black gang. Li almost makes this film a good one, but that wirework dumbs down the impact of his fighting skills. The highlight of the film was the X-ray cam, which show bones breaking from an X-ray view, but it was heavily derived from 'Three Kings' during the scene where a bullet's damage is shown from inside the body. And that scene was a lot better, and longer. And George Clooney was describing it.PLOT 3 ACTING 5 SCRIPT 3 DIRECTION 6 FIGHTING 8OVERALL 5.5 "},{"Title":"What sort of person is this movie targetted at?","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly, a word of warning about my remarks. I will make direct references to the movie. Don't read on if you are concerned about the plot. Secondly, don't worry about the plot. Romeo must die is not a cogent film. Clearly its aimed at a consumer demographic that doesn't care if things don't add up or make sense.Now don't get me wrong... I enjoy a good shoot 'em up. However audience intelligence is insulted when a property deal is based on who physically holds the deeds at any one time. I particularly liked the part where the stadium developers cut a physical cheque for $38million. HA! How many companies would do that? Wouldn't it be easier to just wire it between accounts?Bah! If the movie was supposed to be a romance, there wasn't any spark. Jet Li isn't actually that well known for his romantic acting. If the movie was supposed to be a suspense or some sort of thriller it didn't meet the requirement to keep me guessing. There weren't any twists, everything was predictable. So as far as an action picture, this movie is still relatively average. The amazing action/special effect scenes in the Matrix, weren't in the same ball game as those used here.It'll wait for video... 2 stars out of 5 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but not enough!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing Jet Li star in his first original Hollywood film is a delight, as he is arguably the most amazing martial artist in cinema right now. His skills are shown entertainingly here, and people who haven't been exposed to his earlier Hong Kong work will love it, but for experienced HK fans and people who have seen any of Li's older work would notice this dosen't even show half of his potential. First of all the camera work is atrocious. In the fight scenes, the angles are too close and there are too many cuts during them. Second, the totally unnecessary wires Li used was too obvious and frustrating. It seems as if the makers of the film didn't go with Li's skill and instead went for style over matter. This was a big mistake. If the director saw any of Li's work he would know he could handle uncut 15 minute fight scenes against 20 men with no wires or doubles. What was keeping him from doing it here? The only fight scene I really liked was the one where Li plays football for the first time and that wasn't even a real fight scene.The plot was overdone and unnecessarily complex for a film like this. Isaiah Washington and Delroy Lindo's characters aren't that important and they take up most of the screen time without Li in it. What would have increased the film's quality MUCH more was more of Russell Wong (Vanishing Son, Prophecy II), an amazing talent who can give off electric charisma, handle the fight scenes and certainly act. It would have been a much-needed boost to the film if his mysterious character was explored more (and the end fight scene was say, five times longer?) instead of giving us 15 minute speeches by Lindo and Washington. Aaliyah is impressive in her debut but watching her while listening to her songs in the soundtrack is a bit distracting.Overall, Romeo Must Die would be enjoyed by most but hardcore Li fans would know Li hasn't gotten his true breakthrough film yet. "},{"Title":"Russell Wong IS the show!","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was not bad, but not that good either.  I expected more fight scenes, considering there are 2 great martial artists in the movie. Instead we have to watch long drama sequences with the black characters and their trying-to-be-cool attitudes.  Why were the asian characters, including the main one--downplayed?A lot of critics are very negative about Jet's acting, but I thought it was alright.But all I can say is..Russell Wong!! Ohhhh!! I fell in love at an instant! This man should be bigger than what he is, he deserves more! He's got jaw-dropping good looks, great acting talent (portrayed the cool Kai beautifully!), impressive martial arts and UNBELIEVABLE sex appeal!  I'm glad I wasn't the only here who said he steals every scene he's in...because he does!  He should have ahd more scenes in this movie--he was very much underused! "},{"Title":"Excellent nonsense...","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just what I needed. A complete escape from reality. You can see - or, more to the point, hear - Joel Silver's touch in that the sound effects are all but identical to those used in The Matrix. The same 'swish-thud' type fight scene effects. Of course, the plot is hopeless. Well, maybe not quite *that* bad, but it's pretty dire. But who cares? Ignore all that! That's not why I came to this movie! I came to see Jet Li in an action flick, no more, no less. And because I didn't expect to enjoy the plot a great deal, I loved the movie. One I'm definitely going to have to get on video, to put next to Event Horizon and The Matrix. And my flatmate's copies of Judge Dredd and Starship Troopers. Romeo Must Die is not a cerebrally challenging movie - although I found it quite difficult to interpret the African-American accents for about half the movie until I got into the swing of it. Basically, this is an action movie with some awesome running gags - the plot's transparent as hell, but don't let that stop you from enjoying yourself. 8½/10.  "},{"Title":"The art of revenge for two individuals","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The movie on this are well done especially the effects and the title screen which feature chinese translation on the name. One thing about this one where the story tells us about one guy who would seeks answer for his brother dead, travel to the U.S. he visited his father and some old friend but doesn't realised that there were conspiracy between the family. A must see movie for Jet Lie's fan.One thing about this movie is the obvious effects of fighting sequence where people flying high 10 to 20 feets above the ground. Jet Lie has been in many movie which he probably do not need that special things to make the movie interesting. A well done story and fighting sequence, goods for entertainment. Camera positioning can be done more perfectly, for instance when Jet Lie and Aaliyah went to the pub, the bar door man look at Lie and the camera should move together, not after the man turn his head and look at him. This will bring a more natural film making. "}{"Title":"It's not Shakespeare, but it is a great way to string together set martial art pieces.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While Romeo Must Die is not Shakespeare in scope or aim, it is a very palatable way to string together a series of engaging martial arts displays interspersed with some very attractive people (especially Russell Why-Doesn't-He-Make-More-Movies Wong) and something of a circuitous, but easily followed dysfunctional family/loyalty/corruption/NFL franchise plot. "},{"Title":"ok but could have been better","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this is definitely an improvement over Li's last movie but Hollywood still hasn't figured it out yet. But they are getting better.Romeo Must Die is about revenge, betrayal, love and honor. Han Sing (Jet Li) is an ex-cop that comes over to America to seek revenge for the death of his little brother. In the process of finding his brother's killer, he meets a beautiful woman that turns out to be from the family of the rival gang suspected of killing Sing's little brother. To complicate things, the suspected killer could very well come from within the family but the two of them work together despite the serious repercussions if they are caught together.I say that this is an improvement over Li's other work but I think that there is still a lot of room for improvement. Li's english has improved dramatically and he looks to be more comfortable with the english language and acting in Hollywood movies. I'm not one to dwell on fight scenes but let's be honest. This movie's main attraction was Jet Li and his martial arts skills so fight scenes become a pretty major focus. The weak part of this movie lies in the use of camera angles. The cameras are still too tight during the fight scenes and what you end up with is flashes of an arm here or a leg there. The effect of the fight scenes is totally lost, as the audience can't exactly see what is going on. Mind you there were some scenes (fire hose scene) that were done well but the final fight scene could have been much better. If you want to see some fantastic fight scenes, rent Fists of Fury. It's an older Li film redubbed in English for North America but awesome for good fight scenes.This is my first exposure to Aaliyah (rival gang head's daughter) and I have to say that I was impressed. She didn't come across as awkward or melodramatic (like other singer turned actors) and created an innocent believable attraction towards Li's character. They also did some interesting things with computer graphics but they may have been a bit too technology focussed in some parts.Overall, the story wasn't bad and most of the acting was pretty good. But my biggest beef with this movie was the way the fight scenes were filmed. If they improved that, this movie would have been better. "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is about a war against black people, and chinese people. Jet Li breaks out of prison finding out that his brother was murdered, so he wants revenge!Very wild movie, with a bunch of kung-fu scenes. A little bit to unbelieveable, like when Jet Li is jumping like 20 feet in the air. But if these things don't bother you in a movie, you would like it. But if you don't, I suggest you skip this movie. Also starring DMX, Aayilah, and Delroy Lindo.** "},{"Title":"This movie is so....bad...","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't have very high expectations for this movie, but I was still utterly disappointed. This movie was full of cliches, and the action scenes were badly choreographed. Often I had trouble understanding what was happening because of the camera angles and the zooming. Jet Li is undoubtedly one of the best, if not the best martial artist in cinema right now, but his talents are simply badly utilised. Why would you want a kung fu star to waste his time in a car chase scene or playing football? And why would you want to create unrealistic fight scenes with computers when the stuff Li can do is amazing enough as it is? A lot of this was just plain silly, and the attempts to humour were inept to say the least. Overall, this was just a bad movie. Possibly the worst of the year so far. The acting was bad, the dialogue was bad, the direction was bad, the fighting could have been so much better, the script was bad...did I mention the acting was bad? "},{"Title":"Great movie...","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was incredible.  The action was great, and the story was good enough to enjoy.  The x-ray effect was a very refreshing add-on - very original.  I would like to point out, however, that the x-ray portions were the ONLY use of CG in the movie.  I keep seeing comments on the use of CG to make him kick... if anyone has ever seen a Hong-Kong style martial arts movie (i.e. Fist of Legend, etc), this is WIRES, not computers.  And they've been doing it for years there.  It was introduced mainstream to the US in The Matrix, so many people attributed the movements in that movie to be CG as well.  This does not take away from the movie - it makes the fight scenes stretch the level of believability.  You may know a person can't do that in reality, but it is incredible to see on the screen.Don't let negative comments fool you - this was a very enjoyable movie.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable 115 minutes... so long as you can ignore the CGI and forget that you've ever seen a Jet Li movie before","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I know what you're thinking He's gonna trash this movie, mercilessly. Sorry to disappoint you but I am not.  This is not great cinema of any genre but it can be an enjoyable way to spend 115 minutes.  In order to enjoy this film, (A) if you've seen a Jet Li film before, you must forget what you've seen.  If you do not, you'll quickly realize that none of the fight scenes are even remotely original.  (Nothing you do can make up for the horrible choice of CG enhancing the fight scenes.)  Once you've done this, the fights can be truly enjoyable (the most notable highlight being the John Woo-esque gunplay towards the end of the opening fight sequence).  The next thing you must do is (B) accept the fact that this film will NOT explore the characters in a balanced in-depth way.  (Minus a few notable exceptions, what action movie ever does?)  This is noted in the fact that Isaiah Washington's Mac (a black gang member) is overly present (despite the fact that he fails to deliver any stature whatsoever as a villain and/or would-be usurper) while Russell Wong's Kai Sing is barely seen and, thusly, hardly explored.  Still Russell Wong more than makes up for his lack of scenes by his great presence and cooler-than-you demeanor.  What you must also do is (C) face the fact that this movie will not fully exploit two possible roads (it could have been a hard-core shoot-em-up or a heavy, well acted, drama -- had the casting been better -- with some thrilling action sequences to heighten the tension).  It remains constantly locked in a middle ground.If all these factors are taken into account, the film can be enjoyed to it's fullest.  The added humour between Jet Li and his black co-stars (having him try to behave like a brotha was an excellent treat) helps greatly.I actually enjoyed this film despite its flaws and believe anyone can enjoy it even though they can make one cringe at times and the pacing of the film is uncomfortably slow.  Out of a possible ten, I'd have to give this film a six.  I eagerly await the day filmmakers finally decide to exploit Jet Li's prowess AND his clear presence to their fullest, thus giving filmgoers the type of martial arts film they deserve. "},{"Title":"A man whose talent surpasses all ye critics","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I can not believe that in the world today we are so cynical as to point out that fight scenes aren't good because they have some computer spice added to them. Man, it really upsets me that more people don't understand just how hard Jet Li has worked his whole life, and how he has PROVED himself in real life in the ring. A champion of international championships what 4 years in a row? A wushi master for crying out loud!! Let us support this man. The movie was great. In theatre's today all you see is stupid, trendy, pathetic young stars trying to cash in and making lousy love storyies with pathetic storylines and lame comedy thats supposed to appeal to us. Movie stars might as well come out and say, hey were really rich, and you guys pay to see us do stupid stuff that we get paid millions for!!! Ha!!! what fools you are!!!! They are laughing. Sure Jet Li isn't the most talented actor. His strength comes from real character, and real determination. For a man from China, he has worked very hard for us to give us a glimpse into the world of martial arts, and lets get this straight now, Jet Li, is the best martial artists ever. There is no doubt. Bruce Lee was good but would be hurt by Jet Li. I hope to shake his hand someday. Let us support him "},{"Title":"Yea, and the movie kills me too!","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really need to get it out of my chest Hong Kong is a VERY Modern city. I hate it when every Hollywood producer that shoot their location in Hong Kong, they always use some STUIPD chinese music and they always show an Old Chinese style boat on the Harbour, as if we are still using them as major transport. For all of the readers who have never been to Hong Kong, let me tell you this There are only one or two of them around. I know because I live in Hong Kong and my office faces the harbour. When I am not busy writing reviews -) I alway look at the sea and Nope, there ain't any around. Why do the hollywood producers so stereo type? And the prison scene..... God, it is so unrealistic! you might find this kind of place in China, but not in Hong Kong (No, Hong Kong and China is NOT the same). And Prison Guard on a BIKE? Jesus, I wonder what in the world is going on. Don't they do research any more???? If the setting is in China, I will buy it, but in Hong Kong?And I agree with some of the viewers that Jet Li is a wonderful fighter. Actually, if you think Jackey Chan is the best fighter around, you are dead wrong, Jet Li is much, much better. I think some if the fight scene is too much computer aided. I hope someday, Hollywood can produce a good, down to the earth Fight Movie "},{"Title":"Get outta here, DiCaprio... the new Romeo's in the house!","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I pored through the numerous reviews of this movie (most of 'em being not much more than a few words, and that P***ES A WRITER OFF), noting one uniform complaint-- the CGI made the fights crap.  I very proudly defy this remark.  Tell me what OTHER way you could show the villain's all-too-grisly demise?  Or a lovely new use for a broken-off steel pipe?  Okay, I was kinda p***ed that DMX had a sum totality of only six minutes of screen time, but WHAT THE HELL, it's Jet Li!  On a final note... let's be honest here-- you don't go to a Jet Li movie and expect Shakespeare.  You also don't go to a Jet Li movie and expect COMPLETE AND TOTAL REALISM.  The fun of a kung-fu movie is the fun of exaggeration.  I've seen people who, during The Matrix, have made overly-analytical comments like THAT'S BULL!  He can't dodge that many bullets in a row!  She can't jump over an eighty-foot gap!  People, this is the beauty of film.  Anything's possible.  Not everything has to be so grounded in reality that even the most high-flying dreams are firmly kept in realism's stern grasp. "},{"Title":"Romeo is dead","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li was deprived of an arena to display his talent,he is  capable of delivering so much more and certainly could perform stunts far more spectacular than the ones from the film. The fight scenes are unrealistic and lack finesse! This is second rated by Hong Kong standard. Let's hope we could see the real Jet Li in action in his next movie. "}{"Title":"Greatest Martial Arts Movie of Our Generation","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Amazing special effects, which, unlike some movies, added to greatness of the movie.  THe fight scenes are amazing, and Jet Li is without a doubt the most talented martial arts actor of the past decade, maybe even longer.  In movies so well made, such as this one, plot line often gets lost.  Romeo Must Die's  plot is always entertaining and even heart felt at times.  The secret blast at Oakland not having a football team is just one of the humorous sidenotes of a great film. "},{"Title":"A Disappointment","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was quite disappointing while there was great potential, and some notable scenes, on the whole, it fails to measure up to other films in the genre.  What makes this film poor are the many cliches which seem not to be done deliberately (ie-even a really bad cliche always has its place...these stick out).  Also, if intended as a martial arts movie, there really aren't that many fight scenes, and those that are there have bad cinematography. The camera is always so tight that one never gets the sense of proportion. While not an awful movie, it's not very good. "},{"Title":"Too much CG!","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The fight scenes were great, although the computer effects were just too blunt!  That kind of stuff helps movies like The Matrix, where it's supposed to be obvious.  Movies like The Phantom Menace left me surprised at exactly what was computer generated.  But this movie, it could have been avoided and could have been at least more subtle.  It's too bad, because Jet Li really is good. "},{"Title":"Jet Li is a one man Matrix!!!","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li is a one man Matrix!!! I'm a theater projectionist and a true Jet Li fan... anyone else that is a true Jet fan would say this film gave them total mixed feelings.  Everything about this film was just on the right track but you can tell that creative differences and mixed film making styles kept this film from being what it should have been.  You'll see what I mean if you've seen all of Jet's asian films.  None of his fight scenes in his asian films are computer enhanced.  The enhanced fight scenes in Romeo Must Die really only insulted his true on screen martial arts talent. Anyone who hasn't seen Jet Li's films from asia and only seen Romeo Must Die will have their mouths drop in amazement to the stuff he's done in asia like Fist Of Legend, Swordman II, Once Upon A Time In China, etc.  See, Hong Kong action films tend to be plotless, slapstick and full of action with camera angles shot far back enough to fully appreciate and respect the martial arts beauty by seeing their entire body all at once in the action sequence.  In America, our action films tend to be up close (sometimes to close like 'Blade') in the action so you can feel more immersed.  Notice why the fights in 'Matrix' were so well done is becuase the directors were such hardcore fans that they knew to swtich from a American film style during the plot to a HongKong camera shot during the fights.  Plus not to mention they have Yuen Woo-Ping (who's worked with Jet Li a lot) do all of the fights for 'Matrix'.Personally they should have let Romeo Must Die go the Hong Kong route. Because the plot was about as unoriginal as a Hong Kong film but with the bad American fight scene camera work.  The fight scenes were great but too computer enhanced and short... especially the final fight which was the most disappointing one.  Actor Russell Wong was doing this cool breakdance looking move in mid-air five feet above the ground and the damn camera was too close cutting half his body off screen.  Now how can you fully appreciate the beauty in that when the camera is so damn close.  It almost makes me want to redirect the whole film!!!  Just imagining the camera back on that part would have gave me an intense rush.  If they just pulled the camera angles back more Hong Kong style, made the fights a lil longer, less computer enhancement and less focus on the unoriginal story... this film would have been one of his top best.If you want some intense Jet Li, go see Fist Of Legend!!! "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly, this is *not* an adaptation of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet. This is instead an extremely entertaining action movie with tremendous fight scenes.Definitely one of the best movies I've seen recently. "},{"Title":"Good kung-fu, so-so plot.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li's English is improving, and his kung-fu moves are truly impressive. Out to revenge his brother's murder, Jet Li is caught in the middle of a gang war between Chinese and black mafias in San Francisco.  With fight scenes clearly inspired by Face Off and The Matrix, and with a poor substition of Vancouver for the San Francisco setting (San Francisco does not extend all the way around its bay, and it's a lot further from SF to Oakland across the water than half a mile.) Amusing mind candy. "},{"Title":"too less fighting","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of people are whoaing about this movie... But I saw it as a regular movie.  I'll admit.. It's good but why does it have to be racial between asian and blacks?  Trying to cause war in the world again? Well, anyways, I've seen a lot of Jet Li movie and I expected this one to be alike, where there was a lot of fighting involved.  That part disappointed me because there were too less fighting scenes!  But gotta hand it to aaliyah and jet li... great performers!  well I'm sure lots of people seen this movie by now... Need I say more about it? "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seems to have received a lot of flack about the fight scenes being unrealistic and it's true they do ask you to forget about physics on occasion but really, it's OK.  The fight scenes are very cartoon like, like in Black Mask, and I think that's what they were shooting for.  I think the acting was well done, no one made me cringe except for Jet on occasion and the big guy was quite funny.The soundtrack was great, lots of energy.  The love story was almost non-existent but who really cares, it was cute enough and was only ever an excuse to do some butt kicking.  I thought the action scenes were very good, even with the guy wire help, and there was lots of shooting stuff up too.  I think Jet Li is an excellent martial artist (although I like Jackie Chan better)and the physics defying stuff is just his schtick.  I had a good time at this movie and I think if you just want some action, you'll feel the same.  I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"What can't Jet Li do?","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li is becoming another of the unstoppable Asian forces to hit the Hollywood market (with Jackie Chan, Michelle Yeoh, and Chow Yun-Fat). This is only his second shot in Hollywood (after Lethal Weapon 4) and it is one of the best Jet Li films I have ever seen.Jet plays Han Sing, a Chinese policeman sent to jail to protect his father and brother. When he hears his brother has died, he goes to Oakland, where there is a rivalry between Chinese and African-Americans. He falls in love with Trish O'Day (pop star Aaliyah), the daughter of the other side's leader (played with greatness by Delroy Lindo), and of course, this causes more friction between the rival factions. Corey Yuen did some amazing fight choreography, taking a page from his real-life brother Yuen Woo-Ping (The Matrix) by using wires to enhance the fights. Russell Wong is back in style, since his defunct series, Vanishing Son.For some extreme martial arts action and a plot with two young people falling in love despite their families' rivalry, this is the one to check out. Great action, great plot, and great butt-kicking. "},{"Title":"fight scenes and soundtrack were sweeeeet!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie for me ranks right up in my top few along with such titles as The Matrix, Face/off, etc.  The fight scenes, although graphically altered/enhanced whatever, were so incredible i cant explain it.  I loved the movie and the music in it so much, i bought the soundtrack right after the show ended.  Although they needed more dmx in the movie and soundtrack, hes just cool.  I strongly recommend seeing it for yourself and decide whether you like it or not.  I sure did. "}{"Title":"it's a kick","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When the director recorded what the martial artists were doing, it was spectacular. Sometimes he'd add in some truly odd unique special effects - a sort of x-ray insight into the damage caused by certain attacks and the movie went right over the top in a truly rewarding way. Other times he'd try to enhance what Jet Li was actually doing, with some sort of suspended -in-the-air fake stuff, and it would drop the bottom out of the scene. It was the sort of floating kicks that worked like a charm in Matrix, but had an opposite effect here. All in all, the directing had some odd flaws, some major close-ups were out of focus for an entire scene, and you could see too much pancake on the actors in their early shots. It's not the sort of movie you go to for plot coherence or gripping character development so the lack of those elements doesn't mean a thing. It's a fun movie with some spectacular real-life stunts, and some misplaced enhancements. "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What planet were the writers of this movie from? Many an action flick has at least been able to deliver a remotely interesting and quirky script. Here we see Jet Li and Aaliyah in what may be one of the least convincing romances in recent history. (Of course, this is Hollywood in full Interracial Mode, where characters are only permitted a brief embrace at the end, and perhaps a quick peck on the cheek if they're lucky.)As for the action (which is, of course, what this is really all about), there is a certain point where my disbelief can be suspended no more. Much as I would like to believe that Jet Li is capable of changing direction several times in the air without external assistance, or that he can fly through fire with hardly a scratch, I just can't swallow it. Sorry. It's a disappointing Hollywood debut for the man. "},{"Title":"Fast paced action a la Matrix","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This action packed tale of a war is so awesome. The fight scenes are so reminiscent of The Matrix. That's because action choreographer Corey Yuen (who has worked with Jet Li both in the US and Hong Kong) decided to take a page from brother Yuen Woo Ping (choreographer of The Matrix). The story is intense as two rival factions duke it out over waterfront property. Aaliyah is great in her film debut, but it was the fight scenes that amazed me. I highly recommend you see this film!!! "},{"Title":"These Filmmakers Must Die","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film is such an enormous disappointment.  There is so much potential and it's all wasted.  Jet Li is a very talented martial artist (possibly the best on film currently) and the special effects used here totally hide his skills.  The acting is mediocre, the story is standard martial arts fair (revenge for my brother's death), and the action is few and far between. The final fight scene is exciting but cannot make up for the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"Some cheesy movies, but all in all....","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok it was an ok movie. Some people give it flack for using cgi and stuff, but it was good enough honestly. There were some good fighting moves, it actually had a good plot, and they avoided the usual cheesy japaneese action movie cliche's. I give it a 7 "},{"Title":"Wherefore Art Thou, Romeo?","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Wow.  What an incredibly boring movie.I've seen bad action movies before, especially bad martial arts movies.  They cover up their lack of creativity by quickly edited fights that don't really showcase anything except a couple of kicks.What we have here, is basically the same thing.  Far too many of the fights are over far too soon, and the most exciting sequence in the movie-- involving a bound Jet Li-- is near the beginning of the film, and the rest of the movie tries hard to catch up to it.Perhaps the director didn't understand the script.  Perhaps the screenwriters didn't either, as Mitchell Kapner only gets story credit, even though he wrote the very funny The Whole Nine Yards.Maybe the studio didn't know what they wanted, or maybe they thought they'd enhance everything digitally and do Matrix-type business.Bottom line, though, if you have a story as pointless as this one, and characters you can't figure out if you like or not until the films closing minutes-- you don't have a film, you have a mess.This film was a mess.  I liked the X-Ray shots during some of the fight sequences, but if a filmmaker is going to do that, go all out.  Don't use up your entire budget on just 3 shots.  Be an artist.6/10.  The most clever thing about this film will always be its title. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable fluff","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I loved the atmosphere of the film. It was obvious the director has a cinematographic background, and the groove of the soundtrack worked well with the visuals. My only complaint is the apparent usage of a hand-held for the fight scenes. What's the point of such gorgeous choreography expertly executed if you can't focus on the moves? As far as the romance, okay, so the two lovers might not have been setting the screen on fire, but they were so darn *cute* together. Over all, I did enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"This ain't yer grandpappy&#146;s Romeo and Juliet, them Capulets know kung fu!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are a few questions you should ask yourself before deciding whether or not to see Romeo Must Die. Do you look forward to a film only when it looks either thought provoking or enlightening? Are you looking for a charming yet tragic love story in the traditional Romeo and Juliet style? Do martial arts scenes make you question the use of violence as a filmmaker's technique? If you answered yes to any one of the above questions then this writer&#146;s guess is that Romeo Must Die is not tops on your list of things to see. The only thing you'll find in director Andrzej Bartkowiak&#146;s fight-fest is guns, fights, a bit of detective work, and a few more fights. On the other hand, if you&#146;d like to see things explode, unscrupulous crime families, and the trademark scenes that make Jet Li the premier fight actor alive, don&#146;t pass this one up. Furthermore, if you like all of the action and appreciate the abilities of DMX and Aaliyah as muscians and actors, then drop this paper immediately and race to the theatre to see this movie. Undoubtedly, this film will appeal to a certain type of individual. But for what it&#146;s worth, this film is fast-paced and filled with enough quirks to keep those who are not interested in the incredible fights entertained. As far as the fight scenes go, if you have any appreciation for onscreen martial arts and ingenious stunt work a la Jackie Chan, this is a movie not to be missed. The props and choreography in Jet Li and co-star Russell Wong&#146;s fights are superb. Romeo Must Die adds just enough editing to compliment Jet Li&#146;s incredible athletic ability, suspending disbelief and making for some incredible shots. At some spots the editing wears thin, but the x-ray effects that compliment the flow of the fight are set perfectly. Contrary to popular belief, a story lies beneath all the fight scenes that could hold its own. The only problem seems to be that director Bartkowiak seems torn between adding more fight scenes and gunplay, or developing the romantic connection beween Li and Aaliyah&#146;s character. While this indecision renders the plot a bit underdeveloped, straddling the rope between all out gang war and steamy crime drama makes for a decent effect. All in all, this remains the best mainstream martial arts film to hit the theatres in quite some time, and has a plot decent enough to hold your interest if fight scenes only interest you peripherally.Verdict 7. This ain&#146;t yer grandpappy&#146;s Romeo and Juliet, them Capulets know kung fu!  "},{"Title":"Not well grounded.","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Is he really a fighter?  Who can tell?  Martial arts movie stars have to be dancers.  Give them some good choreography and let them provide the thrills. Jet Li might be the Fred Astaire of his generation, but it only works while his feet are on the ground.Romeo Must Die takes one step forward, then two steps up.  Whenever the fight scenes threaten to entertain us, they spill the wind out of it by dangling the hero from a string, like a marionette.  Some of the more obvious physics violations are partially obscured by close-ups, disorienting editing, and slow motion, that device made so popular by The Six Million Dollar Man.For a while, it looked like martial arts films were maturing.  They never did get the hang of the punishment limitations of a human body, but they did eventually recognize gravity.  In fact, Jackie Chan did an admirable job of using this natural force to his advantage.  Now, perhaps, it is time for them to revert back to their drive-in days, with combat taking place twenty feet above the ground. "},{"Title":"Jet Li fails to make a step forward in Hollywood","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li is the world`s premier star in the genre of straight martial arts action movies.His stardom was by now recognized only by martial art fans and movie buffs.Joel Silver was first in Hollywood to fully discover his potential and he brought Li to Hollywood in `Pigmalion` style. `Romeo Must Die`is the Li`s second Hollywood movie but it is also his debut in the role of full-blooded action hero.His first movie in Hollywood was a disgrace.`Lethal Weapon 4` was like a cross-over between `Lethal Weapon` and sitcom concept. Even though Li`s fettish potential was fully understood even in terms of Donner`s uninspired direction. `Romeo Must Die` was in the beginning set for expert kung fu director Corey Yuen but soon he was replaced by veteran Polish cinematographer Bartkowiak.This softened the concept of direction even though Yuen remained as martial arts coordinator. Yuen`s touch can be seen but overall action scenes are surprisingly flat.Only the set-piece of prison escape can make it in the average Hong Kong actioner.The pace of the movie is on the brink of fatal bore.I am lucky that I`ve seen it with friends because it would be unbearable to see it alone.Script focuses more on the black ghetto drama than on the action.Drama is also flat so it feels like seeing Demme`s `Beloved` cut with sporadic below average chop socky. If you like Jet Li stick to `Tai Chi` and `Black Mask` and see this one only as info on Li`s career moves. If you like philosophical approach dig this Arian fettish symbol Li escapes the Chinese communist prison to fight Jewish uber villain and black mob.That`s some heavy Nazi stuff if you ask me. `Romeo Must Die` won`t succeed on the basis of `Blade` and `The Matrix` hype because those movies basically had strong plots and then they just incorporated martial arts while this movie has almost no plot and showcases a short supply of martial arts.   "}{"Title":"Overall bad movie, yet an enjoyable action film","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is horrendous if you compare it to the wide range of films available today, and yet if you compare it to other martial arts/action films, it's actually quite good.  If I wasn't laughing so hard at the stereotypes the script plays off both demographics, I'd probably be offended.  However, there's a lot of comedy to be enjoyed as well as the fight sequences.  Jet Li deserved a lot more than this film. "},{"Title":"Impressive beginning to Jet Li's leading role in an American film.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li is no doubt one of today's greatest action/martial arts stars.  Not only are his real life wugong movements faster than the camera can capture, but also his serious yet boyish nature shines through in many of his best known films (i.e., Once Upon a Time in China).  Although his developing English skills probably limited his number of spoken lines, Jet Li took what got and made the audience love him.The martial effects in this movie were awesome.  It's Jet Li; what else can we expect?  True, the computer-enhanced fight scenes were a slight divergence from Jet's usual style, particularly in the scene where in a mid-air multi-knock-out sweep, he ricochets for a second sweep before we scarcely draw a breath.  However, after Matrix, we've gained a new appreciation for suspended disbelief.  This more computer-dependent style probably protected the actors from unnecessary injuries, if performed in true Hong Kong form.Most endearing was the emerging relationship between Trish (Aaliyah) and Han (Jet Li).  It wasn't a ridiculously sappy express ride to love, if the story had clung to the events of Romeo&Juliet.  Instead, a more platonic and time/place-feasible friendship develops between the two characters. Unfortunately, Trish didn't get too many good lines.  But Aaliyah was suitably sassy and kind-hearted, so that a wugong master yet boyish flirt could feel comfortable around her. (And she herself does some awesome fight moves in this picture.)The Asian representation in the film was a bit off, i.e. automatic-weapon-toting Hong Kong prison guard.  The Asian gang members looked pathetically emaciated (but for the exception of Russell Wong) and we barely got to know any of them, in comparison to the African American gang members.  Make-up also looked off.  Jet at times looked pallid and non-symmetrical and Aaliyah really didn't need that much make-up to look stunning.  The title of the movie still vexes me, but the effect is minimal.Overall, Romeo Must Die was a great beginning for Jet Li in America. Can't wait for his next film, when his improved English will really show his acting ability along with his fighting ability. "},{"Title":"Waste of Two Hours","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The rave reviews of this movie from my friends prompted me to invest the two hours and eight dollars into watching it. By the end of it, I was extremely disappointed. In fact, I could have left half way through the movie (as soon as the story revealed itself) because there was simply no reason to waste any more time into such a pathetic endeavour. The fight scenes grow tiring after the comic Jet Li vs. Aaliyah's bodyguards and as well, don't even hold a candle to anything John Woo has produced. The story is downright pathetic and the acting is laughable. The ending is anticlimactic and just made me angry about the time and money I had wasted watching the movie.Do yourself a favor and go see a REAL Hong Kong action film instead. "},{"Title":"Nothing great, nothing bad","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Eehh. There really wasn't anything great I would say about this one nor anything bad.  Jet Li kicked some ass but it was all to predictable. If Aaliyah would have gotten into the ass kicking  mix that would have been exciting. Other than that there really was no where this one could have gone.  It probably should have developed some other characters to combat Jet. "},{"Title":"Good introduction","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. While it was definitely not one of Li's best works (go see Fist of Legend now!), it was a good way to introduce him to the American public. Jet Li, like many other Asian superstars (Jackie Chan, Sammo Hung, Chow yun fat) has decided to introduce his talents to the west. In Romeo Must Die, we see a decent actor (especially when he's speaking Chinese) and an excellent martial artist. While he is a tremendous fighter, he has brought the technique of wire effects from his old movies, not compromising his style of movie making. If the American public doesn't understand wire effects, they can go see a Chan movie. But for a really good action flick based more on fighting than stunts, the west now knows to look to Li. If you liked the fights in the Matrix, go see the man who had the most influence on them - Jet Li - in Romeo Must die. Definitely worth the $8. "},{"Title":"very average","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i went to this movie expecting it to be a bloodbath with lots of guns and action scenes.  i came out of the theater asking (as posted in another comment) 'why the need for the special effects in the fight scenes?'   i, too, agree that Jet Li is great with karate/kung fu/whatever you want to call it, and that this movie just made him appear, well, average.  i was, however, impressed with russell wong--this could just be because i've never seen him in a movie other than The Prophecy 2.there was too much emphasis on the black gang, and not enough on the chinese one.  i also didn't like how it was portrayed that the black gang members always were having to be better than the next guy (as can be accurately seen in the restaurant where Mac is talking to Trish).the script had the potential, it just didn't follow through.  i found that the most entertaining moment in the movie was when the guy behind me started having a conversation on his cell phone and everyone in the theater collectively told him to shut up. "},{"Title":"More action, less story","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had to say I was disappointed with this film. Jet Li, as always, was spectacular. The rest of the cast, though, was mediocre. The action sequences were few, displaced by periods of boring dialogue and predictable plot. A film technique was used, though, that I had never seen before which was interesting. It involved stopping the action mid-sequence and changing to a skeletal view (like as in an x-ray) of the participants. The advantage here was getting to see the results of the karate/kung-fu physiologically on the participants.   "},{"Title":"Okay movie","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was ok.  I like the fight scenes.  Russell Wong stole every scene he was in.  Jet Li is a good actor who will get better with more movies he does.  Although I can not believe he didn't get to kiss Aaliyah.  I mean you cannot enter into a black friend house that have a woman in it and not get kiss.  These two were supposed to be falling in love and he did not get kiss. Even the Queen of England got kissed when she visited. "},{"Title":"Certainly Worth My Money","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie satisfied me as much as I expected and I give it a 7-and-a-half to 8 points. The movie was amusing since the very first minute and behold!! it did not have a boring or stupid ending. The main character, Li, was stupendous and great, I loved his stern gait and face gestures throughout the movie. The only scene that gave this movie a flaw was near the end when Li and another fighting opponent run toward each other and preposterously elevate themselves about 30-ft in the air!! Now, that was impossible and made the movie at that moment look like a PowerRangers episode. But nevertheless the movie is full of action and great. I also saw a new and brilliant technique that I know many other movies will copy from Romeo...those scenes where you can see X-Ray shots of how people's bones are broken..fantastic. It's worth the $8 dollars my friends, trust me. "},{"Title":"What a waste of Li's talent!!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As a long time Jet Li fan, I felt a knot in my stomach the whole time I was watching this movie.  Man, what a let down, and what a waste of Li's talent. This man can do SERIOUS Wushu, not just movies, but the real stuff.  He is a bona fide, trained Wushu master!  The CGI made him look so ridiculous! Since this is a Kung-Fu flick, I am not too critical on the plot.  I think the story had some potential, however, the screenplay could have been a lot better, creating more tension and intensity as the story developed. "}{"Title":"So not enough DMX and fighting!!!!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Being that it was a Kung Fu movie i went into it thinking it was a kung fu movie and thats what i got a kung fu movie.  I wouldn't pay full price for it...hell i didn't pay anything for it but thats another story! Alliyah was great. i was pleasantly surprised.  I mean because most hip hop singers turned actresses don't do very well their first movie out. I wouldn't be counting my oscar nods yet but she does have some potential. DMX wasn't in it enough!!!!Jet Li....hmmm lets see good fighting but not enough of it. All in all i say a decent movie just not enough ass kickingi give it a 6 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"So not enough DMX and fighting!!!!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Being that it was a Kung Fu movie i went into it thinking it was a kung fu movie and thats what i got a kung fu movie.  I wouldn't pay full price for it...hell i didn't pay anything for it but thats another story! Alliyah was great. i was pleasantly surprised.  I mean because most hip hop singers turned actresses don't do very well their first movie out. I wouldn't be counting my oscar nods yet but she does have some potential. DMX wasn't in it enough!!!!Jet Li....hmmm lets see good fighting but not enough of it. All in all i say a decent movie just not enough ass kickingi give it a 6 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Does what it sets out to do","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's tough to make a martial arts movie with any degree of original fight scenes. After all, how many different ways can somebody punch another person? Romeo Must Die sure tries hard to break the mold. By combining traditional martial arts with effects reminiscent of The Matrix, this film is able to add flavor without moving the movie into a new genre. In other words, with too many effects, this movie would move into the realm of fantasy or science fiction. Instead, effects are just used to enhance fight scenes to give them extra pop.Fight scenes are indeed the thrust of this movie. Although this movie has an appreciable storyline, too many of the plot twists are predictable and the dialogue is a bit subpar.Jet Li stars as Han, who comes to America after hearing his brother (Jon Kit Lee) has been the victim  of a war between rival gangs - one of which is led by his father (Henry O). As he begins his investigation, he becomes romantically interested in the daughter (Aaliyah) of the other gang's leader (Delroy Lindo). If Li reminds viewers of Jackie Chan, he should. The methods and props used by the two martial artists are strikingly similar. But while Chan seems to always add an element of comedy in his action sequences, Li brings an overwhelming sense of intensity to his role. It might be an overstatement to call his performance remarkable, but he at least fits the billing of the part.At times, the special effects in the movie are less than fluid, and the viewer can tell the scene has been altered. More often than not, however, the effects are so seamless the viewer wonders whether the sequence was done with computers or the actors were that acrobatic.And although Romeo Must Die seems to borrow a lot of techniques - from The Matrix or Three Kings or Face Off - the melange of these techniques creates a relatively original and entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Excellent choreography","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I saw this film on opening night and I was not as disappointed as the last reviewer was.  I thought the martial arts scenes were well choreographed, fast paced, and rather inventive.  I mean sure, we've seen the swinging hose thing before (Black Mask anyone?) but it's just so cool every time he does it.  As for his athletic ability, it is adequately showcased here.  The previous reviewers dislike for Isaiah Washington's melodrama is what makes this film so good.  It manages to balance the plot elements like the double crosses (yes, there ARE a few) and the inter-family, interracial love affair with the sizzling action sequences. And besides, what's wrong with adding a little slow motion and a few CGI flames in the background of the final fight scene? What people have to realise is that this is an action-drama, and that there are certain liberties taken with reality in any film, and in particular, any martial arts film.  Bruce Lee had an incredible repertoire of moves, being a Jeet Kun Do master, but I'm sure that there was a little bit of trickery involved in his films (sped up film stock) just as there is a little bit of trickery in Jackie Chan's films and Chow Yun-Fat's.  The storyline is strong, the black gangsters were a little overdeveloped and the Asians a little underdeveloped, but you have to realize that people are there for Aaliyah, Delroy Lindo, DMX, Isaiah Washington, and Jet Li not for Henry O, Russell Wong et al.All in all this movie, in my opinion, deserved seven and a half stars, if not eight for the marvellous choreography, outrageous driving stunt work, cinematography, and body count quotient.  This is the kind of movie that I would buy in an instant, and the soundtrack kicks butt too. "},{"Title":"If Romeo must indeed die, consider it a mercy killing.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I like rap music as much as the next average Caucasian, but the amount of rap music in `Romeo Must Die' is overwhelming.  The music in this film is like nothing I have witnessed.  It was constant and unrelenting.  I began wondering whether the producers were trying to sell Jet Li or the soundtrack.  It becomes irritating when you want to hear what the characters are saying, but can't because the soundtrack is just booming over the actors.It's a shame the soundtrack is so loud because there are some very talented actors in the film.  Delroy Lindo, Isaiah Washington, and surprisingly Aaliyah, all give good performances, even if the characters are under developed.However, the most disappointing thing is that Li's character (the main character may I remind you) is the most underwritten and one dimensional in the film.  This is unfortunate because Li is a fine actor and has a good screen presence, although his English is something to be desired.  Not only that, Li and Aaliyah had virtually no chemistry together.Wait, there's more.  The subplot involving the NFL seems like it was taken from a generic 70s cop show.  As well, the script seems like it is missing some key scenes, and has a lapse in logic.Fights are what put the people come to see.  There are quite a few of them, not to worry.  Unfortunately, the fights are not that entertaining or very good for that matter.  When watching HK films one can admire that Jet Li is actually hanging from those wires, and while being obviously fake, it is more believable than the use of digital effects on the fights in `Romeo Must Die'.  The other problem is that the x-ray shots are not only distracting, but very cartoon-like.Over all it is not a very entertaining film, and should really be avoided. If Romeo must indeed die, consider it a mercy killing.4/10 "},{"Title":"ROMEO MUST GET A BETTER SCRIPT Lone action hero cleans up British Columbia! SPOILERS","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Much of this film was shot in British Columbia, which is a cheap substitute for the real locale....SAN FRANCISCO. The plot is this a man in a HONG KONG prison must escape and come to the USA to avenge the death of his brother and get caught up in a mob war. The problem with this film is that there is not enough of JET LI. After all, he go star billing, right?????? The movie's plot takes up most of the time, followed by a few action sequences...don't get me wrong, the action sequences are spectacular, there are not enough of them though! The producers weigh us down with this black mafia days of our lives B.S. subplot, when the film should be about, well, er, JET LI! Something that occured to me while watching this movie is that Jet Li could be BRUCE LEE's heir apparent. His acting isn't bad... if he gets good material, we could see the makings of a martial arts sensation that would put Jackie Chan to shame. This film is not horrible however, it could have been better. I was disappointed about the length of time that passed between action sequences...there was no excuse for this. Cast wise there was a great supporting cast including DELROY LINDO...however, it seems the powers that be couldn't decide to focus on JET LI's character or Lindo's so they gave both equal time. This was a mistake...this was supposed to be Jet Li's movie! Another problem was the film took itself WAY too seriously. The parts with Jet Li were not the problem...it was the black mob subplot that was pretentious.  "},{"Title":"a fun film with lots of laughs and a disjointed plot","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the name of the movie, I understood the moment I saw that Jet Li would be in it for his fighting skills that this movie would not be string on plot.  Face it, he's a decent actor, but the only movies in which he starred which had good, developed plots, were never released in the USA.  I was right.  While the background premise is good, there was far too much focus on the African-American gang compared to the very little focus on the Asian gang.  As a result, some aspects of the plot seemed quite forced and somewhat unconvincing.Aside from the plot, I enjoyed this film enormously.  Both Jet Li and Aaliyah give it their best, and while there is no real conception of romance, there is a lot of small, warm, pervading impressions of friendship which I found to be quite charming.  Anthony Anderson was hilarious and while Russel Wong could have benefited from much more screentime, he played his part with great style.I don't think that I need to say much about the fight scenes.  In two words, incredibly choreographed.  Yes, it's true, Jet Li does defy a few natural laws of physics, namely momentum and gravity, but at that point you should already be sucked into the film and will forgive anything in the name of martial arts.  If you won't, then you've already decided that you despise the film and there's no point in talking about it.To sum everything up, this movie is meant to be entirely non-serious.  It is only a movie, after all.  If you go to this film expecting to see a passionate and developed love story, then you will be sadly disappointed. If, on the other hand, you go, leave your dignity and sophisticated movie-critic alternate personality on the doorstep, and walk in solely to be entertained, you will walk out more than satisfied and in immensely good humor. (8/10) "},{"Title":"A Romantic Comedy.........","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I went expecting to see an action flick and instead got a bad remake of Romeo and Juliet. Very few fight scenes and really bad jokes. Overall not a horrible movie, watch it with a date maybe. It's a lighthearted comedy/romance movie with a couple of fight sequences. I give it a D-. "},{"Title":"Too bad","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a pretty bad movie.  Which is unfortunate because Jet Li is fantastic and whoever choreographed the action sequences screwed up - they are very muddled and not very impressive.The story itself is not bad but is not executed well and the dialogue is pretty cheesy.  You can expect a cheesy script in a lot of Hong Kong films but at least they have some spectacular action sequences to make up for the crappy story. This film could have at least had some good action but it did not.It is not worth the time - don't bother - even on video. "},{"Title":"Exactly","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Look at what Jet Li has been reduced to.  All I saw was a bunch of special effects.  Romeo is dead and should stay that way.  It was like a cartoon with Jet Li looking like they had him wired up to a clothesline or something!  If you pride yourself as being someone who knows anything about martial arts, you won't waste your money on this film "}{"Title":"a must see movie","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is action packed!  Jet Li is incredible as always.  I honestly believe every minute was well worth watching, especially the first five minutes.  (The club scene - I know you guys know what I'm talking about) Aaliyah is truly breath-taking.  Her acting was commendable as well for her first major role. Russell Wong also improved his acting from Vanishing son and that other movie where he played an angel. Although, the plot was disappointing, the story was interesting. I was hoping this movie would bring the asians and the blacks together, but it didn't do that at all. Anyhow, all in all, this movie is extremely entertaining.  Your two hours will be well spent. "},{"Title":"Explosive Kung-Fu movie VERY LOOSELY based on Romeo and Juliet.","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I didn't expect too much from it. But I was impressed after with it from beginning to end. If you're going to see this because it has a good story, then don't! That's the last thing you should expect in this movie. In fact, it barely resembled Romeo and Juliet except for the fact that both families were at war with eachother... SOME OF THE TIME!!! Although it lacked story, the action scenes were very intense and well correographed. This should be your reason for seeing the movie. The soundtrack is full of fast, exhilerating music which enhances the quality and mood of the fight scenes. Without all the action this movie would be a total bust, but I would have to give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Phatty-Boom-Batty Flick!!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I expected this movie to be an excuse for Jet Li to jump around and generally beat ass.  Usually the plot for these kind of movies is just a formality.  I was surprised by the intricate dealings and betrayals, not to mention the very possible notion that murders would result from trying to make money by bringing an NFL team to a city.  The X-Ray style shots were very creative, too.  Of course, the fight scenes were great and well-made. I enjoyed the Romeo and Juliet aspect, too.  The final blow delivered to the villain by Li alone makes this worth 8 bucks to see on the big screen. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"So-so... could have been much better","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Standard story about avenging the death of a brother, Jet-Li doesn't have enough screen-time, and the fights aren't very exciting. The actors are all good enough, especially Delroy Lindo and Aaliyah, but you'd be better off renting one of Jet Li's older Hong Kong movies.  "},{"Title":"You killed my brudda... BIG MISTAKE!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die  (Andrzej Bartkowiak)You killed my brudda....BIG MISTAKE.... or  I've Got a Big Hose... I keep mulling around those titles in my head, thinking of maybe writing the marketing company who released this movie at Warner Bros, and offering my thoughts of a new title for this new movie starring Jet Li as a really honest convict (a conviction in terms, hahaha), who comes to America to avenge his brudda's death brought on by rivalries between the Chinese overlords in their quest for power against the other gang, who is trying to go straight.. yeah.. whatever.  Yawn...Really, I TRIED to like this movie.  I like Jet Li and THAT FACE he always makes when he's seriously pi***d off, plus he actually speaks a lot of English in this film.  I TRIED to get into it and was mildly entertained by the fight scenes, one in particular involving a Chinese Overlord henchWOMAN fighting against Jet Li, who refused to hit a woman, so he uses the romantic relief girl as a fighting weapon against this chick.  Kind of a cat fight that would have worked but it was over way too quickly.  Brought to you by a guy who has a vast history in cinematography and filmography (Lethal Weapon 4, Dante's Peak, Falling Down, Prizzi's Honor just to name a few), but very little directing experience.  The writers Mitchel Kapner and Eric Bernt (I) have only three screenplays between them including this one. Let's just say I was TRYING to like it, but in-between the action, the storyline was so lame, so predictable, so I've seen it a million times before, it just didn't cut it.  And when are they going to learn that it's totally stupid to kill everyone without blinking an eye, then keep the hero alive so you can tell him everything just before you die for killing his brother??    I keep thinking that Hollywood must perceive the movie going public as seriously WEETAHDED, so much so, that they have to stop everything to explain things to us that are MORE than obvious. I do have to say that I liked the blending of X-Rays of the people's bone structure as Jet Li would break something so that you had a bird's eye view of just how much damage he did internally to the bad guys. Very Ricky-Oh-ish and the sounds of the bones breaking were cool.  But that does NOT a good movie make.  Russel Wong was his casual, cool self, bordering on the mildly amused till he got pissed off.  Guess when that was?  At the big fight climax we all knew was coming eventually. Unfortunately, there were huge lags between the action and it was all quite boring and predictable.  Rivalries, betrayal, greed, power struggle, kids hate their fathers.. yada yada yada.. A bit disappointing for his first full fledge starring film in Hollywood.  I'm still mulling over the title. There was a tiny, vague (too ridiculous to be really it) reference as to why it was titled as such.  I was digging deeper, but maybe it was as simple as that, considering the standards of the rest of the film. Chris Fata  "},{"Title":"Good enough that she will like it too","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I expected that it be the typical kung fu movie with a love story tacked on. They did a great job of combining the special effects with fight scenes and integrating the love story as well.  I even got my girlfriend to like it. "},{"Title":"This Film Must Die","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was terrible I hated it from beginning to end. I did try to like this film but I just couldn't like it. Jet Li was cool but the plot around him sucked. The plot was weak and distorted making the film hard to follow. The film was quite mindless but not in fun way and the dialogue was pitiful. The director of the film kept putting in rapmusic and all the rapmusic was terrible and quite painful to listen to at times. Jet Li does great martial arts stunts but computer tricks keep getting in the way, killing the effect of the stunts. If Jet Li wants to make another film in America he should direct it. The film is painfully slow at times making the film distorted and boring. Jet Li try but fails to save this film from being a dud. The film borrows the love story but nothing else from William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet. What was with showing the inside of the body during the fight scenes; that was just plain dumb. If your looking for an entertaining martial arts action film look somewhere else.  "},{"Title":"Yummy eye candy","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Don't go into this movie expecting anything more than a good fix for your probably already short attention span.  The plot was a bit shallow and entirely predictable (I guessed with relative good accuracy who would die and in what order), the character development could have gone further (I didn't care as much whether Romeo and Juliet kissed, but their relationship never really got off the ground), but the action sequences were engrossing and exciting.  Not to mention there's plenty of funny scenes.  Jet Li, who speaks almost no English, got mercifully few lines in which he deadpans the near-perfect reaction to the situation that he's in.  The subtitles were a bit off in some places, but forgivable given the difficulties in translating Chinese to English.The film editing for the fight scenes were a bit too much like _The Matrix_ for my comfort, though...but it was probably intentional.  The on-screen violence is actually astoundingly mild given the premise of the movie, and is handled pretty tastefully.All in all, a pretty good movie to watch if you want to be entertained. "},{"Title":"Expect an action flick period.","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Don't go into this movie expecting any type of drama and a deep storyline or anything (I'm tired of hearing those people say that they expected more from the plotline).This is a pure action flick.  Exaggerated kung fu sequences, beautiful cars and motorcycle chases, and awesome gun shooting action.I must say that I enjoyed this movie as much as I enjoyed the Matrix.  If you liked Belly and kung fu movies, this is a MUST SEE.DMX's cameo may have been a little short, but he made it well worth it. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very good fight scenes, fx not what I expected from the producers of The Matrix.  A little choppy on the fight scenes, hard to see what was going on. All in all a good movie but not the best date flick I've seen. "}{"Title":"This ain't no Romeo and Juliet","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing I knew about this movie is that it was a Romeo and Juliet plot, but it's stretching it on that point. The romance between Han and Trish was underplayed. I wouldn't even call it a romance and that's a good thing. This movie didn't need a romance. The relationship between them was a bonding that any two people under stress would feel.But they do make a lovely couple when Han uses Trish to fight a woman that's attacking them. The rest of the movie is so full of action that afterwards I had forgotten some of the best action sequences. The escape from prison is a great opening for Han, but the sequence gets lost with the rest of the action. "},{"Title":"Good Not Great","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Overall, I'd say that Romeo Must Die was a fair movie.  The plot is nothing to shout about (and has little to do with the title), and the dialogue is frequently creaky and cliched (the Chinese ganglords were particularly laughable), but the pace is decent, that action scenes are well done, and the performances generally outdo the limitations of the script.I thought that Jet Li fared very well in his first starring role in an American picture.  He may not have had a lot of dialogue, but his self-effacing charm during the comic moments, and his intensity during dramatic ones kept me interested in his character.  I had no problem with the action scenes, and for those folks who keep complaining of the CGI and wire work, you should really check out more of Li's HK films.  There is a whole tradition of flying people kung-fu movies since way back (Zu Warriors of Magic Mountain, Chinese Ghost Story, Once Upon a Time in China) They're not everyone's cup of tea, but they are no less valid than the Jackie Chan or Bruce Lee brand of action.I look at this film as Jet Li paying his dues in Hollywood, just as Jackie Chan did with Rush Hour and Chow Yun-Fat did with The Replacement Killers. Yes, the films are compromised creatively, and are nowhere near as good as their Hong Kong films, but they provide these artists with a foot in the door.   I just have higher expectations for their next project. "},{"Title":"Li and Aaliyah Need Some Work...","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First, for Jet Li's second U.S. movie and Aaliyah's first one, it wasn't TOO bad. Or at least, I've seen worse from more established actors. That rationale is the only way I can describe the acting abilities (or deficiencies) of these two...The movie started WAY TOO SLOW! I almost fell asleep on it! But it was a good thing that I stuck around and watched the rest. The only good part to me in the middle. Whether it was the martial arts or the comic relief that actually complemented the movie, the middle part was worth the $6.50 I paid for a ticket...The ending was a completely different matter. Basically like the beginning, it was too slow and tried to tie into a what was supposed to be a plot. The plot never developed, though many moviegoers knew what the plot was SUPPOSED to be at the outset.Aaliyah and Jet are made out in the commercials to be these two frisky and young lovers. Not! All Jet got was a hug at the end (though I'd take a hug from Aaliyah any day!), and though I didn't expect that he would get some from Trish, I also expected a peck on the cheek or something!This is a good video movie, so I'd wait until it came out on video or DVD. BTW, go get the soundtrack; it's better than the movie! "},{"Title":"If you liked the fight scenes in the Matrix, you'll love...","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best action/kung-fu films I've ever seen. The fight scenes are faster and better choreographed than Jackie Chan's action sequences. The tone of the film is set by the artsy opening credits. Hip-hop music is playing as a car speeds through a big city at night. Names are layered in both English and Chinese. The car seems to drive to the beat of the music. The rest of the film continues with great pacing, great hip-hop music, fast and acrobatic fights, and a strong plot (for an action film). The use of Chinese and the huge sub-titles add additional ambience instead of being a distraction as it helps pull you further into a particular Chinese family. Expect to see some of the special effects as the Matrix and the brutality of Fight Club. "},{"Title":"Quality blend of Hong Kong and American action","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing Jet Li in Lethal Weapon 4 (his scenes saved that movie) I've been waiting to see him in another American movie. I've skipped over releases like Black Mask because I've heard they're not very good.I enjoyed this movie overall. It's the first meeting of Hong Kong and American action, that I've seen, that has gone well. And the Black crime family VS the Chinese crime family seemed to work well with this.Most of the action scenes were great. The prison break out scene was over the top with him fighting six guys while hanging from the ceiling, but it was entertaining. The girls on the motorcycles shooting at the car while flying through the air were pretty cool. And the ending fight scene was great.Other scenes were a little ridiculous. It just looked stupid when Jet Li kicked like five guys in the face while still in the air, flipped around, kicked off of a wall, and then finally landed.The x-ray shots seemed useless to me at the beginning, but they paid off in the end. The first two were just setup for that great shot at the end.I thought Aaliyah did well, though the romance between her and Jet Li never went anywhere.The plot was overstuffed I thought. Too much about that NFL deal. You shouldn't have to pay too much attention to plot in a martial arts movie. Though I'm sure some will appreciate that there is something more the fight scenes to watch.And DMX should have had more scenes! If you're going to put him the movie, why waste him?Overall, a pretty enjoyable movie. Not in my top 10 or anything, nor is it necessary to see it in the theater, but it's got some good action and enough to keep a person interested for two hours.Hmmm... 6 out 10.  "},{"Title":"Quality blend of Hong Kong and American action","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing Jet Li in Lethal Weapon 4 (his scenes saved that movie) I've been waiting to see him in another American movie. I've skipped over releases like Black Mask because I've heard they're not very good.I enjoyed this movie overall. It's the first meeting of Hong Kong and American action, that I've seen, that has gone well. And the Black crime family VS the Chinese crime family seemed to work well with this.Most of the action scenes were great. The prison break out scene was over the top with him fighting six guys while hanging from the ceiling, but it was entertaining. The girls on the motorcycles shooting at the car while flying through the air were pretty cool. And the ending fight scene was great.Other scenes were a little ridiculous. It just looked stupid when Jet Li kicked like five guys in the face while still in the air, flipped around, kicked off of a wall, and then finally landed.The x-ray shots seemed useless to me at the beginning, but they paid off in the end. The first two were just setup for that great shot at the end.I thought Aaliyah did well, though the romance between her and Jet Li never went anywhere.The plot was overstuffed I thought. Too much about that NFL deal. You shouldn't have to pay too much attention to plot in a martial arts movie. Though I'm sure some will appreciate that there is something more the fight scenes to watch.And DMX should have had more scenes! If you're going to put him the movie, why waste him?Overall, a pretty enjoyable movie. Not in my top 10 or anything, nor is it necessary to see it in the theater, but it's got some good action and enough to keep a person interested for two hours.Hmmm... 6 out 10.  "},{"Title":"mediocre at best","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was excited when I went to see this movie as I have been a fan of Jet Li for some time now.  However, I was serverly disappointed by almost all aspects of the film.The actions scenes (the reason why I think the majority of people went to see this film for) were rather short and unsatisfying.  I expected Hong Kong action with long takes, wide angles, and exciting wire work.  What the film presented was americanized kung fu (ala Michael Bay direction) with numerous cuts and misused computer effects.  Jet Li's talent is severly muffled by this editing and direction.  Although this style might please most of the audience, true kung fu movie fans will be slightly irritated. Once upon a time in China I/II and Fist of Legend are better showcases for Jet Li's real skill.The acting was rather poor and the plot was long, drawn out, and predictable.  I paid to see Jet Li fight, not play detective.The one saving grace of the film is the cars (and prehaps the opening scene in the club... heh).  We get to gawk at an aston martin db7, porsche 911, and benz c43.I can't recommend this film to anybody, but if you have to see it, see it in the afternoon and save yourself a couple of dollars. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but flawed","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The story is reasonably good. The action, though, frequently suffers from a number of unneeded augmentations Pure cgi effects which would have been impressive ten years ago but totally look like eyesores now, poor use of cgi to simulate wirework wuxia in a couple of places (couldn't they have just stuck to wires the whole time?), frame removal to make things look like they're happening faster than they are (but done choppily), and lots and lots of fast intercut shots. What, did the director not trust that Jet Li would look good enough on film?Several of the action sequences could have been brilliant, but merely ended up being okay because they were buried under a whole lot of the standard Hollywood tricks that are needed for a Bruce Willis or Mel Gibson film... but are totally superlative when you're dealing with a Hong Kong action star.A lot of good performances all around, though. I found just about every character to be interesting in some way, and Russell Wong pretty much dominates every scene he appears in (even the ones with Jet Li).I saw it as a matinee and don't regret it one bit, but it's not something I expect to buy on DVD. "},{"Title":"WAY more slick than the matrix","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The blending of true stunts, wire work and computer effects was perfect, artful, and seamless leaving the viewer wonder what is real, and what is fake. Much easier on the eyes, and considerbly less cheesy than the matrix. Excellent peice of cinema, even if its a bit slow to get started.  "},{"Title":"Rejects need to understand film better, Fans need to disect better.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, Overall, this movie may just be for hardcore Jet Li fans, or marshal art enthusiasts, But i know alot of Folks that saw GHOST DOG and got dissapointed. #1), ALL you whiney babies who with out a thought, trash talk this movie, need to realize, these are visions and dreams of the director and writer, TRY COMING up with your own script, and see how many people talk bad about you. Its a harsh world. So yea, the movie may have not had the best plot in the world, but its a Kung Fu styled movie, its clever, its a story, its FICTION, dont cry becuz you see Jet Li fly in the air longer than Jordan, Big freakin deal, these are interpretations of the director. I thought the fighting scenes were amazing. If you want real boring fighting, watch Mike Tyson bite an ear off. For those who wanted a Love story, seriously, why did you go see this movie, GO rent that awful flick with DiCaprio and Danes, This is a clever R and J. Probably the best modern version of it ever. Over all, the fighting is superb, the acting is tolerant, and the story will do. "}{"Title":"Romeo must die review","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What I would have to say about this movie is that it has great action sequences. Although the action sequences have way to fast cuts.  The movies plot I found very good about scandal and backstabbing involving the auistion of land between and the creation of a football team in LA by two rival gangs one asian and one black.  This movie has alot of potential it has a great urban soundtrack.  A little bit distracting from the dialogue at times. Jet li has a great future and this is just the movie to propel him to superstar status.  This movie is very fast pace at times.  The pacing is slow and uneven at times too.  This film will play great to the urban minority groups.  The movie is an average movie.  With better editing this movie could have been the americanized Hong Kong action movie that could have amazed us to our fullest but falls flat.  If you love hong kong stylized action see this movie if you hate action skip it. "},{"Title":"Cinema Criticism 101","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Came in expecting the worst and I was pleasantly surprised. Contrary to what others were saying, there was a definite chemistry between ever-gorgeous Aaliyah and Jet Li. Joel Silver's decision to cut out the kiss scene between them can only be seen as a racist move if not economical. Delroy Lindo was as usual very good as a father of Aaliyah perhaps providing the only reasonable pov in the movie. And the action scenes, though they could have been edited better, were several notches above typical US action flicks. However the ending defies that of Shakespeare's Romeo & Juliet. Overall, quite enjoyable and it is definitely worth eight something dollars. "},{"Title":"Good martial arts film?","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Now let me say something about this movie......  This movie has great fighting scenes performed by Jet Li, and me!  J/k, except for the Jet Li part.  The problem that I have about this movie is that the title Romeo Must Die has nothing to do with the film.  They didn't want to kill Jet Li's character.  They weren't hunting him down or something.  He just got into trouble.  But although this does have a good story line to it, I decided to rate this movie 9 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"The Best Action Movie","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday and I have to say that I really recommend this movie to every action fan out there. This movie had good action scenes of Jet Li fighting but there are certain scenes that you can see that it was not really done by the 5-time champion. The movie did have a lot of unnecessary extra things going on that did confuse the audience but again if its action your looking for you are really going to get it here. And that's all; to tell you the truth I really did enjoy it. I gave it a 10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Romeo Must Live!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Jet Li is a great actor AND a martial artist (and he's funny, too!).  He is the perfect Romeo don't you think?  The action sequences were great, though I wish they (editors, etc.) would trust Jet Li to kick someone's butt on his own.  He's done it before and Hong Kong cameras aren't any different from America's.  Aaliyah, Russell Wong, Isaiah Washington, etc. they were all fantastic.  Go see it!!!  Just make sure you're not sitting near loud-mouthed people or people with cellular phones turned on, as I had been unfortunate enough to experience.  But despite that, I still had a good time. "},{"Title":"I wasn't expecting much, so it turned out to be an okay movie.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing many mixed reviews and that the fight scenes used wires & CGI, I kept my expectations low.  So when I saw this movie Friday night, it turned out that I actually liked it.  A perfect 'B' movie.  The biggest problem I thought was that there are very few fighting scenes.  I was expecting a lot more!  So if you want to see Jet Li's fighting skills at his best, be sure to rent his Chinese films.Since I was expecting the fighting scenes to use CGI & wires, I was making sure that I was watching a movie that wasn't based on reality.  So the fight scenes didn't really bother me and it didn't use the wires or CGI to death. People have complained about this, but most Chinese martial art films do use the wires many time!  It a style in their films.  It's just as famous as a bunch of people shoving their guns into one another in front of their faces all at once.Anyway, I think that Aaliyah was gorgeous and she did a great acting film debut!  I was disappointed that the movie suggested a Romeo & Juliet type of love story, but their romance is more like a fun friendship.  I guess Asian males are not allowed to have a serious love relationship in American movies.  Oh well.This movie is fun with cartoon type of characters with humor and comical scenarios.  So if you watch this movie, make sure you keep your expectations low and know that this is not a reality based movie.  So let them fly in the air and use CGI for the fun of it.  Then it's a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent fight scenes.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When i walked into the local Multiplex tonight i was expecting to see a good action movie with nothing short of classic Jet Li cinematography.In all honesty, i got way more than what i expected.The script was actually pretty good. There were really only one or two lines that i thought didn't belong. Like DMX's first line. Guns don't kill people, people kill people. That just didn't fit.Although, he does make up for that shameless cliche in his next line (which i won't ruin for you.) I really liked that one.What else did i want to mention... Oh the acting. The acting was pretty good. DMX and Aaliyah, who were obviously not hired for their acting skills, really surprised me. Jet Li (aka 'the man') not only spoke his lines in understandable english but made them really seem motivated by emotions that his character Han would be feeling.The fight scenes were numerous and well-choreographed (although i must admit, the duration and the rather blatent disregard for some fundamental laws of physics left a little to be desired.) You should especially watch out for that scene with the biker chick.In fact the worst part of this movie was the advertising. The TV commercials didn't make this movie seem as awesome as it was.Oooh, and the scene with the trick briefcase was hot.Okay, okay, i'm sorry. I won't tell you anymore. "},{"Title":"JET LI AND ROMEO MUST DIE RULE!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  romeo must die****4 stars-let me start by saying that jet li rules and this is his best movie ever and the best action martial-arts movie ever made. so jackie chan is the #1 action star in hong kong, well i find that hard to believe when i compare him to jet li because jet li is way better than jackie chan. i mean hes already been in three awsome movies, this one, ''lethal weapon 4***1/23 1/2 stars'' and ''black mask***3 stars. jackie chan has not been in anything good except for ''rush hour***3 stars'' which was good becuase of chris tucker but jackie chan was also good. with jet li and chow yun fat who has been in ''the replacement killers***1/23 1/2 stars'' and ''the corrupter***1/23 1/2 stars'', and almost got a nomination for best actor in ''anna and the king**1/22 1/2 stars'', jackie chan is totaly outcasted. ''romeo must die'' is cobined with perfect action,martial arts fighting,acting,hillarious humor, and storyline and of course jet li. it is a perfect movie with absolutely no problems to it. it also has a perfect cast with jet li,dmx,Aaliyah,delroy lindo, and russel wong. the action is a combination of the action in ''black mask***3 stars'', ''the corrupter***1/2 3 1/2 stars'',  and ''the replacement killers***1/23 1/2 stars. the humor is a combination of the humor in ''letahl weapon 4***1/23 1/2 stars. the final martial-art fight at the end is a combination of the ones in ''mortal kombat***3 stars'' and ''mortal kombat 2annihilation***1/23 1/2 stars''. so far this movie is the best movie of 2000 and jet li is the best actor and action star of 2000. "},{"Title":"Jet Li is unbelievable...","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Forget Jean-Claude Van Damme, Steven Segal and Co.  Jet Li is simply the MOST exciting martial arts movie star since Jackie Chan and Bruce Lee. This movie has it all...action, suspense, comedy.... this is one of the best movies to come out in 2000 so far.  I'm just glad that Jet Li is finally going to get the respect he deserves, he's simply amazing.  Russel Wong was good too...Aaliyah made a pretty good debut as well. With a good soundtrack and story line, this is just a fun, enjoyable movie...definitely worth my $8.50. "},{"Title":"Not best Li","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was lacking.  The action scenes were good but they were few and far between.  Li wasn't much of a Romeo either.  For a good example of what Li can do, check out Shaolin Temple 3 or Fist of Legend.  To future Jet Li movie producers HEY!  More kung fu in the kung fu movie!  No one wants to see Jet Li get misty eyed.  Unless of course he's crying over the fact that he's pummeled every one and he craves more fighting. "}{"Title":"Romeo Must Die...before he'll even get a smooch...","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When Blaxploitation films hit the inner city in the 1970s, the genre they replaced, which had been the staple of urban black cinemas for some time, was, oddly enough, kung fu.  Romeo Must Die is a little of both - the new brand of hip-hop movie tie-in (Aaliyah stars, and is in heavy rotation on the soundtrack, joined on one track by co-star DMX) combined with the recent import of Hong Kong action (namely, kung fu superhero Jet Li).  Han (Li) and Trisha (Aaliyah) are caught up, not with Montagues and Capulets, but rival Oakland gangs.  The fight scenes will not disappoint (check out Li fighting while chained to the ceiling), but don't expect Shakespeare, in love or otherwise - which is not to say the dialogue isn't witty at times. A satisfying diversion, unless you're troubled by the fact that even though Newsweek says the Asian male is on the rise, Romeo and Juliet, in this very colorized version, don't even kiss.  "},{"Title":"visually entertaining, yet otherwise empty","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is very annoying. I was just sitting there and couldn't believe how awful it was. Such a movie should be at least good, but it is not. After seeing this week two of the most amazing movies, Erin Brockovich and Final Destination, I had to ruin my week by watching some seriously inferior stuff.Besides the good-looking fighting scenes, there is nothing, and I emphasize again, nothing to matter. It is just Wild Wild West, great special effects which compliment a story that seems written by a three-year old. Probably Barry Sonnenfeld (the director of the WWW) and Andrzej Bartkowiak (the director of Romeo Must Die) were playing how low can you go. And as far I've seen, very low.Jet Li and singer Aaliyah just don't click when they are on the screen. They look like buddies not lovers. But I do have to admit that there is something about her. There is some hidden acting talent, but right now she barely shows it. Jet Li has really bad lines. That was a mistake. Who is he playing? Arnold Schwarzengger? The script is overwritten. There are too many characters, and only two of them get some character development. The rest are just stereotypes. And of course, there is the obligatory comic relief, through Anthony Anderson playing the fat and stupid bodyguard. Some of the special effects are completely inappropriate. It is impossible for Li to do some of those moves, and though at times breathtaking, I was left completely cold and uncaring. And, what's the deal with the X-rayed scenes? This is not the Matrix. That movie took place in a virtual world, this is real life. Finally, as a general rule, cinematographers-turned-directors simply can't really do good movies. Bartkowiak was the cinematographer of Speed, Dante's Peak and The Devil's Advocate. All very good movies. Yet, when he becomes director he can't do a good movie. Peter Hyams does the cinematography and helms End of Days and The Relic, but none of these movies is interesting beyond visuals. The only exception to the rule (maybe there's more, but I cannot think of any) is Jan De Bont. He created the wonderful Speed and Twister. But since then, he went down. Speed 2 was axed by most of the critics and The Haunting had virtually the same faith.So, I don't care if Romeo must die. 2/10.       "},{"Title":"The action was sparse.  The script tedious.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo must die was a waste of my money and time.  I am sure that it cost every viewer at least ten IQ points to sit through this farce of action-adventure.  The story was a pitiful action formula with no twists that one couldn't see telegraphed during the first 20 minutes.Jet Li is a great martial artist, but he was hamstringed by a script that required all forms of bonding imaginable, ie.  father-son, brother-brother, brother-sister, enemy-enemy, business rivals, father-daughter, man-woman, etc . . .  The dialogue took away from the action and the attempts at special effects took away from the fights and the whole package took away my faith in action film.Jet Li may be good, but I would much rather watch any Jackie Chan, Steven Seagal, Chuck Norris, or Bruce Lee film than sit through Romeo Must Die again. "},{"Title":"Great cast; good movie.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is the type of film I wanted to like.  It had a colorful cast and an interesting premise.  However, the script doesn't allow for enough character development.  Rather, it is too concerned on developing a tired plot line.  Had the writers concentrated on making this a more character driven film with some kind of thematic focus as opposed to being plot heavy, this film could have joined the ranks of films such as the Killer and Bullet in the Head.  Jet Le is always fun to watch; and, Alliyah does as much as she can with the role she is given.  It's a great movie for video night; but, hardly a testament to the talent of its cast. "},{"Title":"Good Martial Arts film with a decent plot!","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As a fan of many martial arts movies, I looked forward to seeing the new Jet Li movie, Romeo Must Die.  I was not disappointed.  I think that Jet Li is poised to become a superstar in the US.  He has some charisma, and exudes a quiet toughness similar to Bruce Lee.  The film has a decent plot with rival gangs.  Although I wouldn't characterize Li's character as trying to broker peace.  Having been a policeman in Hong Kong, he's more concerned with solving a crime against his family and making things even.  He just doesn't kill everyone involved to get to that point.The fight scene with the fire hose is wonderful, and is a sight to behold. I truly enjoyed this movie. "},{"Title":"A good action flick, Jet Li is amazing!","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A pretty good action movie, although a bit of a letdown at places. Good acting, and good action sequences, although if real amazing martial arts action is what you really want, try Jet Li's Fist of Legend instead. The directing left quite a bit to be desired, and I have no clue why they had to use computer graphics for some scenes when it was completely unnecessary. But, if you just forget about the directing and CG, and just enjoy the movie, it is a pretty good action-packed flick. Jet Li is, as always, amazing as the main martial arts character Han Sing, and Aaliyah does well as a Juliet-esque Trish O'Day. Very notable performances from Delroy Lindo and Russell Wong as well. "},{"Title":"Pretty cool","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've only recently become a Jet Li fan, so I can't say that I'm a expert on his movies... I've only seen 4 so far, but this one seemed pretty cool in comparison.  The action scenes were maybe a bit outrageous but overall it was highly entertaining.  Going into the movie I was scared that Jet Li's English would be difficult to understand, or that the romance between him and Aaliyah (sp?) wouldn't have substance, but both surprised me pleasantly.  Jet Li and Aaliyah did seem to genuinely like each other although it seemed more platonic than romantic (which I'm glad for because sometimes there's T&A in action movies where T&A is not called for).  The combination of Jet Li's gentle interaction with Aaliyah in the movie and his kick a** action with the bad guys was a treat for all Jet Li droolers like me.One thing I must admit I didn't like about the movie was how hard it tried to build up the plot where there frankly wasn't that much plot to build up. It was better than some other action film storylines, for which I was thankful.  But they went a bit overboard, and I found myself restless in my chair in the middle of the movie, waiting for the next Jet Li scene. Otherwise, a great movie! "},{"Title":"Much more Kung Fu then a Ghetto Star flick","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was really going into the movie with a negative point of view,  I'm a huge fan of Jet Li since Dr Wai and the Scripture with No Words but the rest of the singers/rapstars as main characters really lowered my hopes of being able to see a good flick (do you all remember Vanity in Action Jackson?). So I can happily say I was really proven wrong, they didn't try to make Jet have dumb one liners and Aaliyah can actually act. The action Sequences was very kewl and really reminded me of real HK Martial Arts flicks, yeah they used the cords for people to have extra hang time and do those oh-so impossible moves, but that only made the movie that much more kewler to me, they even had the Joined-by-the-Hands-Duo-Fighting-style between Aaliyah and  Jet, and she was able to pull it off with the proper editing.FYI - the x-ray scene's can be seen first seen in a much more simpler version in Story of Riki, I recommend you give it a look.  "},{"Title":"Great action movie, two families, bound by tradition, are locked in a brutal war.","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good movie. Great action scenes between Jet Li and various punching bags. Martial arts scenes choreographed by Corey Yuen, the master fight choreographer who made his mark on American cinema with The Matrix.Interesting premise that sets Black against Asian with the (White) Man looming in the background. Very, very loosely based on Shakespeare's classic.Rapper DMX makes only two cameo appearances in the film.  "},{"Title":"Jet Li's best film to date!","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, what can I say?  It's Jet, the man who can take out an entire room of baddies!  Any how, in this film, Jet Li shows his fans an improved part of his talent, the acting.  His role as Wong Fei Hung is probably the only other comparable one to the emotional scope he portrayed in Han Sing.  I am glad Li is choosing his characters to be multi-dimensional in his American films.  Aside from the higher notch of acting, in my opinion of course, Li shows his viewers a variety of philosophy in the martial arts.  He brings out the real portrait of the Asian martial arts before he fights, during his fights, and after his fights.  Jet demonstrates the traits of a true fighter that any well trained master will recognize, kind when provoked, vicious when cornered, and extremely disciplined at all times! "}{"Title":"'The Matrix' producers have done it again...","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, don't see the preview and expect this movie to be another the plot exists for the fighting martial arts movie.  This film is intelligent.  The acting is superb, the story is excellent.  This isn't Romeo and Juliet with gangs.  It's more hey, this is kinda like 'Romeo and Juliet'.  Let's sell the comparison.  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, from beginning to end. And, by the way, the martial arts sequences were some of the best ever.  The producers of The Matrix have another winner. "},{"Title":"This Romeo is for real","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! This movie was fantastic. I can't describe how much this film rocked. It had everything, drama, romance(somewhat), comedy and unbelievable action sequences. Jet Li has just started to show his potential. He is a force not to be messed with. Move over Jacky, Jet Li has taken over. I have never seen a film that had an audience so into the film. They were screaming, hollering, and cheering. The action sequences in this film are the best I've seen since The Matrix. It's got that Matrix feel of cutting edge technology, very cool fight scenes, and high bullet gun battles. Delroy Lindo does his normal powerful job as the Black gang boss. DMX has a small but cool appearance as a club owner. Russell Wong is great as the Chinese point man. I'd like to see him in more films where he can headline. He's both evil and cool at the same time. But it is Aaliyah who is the shock here. The r&b singer in her acting debut is very good as the Delroy's daughter. She steals each scene she in. She also tough which isn't that normal but becoming normal for action movie heroines. For those action junkies this is a must see. For Martial Arts junkies its a blessing. For everyone else, if you don't see this film is a crime against humanity. I gave The Matrix a 25, this definitely gets a 19 1/2. It the best movie of the year so far. Romeo Must Die is an amazing action film that will leave you breathless. Jet Li is the newest action giant in America, no doubt.      "},{"Title":"WHERE is the Romance in this adaptation????","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Hey folks...I have to say I enjoyed the movie, first and foremost. But...for a movie that is inspired by ROMEO & JULIET, ROMEO MUST DIE completely lacks any type of romance whatsoever! The highlight of the film, the scene where our stars MOST should show their love, results...in HAND HOLDING???  What is this!? (I believe that P.C. has a LOT to do with this film, sadly) These two emotional, from the other sides of town people HAD to kiss and it just never happened.  THAT was my supreme disappointment. As well, the synopsis is a lie of what the film is about.  JET LI is absolutely NOT a business man and he is also NOT asked to bring about peace between families...I don't know where that all came from... Onto some of the highlights, firstly the Mortal Kombat-like fight scenes which were (quite frankly) beautifully impossible. Definitely an EYE to behold!  The film was also graced by one GORGEOUS singer/actress and had a killer soundtrack! Bottom line is  If you are into action absolutely go see this, but if romantic tension and steam are your thang...?  All you'll get from ROMEO MUST DIE is a headache...   "},{"Title":"Could be better","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was very excited about Jet Li's first major role movie Romeo Must Die, so I went to see it today with a bunch of my friends.  Well, his action was still there, but again I was disappointed by annoying background music, useless dialogues, and unnecessary details. "},{"Title":"It was entertaining. I laughed, I cried, I had a beer before the show.","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It was entertaining. I laughed, I cried, I had a beer before the show. It integrated some groovy special effects and CG compositing into the fight scenes.If you are looking for something funny go rewatch a Jackie Chan movie. If you are looking for drama go watch magnolia. If you are looking for kick as martial arts go rent Jet Li's Fists of legendIf you are looking for all of these plus a heavy dose of blacksploitation and house-party flava go see Romeo Must DieThere are a lot of Wow and Ouch martial art scenes, but the choppy editing and the CG stuff diminish how cool what Jet Li is doing with his body really is.Bottom line, If you like this sort of stuff you will like this. Even if your date isn't into kung fu and guns there is enough of a plot and some surprisingly good acting along with some comedic breaks that will keep them from going for popcorn and not coming back. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as The Matrix.","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I admit, I was very skeptical going into see this film, but I was very surprised at how much I enjoyed it. The story line reminded me of several other films I've seen but was blended together very well into one film. It kept my insterest and the fighting sequences... excellent! I'm somewhat of an old Kung-Fu and Anime movie buff and the elements used in this film carry over very well. It was not until after I saw the film I learnt the producer and co-producer of The Matrix had a hand in the making of this film. The live Anime effects and Hong Kong style of fighting were something that amazed me in that movie and they worked very, very well in this film. I'm looking forward to what I believe is the soon-to-be standard in action films to come. Romeo Must Die will be a great addition to my DVD collection! "},{"Title":"Highly Enjoyable Martial Arts/Action Film","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not much to complain about with this film.  You get everything the trailer teases you with; Lots of action, very creative fight scenes, a touch of romance and some nice cars.  The rest of the audience seemed very pleased by the picture (clapping and cheering followed most of the action scenes) This film will hopefully finish(as started in Lethal Weapon 4) propelling Jet Li into Hollywood, where he deserves his place, among the other martial arts greats. "},{"Title":"Recommended!!!!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie isn't just the ordinary kick-your-a**-revenge movie.  The star of the movie, Jet Li, is the ultimate martial arts fighter.  He does the most amazing stunts.  In my opinion, he definitely beats Jackie Chan and Bruce Lee.  This movie combines in-your-face martial arts with a very good story, not-bad acting, and popular actors as well as musicians.  Last, this movie has great one-liners. "},{"Title":"Delivers as Promised","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the few movies out there that delivers exactly what it promises.  A hearty thank you to Joel Silver, Richard Donner, Danny Glover, Mel Gibson and the rest of the Lethal Weapon gang for introducing us to Jet Li.  And thank you to Mr. Li for delivering more than expected in this film.  Aside from the thin plot, exciting eye candy from start to finish.  Thank you. "},{"Title":"Jet Li Must Find Better Movies To Star In","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In the little history of modern action cinema that I wrote a couple of years ago, I predicted that the future of Hollywood action flicks lied in Hong Kong.  Indeed, a lot of the big Asian names are bringing their skills to America, from directors like John Woo to stars like Jackie Chan.  This marriage of all-out Hong Kong action wildness and Hollywood-size budgets and special effects can lead to greatness when done properly, anybody who's seen THE MATRIX knows that.  But unfortunately, many films are less successful. The problem with a movie like ROMEO MUST DIE is that the people behind it don't seem to understand what they've got.  They cast Jet Li, arguably the most electrifying martial arts expert in the world, but only to bury him in an alternately tedious and epileptic B-movie.There are two major problems with the picture.  First, way too much time is spent exposing the boring, conventionnal plot, with all its predictable twists and double-crossings.  Director Andrzej Bartkowiak does try to spend time with the characters, but he fails to make it much interesting and it just makes for plenty of slow, fat dialogue scenes.  Delroy Lindo is pretty good as the Black boss, but the rest of the cast isn't great ;  Aaliyah should stick to singing, she doesn't have much screen presence.  As for Jet Li, he's cool and charming, but he's not given much to do outside the action scenes which, surprisingly, are the movie's other problem.Bartkowiak suffers from the Michael Bay syndrom, apparently, and he feels the need to craft the action scenes like music videos,with blink and you missed a shot editing and whooping hip hop over the soundtrack.  That's plain stupid  Jet Li is already so exciting with his gravity-defying spins and kicks that you just have to set up continuous shots and let the man do his thing.  Constantly cutting back and forth is just distractive and frustrating.  We still get to see Jet Li kick some ass in style, but if you've seen some of his 'real' movies, this is a letdown.  It's like comparing the fights in Jackie Chan's DRUNKEN MASTER 2 to those in RUSH HOUR.  Some people seemed impressed by the use of X-ray shots, but that trick is lifted right out of the Sonny Chiba 70s classic THE STREETFIGHTER, so it's old news to connoisseurs.  Overall, ROMEO MUST DIE is modestly entertaining ( a Jet Li flick can't be all bad ), but it remains so-so at best.  Wait for the video. "}{"Title":"Jet Li rules!!!!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'd love to be objective here, but we all know that's not gonna happen.  Jet Li is quite simply the most exciting thing to happen to movies in a long time. Intense, dramatic, funny, he has more presence than any comparable American star.  And the action... Fuggedaboutit.  Enough with the hyperbole.  Oh, who am I kidding.  The best I can do after coming home from this action fan's dream is restrict my comments to the flick at hand.  Romeo Must Die fulfills a healthy dosing of Jet Li jonesing.  The fighting scenes are awesome, combining a comedic flair that Jet has rarely displayed before with his expected high flying, lightning fisted, bone-crushing martial arts.  I particularly enjoyed the x-ray homage to the cult hit Streetfighter series (Sonny Chiba fans unite!) and the melee where he utilized his girlfriend to circumvent his code of honor (which wouldn't allow him to hit a woman).What about the plot?  Not really any better than your average Hong Kong release, but at least it's in original language English (which Jet can actually speak, by the way.  Is there nothing the man can't do?)  Anyhoo, in this outing he steals a car, gets out of jail, gets revenge, gets the girl, and kicks everybody's arse and all in the most stylish manner possible.  The bad guys are all decently tough (except that wussy white guy who was behind everything - I swear I thought he was a girl at times).  Delroy Lindo and that rapper dude both held their own, as did the Chinese contingent.Overall, I gotta give it a 9 of 10.Go see it and be happy that you did! "},{"Title":"Just fun as hell to watch","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When you look at Romeo Must Die with knowledge, you'll think to yourself that this is a terrible spinoff on Romeo and Juliett, way to much time spent on poor characters, etc.  But if you're doing that, you're missing the point.  This is a Jet Li movie, just like a Jackie Chan movie.  Although it may take itself seriously at times, you go to this film to have fun.  So bottom line, it's just fun as hell to watch.Jet Li's six or so action sequences are all fantastic.  Although I really wished they didn't use special effects where they did in some spots (darting through the air taking down 6 people is kind of insulting), the x ray vision was a nice touch.  When he's fighting he makes your jaw drop, when he's acting he does it with charm.  As someone just learning the english language, although he speaks it softly, he does speak with style. The action scenes that stick out in my mind the most would definatly be his first game of american football and his fight with a fire hose.  These stand out with originality and Li makes them jaw-droppingly effective.  The final fight was intense, although I wish it went on for another 5 minutes and didn't have to resort to special effects for the final blow.  All in all I prefer Fist of Legend more than this, but I'll definatly be back to see this in theaters a few more times. "},{"Title":"This movie was GREAT!!","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Going in to it, I thought I was going to watch another sappy William Shakespeare wanna be.  Not the slightest.  This movie was The Matrix without all the fancy guns, but martial arts instead.  Action packed from beginning to end.  And unlike the Matrix, which within the middle hour left me yawning, I was on the edge of my seat waiting for some more eye popping martial arts from Jet Li who proved himself to have a black belt in comedy as well as whatever arts he studies.  Not the best actor, but at least more fluent in english than Jackie Chan.  Along with Li, Aaliyah surprised me in her debut as well.  As cunning and cold as she is beautiful, with a soft spot in her heart for Li.  Bottom line, this movie has everything from romance, action, a perfect story, twists, comedy, new camera effects, and hot cars making it one of the best action movies of the year.  "},{"Title":"All the more powerful _because_ of Romeo and Juliet","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A death in the family leads to a death in the other family.  Revenge the gang way.  Or so it seems.  But we never see who is doing the killing, so the movie becomes more of a who dunnit, and a damned aggravating one at that, since we all know that at the end of Romeo and Juliet, _Romeo Must Die_.  We like Romeo, or Han (Jet Li) as the name is in this picture, and we like Juliet (aka Trish, aka Aaliyah).  And so the end of the movie is all the more powerful because we know the story of Romeo and Juliet. We know how the story must end.The action is fantastic in this film, which is not surprising - in fact, it's what we expect from Jet Li.  The choreography is superb, most notably in a scene in which Han uses Trish as a weapon.  You'll have to see it to believe it.  Its like something out of Xena, Warrior Princess.  A must see. "},{"Title":"A disappointing action flick.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  With Jet Li as the main character, I expected a great kung-fu type movie. What I got was some sparsely placed surreal fight scenes (ala THE MATRIX), a love story sub-plot, and a who-cares- who-did-it-and-why ending. It's set in San Fran and the Oakland waterfront. It pits the two major land owners of the docks and their henchmen against each other for an unknown goal. By the time the movie ended, I had lost interest in any of the characters, their lives, or anything going on around them.  "},{"Title":"Great action sequences, too bad you have to watch everything else.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die  When war breaks out between rival gangs, no one is safe.  Then someone makes the mistake of killing the brother of a walking weapon, and things go from bad to worse.   After watching Jet Li's fantastic footwork in Lethal Weapon IV (the only foreign film of his that I've seen is The Black Mask, not exactly a cinematic masterpiece) I couldn't wait to see him in a feature. A cross between Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan, Li is athletic, and funny, but you'd never want to be on the receiving end of one of his patented glares. He doesn't disappoint.The action scenes with Li are fantastic, combining elaborate and intricately choreographed fights with wonderful camera work.  The influence of Hong Kong style film making - inhuman leaps combined with fast and slow motion (popularized by The Matrix) - is obvious. Unfortunately, you have to wade through the rest of the film to watch them.  The plot, like most martial arts films, is a secondary consideration - the sole purpose of every character and all dialogue is to set up the next fight scene.  I understand this.  I just wish that occasionally they could come up with a bit more substance (I did however like Anthony Anderson who provided some comic relief).  As for Aaliyah, I say stick with singing - she's very pretty, but couldn't act her way out of a paper bag.Wait for the DVD and search for the fight scenes.  "},{"Title":"Kung-Fu Action with Decent Script and Production","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When a typical Kung-Fu action movie is released in the West one expects a very thin plot with a lot of dubbing and pseudo stylish action scenes. This movie is different.  While it doesn't completely distance itself quality-wise from other movies in the genre, it has a good, reasonably well thought out plot.  It also has good dialogue and good acting.  What amazed me about the movie is that it not only had excellent fight scenes, but that the fight scenes were a solid part of and excellent support for the story. I actually cared about what happened to the characters.  I actually cared about who was behind the evil deeds in the film.  All in all an excellent effort. "},{"Title":"This movie has everything.","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has everything, lesbians, kung fu, gangs, guns, cool plot. The only thing that could make this movie any better would be if they threw in some spaceships or something. I also would have liked to see the movie be a tragedy (like Romeo and Juliet should be), but I can forgive them.This movie is great! Finally some decent entertainment. "},{"Title":"Good, but not Matrix good...","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is probably a misnomer. I mean there isn't really any believable romance in the movie. The story is about two opposing families. One is African American... the other Asians. Mix in some betrayal and you have the typical and predictable movie. Romance? There is as much romance as the amount of dialogue Jet Li says.The meat of the movie is the martial art sequences. Fast, furious, and in some cases funny, Jet Li is like a more serious version of Jackie Chan. One of my favorite scene is when Jet Li played American football. There is also some X-ray vision finishing off moves which seem out of place. Maybe for Matrix 2, but it does not feel right for RMD. One note on the fighting sequence, it fun and exciting as what you would get with a Jackie movie... however, it is NOT cool like with Matrix.Romeo Must Die is slightly on the long side with a nice amount of action. Set your expectation a bit low and you will enjoy it. If you expect Matrix 2 in Romeo Must Die, you will be a bit disappointed. "},{"Title":"Jetastic!!","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Warning may be a spoiler if you haven't watched it!!Wow this guys amazing!!  There should be an Oscar for the best martial arts actor and give the first one to Jet Li!  The fighting scenes as usual with Jet Li are spectacular! I've seen a lot of his Chinese movies and this ones tops the charts! The story isn't too strong. How many times have we heard about kids from enemy families gettin it on? The acting in this one is a major improvement from Li's last North American movie, The Mask. This time the dubbing doesn't look pathetic. Its a good thing Li does his talking with his fists and feet. Keanu, take notes from this one for the Matrix sequels pal. Bruce Lee would more then have his hands full with Jet Li. "}{"Title":"..take Rush Hour, add Jet Li, remove comedy leaving Li action!","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a projectionist at a 30 plex in charge of trailers... I'm a huge Jet Li fan thanks to my old boss growing up workin at a arcade he let me borrow my first Jet Li film... FIST OF LEGEND. <dramatic pause>...  Ok ever since i've been a Jet Li fan and have been awaiting him to make a big break in American box office.  So far Leathal Weapon 4 showed some of his fierceness but not a lot of screentime and Black Mask almost did his first solo American career as well, but still wasn't total true Jet Li.  Now in Romeo Must Die, I've been watching the trailers lately and I can't help but get excited to see this film but also laugh about it as well.  It just seems odd to me that Jet Li, a serious wushu actor, doing an overused plotline about black gangbangers vs. asian gangbangers.  Then throwing in annoying rap/r&b/comedy relief stars to obviously grab the younger crowd to watch which of course will annoy any true Jet Li fan within the theater trin to watch no less.  But this chemistry worked well with Rush Hour (granted a very good film), but without the comedy Warner Brothers must feel this will work and with a name like Joel Silver producing it my expectations are a lot higher now.  After all Joel was the producer for The Matrix and look how that scifi/kung fu film did.  All I know is... the film better be a lot better than the current running trailer.  It's way too cheezy when you see Jet Li say now that... was a mistake. I couldn't help but bust out laughing.  Not that he spoke but just when I think of Jet Li I think of a man that can face off 1,000,000 warriors and scare them off just by giving them a Bruce Lee trademark i'm gonna kick your ass with a smile look and NOT say anything. "},{"Title":"These Wires Must Die !","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Not a bad movie. But close to, and sillier than a Friends episode ! I have always thought of (Jet Li) as the unfunny version of (Jackie Chan). The man got one stony cold face. He can't smile. And even his fighting skills, that brought him to Hollywood in the first place, weren't shown here at all due to the tragic use of the flying wires. Owing to the producers' fear of any injury may hurt their lead; or frankly delay their project, they used these damn wires, in so monotonous way, for maybe 90 % of the action scenes. It made watching Li, sorry.. standing watching Li, meaningless, and the whole thing uninteresting.(Isaiah Washington) was literally provocative whether as an actor or a character. The evil guy can be amusing or attractive sometimes. But here, oh my god. He was the worst stereotype ever as idiot, nuts, and Washington as well (that's heavy for me as one of the biggest non-fans of him !). (Anthony Anderson) was SO LOUD, and not in a good way. And you know what the worst part is? He's acting! His comedy, if we consider it so, is forced and totally unfunny. I hated him to the extent of completing the movie just to see his ass kicked hard. But unfortunately Li's kicks weren't that many. I wanted something equal to the pain that this dude caused to me (a bomb up his fat butt could have been near to pleasant!).(Aaliyah), god bless her soul, wasn't strong enough. Especially with not one acting talent around her. She was good at places, and clueless at others. For one reason, I didn't see exactly why she fell in love with that taxi driver who can't speak English (hear him saying that wath a mistake !). And everybody in the universe knew it  Aaliyah and Li have NO chemistry on-screen. He's like 40, and she's in her early twenties. He's like a bad movie, and she's like a good song!The soundtrack is a piece of hell. If you don't like rap, then this is an exclusive long torment-to-death. However as a fan or not, you must wonder why to crowd a movie with this number of songs? They didn't even express the lead's love or compensate for its dramatic absence!Sometimes the movie pushes you to laugh in the wrong place; for one moment, at the end, Aaliyah's father shoots a guy for ten times but he just wants not to die. I remember asking does anybody turn to the comedy channel while I'm not looking ??!!And the cameo.. My man DMX. He can't act or fight. I think he stipulated that they can't use his songs in the soundtrack unless he has a part. Or maybe they begged him to do it to support a movie starring some guy from Asia and a newcomer singer. Both ways I hated his guts. Plus I can't forget his immortal line, that I will teach to my children advising them to teach it to their children; Guns don't kill people. People kill people I think this is the best thing I have ever heard since Dr. King's speech of I have a dream!I read that there was a kiss between Li and Aaliyah, but it was cut in the final release. Li said later that it was removed because, in the film, a family member is murdered, and it would be inappropriate for him to be kissing a girl immediately afterwards from the rival family. My comment on his comment  BS ! The guy was maybe trying not to lose his new position by harassing the mighty producers and tickling some hard issues, since it's known by heart that a kiss between an Asian and an American soul is still a bit risky thing to be done in some movies, for some studios. It may take time. Just remember that yesterday the Asian in Hollywood movies was nothing but an ugly joke, an ugly enemy, an ugly malicious. Just ugly anyway, and not, by any chance, a respectable character or a big hero.Although there was a lovable try to show the lead characters as humans, not superheroes or lifeless creatures, but that wasn't done with the rest. I think whether you make it as a straight bang bang flick, or something at least as serious as the Romeo reference. This movie was in uneven middle. So I was like in sane-crazy, crazy-sane world all the time !I enjoyed the scene in which Li was using Aaliyah to fight a girl, since he can't hit one. But why I think that this scene in specific was shot by different director ?! However still nothing was like that KILLER Chinese girl on the motorcycle. She was the real good thing about this movie. But they just killed her off after seconds of her appearance&#x85;as you see&#x85;this is a movie that doesn't want to be loved!Finally, recall with me  Li is jumping, wholly illogically, to hit the ball then its players. Li is escaping from the black evil guys while hitting them by unconvincing, rather idiot, moves (how to kick 6 men by rotating one complete horizontal circle in the air without holding to anything ?!). Li at the climax is jumping, as his opponent, at least 3 meters above the land.. to stay there for a while during flapping their legs in the sky! (again without holding to ANYTHING !?). In case if you're asking confusedly like me, the answer for all of these moments' unforgettable oddity is one  the flying wires. And according to that, it won't be weird to watch a motorcycle that flies so slowly for half an hour above a car ! Movies like this raise the sales of the old martial arts movies. They were the real deal ! "},{"Title":"Still got it...","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" remember seeing this in the cinema years ago - totally loved it then and recently dug out my DVD of it. 9 years on it still had my full attention and i enjoyed watching it again, which is more than can be said for some films, as most films nearly now 10 years old have not aged well ! Special effects are excellent still, a few cgi madness moments but overall a top film - rent / download or buy. also to be noted the soundtrack is surprisingly good too - much better than the standard r&b crap that seems to dominate most movie soundtracks today. and they say i have to write more than 10 lines and im running out of things to say!! "},{"Title":"Thoroughly entertaining","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Romeo Must Die was an awesome debut by Aaliyah Haughton and pairing her with Jet Li made it that much more memorable. She worked hard to prepare for the role of Trish and her perseverance paid off.The action sequences are amazing and the drama gets intense at moments. Overall, the plot is exciting and the actors meshed well. There are rare moments of comedy that make you laugh out loud and help balance the film. The soundtrack is noteworthy and compliments the hip hop/martial arts vibe.I would've liked to have seen more of a love connection/chemistry between the leading roles but regardless, it's worth watching and purchasing the DVD as a collector's item in memory of the late, great Aaliyah. "},{"Title":"Jet Li's best movie","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jet Li plays Han a police officer imprisoned for helping his Triad family escape death. After the death of his brother Han goes to America to find the truth behind his brother mysterious death; and falls for the daughter of a rival crime boss.The fight scenes have bits of comedic influences, but overall the film has some great fight scenes, and very funny parts which will have you laughing out loud especially a great performance from comedian Anthony Anderson who is extremely underrated; the special touch to this film is the bone breaking sequence, its beautifully done and shows how dangerous violence can be; more importantly its Aaliyah that shines, she provides a good love interest, its sad she was taken so young.But a good action/Kung-Fu movie. "},{"Title":"Why, why so many wires?!","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Okay, let me start off with the good points of this film. The storyline is actually good and it's development isn't half bad. It's got a Romeo and Juliet feeling with a twist of vengeance. Jet Li seeks revenge for his dead brother and falls in love with the daughter of the man who may or may not be responsible. Jet Li actually shows some acting potential, as does Aaliyah. Sadly this was her first and last film.There you go. You've got a good story and decent acting. That means this Jet Li movie is going to rule, right? Wrong! Apparently they traded in the quality of plot and acting for the quality of action. Jet Li has proved his ground-based abilities in the martial arts in fantastic movies like the Shaolin Temple 3 and Fist of Legend. So why, I must ask, does Jet Li have to be hanging on wires all the time? I like to see what Jet can really do. When they hang him upside down by one foot and chain his hands, and he still whips several guards, that's fake. When suddenly the movie goes in slow motion, Jet floats in the air, and kicks 9 guys circling him almost simultaneously super fast, that's fake.I laughed during the football fight scene. They can't even make the wire-work look a little realistic. He's floating over everyone and hovering. I will say the scene where Jet can't hit a girl, so he grabs Aaliyah and uses her as a weapon was pretty good, and cool. The fight scene outside her house was also okay, because it only had a few wires. Other than that, poor choreography and too many wires ruin the action. The final fight was actually on the verge of being good, but then of course in the last 15 seconds they to pump it up with several wires. I hate meaningless wire-fu with a passion, particularly when there's this much of it.For once the reason to watch a Jet Li movie is reversed. Watch for the storyline, not necessarily the fight scenes. Unless you love wire-fu, then you will probably love this film. Had they simply made better action scenes I'd give this an 8 or so. But as disappointed as I am with the action I give this a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Just Too Good!!!","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This was Jet Li's first lead role in a Hollywood movie.And it has not disappointed me at all.The movie is a action all the way.The story is too complicated to understand in the first viewing,hence,the movie has to been seen again and again.The entry of the bad guy is a classic.It is a bar fight with kungfu and stunts.Just too good.It shows that the bad guy is a tough competition for our hero.Jet Li's entry is not bad.The prison fight is a bit too articficial.But,is watchable.The next best thing in the movie is the rugby match,which just blows away your mind.The face off in the end is not bad either,but is a bit too artificial.Jet Li looks good all the way.Aliyah is damn good.Too bad she died at an early age.She would have made a great actress.In all,the movie is a action packed special effects bonanza(Especially the fight in the godown towards the end.The way Jet Li takes out all the 7 men with a 360 kick is Rockin!!!!).It may not beat Matrix,but is a good mixture of it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining brains off material","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Well, I suppose this is one take on Shakespeares classic play Romeo and Juliet, but it actually has next to nothing to do with the actual play. I suppose I'll spoil your fun, and tell it right here, that the lovers wont be killed nor do they die by their own hands in the end. Like that actually even is a surprise for anyone.So, this is pretty typical Jet Li movie (I haven't seen his non English ones, so I cannot compare) with lot's of action, kicking, car chases and explosion. I think you get the idea.There are couple of nice ideas in the fights, like the x-ray scenes showing breaking of bones. Pretty needless, but looks okay. And then there is this beat the chick by using another chick cat fight. That was fun.But in overall, nothing extremely special in anyway, but it's not extremely bad either. Entertaining, which is the only thing that matters in this genre. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, not more not less!","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Romeo must die is all over a solid martial art movie which is quite entertaining for most of the time.Positively mentionable are a bunch of good jokes and fair entertaining mostly performed by Jet Li and Aaliyah who did both a , by means of entertainment and acting skills, surprisingly excellent job.The rest of this movie is frankly messed up and furthermore wasted for the chance to create a festival of martial law fighting scenes and a firework of cool action scenes existed.While computer generated combat effects spoiled all of Jet Li's Kong-Fu talent, the plot is seriously ruined by a stereotypical choice of characters and a multitude of predictable turning points of the story which turned out to be moments without real tension and thrill.For fans of Hollywood-love stories the movie is a late disappointment because who might have thought Aaliyah and Li will fall in a great emotional ending-love serenade is eventually not satisfied with the ending scene. To me it was a relief that this love serenade did not happen which would have fulfilled another stereotypical moment in this movie.Summed up I'd would rate this movie at best 6 but more likely 5 for it poses an exact example for a movie with disposed of a high potential in martial-arts sequences and as a movie in a whole but failed unfortunately for the director was ill-advised to use CGI effects and no natural movements during combat scenes and in view of the plot it was dim to assume a stereotypical storyline with more or less predictable moments and turning points could intensify the focus on combat scenes or more likely attract more black audience. "},{"Title":"Completely meaningless action and violence","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Definitely one of Jet Li's worse efforts, with a story and main characters you are *utterly* indifferent about.A few action scenes are passable, but don't expect much bang for your buck here.The only real entertainment is provided by Delroy Lindo, as he attempts to get into a high-level money-making racket strictly reserved for respectable, suit-wearing, white businessmen.My rating for this movie 4 out of 10.Jet Li's U.S. produced movies (this one, Cradle 2 The Grave, The One) have generally been among his worst. Try out some of his Hong Kong movies to see some much better action, esp. as concerns the martial arts content. "}{"Title":"This was just bad, as in seriously not good.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am a GIGANTIC Jet Li fan, I have seen many of his films and own a few. I am loyal but not THAT loyal.  In fact I am writing this now because I've just now seen it, I had been avoiding it for four years but my friend made me watch it saying it wasn't that bad.  Like Hell it's not that bad. It's awful, I refer to it as The movie that won't be named whenever I talk about it.  But with all that aside let me get to the actual flick. ****SPOILERS AHEAD****Some scenes were good like in the Chinese prison.  And the fighting wasn't too weak, I like the zip cord weapons-very resourceful.  But the acting was bad bad bad, even for me and I love mindless action films.  Also the wire work was a little extensive.  I didn't see the magic of Aaliyah.  And don't get me started on Anthony Anderson!  Although I could've watched DMX get shot over and over again, if you can't tell, I don't like him in movies. And I was furious when Anthony Anderson didn't die.  Come on, he fell out of a high window onto a car with Jet Li on him!!  Why didn't he die!!??  I was so sure I would at least be rewarded for watching this by getting his characters death but no he lives.  And I don't care what people say about his acting, Jet Li was the best actor in this movie!  And come on, he did very well when he had to be dramatic with his father at the end when he starts getting all teary-eyed.  He has not once disappointed me with his acting, his role choices are anther story. "},{"Title":"A solid US entry for Jet Li...","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Like a good many American filmgoers, I first became acquainted with Jet Li through the unholy debacle that was Lethal Weapon 4 (that he was the best thing in the film also didn't hurt my memory any). I got curious enough from this to want go see Romeo Must Die, a film that, for all its flaws, felt like a breath of fresh air after LW4. I thought that they stopped making action films like this in the mid-1980s.Because I want to end on some high notes, let's get what didn't work out of the way. First, the ridiculous wire-fu on display. In and of itself, I don't have a problem with it as long as there's a rationale for why someone is able to do these feats (it's the inside of a computer program, the fighters have been enhanced with super powers, etc.). Any self-respecting martial artist could study most of the sequences in this film and tell you how about 40 to 60 percent is wire-fu enhanced. This actually a disservice to not only Li's skills, but also those of Russell Wong in the final battle. Second, one-sided development. The O'Day camp is fully realized in terms of dynamics, characterizations, and relationships, something noticably lacking on the Chu side of the block. The closest thing to any of the preceding elements mentioned is when Chu has his final meeting with the Collective. Finally, the X-Ray CGI. I'm a bit more forgiving on this one, as it is a bit of an experimental approach. But it still boils down to a case of nice try, but without this stuff, we'd still get the idea. End of rant.Now, what I did like about this film...first off, Jet Li. I remember a Cinescape review coming just short of accusing Li of having the non-acting skills of Van Damme (obviously, the reviewer needed to rewatch Van Damme's filmography to realize their error). He may not, to paraphrase from the aforementioned reviewer, have the goofy charm of Jackie Chan (what charm?) or the cool charisma of Chow Yun Fat (a close second in my HK actor list), but he has his own brand of quiet dignity, bringing to mind Bruce Lee and the early Clint Eastwood. His English is just barely passable, but he makes up for it with his expressions, his eyes, and, of course, his combat. That Li has been careful with picking which movies he wants to be involved with since this film, plus the above, will probably ensure a long life in the action genre.Second, the O'Day side of the equation. The late Aaliyah as willful Trish O'Day is an extremely pleasant suprise, maintaining excellent chemistry with Li throughout and even getting involved in the combat in a novel fashion (to be described later). Delroy Lindo is in top form as Issac O'Day, an original gangster trying to cash in his chips before the game gets ugly...too late. Finally Isaiah Washington, as the ruthless Mac, brings just the right hint of danger to the proceedings that makes you suspect him from word one.Finally, there are the fight sequences, some of the most original setups I have ever seen on any martial arts film. Anyone who feels like they've seen it all with the usual chop-sokey needs to see Li fight five guys upside down, use improvised weaponry and his impressive agility in a stairway/alleyway fight, play one of the funniest games of football ever put on film, dance a mambo of kung fu with Aaliyah (all because he can't hit a girl, mind you), and use a fire hose in a way that no action hero outside of Hong Kong has ever thought of. The only place where it breaks down is in his final fight with Wong, which relies too much on the wire-fu gimmickry. But nobody's perfect.All in all, thinking about this film is making me anxious to see what he'll be doing with DMX in Cradle 2 the Grave. "},{"Title":"Rest in peace, baby girl.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"    I've already commented on this film, before the night of August 25th, when Aaliyah passed away, and the fire she always showed us onstage or onscreen would be put out. Never again will we be able to see her onscreen or even worse, hear another wonderful album of hers, with those exotic and original sounds. She truly was 'one in a million'.  I've never cried, and cried so much, over a celebrity. It was devastating for so many of her fans, and even those who really didn't know her that well. But if we love her this much and have never even met her, I can only imagine what her family must feel. I rented the film <Romeo Must Die> again yesterday, simply because I wanted to pay tribute in one of many ways. It was almost impossible to even watch a quarter into the movie, though. But then, I had to remember what she wanted to look like, what she worked hard for (you wouldn't not wear a watch from your watchmaker friend if he passed away) so it became easier to watch. She was so luminous onscreen, just as I remembered watching it the first time.    Hopefully, we will be able to see the film she had been working on last- I believe it was an adaptation of Anne Rice's Queen of the Damned. Unfortunately, I don't believe we'll get to see her in <The Matrix> 2 & 3; she had major parts in both.  Aaliyah was beautiful, charismatic, talented, down-to-earth, intelligent (had a 4.0 GPA), coordinated, (the list is endless...)...but most of all-and this may be a silver lining-she lived life exactly the way she wanted to, and loved every minute of it. She said she felt truly blessed.Rest in peace, baby girl. "},{"Title":"A really good film","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Watching the trailer for this one I immediately was reminded of that 1996 Romeo and Juliet movie (with DiCaprio and Danes) but I was wrong. This one is so different. First of all this is not a love story at all, with kissy, kissy and sob, sob and second of all this has much more action in it. Ok it is predictable (who cares), but it is well acted, choreographed and has a very original approach, which I have not seen since The Matrix and that George Clooney Gulf War flick Three Kings. Recommended for all action fans (beware not too realistic though).8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Watchable action,pathetic story","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsWell,a one line summary like that pretty much sums up how most big screen action movies of late seem to operate,but this one,ugrhh.Honestly,what was the story about here?I could'nt make it out to save my life.Whatever it was meant to be about,it served to distract only by seeming so long.It was on for over 2 hours when I went to see it in the cinema.Otherwise,the action itself dos'nt really save the movie.It is okay,it is bearable,but it's nothing TRULY magnificent.I'm also growing quite tired of the fast camera,techno music fusion added to action movies nowadays.Too much of it,as was the case here,really makes the film even more irritating.Possibly the most watchable aspect of the film was the pretty Aaliyah,with the most pouty,kissable lips since Julia Roberts,and a hairpiece that sends you into a swoon.Overall though,this was'nt very enjoyable stuff.**  "},{"Title":"COULD JUST AS WELL HAVE BEEN CALLED JULIET MUST LIVE.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This satisfying attempt at combining martial arts action,romance and a plethora of modern rap music works very well indeed and serves as a fine showcase for the impressive fighting skills of Jet Li.The title,however,makes little or no sense and offers no clue to the content of the movie.Apart from one fleeting piece of dialogue to try to justify the movie's title it might just as well have been called JULIET MUST LIVE! Jet Li is effective as the brother of a murdered gang member who returns to the US to avenge the killing.So far so cliched;what helps is the fresh use of music which comes at you from all directions and this combined with some pleasing plot turns and performances makes ROMEO MUST DIE a different kind of action move.The fights are spectacular indeed but marred by an overuse of wire techniques which detract somewhat from enjoying them as much as would otherwise have been the case.Jet Li is the real deal however and convinces as the implacable and committed martial arts master and I hope he does not compromise his image by taking the frankly ridiculous Jackie Chan route by making innocuous and unfunny comedys which would belittle himself and his art.Thankfully I cannot imagine Mr.Li humiliating himself to the extent that Chan did this very morning by camping about like a gameshow hostess in a silly sketch with the Spice Girls on a childrens TV show.This sort of thing does not a legend make.Jet Li....take heed! "},{"Title":"Not even the beautiful Aaliyah could save this movie.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sure Jet Li was great in Lethal Weapon 4, but this reviewer thinks that he should not have made this movie.  The story is decent, but most of Jet Li's fighting sequences were helped greatly by special effects!  It was so bad at times, that I could have sworn that I was watching an animated fighting movie. Surprisingly enough, Aaliyah's acting was superb, and should be Duly noted. This movie is a long ways away from being horrible, but it only walks away with 5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":" The Blood of the Family is scared, why then do we spill it so willingly? ","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The legacy of the late Bruce Lee has been waiting an heir for many years. In the opinion of many in the movie business, including those in the martial Arts industry, that individual is Jet Li. In this story written by Mitchell Kapner and aptly directed by Andrzei Bartkowiak can trace itself to Shakespearean times. Thus it's called  Romeo Must Die.  In it we discover that a trio of powerful gangs has decided to conspire together to purchase a segment of dilapidate land and build a NFL Football stadium. Within this multi-million dollar venture, suspicions arise and culminates in a murder. The character brother of Jet Li has been removed and all three gangs deny any involvement. Thus it becomes the murdered man's brother Han Sing (Jet Li) who is locked away in a Chinese prison, to escape and go to America. Once there, he seeks out his family and the leaders of the three gangs to learn who killed his brother. However, when he arrives in America, Sing is lovingly captured by beauty Trish O'Day (Aaliyah) and discovers that the gang leaders each have their own reason for the murder. With the superior cast of actors, the movie gravitates towards dark drama, excitement and a flurry of Martial Arts action. These include Isaiah Washington, Russell Wong and versatile Delroy Lindo. It is the incredible action scenes which give this film it's highly charged entertainment atmosphere which is kept on high speed throughout the story. Jet Li and his opponents offer the audience an exciting run for it's money and one which is sure to establish first and foremost, that he is indeed a worthy candidate to fill the shoes of the great Bruce Lee. Easily recommended. **** "},{"Title":"A lot of people seem to like this movie, even though it doesn't have enough action or Jet Li.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rating * 1/2 out of ****Jet Li kicks ass. There's no doubt about it. My first introduction to him was in Lethal Weapon 4, and that film's most memorable action sequence was easily the two-on-one rain-drenched finale, where Li was thiiiisss close to killing both Riggs and Murtaugh. Romeo Must Die was his first lead role in an American production and I feel unfortunate to report it didn't live up to my expectations.Li stars as Han Sing, a former cop from China who escapes from prison to avenge the death of his brother. This leads him all the way to Oakland, where his father, a local crime lord, is in contention with a rival black gang (headed by Delroy Lindo) over an NFL land deal that could make serious money. Turns out all the people living in the desired territory who have no intention of signing their property over are being killed off by the two gangs. With virtually no one to trust, Han turns to the rival boss's daughter (Aahliyah) for help.The movie is very loosely based on Romeo and Juliet, but despite what the purist naysayers might think, the thought of adapting the play into a martial arts thriller actually seemed like an interesting idea. But the film boasts nothing in the way of effective romance. Li and the late Aahliyah have almost no chemistry together; their pairing is awkward and stilted, and it's even more off-putting that it seems as if the filmmakers themselves look down on this interracial romance. The closest they get to intimacy is a hug, and even that looks like a hesitant move.Love story aside, Romeo Must Die is actually part kung-fu flick and part hip-hop gangster movie blaring with an obtrusive rap soundtrack. The latter genre doesn't serve the former particularly well. The rap music interferes with the fight scenes, the attempts at storytelling are shoddy and confusing, and the rivalry between the gangs isn't the slightest bit compelling. The plot is mostly nonsense, seeing as it relies on duping its audience into believing nobody in the press would somehow catch onto the connection between all these mysterious deaths and this high-profile NFL deal.Far worse is the fact that Romeo Must Die simply doesn't have enough action, especially for a film that runs nearly two hours. It also doesn't help a lot of these fights are a bit awkwardly filmed, with distracting attempts at style (X-ray shots of bones breaking, for no reason whatsoever) and generally poor framing of what should be spectacular-looking moves. I can only think of two action sequences I truly enjoyed, a playful fight in an alley and the climactic showdown between Li and Russell Wong. But even that last fight (much like the rest of the action) is marred by ridiculous-looking wirework and CGI.Recent addendum It wouldn't be for another five years (if you don't count the more balletic Hero) that Li would regain ground in his traditional, bone-crunching kung-fu subgenre. Thankfully, the recently released Unleashed gave the martial arts star the right script, cast, and filmmakers to work with, and the results were fabulous. Check that film out instead. "},{"Title":"Aaliyah is in it, what more could you want?","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Of course I say that because she is my favorite artist. RIP Babygirl. So, getting back to the film. I was a little shocked. It was pretty good. I don't like computer effects. Especially the obvious fake ones. But I think the film in a way needed it to give it tension and suspense. Great performance by Aaliyah and Jet Li. ******************SPOILERS******************If you are expecting the Romeo and Juliet plot line. Don't get your hopes high. They do like each other, and their families are at war with each other. But they never kiss and the way I see it, Aaliyah Wait! Aren't we supposed to kill ourselves? Jet Li Well, we made up for it by killing everybody else OK, I'm messed up. But you could always use a little humor.8/10 "}{"Title":"Wastes opportunities in almost every scene","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Han Sing is being held in a Hong Kong prison when he learns of the death of his little brother and travels out to the San Francisco to find the killer. However what he finds is a supposed gang war between Chinese and Black businessmen looking to build a water front stadium.  Han teams up with Trish to find the killers.This was Jet Li's first big lead role in the US and unfortunately it's a disappointment.  The story is OK but almost everything else is a letdown. First the fight scenes - where are they?!  Jet Li is hugely talented but here he isn't allowed to shine - a lot of his scenes uses (very obvious) CGI, why?  The CGI takes away from  his own ability, put him on wires and make it look natural!  Secondly, to keep the black audience, Li isn't allowed to fight any black character seriously (or kill any of them!) so most of his fights with Lindo's goons are handled for comedy effect.  The only decent fights in the film are the one where Li uses Aaliyah as a weapon and of course the final showdown between Li and the Chinese lieutenant.The second problem is that the film makers clearly didn't want to upset the black audience by having too many unsympathetic black characters in the film.  For example all the Chinese mobsters are bad guys who get their fate, whereas Lindo leads the black gang but isn't a bad guy and only one of the black gang turns out to be bad, and any black person who gets killed only gets killed by another black person.  This is part of the reason why Li's fights feel so muted - check out the `comedy' touch football or the fact that the fat black guy always seems to have a good line to deliver while being kicked.This is a few steps away from the black-ploitation films of the 70's, where producers deliberately made films to get the black-dollar.  I don't mind that if it creates good films.  The black cast are good, Washington is good even when he's playing a cartoon character like here, Lindo is always good and even DMX is alright.  The R n'B soundtrack is also great but the problem is that no one wants to upset the audience and the whole film feels like it's trying to be some sort of PC black movie.  Hence the black gangsters are either comedy figures or are good people at heart, while the Chinese gangs are money grabbing murders.  It also explains why Aaliyah and Li, despite having a romantic involvement, never get to kiss or anything else. I don't want to appear that this is a big deal, but to me this PC-ness ruined everything from the fights, the characters right down to the romance between Li and Aaliyah.Li and Aaliyah are both good.  Aaliyah is a surprise as I thought she'd just be another hiphop/Rn'B star making an ill-advised jump to films, but she was good.  Lindo and Washington are as good as ever, but both are better than comic-book bad guy roles. The Chinese roles are never developed and only remain bad guys till the end.  However the cast shouldn't matter - we should have been blown away by the action - just like in all Li's Hong Kong movies. Why did the producers get such a great martial arts actor only to waste his talents by having poor fights that rely on CGI?Overall the film is just about enjoyable, but it's hard to watch it without seeing the wasted opportunities at every step. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable action film.***1/2","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die stars Jet Li as Hang Sing.He is a cop that was framed for a crime that did not commit and winds up being locked in a Hong Kong prison.Finding out that his brother has just been murdered,he breaks out and goes to America seeking vengeance on his brother's murder because that is where the murder took place.That is when we meet Trish O'Day,played by singer Aaliyah.She becomes Han's love interest which.Trish's family seems controlling and Trish seems to have no freedom of her own.Eventually Han and Trish get involved in alot of trouble involving some really great fight scenes.Some of the fight scenes involve special effects like the one in The Matrix.Although The Matrix had fight scenes done with effects because it was necessary,this was not.But it still looks pretty cool although I would have liked to have seen the fight scenes done without the use of special effects.Romeo Must Die is an enjoyable action film that I found very watchable and Jet li takes charge of the movie.Aaliyah,who had sadly been killed in a plane crash was really great in the film and was set to star in another Joel Silver production which were two sequels to The Matrix.Watching these films can be an entertaining film and although this film is not the best of the Jet Li films,I consider it one of the best.Romeo Must Die is a movie that I would have no trouble seeing again.   "},{"Title":"cheesy B movie","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Honestly, I didn't watch this movie so much as skim it. I watched the first scene, and it seemed like a low-budget, mediocre action movie, and the opening fight was uninteresting. So I just fast forwarded to the fight scenes.Unfortunately, the fight scenes weren't very good. Most were played for comic effect, but they were more silly than funny and not in the same league with Jackie Chan fights. And the wire fu wasn't interesting enough to compensate for how stupidly fake it looked.There were two interesting action sequences, a fight where Jet Li is upside down hanging by a chain and one in which he uses a girl as a weapon. The more extended fight scenes were unexceptional, and backed by a really cheesy score that sounds like something from an old 70s action movie.I did peak in on bits of the story and it looked pretty much how I expected in that regard. All very poorly done. "},{"Title":"Bad marketing at its best","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Granted, a movie with Jet Li and Aaliyah as its two stars probably doesn't make for a serious, intelligent crime drama, though that's what the trailer wants you to believe. If you're looking for a grim, powerful, violent hard-hitting crime movie, look the other way. In fact, go to the next planet. This is as brainless as they come, only without any slapstick or jokes.There's a crime war between two families, one headed by Isaak O'Day (Delroy Lindo), the other headed by Ch'u Sing (Henry O), as each wants to sell their territory to a rich businessman (Eduardo Ballerini) for a hefty profit. After some startling murders take place, a member of each family, Ch'u's son, Han (Jet Li) and Isaak's daughter, Trish (Aaliyah) start investigating.Typically, it's a bad sign when a movie sinks to the level of casting pop superstars in lead roles in their movies (anyone remember Glitter, or On the Line?). It usually means that the movie is going to be bad from the start, and the only way the producers think they can get anyone into the theaters is by casting everyone's favorite celebrity. Or more likely, it's just to showcase the celebrity. Romeo Must Die is one of the exceptions. In fact, the actors who have made their name in other forms of media give the strongest performances. Aaliyah is a real scene stealer. She's beautiful, but very sweet. And it helps that she's not dumb as a brick. She's someone who the audience can immediately sympathize with. In the hands of someone with lesser talent, her scenes when she has to act sad, it could have been a cliché, but Aaliyah is talented enough so that it gives her a sense of vulnerability. Despite being in only two scenes, rapper DMX is also very good. Paradoxically, the classical actors are uniformly weak. The villains are ineffective, as is Jet Li. Special mention in that respect has to go to Anthony Anderson, whose attempt to play a menacing, if completely brainless, gangster is astoundingly awful. It was much to his benefit to turn to comedy, which he is much better at.Cinematographer Andrzej Bartowiak is taking his first turn in the director's chair, and while not a total loss, it's not exactly something he should be proud of either. The action scenes are routine instead of exciting, and some of them go so over the top that they lose any effect they could have had.Still, if you're looking for a martial arts movie, you could do worse, but you could also do better. "},{"Title":"Jet Li's Martial Arts Prowess Makes Romeo Lively Stuff","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The best parts of Romeo Must Die show martial arts sensation Jet Li taking names and kicking ass. Not only does Andrzej Bartkowiak, who lensed Lethal Weapon IV, Speed, and The Devil's Advocate, make his directorial debut here, but he also ensures that Jet Li's first English language film amounts to a feast for the eyes as well as the ears.This ponderous but pugnacious synthesis of high-kicking Hong Kong action epic and trigger-happy, hip-hop gangsta yarn keeps all the usual crime genre clichés intact when its Pokemon sized hero isn't electrifying us with his fancy footwork. Although Demolition Man producer Joel Silver has surrounded Jet Li with a terrific cast, including R&B diva Aaliyah, the incomparable Delroy Lindo, Isaiah Washington, DMX, and Anthony Anderson, this serviceable but in-name-only Shakespeare inspired saga doesn't measure up to either Black Mask or any of Jet Li's other Chinese classics High Risk and My Father Is A Hero. Romeo Must Die unfolds in Oakland, California, where rival Asian and African-American gangs have been buying up waterfront property to sell to a giant crime syndicate as part of a deal to attract another National Football League expansion team to town. Somebody is also killing those merchants that refuse to sell out. Rival crime kingpins Isaak O'Day (Delroy Lindo of Clockers) and Ch'u Sing (Henry O of Red Corner) clash when Sing's youngest son, playboy Po Sing (Jon Kit Lee of The Corrupter), is found hanging from a lamppost. Later, O'Day's son Colin (D. Woodside) plunges to his death along with his ill-fated girlfriend from his high-rise apartment. These crime bosses have dispatched their top lieutenants Mac (played with relish by Isaiah True Crime Washington) and Kai (Russell Wong of Twisted), to investigate these killings.Meanwhile, in a faraway Chinese prison, Han Sing (Jet Li), learns about the murder of his brother. Sing is a former policeman imprisoned for helping his dastardly dad and younger brother Po escape from China and immigrate to America where they have resumed their profitable criminal endeavors. Since he saved his brother's life once, Han feels personally responsible for Po. Moreover, his mother made him promise her before she died that he would watch over her son. A grief-stricken Han freaks out in the prison cafeteria. Prison officials drag him off by his heels to solitary confinement where they intend to beat the egg rolls out of him. Stringing up poor Han so that he dangles helplessly from the ceiling of his cell by one ankle, five sadistic guards with batons encircle him. Surprisingly, not only does he Han devastate them with his high-wire heroics, but he also finds the keys, unlocks his handcuffs, and affects a tense, suspense-filled Midnight Express escape.When he arrives in Oakland, Han poses as a cabbie. Accidentally, he encounters Trish (chanteuse Aaliyah) as she is eluding her father's inept henchman (Anthony Anderson of Transformers) and jumps into his cab. Han and Trish become better acquainted after Han learns that somebody at Trish's boutique phoned Po before he died. After her own brother dies, Trish teams up with Han. Ironically, she discovers traitors in the rank and file of her father's criminal outfit. Simultaneously, the treachery runs even deeper in Ch' Sing's gang when the vengeful Han uncovers the real culprit behind his brother's murder.The loquacious Eric Bent & John Jarrell script piles on far more plot than is either necessary or normal for such a genre offering. Romeo Must Die bogs down in expository detail. Furthermore, the film strains credibility by focusing entirely on these competing gangs and neglecting to allow the police to intervene. Actually, no Oakland cops appear during the action. Bent and Jarrell do establish the principal characters early, but they let Li wander in and out of things as if he were a guest star rather than the protagonist. Indeed, Li doesn't appear in every scene, and Bartkowiak delays Li's arrival until the action has cranked up and is revving to go. Happily, despite his amazing martial arts skills, Jet Li plays a wonderfully sympathetic underdog of an avenger who never seems invincible. A football game between Han and Isaak's bodyguards show Han taking his share of the falls in an arena where his ignorance initially works against him. storyline is, Romeo Must DieThe Shakespearean references are as scanty as DMX's screen time as a nightclub owner packing a submachine gun. Actually, aside from a balcony scene in Trish's room at her father's mansion, little from Romeo & Juliet makes it into this melodrama. One of the villains refers to Han in passing as a Romeo because he has been seen with Trish. Ironically, Han and Trish never kiss, embrace, or snuggle. Their interracial relationship remains strictly platonic. He doesn't make a pass at her, and she doesn't prey on him. Han dedicates himself to avenging his dead brother, and Trish wants to get to the bottom of all the killing so they have no time for romantic mischief. Essentially, Romeo Must Die qualifies as a two-star potboiler with four-star fights. Monosyllabic as he is, Jet Li relies on his own tinny voice, but it is his feet that redeem Bartkowiak's freshman effort. The fights brim with ingenuity. Jet Li never fields a firearm against his gun-toting adversaries, but he manages to take them down, sometimes hilariously with a fire hose, plastic twisties, and their own belts. The X-ray vision shots of bones going snap, crackle, and pop probably looked good on paper, but the gimmick doesn't carry as much impact on-screen. "},{"Title":"I should have left after the first half hour!","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The reason i watched this is because I have recently been interested in martial arts movie again. I watched Ong-Bak not so long ago and thought it was really refreshing to see a new swing on the martial arts genre so I decided to watch my first Jet Li movie thinking that he was one of the great modern martial arts actors of today.... How wrong was I?! From the outset, the movie had a terrible gangster rap feel to it which is not my scene but i stuck with the movie to see the action. The action was completely over the top and wasn't even real! There were sequences reminiscent of the matrix which is ridiculous seen as this movie is based on real people and not built around a chosen one who would be capable of these acts! The music, the story, the acting, the continuity mistakes, the terrible action sequences all combine to make this the worst movie I have seen in a long time! "},{"Title":"My Motto Herbal Medicine for all who like Hoa Tran or Bill Cosby","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jet Li comes out of the shadow of the Great Wall and the harbor of Hong Kong and stars in an American movie as a main character. He, of course, got his chance earlier in Lethal Weapon 4. But that role was more limited.Li escapes from prison in Hong Kong after hearing about his brother's death. Li becomes attracted to the younger Aaliyah, who is the daughter of the rival gang. And its all involved with a stadium deal for some new NFL team in Oakland. Apparently the Raiders have left - again.The story is a little weak, but everything else is rather good. Li shows he can act - and that he doesn't have to play the hero always, like Jacky Chan. At least Li got some Aaliyah become the tragic accident that ended her life. But hey, I'm sure Li was happy.Overall, its good. Well worth watching again. B "},{"Title":"The romance between Jet Li and Aaliyah","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Why is it that in modern Hollywood action movies, Asian film action heroes like Jet Li, Jackie Chan & Chow Yun-Fat are always able to kick plenty of ass when fighting the villains/bad guys but they are never allowed to get any female ass from the leading lady characters!? Why won't the script writers and the movie studios allow this to happen? Interracial romance happens regularly in dramas and romantic comedies so why does it not ever occur in action stories? We've all seen characters from various ethnicities represented in movies; black and white, Asian, Hispanic, east Indian, African and European roles have all been portrayed on the big screen. So why don't we ever see these Asian hero characters have romance in the scripts with lead female roles who are of a different race/ethnicity? Quite ridiculous in this age of modern cinema! I just don't understand it. "},{"Title":"Which Song","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" HI...Does anyone know of the song playing in the background at first part of the film...it was a really chilled out tune...its not included in the soundtrack album..it was a r&b / hip hop song... cant remember any of the lyrics...it was just before he was going into his own apartment in the beginning???HI...Does anyone know of the song playing in the background at first part of the film...it was a really chilled out tune...its not included in the soundtrack album..it was a r&b / hip hop song... cant remember any of the lyrics...it was just before he was going into his own apartment in the beginning???HI...Does anyone know of the song playing in the background at first part of the film...it was a really chilled out tune...its not included in the soundtrack album..it was a r&b / hip hop song... cant remember any of the lyrics...it was just before he was going into his own apartment in the beginning??? "},{"Title":"Unlikely coupling of Shakespeare and Chopsocky romance","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ROMEO MUST DIE (2000) **1/2 Jet Li, Aaliyah, Delroy Lindo, Isaiah Washington, Russell Wong, Henry O, DMX. Glossy production values (thanks to sharp cutting editor Derek G. Brechin and cinematographer Glen MacPherson's snazzy lensing) make up for a rather inane actioner/revenge flick about a wrongly imprisoned Hong Kong cop (Li who keeps you on your toes) escapes to the mainland and finds himself in the middle of a war between two crime syndicates led by his father (O) and the father (Lindo) of the woman he falls for (pop singer Aaliyah in her debut manages to hold her own and keep her hair in place). Chopsocky kicks aplenty with Li kicking ass and showing off his natural grace with lightning speed (even if he's helped by computer graphics &#150; dig that X-ray gimmick whenever he connects &#150; or rather disconnects &#150; with an enemy!) (Dir Andrzej Bartkowiak) "}{"Title":"it was ok......I guess","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well.......the asian crime boss looses a son and in return an eye for an eye. Hence the african american crime boss looses a son.(wink) So we have raging,warring crime families.  Then the asian crime families son teams up with african american crime families daughter (Jet and Aaliyah) to solve the crimes of there murdered love ones. So I see the Romeo and Juliet concept even though there was only a friendship between the two.I thought the movie was alright for what it was-a martial arts flick.I never seen a martial arts film or a slasher film that made me inspire to be an actor! I didnt expect any great oscar winning performance out of Aaliyah and needless to say that role didnt demand any acting skills. You just have to be half way cute and able to speak. As far as acting goes-I think Aaliyah missed her calling.....she doesnt have the presence for it. I could have played that role. And also if my only brother was killed I dont think I'd be walking around looking like a model. But thats just me.Jet showed up and did the only thing he should have been doing which was kickin butt.The movie had its funny parts and its entertaining parts. Thats all it was suppose to have. But it was ok...I believe I could say I liked it. Even though they were afraid to have a romance between the main characters which made it rather retarded. I would watch it again if nothing else was on.If this movie was a test I would give it a C  "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li stars as Han a Hong Kong cop who comes to the U.S to avenge his brother's murder and then falls for  Trish O'Day (Aaliyah) in this disappointingly inept and unexciting martial arts actioner. Terrible editing in the actionscenes detract from Jet Li's natural talent for kicking ass and without anything else to enjoy this is just a deadly bore.  "},{"Title":"some of the best fight scenes ever!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li is a horrible actor, not nearly as bad as Jackie Chan but he's still really bad. Aaliyah is also a very poor actress I'm glad she's gone so that we won't have to see her in any more movies. If you like good fight scenes and great action you'll really enjoy this movie however the acting and the story are just awful. But like I said the fight scenes are some of the best ever Jet Li is awesome and there's some decent comedy added as well, the fight scenes also look good not all crappy and corny like in The One "},{"Title":"Annoying and disappointing","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who's seen Jet Li in action before, in Fist of Legend, Black Mask, the Fong Sai-Yuk or Once Upon a Time in China series', or indeed any of his Chinese films, will likely be disappointed by this rather limp effort. The premise (Romeo and Juliet in a contemporary setting during a feud between Asian and African-American crime families) is weak, and the action is crippled by a wordy plot and trite dialogue. Li himself seems comfortable delivering his hackneyed lines, but they don't suit him and this is clearly not the vehicle that will further his career.The other players are adequate, Lindo standing out amongst them, but this film will be memorable more for being one of the few starring tragic young star Aaliyah than anything else. Annoyances stem from the numerous clichés in plot and dialogue (that could be forgiven if the movie had a bit more life in it) and the interminable top volume bargain bucket score.The one saving grace for a movie starring a kung fu star should be the fight scenes, but they are for the most part unimpressive. There are some nice touches, but the x-ray effects smack of a post-Matrix desperation to show us something new and high-tech. The fights also seem to be run in slow motion, not a patch on the flying fists and feet we're used to seeing in Li's movies. All in all a major disappointment. Hopefully Kiss of the Dragon will make amends.  "},{"Title":"This movie is a joke; the action comes first for these filmmakers, the story comes later. * (out of four)","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ROMEO MUST DIE / (2000) * (out of four)By Blake FrenchWilliam Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet has been stylized, materialized, and modernized-so why not take it to the next level-turn it into a martial arts action extravaganza. It is obvious when filmmakers first think their movie's action, then the story later. In Romeo Must Die, these guys used Shakespeare to fill in their missing pieces. The results are incredibly bad, obvious, and unprepared. It makes one wonder, in a movie so detached to reality, why did they spend money on a story in the first place.For over a decade, Jet Li has been making immensely popular martial arts films internationally. He is highly skilled in martial arts, a National Wushu champion in his native land of China. America first experienced Li when he portrayed the dangerous villain opposite Mel Gibson and Danny Glover in 1998's Lethal Weapon 4. In the spirit of Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan, Romeo Must Die intends to make Li a big action star in America.The problem with Jet Li is that he does not have any spirit or charm. He does have a face of fear and skills to admire, but he lacks the heart of Lee and the amusing charm of Jackie Chan. Granted, Lee never made anything cinematically noteworthy, and Jackie Chan still replaces substance for physical skill. However, each of those martial artists do stunts in their movies; it's impossible not to admire their courage and physical craft. In Romeo Must Die,  Jet Li's martial arts scenes are laughable. In several scenes, we actually see the supporting wires lifting the actors. Even when the wires are out of sight, it's more than obvious that it is not an actual actor kicking and fighting his opponents while flying ten feet in the air.The film takes place on a waterfront in Oakland, but as a very observant viewer noticed and explained on the Internet Movie Database, there are a number of indications that this is not Oakland. For instance, the high-rise apartment buildings typical of Vancouver, BC. Then there's the scenes on the waterfront that feature a mountainous region in the background, and the BC transit buses and Canadian flags.Anyhow, lets just play along with the film. The story replaces Shakespeare's Capulets and Montagues with Asian and African American crime families. As the movie opens, we see a foolish young Asian named Po (Lon Jet Lee), partying at a local club. He's the Asian warlord's son, therefore bodyguards surround him at all times. The club owners are black and make it clear they do not want him here. He doesn't care. Two lesbian dancers caress each other's bodies; one pulls down the other's dress, exposing her bare breast (I do not know where that fits, either). A vicious fight breaks loose. Po walks away alive only because of his protective services. The next thing we know, however, Po is hanging from a telephone pole, dead as a doornail.Po's death doesn't settle well with the Asians, but it especially irritates his brother, Han (Jet Li), who's serving time in a high security prison. He's a former cop who took the rap so Po and their father, Ch'u Sing (Henry O), could escape to America. He quickly escapes his captivation (why didn't he do that sooner?) and returns to America to seek vengeance on his brother's killer, presumably an African American.The African American's have a story of their own. Isaak O'Day (Delroy Lindo), and his right hand man, Mac (Isaiah Washington), lead the family. Isaak wants to open a new business with his son, Colin (D.B. Woodside), but first he must handle the growing dispute between their family and the Asians.  His biggest concern is the fate of his daughter, Trish (Aaliyah). Then, under unusually contrived circumstances, Trish and Han meet, then fall in love.This is a complicated story just to provide the film with a clothesline to hang a series of martial arts fighting sequences. Mitchell Kapner wrote the film's story, who did the same for the amusing comedy The Whole Nine Yards. The director is Andrzej Bartkowiak, an accomplished cinematographer responsible for those aspects in several very good films, including Prizzi's Honor and Falling Down. Romeo Must Die is his first directing attempt-and I hope it is his last. His movie is a boring mixture of wooden performances, bland dialogue, unsympathetic characters, and cheap action sequences.Jet Li's performance is a joke. Clearly, he continues to have trouble with the English language (but who wouldn't). Most of his dialogue is less than a sentence per shot, and he doesn't display any emotion or humor whatsoever. I liked the work by recording artist Aaliyah in her first starring role, Isaiah Washington, and Delroy Lindo. Unfortunately, the rest of the Asian actors are laughable--but least they stand with the overwhelming majority in this film. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan is MUCH BETTER than Jet Li","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie with low expectations and got what I anticipated.  There are only a couple of decent fight scenes, which is sad for a Kung Fu movie.  Jet Li really isn't much of an actor, he never has been, and it shows in this film.  He always does that sad, baby face look, and its just annoying.  There is no chemistry between any of the characters, the dialogue is dry and forced, and the plot is not compelling.  The one thing I did like about this movie was the special effects when the bad guys get killed and the camera turns in to an X-Ray vision shot and you can see the skeletons as the bones break and organs stop.  That was new and inventive and I liked it a lot.  But let me just say right here and now, Jet Li is NO MATCH for Jackie Chan.  Chan is MUCH better, more inventive, faster, more clever, and much more daring.  Jet Li has never been able to match the acrobatic abilities that Chan has, and Jet Li has never done a fight scene anywhere near as complicated or exciting as some of Chan's best work.  Also, Chan opened the door for movies like ROMEO MUST DIE.  Remember RUSH HOUR?  That was the first major movie in recent times to successfully pair up a Chinese Kung Fu master with a Hip-Hop Black star (Chris Tucker).  Jet Li is mearly following in the foot steps of Jackie Chan and leaching off of his success in the genre.  And what was the deal with Jet Li flying through the air on wires with computer enhancement?  Is he that out of shape?  Does he need that much help?  And if so, why not do it in a believable way?  The stunts they have him doing via the computer are completely ridiculous and absolutely laughable!  He completely defies gravity and the laws of physics, flies around sideways and then rights himself with no leverage.  It was completely absurd and very distracting.  It's sad that they used Crystal Method in the sound track.  That is such great music it deserves a movie more on the calibre of THE MATRIX, rather than this trash. "},{"Title":"Like Chop Suey without taste...","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shouldn´t action movies be exciting, especially when they are made or casted by the superstars of Far East? I´ve got more and more that feeling that Asians making films in Hollywood is like locking up a tiger in a golden cage. Nearly all their last releases were disappointments- At the beginning there was the brilliant Face/Off, but then John Woo directed MI2, the first action film in the world without action...- Ringo Lam´s and Tsui Hark´s movies starring the Belgium superstar of the splits...- Jackie Chan´s whole US-movies, especially Rush Hour! Main actor Chris Tucker; giving the cues Jackie Chan...- Chow Yun Fat´s The Replacement Killers pretty pictures, a great Mira Sorvino, but where was the story..?Romeo must die reminded me especially on the last movie mentioned above there were a lot of spectacular gunfights and martial arts performances, but the rest of the film was dull. You´ve seen the story a hundred times anywhere else before and the penetrating cool gangsta talk strains your nerves! Aaliyah is beautiful to watch, but her only job seems to be pretty from beginning till the end. Jet Li is doing unbelievable acrobatic masterly performances, what you can´t say absolutely about his mimic abilities. Finally, Delroy Lindo is the only one in this film who can call himself an actor.  I want to say again that I don´t have anything against Asians or Asian films (I LOVE the originals like Hard Boiled or A Better Tomorrow) - it´s just a pity what Hollywood makes of their talents. But there is still hope Ang Lee´s brilliant Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon is nominated for ten academy awards... (3/10) "},{"Title":"Boring!!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I must say I found this movie awfully bad.  It had so many plot holes in it, that it made me question who gives out money to make these films? Fine, we have got Jet Li, who needs a plot?  I must admit there were some cool fight scenes but it gets boring if you do not put them in some kind of believable plot.  Even if you are a Jet Li fan, I do not think you will like this. "},{"Title":"Kung Fooey!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die is a step backward in the succession of Jet Li flicks. Although it provides nominal entertainment and probably deserves a B- for technical and artistic production value, this film wanders from drama to comedy to action and back, spreading itself so thin as to have no real focus. The story is weak and its presentation muddled. As a result we're left with the impression Jet Li still hasn't found his market nich or defined his place among the great martial arts film stars. For Jet Li fans only. "},{"Title":"my movies","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo must die is just made from the producers of the matrix. thats what makes it so superb. and well worth the money spending on the film. but there is one effect that Romeo must die has got which the matrix has not got and that is when an enemy gets killed you see the camera going into the enemy's body and see his/hers bone snap and a stick traveling into their heart when they fall down. thats one effect that doesn't show on the matrix. but there are some effects the matrix has and Romeo must die has not got as well. but there is a point there are 2 different types of movies only with some same effects which is slow motion and fighting in midair. so thats how i rated 10/10 and don't miss it. and finally Romeo must die is the best movie of my life also the matrix as well the best movie of my life both together. "}{"Title":"Romeo stinks in this Harlem meets Hong Kong style flick","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie really lacks in many aspects.  The cast lacks in depth.  Many of the actors make their debut in this movie.  Many of them are just black rappers and this is quite evident in the movie.  The rap music which accompanies many of the scenes, especially the fight scenes, simply does not work for me.  The whole movie drags on for too long and the fight scenes really are not that great. Jet Li makes an attempt at some humour, Jackie Chan style, but it does not work and the result is pathetic.  Out of ten, about a five.   "},{"Title":"Hollywood + Hong Kong = Wrong Wrong Wrong!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'll say it right now - this film is quite mediocre.  A disappointment - not particularly bad, but not good at all.The problem with this film is entirely with direction.  This is not surprising, as this film is a concept movie, or rather a vehicle for Jet Li to break into Hollywood, rather than an exercise in story telling or cinematography.  And Jet Li deserves to break into Hollywood.  One thing that comes out of this film is that he can act as well as most US action stars, and his physical skills are undeniably excellent.Sadly, he has been short changed, because someone saw the Matrix and thought it was the last word in Martial Arts, and decided that real fight scenes just don't quite have what it takes for the US market. So Jet Li ends up a puppet on a string in all the major fight scenes.  He does things that one can't because of gravity.  Now, this was fine in the Matrix, as the plot had an explanation for the weird stuff.  But not in Romeo, and as a result it just looks dumb.  They may have done a fantastic job of hiding the wires, but it is obvious they are there.  Not good. Further more, the filming of the fights is dreadful.  Close-up when it should be a wide shot so you can't see who is hitting who.  Wide when the characters are staring each other out.  Sergio Leone worked hard to teach us all lessons about using close ups to create tension.  Romeo must die has a dearth of tension.  Because the fight scenes are so hard to view you NEED the contrived X-Ray shots to find out that someone has been injured! There are a couple of good fight scenes (particularly memorable the bit where a guy gets his trousers pulled down to reveal he is wearing ladies panties!  Worthy of a Jackie Chan fight!).  These are all the simple ones without any gravity defying SFX.The direction also lets down a relatively ok plot.  Too much time is spent lingering on Delroy Lindo and Aaliyah with their lower lips quivering.  This is an action flick.  I did not come to see Aaliyah playing with her rag doll.  (Actually, that WAS my favourite scene, as it was SO funny and out of place).  The gaps between action are too big.  What does let the plot down is a shortage of characters, and the involvement of minor ones in the storyline, as this removes any suspense as what is going to happen.The acting does not let the film down, which is interesting, and shows what a wasted opportunity this film is.Overall, I hope to see more of Li, but if this film shows the way forward, I will be looking to his past movies. "},{"Title":"Would someone please give Li a real script?","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, here's how it stacks up. +7 for some brilliant action scenes from Jet Li, but -2 for the overdone wired up fight-in-flight scenes. Only -1 for his acting flaws! +5 points for a masterful performance by Edoardo Ballerini as the corporate representative. -3 points for a painfully transparent plot. -1 point for the super cheesy x-ray effects (I could subtract more, but they were mercifully short). +2 for Alliyah being a better actor than expected, but -1 for the painful shots of her being good with kids. Almost nothing else was notable. All this adds up to... 6.Seriously Jet Li is the best there is in martial arts films, and it is a shame to see third rate scripts on a second rate budget when the right scripts and the right direction would really make outstanding films! "},{"Title":"S#@&, I am an idea!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  They should have just called this Plugs for DMX and Allyiah(or how ever you spell her name) cause this movie was nothing but a 2 hour long rap video.  Awful dialogue that pushed more stereotypes than a bad dolomite rip off. Horrid timing on the music, during scenes of heartbreak and sorrow they had a funk sinfeld pop bass track playing!   People smoking dope that looks like parsley (and saying lines like the one above in the one line summary). Terrible overacting. Terrible missing plot.  Half way through the movie I thought that every one didn't have names.  They never seemed to use them (or maybe I wasn't paying attention-which is really easy to do with this movie). And of course Jet li kicking everyones ass in sight! That was the only part of the movie worth watching, and even that got old real quick due to the fact that they would set up a fight scene just for the hell of it.  They came out of nowhere, for no reason. I sure hope Jet Li doesn't get roped into working with rappers again, he too good to waste on trash like this.  "},{"Title":"Shakespeares Romeo had the good sense to kill himself. . .","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As a movie fan I find myself wishing Romeo would have died. This movie (and I say that lightly) was horrible. I was very excited to see this movie when it first came out, and by the end I was glad that the viewing hadn't cost me anything but 2 hours of my life.The acting was stale. The actors and actresses walked through their lines as if they were in actual physical pain. Jet Li was the only actor in this movie who had a reasonable excuse, and that is because he does not speak very much English. His speaking parts were written accordingly.I have said this before and will die by it Musicians should NOT act. Aaliyah and DMX were absolutely horrible in this movie. DMX played his limited part with his wonderfully limited acting ability. The touching scene where Aaliyah cries on cue. . .Okay lets put it this way David Duchovny cries better. And we all know he's terrible at crying on screen.Now on to the real messy guts of this waste of two hours of your life. ..The story. I'm still trying to figure out what the story was about, and mind you it has tormented me for a solid 24 hours. I was nearly an hour in to this travesty and still couldn't figure out why Han (Jet Li) was in prison, or why the black guys were killing the Chinese guys and vice versa. At the end I thought I had figured out that it was all over a Football Stadium site, but I'm still not sure.I think that the creators of Romeo Must Die knew hey had a terrible movie and in some sort of meeting said Okay the story is awful, let's throw in some really cool effects of bones breaking to spice it up. A second semester animation student could have done those effects. Not to mention they gave the film a cheap feel.Take it from me. DON'T watch this movie. The martial arts sequences can't even save this movie. There is nothing good about this movie. You want to see a good American Made Jet Li movie. . .Watch The Black Mask or Lethal Weapon IV or just about any Jet Li movie made in China.Romeo Must Die is supremely bad film making. "},{"Title":"Poor fight scenes","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The main reason one might want to go to this type of movie is for the martial arts fight scenes.  However, the fight scenes in Romeo Must Die are woefully underwhelming.  The use of computer graphics to supposedly spice up the fights achieves the opposite of the desired effect.  After all, isn't the point to see actual martial experts show what they can actually do? Computer simulated martial arts can be had in a video game.  Watching some of the  scenes was like a watching a film of a 100m sprint in which the sprinters have been made faster through computer effects.  What a dumb idea. What a dumb movie.Further, the way the scenes were shot is stupid, too.  The director substitutes jerky, jittery camera work for the actual tensions and suspense of a fight.  The viewer is left having a hard time tracking the action and knowing that it's not that the action is hard to follow--the camera is.As to the rest  Characterizations are nil.  The writing is boring, the stunts are boring, the plot is boring, the romance is boring, the acting ranges from bad to boring.  Oddly enough, only Jet Li, who isn't primarily an actor, is able to leave a bit of an impression, mostly because he doesn't belabor his scenes.Try as hard as you can to miss this. "},{"Title":"Hyperactive hybrid","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Who would have guessed that Joel Silver would be the great culture-miscegenator of popular movies? In THE MATRIX he re-fiddled the action-movie template to bring it up to speed in the digital world; in ROMEO MUST DIE he blends genres and races with equal devil-may-care. A car crash of kung-fu movie and hiphop bloodbath, ROMEO had the almost entirely black audience I saw it with screaming with laughter at the sight of Jet Li beating the holy hell out of a roomful of black folk. Similar to Jarmusch's GHOST DOG but without the tortured liberal sentiment, ROMEO moves on a broad, echt-Shakespearean canvas; it spends more time being Epic and spanning the map of racially bisected and confused America than splashing blood. The cast is attractive as it is agile, Bartkowiak's work is surprisingly smart, and the script is...literate? This movie is an unexpected pleasure. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie bogged down by cheesiness.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A Chinese gangster is found murdered after being kicked out of a black night club. His family mourns, yet his brother snaps, breaking out of prison in Hong Kong, seeking revenge. Good story and plot with great fight sequences, however the acting is unintentionally funny. Everyone in the theater (including myself) seemed to laugh at the rough supporting cast. The fighting scenes are swift and smart with the final fight being the best (it includes the catch phrase, That ... was a mistake.). ROMEO MUST DIE is a good movie, but the supporting cast, intentional or not, seemed pretty bad. Are you die hard enough to fork out money to see a cliche action movie in the theater? "},{"Title":"Does not deliver. 2 out of 10.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Rap-meets-martial-arts? Other than sounding extra loud, I think the soundtrack of the Boiler Room did a better job in making that movie fluid compared to this one. Aaliyah delivers her part well enough, but her talent was used minimally. Too much was required of Jet Li, especially in the departments that do not rank as his strengths. The action scenes were few and far between, AND, MTV has already aired the best kicks in the movie! Story line and dialogue were by far the worst parts of the movie. It was choppy, lame and used racial stereotypes that the world could do without. Oh, and the part-nudity scene 5 minutes into the movie was totally unnecessary! A movie that should not have been made. "},{"Title":"Tedious; predictable; unworthy of the intelligent moviegoer.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I should have known better than to go and see this movie. It's a tale of betrayal and revenge so hackneyed and predictable there was laughter in the audience at each plot twist. I would have walked out except my wife kicked over someone's soda on the way in and we didn't want to do it twice.Apart from the utter lack of originality and perfectly formulaic plot, the movie fails as an action flick because the actual action sequences are spaced far between lengthy stretches of character development that is absolutely mind-numbing in its tedium. The supposed interest comes from the respective relationships between the protagonists (Han, son of Chinese gang leader and Trish, daughter of black gang leader) and their fathers. Neither have a mother (due no doubt to lazy screenwriting) which is a shame because the father characters are utterly bland and uninteresting. Even Delroy Lindo can't do much with his role as Isaak O'Day, the syndicate leader with a heart of gold and a desire to go straight - i.e., an overused stereotype. The interaction between fathers and children takes the form of about a dozen lines of stilted dialog per scene, multiplied by many, many scenes. I'm shuddering right now just reliving it. The horror.Some of my fellow reviewers have likened this move to the Matrix. Well, I thought the Matrix was a pretty poor film, but it is vastly superior to this unwatchable dog. The use of special effects is very damaging to this movie's impact - a fighting stunt is hardly impressive when it's in stark violation of the laws of physics (compare to, say, Jackie Chan fighting with an aluminum ladder in First Strike - genius, and all his own stunts).If you think Schwarzenegger is an acting genius, if you think a satisfactory ending to a movie is a fist-fight on top of a moving train or an exploding helicopter, if you are surprised when the shifty-eyed, dog-kicking henchman betrays his master, then this is the film for you. Otherwise, you'll have more fun at an ordinary trip to the dentist than you would shelling out eight bucks for this. "}{"Title":"Great action--too bad the plot keeps getting in the way","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is boring and by-the-numbers gangster stuff (and has only the slightest relation to Romeo & Juliet).  The performances are terrible especially Jet Li and the soundtrack is unbearable (I counted at least 40 uses of f*** and b**** in the first half hour!).  This film is ALMOST worth seeing for the action sequences.  They are truly incredible and very entertaining.  If only the director didn't keep falling back on MTV-style editing (the camera changing angles ever second or so).  When Jet Li is fighting, just train the camera on him and keep it still!  So, worth seeing for the action, but don't pay full price.  Also bring ear plugs for the soundtrack! "},{"Title":"not too good","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry, but this movie was not very good at all.  The fight scenes were few and far between, and when they did show up I was usually laughing at how ridiculous they were.  Jet Li has nothing on Jackie Chan--if you don't believe me, rent Drunken Master II.  Chan did it without wires or SFX, while all of Li's work involves floating around in the air on wires, which I just find silly.  Aaliyah and Li have no chemistry, the scenes are very very predictable, and Li's tough-guy lines fall flat.  A big disappointment.  "},{"Title":"Worth taking a peek.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Over-all, I liked the movie, I think it's worth watching and I'm glad I spent my money to see it.  The acting was quite good and there were some breath-taking scenes.  But...I must say this...if you are going to make a martial arts movie, make it at least LOOK realistic.  Some of the fighting scenes were perfect and quite beautiful, but there were other where I was shaking my head and thinking Yeah, I'm sure that's possible.  I have the utmost respect for Jet Li and Russell Wong, but c'mon, not even they could do some of the things they did in the movie.  If you like other Jet Li movies and martial arts movies in general, you're sure to like this one.  I did enjoy it though, the good scenes make up for the bad ones.I give it 8 out of 10.  Thanks for reading, -Cortex "},{"Title":"Bugs Bunny can do that too.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What we expect movie characters to be capable of has a lot to do with the type of movie it is and what kind of characters they are. If I'm watching Superman, I'm expecting to see a guy flying around doing amazing physical feats. In a movie like The Crow, there is no precedent set for what a person coming back from the dead would be capable of, so seeing Brandon Lee's character disappear into thin air and magically heal after being shot is acceptable.However, in a movie where the characters are mere mortals, regardless of their fighting ability, there are limits to what we can accept. Jet Lee is certainly a talented martial artist, but unless he has a big S on his chest or he's a ghost, I don't want to see him doing twenty flips while kicking everyone in the head or defying gravity while running up a wall. I wonder where he hid his cape.What if Mel Gibson suddenly sprouted wings and flew off the top of that building with the jumper in Lethal Weapon? Would have made the movie pretty stupid, huh? A little more reality in Romeo Must Die instead of all the wire tricks would have made it much better and a whole lot more believable.That turned an otherwise pretty good movie into a cartoon, and if I want to see a cartoon, I'll opt for the classic WB masterpieces where I can accept the amazing physical capabilities of a smart-ass rabbit and an obsessive coyote. "},{"Title":"Who needs it?","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Terrible acting, terrible story, terrible fx, terrible soundtrack (except some bass guitar licks), it's all simply terrible. This is probably the most stupid action flick I've seen in months. What a waste of time... geezMy rating overall 4/10 - if at all !NOT RECOMMENDED!  "},{"Title":"How do you say AWFUL in Chinese?","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Straight out, this is the worst action movie I ever saw. It revolves around two big gangs (asian and blacks) trying to take over the harbour of somewhere (I forget cuz I didn't really care). Now, the acting is horrible. Rappers cannot act, or fight, or even TALK! Rap music does not work well during an action sequence! If you like RAP, well, don't see this movie! Just buy the soundtrack. Jet li is a Jackie Chan wannabe. Jackie actually adds something to the movie, Jet Li just doesn't talk or act. He just fights.I must admit, I liked the fights due to one detail. The ULTRA PAIN CAM. The concept of the ULTRA PAIN CAM is that right before Jet is going to hurt someone really bad, everything gets X-RAYED and the camera zooms up to the bone which is about to break. WOW! So nice! No.. not really. The effects sucked, and the fights were exaggerated. Jet is kicking six guys at a time without touching the floor. The editing makes everything even worse. This movie should be banished to the land of earthworms or whatever Chinese Proverb you want to use. DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE! Or else you'll be kicking yourself for spending money on it. I give it a 2 on 10 why a 2? Cuz you see a nipple in the beginning. That kept me interested very little.  "},{"Title":"One word  Sucked","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say, this movie sucks.  Horrible plot, pathetic acting, boring, boring, boring for a movie advertised as an action movie.  The fight scenes where so heavily laden with special effects that they looked comical, not smooth and easy flowing with the movie as The Matrix.  All in all a very forgettable action movie. "},{"Title":"S l o w  action movie","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li has proven his flexibility with playing the bad guy (Lethal Weapon 4)and nice guy (Black Mask) and he hasn't done too bad. Usually, you know who you are when you go see this martial artist in an action movie, but there really is no excuse for this so-so movie.              There was much less action then usual. What action there is is good, you get to see the clever but unoriginal moves that include an X-ray of what happens to the bad guys. But it is hampered by the boring dialogue and seemingly forced love story line that never goes anywhere! I found myself looking at the watch at some of the scenes where yap yap was happening, because it was getting too predictable. Delroy Lindo, who plays the part of the American mob boss, steals every scene that he's in, but he can't save this movie. And though Jet Li is good, he can not compare to the antics of Jacki Chan, and because of the some of the fake speed motion tricks of the camera in some of the scenes, you'll never be able to compare him to Bruce Lee(where SFX was never used)            Wait to rent the DVD and then just skip to the action scenes. Or, if you want more of Jet Li in better form, rent out Black Mask, or about a dozen of his other movies if you could find them. "},{"Title":"Warning--Warning--Warning","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  (You should view this message as if it were in, all Caps.  Believe me I'm shouting!!)  Do not see this film.  It is not worth the 18 minutes of so called action, for the one hour and 32 minutes of story.  Save your money and re-rent the Matrix. "},{"Title":"Romeo Must Die... but Li gets off with a warning, if he promises to never ever make another movie again","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Oh, where to start on this pitiful mess of an attempt at a martial arts action-flick? Jet Li is expressionless and lacks charisma for the entire duration of the film. The plot is decent, but most of it seems to be written around which martial arts scenes the director(who doesn't seem to have actually done anything worthwhile movie-wise, what a shock) wanted in the film. The pacing is downright bad. The acting ranges, but for the most part, it's bad. The casting... to be brief; Anthony Anderson has a fight scene. That's all you need to know to judge how bad it is. The caricatures, oh, sorry, characters are all stereotypes and clichés. Do we seriously need more films with African-Americans acting out the black-gangster stereotype? I think not. The action is incredibly poor. The gun/shooting scenes are either over- or underdone, with completely unrealistic weapon physics and specs, not to mention that the guns look like what they are; props. Honestly, they look like plastic. Nothing is done to hide this. The martial arts scenes are about as bad as they usually are in Jet Li films; the wire-work is daft and obvious, the choreography is overdone(making it perfectly clear that something of that very nature could never be done in real life) and the intensity is just not there. There's a scene in which Li has to fight a woman, but it goes against his principles to hit a girl... so he uses another character to hit her. Ridiculous beyond belief. From what I've seen of him in movies, I'm starting to doubt if Li can actually fight without the aid of wires. The film has no memorable moments and the same amount of quotable lines. All in all, there's just really not anything in this movie that makes it worth watching. I recommend it only to fans of Jet Li. No one else should bother. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Racist Stereotypes which Shouldn't be Tolerated","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Others have remarked on the bad acting, vacuous story and sterile action scenes.Maybe its my age, but this was worse than a waste, this was a truly offensive film. Demeaning racial stereotypes have never been so seriously presented in recent film (that is not as satire or camp, nor as necessary part of a true story). I left with a really bad taste in my mouth.This was the opening weekend and about 3/4 of the audience was African-American. I felt really bad for them, and somewhat wonder where is the outrage?Stay away. This film is not just bad, it's vile. "},{"Title":"Aaliyah at her best","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The good of this movie was when Aaliyah was on the scene. The rest was rather senseless violence about gangs trying to out do each other. Jet Li was okay, but I don't think he's a good actor although he 's a very prolific one starring in over 60 movies. Although this was her acting debut, I think Aaliyah brought the goods to the table. She was just great as Trish. The play between Trish and Han (Jet Li) as an accidental cab driver was priceless, and the way they contrasted each other on screen with younger Trish actually in somewhat of a protective role to Han really added interesting plot twist to the story. Executive producer Joel Silver had lots of original ideas about movie making, and this one I would say is one of them. I don't go too much for the violence, but the movie was entertaining and original. "},{"Title":"Romeo Must Die","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I can't really see the Romeo and Juliet concept that much in this martial arts action film, but then again, I can't see enough action in it either. Basically ex-cop Han Sing - the supposed Romeo (Jet Li, in his first lead American film role) has escaped prison in Hong Kong and travelled to America to avenge the death of his little brother. In his search for those responsible, he meets Trish O'Day - the supposed Juliet (singer Aaliyah), who not only wants to help him in his quest, but is also the daughter of the mob boss most likely responsible. No-one approves of their love, including dim-witted henchman Maurice (Anthony Anderson) and cop Isaak O'Day (Delroy Lindo), so expect one or two fight sequences. Also starring Isaiah Washington as Mac, Russell Wong as Kai, rapper DMX as Silk, Henry O as Ch'u Sing and D.B. Woodside as Colin. Iy has a pretty silly attempt at a romance story, and it is really slow paced, but the martial arts sequences and Anderson's comic relief are I suppose enough to keep you interested. Okay! "},{"Title":"Bad as a kung fu movie, bad as a crime movie, bad as a whatever more movie.","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After The Matrix there were a lot of movies who suddenly ignored the fact that there is actually a thing such as gravity. Romeo Must Die was one of the first mainstream movies to feature this, after The Matrix. To me it gives the movie more of a fake look rather than a spectacular one though.It's definitely a movie made for the MTV-generation. It's a noisy, fast movie with different songs like every 1 minute, that often don't even blend in with what's happening on the screen. It's like they had a quota of a certain amount of songs they had to put in the movie. Most of the songs are already sounding outdated by now, so just imaging how this movie would be like to watch in 10 years from now.Seems to me that all this Aaliyah gushing comes from the fact that she died in a plane crash one year after this movie. But lets be fair and objective for one moment, she just wasn't a very great actress. It's of course always a horrible thing when a person dies so young and under such horrible circumstances but it ain't exactly like James Dean has died here or anything like that. This movie was her acting debut and it was the only movie that got released during her lifetime.Let's not even get started on Jet Li...I already knew he just isn't a great actor and the only thing that gets him movie roles are of course his fighting skills, which certainly aren't lacking as much as his acting abilities.I'm getting kind of fed up with this great black actors appearing in these sort of productions, just because it's a 'black' production and they are helping their brothers out. I mean come on Delroy Lindo can get and certainly also deserves better roles in better movies than this. He's potentially an Oscar winner but he obviously won't ever win one if he decided to go on and play roles in movies such as this one. Same thing to a lesser extend somewhat also goes for Isaiah Washington.None of the characters really work out because of the messy storytelling, in which a main plot only gets vaguely visible not until halve way through. Lots of characters seem to be redundant and the movie seems to have a hard time keeping its main focus on one thing and one main character. But oh well when you have an actor such as Jet Li playing the main role, you of course also can't really trust on it to let him carry the entire movie on his own.But also just the story on its own is hardly anything interesting and seems to be very typical for an action movie such as this one. Perhaps its also due to the fact that Andrzej Bartkowiak was still an inexperienced director that the movie did not worked out so well, especially story-wise. This was actually the first movie he did as a director. Bartkowiak mostly got his fame for working as a director of photography on mostly well known action movies such as Speed, Lethal Weapon 4 and other fine movies such as The Devil's Advocate, Terms of Endearment and Species. Seems like the Polish born Bartkowiak has completely retired from camera-work now to completely focus on his directing career. With movies such as Exit Wounds, Cradle 2 the Grave, Doom and this one behind his name he hasn't had much success with it yet though.I was also expecting some more action from this movie, also not in the least since it had Jet Li in the main role. But because the movie has a hard time keeping its focus and let things evolve around the Jet Li character, he actually gets far too little to do action wise. I was just expecting some more good fight sequences from the movie, although the movie of course obviously still features action moments like this. The movie was just not like I was expecting it to be and it also had actually very little romance in it. I was sort of expecting more of a modern Romeo and Juliet type of story (like the movie its title also would suggest) but instead the movie is more about some rivaling gangs and the NFL...do I need to say more?Bad story flow, bad character handling, disappointing action and below par acting performances from most of the cast. Just an overall bad movie!4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not Much Shakespeare Here","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Romeo Must Die suffers from two basic problems. One, it doesn't have a good story to tell. The riff on Romeo and Juliet, updated so that the feud is between Chinese and African-American crime families, sounds promising. But in reality, the only resemblance of this movie to the Shakespeare play is the name.  Problem two is that there is no chemistry between Aaliyah and Jet Li. As the star-crossed lovers, you'd expect there to be plenty of sizzle, but here, nothing. The action is ok, but doesn't help move the plot along, as little of a plot as there is.  All of this makes for a very average movie. Rent a Jackie Chan flick instead. "},{"Title":"A great disappointment","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie a few weeks ago and was strangely reminded of a german marionette TV-Show I watched frequently in my childhood. Although the strings of the puppets were clearly visible, you began to ignore them because the puppeteers did such a good job on creating and performing that the strings didn't really matter. With Romeo must die it is vice versa Though Hollywood technicians did their best to remove the strings virtually from Jet Li's body, they become all too visible by the way he moves in the air. These might be also true for some of his Hong-Kong movies, but they were so fast-paced and entertaining that you didn't bother at all. But Romeo must die can't provide these qualities, and although the producers added three computer-generated x-ray images (of which the first one looks plausible and the third unbelievable and laughable) it doesn't save this altogether uneven and boring film. Save your money and stick to Jet Li's Hong-Kong features.     "},{"Title":"A Shakespearian themed-Rap music video with poor CGI effects and a wasted Jet Li.","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Let me just say that this film is silly to begin with. Everyone likes this film just for the music, acting, martial-arts, and brutal violence. This is no Rumble in the Bronx, far from it actually. While that movie also wasn't that great, it was at least fun ( for a Jackie Chan outing at least), but this movie is lacking fun. It would be unfair to compare a Jackie Chan film to a Jet Li one because they're both different types of actioners, but this film is lacking the common Jet Li denominator. Whenever he performs a stunt, it's never believable because the wire-work is too obvious this time around and they use computers so nobody actually sheds any blood or gets whacked, thus you don't believe that they're actually fighting. Former cinematographer Andrez Bartoziak is awful at his debut job and ended up doing worse films for Silver Pictures/Warner Brothers.All of the characters are pretty unlikeable, they live in a run-down area, constantly blurting out curse words and all having a criminal background. The movie has a mixed-up message and gets pretty dull for half an hour, then gets even dumber as it gets about to the two-hour curve. Anthony Anderson is pretty unfunny and would later star in three of Bartoziak's other crappy films. Delroy Lindo ( BROKEN ARROW, RANSOM) is wasted here and would later co-star with Jet Li in The One. Aaliyah does nothing, but looks hot here and would later die in a plane crash after she was just close to finishing a bad movie called QUEEN OF THE DAMNED.See this mainly if you are a Jet Li fan who needs to see all his movie and decide whether it's quality or not. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of 2000","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this movie for the first time, I found myself wishing I hadn't read Romeo and Juliet in school, so at least then I would only have 999,999 bad things to say about it. This movie was the very definition of a movie I hate. The plot, riding on the assumption that copying Shakespeare will always be in good taste, not only made me extremely disappointed, but drove me to the point where I just didn't care any more. The only reason I didn't leave was because everyone in the theater felt the same way I did, and allowed me to heckle.I don't even know why I went to see it. Maybe because I had a hope that Jet Li would save this disaster. But just at the point that I thought things would get really good, those complete IDIOTS down in special effects thought, Hey! Let's use CGI to allow him to do such incredibly pathetic stunts, that you wouldn't even catch Capcom trying to make them look believable! Not only are these scenes completely pitiful with their utter lack of regard for the laws of physics, but the computer enhanced scenes look like the work of a junior high school computer student.Now, some people might say that these scenes are worth seeing just because they are so bad.I won't even give the director that.Granted, I probably should have seen it coming, with that WONDERFUL trailer featuring Jet Li soaring 20 feet in the air attempting to flip kick an opponent (which, unless you are the resident of a universe in which physics is completely backwards, you would immediately notice is completely impossible)I would actually be fine with these fight scenes if this was all the movie consisted of. The fact that the director attempted to combine these scenes with a love story, made me feel like I was in a car with a driver who wanted to go really really slow in an 80 zone. Once I started to get into the action, there was an immediate change to the (romantic?) slow part of the plot. I cannot stand it when a director attempts to make a really stupid movie, serious.Out of a possible 10, I give this movie a 1. The only reason my rating is even on the scale is because of the X-ray action shots. This movie is, by far, the worst movie of 2000. "},{"Title":"1 out of 10","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't have much to say besides don't go wasting your money on the worst movie I have seen in 2 years! Save it for a CD of Aliyah's song - which might be the only ray of light in a dark chapter of Hollywood movie production. People got me with ... the director of Matrix.... Clear 1 out of 10. Just stupid!!! "},{"Title":"Romeo Should Have Died...","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  DISAPPOINTING, completely.  This movie is so wrongly billed as an `action' movie it makes me sick.  I've just been introduced to Jet Li recently and was excited to see the trailers for this movie.  WOW &#150; what a bunch of nonsense.  This movie had more monologs in it then a Spielberg flick.  What a waste of film, and to think we get about 3 fight sense with Jet Li -  and the only real good one is at the end, the rest is all wasted on trying to make Jet the next Jackie Chan.  What a marketing scam&#133; Hollywood never fails to make a bunch of promises it can't keep, and this poor excuse of an action movie is a great example.  Jet Li will be a huge star, but nobody will ever talk about this movie again, at least I hope not.  "}{"Title":"My thoughts","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"24 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I must say right off the bat that I was very disappointed with this movie. Jet Li is one of the most amazing fighters to ever hit the silver screen, with credentials (in martial arts, not acting) that rival the late great Bruce Lee and easily surpass Jackie Chan.  He can do things with his body that I can't even do in my dreams.Having said that, I sat through this movie wondering to myself, Why did they feel the need to CGI enhance these fight scenes?  He can do amazing things by himself!  By inexplicably making him jump 30 feet in the air while kicking in 9 directions at once, they serve only to discredit his true athletic ability.  And not only did they meddle with his fighting talent, but they did it so poorly.  The tampered scenes are very obvious, with more visible seams than a tailor shop.  Granted, the x-ray effects were a welcome change, but that was about all this movie had to offer in terms of fresh ideas.The plot is drawn out at great lengths, with fight scenes a little too few and far between for my tastes.  Also, I felt the black gangsters were over-developed, while the asian gangsters were under-developed (Russell Wong's character is barely on the screen for 10 minutes of the movie, while Isiah Washington's incessant melodrama drowns out a good portion of the flick).I think most of the problem comes from the over-ambitious screenplay.  The premise is a good one  asian mafia versus black gangsters.  However, there are two roads this premise could have taken.  Either A) they could have turned it into a hardcore action pic about gang violence, with lots of guns, fighting, double crossing, etc., or B) they could have made a romantic tragedy focusing on the struggles between the two lovers because of their opposite backgrounds.  This movie strives desperately to do both, but the end result is that neither aspect is fully explored, leaving a mediocre-at-best storyline for the cast to work with.So, on a scale of 1 to 10, I'd have to give this movie about a 4.  It had a lot of promise, and I was hoping to see Jet Li showcased to his full potential, but it appears that his ship has yet to come.   "},{"Title":"More like Romeo must fly!","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet li should play peter pan if they made the movie. So what if he's oriental? straighten up his eyes and he'll be all set. Had anyone ever seen anybody break the laws of gravity as much as jet li did in this movie? Am i the only person who realizes that it's physically impossible to kick 5 guys in the air without falling down? Is he the rocketeer? No i don't think so, i didn't see the engine on his back. Is he peter pan? No, i don't think so, i didn't see tinkerbell give him the magic dust. Is he superman? No, i didn't see the big S in his shirt. so who could he be?Oh well of course, how stupid of me, he must be trinity from the matrix. that makeover and plastic surgery were done pretty well. But wait a minute, even if he were trinity, he'd have to actually BE in the matrix to do all the areal bull***t he does in this movie. So that means he's got to be somebody else. well i guess it will remain a mystery.And that's not the only reason this movie sucks. Let's not forget the lame boring plot and the terrible script, the dumb happy ending and the bad acting. And what about the fact that the bad guys will rather have a fistfight with jet li instead of using their guns and blowing his head off. the filmmakers tried to keep guns from being fired in almost every scene so we could see jet li dancing the macarena in the air.And still they didn't even give us the satisfaction after all they put us through, to see Aaliya naked. i was so bored during the movie that after while that's all i could think of.i could go on forever about why this movie sucks but i'm gonna stop right there. i hope jet li reads the script of his next movie before he signs. ! "},{"Title":"Bad actors, bad director-what a combo!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li is an amazing fighter.  And, as long as he doesn't open his mouth, he has a charismatic screen presence.  But Whew!  What a stinker!  Isaiah Washington has done MUCH better work than his one-note ridiculously cliche character here.  And Delroy Lindo, who I always enjoy, was wasted in this dreck.  I won't even mention Jet, and Aliyah, double yikes!  With all due respect, I know she is no longer with us, but this is just another H'wood indulgence of a popular singer who thinks she can act.  What a horrible actress she was.  (Sorry).   But somebody had to direct those awful scenes, and somebody had to cut it, and OK those awful scenes.  However many times has the R&J story been told, I don't recall when it's been given worse treatment than here. "},{"Title":"The most action packed film I have ever seen before!","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is absolutely awesome due to its fast action, heart thomping, natural kung fu stunts, agility of the main characters, and everything you would want to see from an action packed film.  Jet Li puts on the most amazing kung fu fights in this movie that would put you on the edge of your seat.  I've seen many many kung fu movies, but not as good as this one. This movie is very authentic and has the best fighting scenes than any other kung fu movies that I have seen in the past.  This movie deserves an A+, and a definite recommendation to the general audience. "}]