[{"Title":"A truly rewarding movie for the patient viewer.","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"69 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Low-key thriller/drama about an ex-con seeking revenge on the man that caused his daughters death. That's the surface of this very interesting and fascinating movie from director Soederbergh. There's more than meets the eye, and the patient viewer will be highly rewarded.This is, in my point of view, a film about all our efforts to review our own lives - i.e. trying to make memories of our past fit in with the reality of today. To try to understand all sides of an event between two people; how actions we take, and decisions we make, makes a difference in the long run in our lives.Wonderfully directed and edited, this movie is really alive, and shines with various tricks and treats of pure movie magic. The score is perfect, and the acting is great (Stamp in the lead is amazing). The way the film makers intertwine dialogue and voice over is fascinating, and reminds me of the films by French movie makers in the sixties (the French New Wave).Obviously not in everyone's taste since this movie is quite demanding in attention and pace, this is still one of the best films ever from director Soederbergh. Rating 9/10. "},{"Title":"Artistic and simple","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"58 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The `revenge story' is a pretty overdone plot device, so when a film comes along that employs this theme and still remains fresh and compelling, it is safe to say that is a truly good film.  Steven Soderbergh's `The Limey' is able to do just that.  In `The Limey', Terrence Stamp plays Wilson, a career criminal who, upon being released from prison in England, finds out that his estranged daughter has died (or perhaps been murdered) in Los Angeles.  Wilson's mission is to find out what happened to her, and prescribe his own brand of justice on the man behind her death.  Soderbergh's direction in `The Limey' is superb.  While I enjoy and admire most of his filmography, I was so enamored with his second film, the barely-seen, highly acclaimed `Kafka' for its originality, its daring style and intellectual feel, that films like `Oceans Eleven' and `Erin Brockovich', while quite good, didn't reflect what I felt was to be his true maverick style.  Seeing `The Limey', made before `Erin Brockovich' and shortly a couple of years after `Kafka', I was happy to see that he kind of held on to that spirit (for lack of a better expression) for one more film before producing more commercial fare.  `The Limey' is told in a very non-linear style, and not even as clearly delineated as say, `Pulp Fiction' was; rather it is flashbacks and real-time events expressed by fluttering scenes and an almost wispy presentation.  Soderbergh also employs scenes from one of Terrence Stamp's films from the 1960's for some flashbacks, a thoroughly brilliant and creative tactic.  Terrence Stamp certainly deserves mention for his performance as Wilson.  Whether seeing him as General Zod in `Superman II' or as the drag queen Bernadette in `The Adventures of Priscilla Queen of the Desert' he is a true badass.  Watching him chase after Peter Fonda in `The Limey' was like watching a reincarnation of Yul Brunner in `Westworld'; he just never let up.  Anyone who would get in his way were pretty much toast, but it was all so coldly done that it was almost clinical &#150; just by the hard and distant expression on Wilson's face you know that all of these people were incidental and he wouldn't receive any pleasure until he comes face to face with his nemesis; and even then, it's possibly more of a duty than a pleasure.Check out this film &#150; you won't regret it.  However, if you're expecting a film with the same kind of commercial tone as say, `Oceans Eleven' you may be in for a surprise, albeit, in this viewer's opinion, a pleasant one.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"Russian Montage gets an upgrade","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"50 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I always thought the Russian Montage  Theory was too outdated for modern  cinema, but Steven Soderbergh had  other ideas. The Limey had one of the  more interesting editing styles I have  ever seen, which is why it probably threw  so many people in a loop. Its too bad  we will never see another film like this  from Soderbergh, considering he's  probably going to keep making films  like Oceans 11. Terence Stamp was  especially good in this film, and Luis  Guzman provided one of the best screen  roles by a Mexican-American. What I  especially enjoyed about this movie wasn't  just the unique editing style, it was how  it affected the emotional standpoint  within the movie. You felt distanced,  unsure how to look at this film due to  the range of images passing before  your eye. One of the more unappreciated  films of 1999, especially when one looks  at the amazing body of work which came  out that year. "},{"Title":"Love in unexpected places","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Somewhere between Out of Sight and the hype of the Erin Brockovich/Traffic double-punch, Soderbergh made this diamond of a film.  Terence Stamp is the gem at the centre of it, his beautiful face, always a cinematic treasure, a virtual masterclass in film acting.  How this performance went ignored is beyond me but maybe that punishment is fitting for the career criminal he plays.He is Wilson who after finishing a nine-year sentence at her Majesty's leisure goes to L.A. to discover how his daugher, Jenny, met her end while he was in the big house and to avenge her death.  Peter Fonda plays her former lover, a wicked, soulless record producer who was big in the sixties and both actors trade on the ghosts of their cinematic pasts to striking effect; particularly Stamp, as footage from his 1967 film, Poor Cow (directed by Ken Loach), is repurposed and edited into the film's ever-shifting timescape.  (It is a credit to Soderbergh that he would dare to use another filmmaker's footage and make it so central to his own, even using Loach's footage for his closing  shots.  In Soderbergh's hands it shows that he is first and foremost a storyteller instead of a shallow egotist and it plays like a grand, cinematic homage to his star.)Soderbergh shuffles time and Wilson's life like a deck of cards yet always keeps the story moving forward--the editing by Sarah Flak is a marvel. It's a lovely, startling effect; rather than weigh the narrative down with a number of plodding, onerous details, this style keeps the thing as light as a souffle yet full of implications as we imagine the ways and necessities of Wilson telling and retelling, hashing over his life, representing and misrepresenting his actions or inaction.  These are the lies he tells himself, the truth he can live with.  It's completely engaging and frees the viewer to imagine the surrounding details and circumstances however they like.  He certainly couldn't have done it with anyone but Stamp, who is solid throughout; his stillness and his beautiful blue, crystalline eyes like placid pools of water that mask a depth of feeling and a lifetime of regret.  That we empathise with an ignoble savage like Wilson at all is purely down to Stamp's controlled, unsentimental performance.  Stamp's Wilson doesn't make apologies.  Terence Stamp is iconic precisely because of the films he chose to make, particularly after Schlesinger's Far From The Madding Crowd when he could've done anything but went to work with Loach, Pasolini and Fellini instead.  Like his co-star Fonda, who also spent many years in the wilderness, Stamp's performance in The Limey stands as a long-promised return to form, which he'd been hinting at for years.There's great support from Luis Guzman, Lesley Ann Warren (as an L.A. acting coach, who suggests in her few short scenes with Stamp a potentially epic romance), Barry Newman as Fonda's henchman and the startlingly fresh Amelia Henle who shows that, yes, there is an art to playing the girlfriend. (Joe Dallesandro is in there somewhere as well in some capacity but is completely unrecognisable.)  If the slight bit in the middle lacks the polish of the beginning and the end (it appears a large subplot about two hitmen must've been jettisoned in the editing room), the dialogue still crackles throughout, with Stamp--as a one-man amalgam of London's east end--throwing off Cockney rhyming slang (China plates thus mates) and reminding us of what made London swing in the '60's.  Very stylish, Soderbergh's control of the emotional depth of the story is impressive, as is the acting--as always in his films.  Deserves a much wider audience.  "},{"Title":"Look, if you don't get this movie, just stick to the Hollywood fluff","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"48 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm sorry, but I'm really not going a comment on this film so much as comment on some of the other comments I've seen here. People complaining that they couldn't follow the narration or don't understand why the main character doesn't enact his revenge, I really don't know much what to say other than for you it's probably best to just stick with the Hollywood fluff pics where the male star lead always makes it in the end with the female star lead and there's plenty of explosions and bright flashy images to keep you distracted from the fact there's no plot, no decent dialog, no character growth, and no appreciation of film making as art. If your point of reference is recalling the fantastic ground breaking story telling tools of True Lies, well, you're hopeless.This was an incredible piece dealing not with revenge or action or any of the surface issues used to tell the story, but actually about a man realizing how his decisions in life impacted his daughter. It's about personal growth. In the end, he, himself, is ultimately the one he's seeking revenge against. There is a good speech he gives about mid way through the movie while talking to the DEA agent that clearly explains why he doesn't kill the Fonda character. You have to know what matters and when. When he comes to the end and realizes where and when he stands, ready to kill, it's very clear it's no longer the issue he needs to deal with, so he moves on.And one more thing about the way this story is told with the flash forwarding technique, sometimes you just have to sit back and watch a film. Not spend most of the movie being confused and dissatisfied over what you can't pin down and put into linear sense before you've seen the whole thing, but just sit back and let the director and writer do their thing and take it in. When they're done with their work, it will be clear (unless you spend 90 minutes furrowing your brow and resisting of course...).I mean, Pulp Fiction is an incredible movie, but did you spend the whole thing confused and upset over what Pumkin and Honey Bunny were doing in the opening scene or how it would fit into the film to the point of not understanding the rest of it? No, you just take the scene in and move on to the next one, and when you reach the end, it makes sense. "},{"Title":"Excellent revenge movie with one minor problem...","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Soderbergh is a really odd director. His movies have run the gamut from the wacky, self indulgent surrealism of 'Schizopolis' to the pandering, sell-out mediocrity of 'Ellen Brockovich'. He's really hard to get a handle on. 'Out Of Sight' was stylish with an outstanding cast but left me cold. 'Traffic' featured a handful of great performances, most notably Benicio Del Toro's, but was overall simplistic, unconvincing and cliched. For my money his strongest achievements to date have been  his overlooked noir-ish 'Underneath', and this, his involving revenge drama 'The Limey'.Terrence Stamp, a fine actor who has appeared in more than his fair share of bad movies, really takes this role and runs with it. He radiates dignity and power as Wilson, the English career criminal out to avenge the death of his estranged daughter. My only problem with his performance, and the movie as a whole, is his Cockney accent, which borders on caricature. If you can get over that hurdle you'll be impressed by the depth of his performance.Peter Fonda, who has never impressed me much as an actor in the past (not even his much lauded role in the overrated 'Ulee's Gold'), is also fine as the sleazy record producer who Wilson suspects of wrongdoing. Stamp and Fonda obviously relish playing these characters, and their chemistry together is the cornerstone of the movie. Both actors are supported by an impressive array of old and new faces - including a surprisingly effective Lesley Anne Warren (her best since 'Cop'), the always watchable Luis Guzman ('Boogie Nights', 'Carlito's Way', etc.), blasts from the pasts Barry Newman (cult classic 'Vanishing Point') and Joe Dallessandro (former Warhol superstar), and future star in the making Nicky Katt ('Strange Days', 'SubUrbia').Soderbergh cleverly uses footage from Ken Loach's kitchen sink drama 'Poor Cow' for flashbacks, and plays upon Stamp and Fonda's 60s screen personas, but the film is no exercise in mere nostalgia. 'The Limey' is a rarity in Hollywood these days - an intelligent, thoughtful, well crafted and acted adult movie. I liked it a lot.  "},{"Title":"Decent Low-Key Revenge Story","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" For modern-day revenge movie, this is unusually low-key and pretty good. It's nothing super but it sneaks up on you. It might bore you, but it might not. It's really hard to say.If you enjoy a character study by an interesting actor (Terrence Stamp) you might like this. But, beware, it has its slow moments. What it is, is simply another revenge tale, so often told but so often fun to watch. This one is about a British criminal (Stamp) getting out of jail, finding out that something bad had happened to his daughter in Los Angeles, and going for the man (Peter Fonda) he feels is responsible for that.There is a bit too much flashback in here, so you have to be prepared to put up with that. Of note, the filmmakers used actual film footage from a 1967 film of Stamp to show him in his younger days.What I did really enjoy was Stamp's vocabulary and the interesting looks on his face. The supporting cast also adds nicely to this story, particularly Barry Newman, who plays Fonda's bodyguard. There isn't a lot of action in here but when it does occur, it's pretty intense. "},{"Title":"Proustian Out and Back","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Soderbergh deserves respect, as much for his failures (`Brokovich,' `Traffic') as his successes (this, `Sight,' `Videotape'). When he experiments, it is with simultaneous layers of different kinds involving the eye, the mind, time, remembrance.Here he works on small, intimate layers, small visions of the future (and possible futures), persistent large memories from the past. All is handed with a shifting perspective -- the camera is nowhere because it is everywhere -- you are not eavesdropping, the limelight is on you. Unless you insist on driving, this editing is mind-expanding -- literally -- because he places you all around simultaneously.This is such a controlled little film, one wonders why Soderbergh is so irregular. I believe it is because he crafts his vision to the peculiar conditions of the narrative. He knows to replicate the last victory would be impossible (listen up Coppola!) so why try? Move on. He deserves as much respect, I believe, for the failures as well as solid gems like this. "},{"Title":"The Movie Traffic and Out of Sight Were Supposed to Be","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Like its title and leading man (Terrance Stamp), The Limey surprises by what it is NOT.  Stamp plays an aging hood, a Limey, who has spent much of his life in prison.  At first glance, Stamp appears a loser, who is now throwing what remains of his life away on a questionable vendetta against an aging rock producer (Peter Fonda) who may or may not be responsible for the death of Stamp's daughter.  However, director Steven Soderbergh (Traffic, Out of Sight, Erin Brockavich),skillfully intercuts scenes of past, present and future, nonsync dialogue, music, peripheral action and plotting to create an efficient, consistently surprising and highly effective movie. Just as the film is about to become routine and predictable, new key characters and plot information is revealed.  To Soderbergh's credit, this never seems forced or contrived.  Alas, Soderbergh's style tends to undercut the effectiveness of Leslie's Warren's role, and the climactic shoot out is disappointingly pat.  Nevertheless,the payoff is terrific.  Special note should be made of the performances of Luis Guizman, Barry Newman and, especially, Nicky Katt (Boston Public).Don't let the title fool you, The Limey is one terrific movie and Soderbergh, for once, deserves all the praise he can get. "},{"Title":"Limey Is Good And That Is No Lie","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is no lime! I mean lie! Director Steven Soderbergh's The Limey is one of the most beautifully photographed films I have ever seen. The film stars Terence Stamp who once again readily delivers a terrific performance. The film is about an aging ex-con who tries to avenge the killers who murdered his daughter. Oh blimey! I mean limey! I almost forgot! Peter Fonda executes a very subtle but assenting performance as the mischievous paranoid record executive. However, it is Director's Steven Soderbergh direction that makes this film sweet as lime. Colors reflecting moods, overlapping dialogue intersecting between different scenes, and character thought-provoking facial gestures are all Soderbergh traits that are once again perfected to make every scene work. If you don't believe me, go watch The Limey and then you will now that I am not lying. **** Good  "}{"Title":"A Real gem","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love this flick! Always enjoy re-viewing it. All the little camera tricks and disjointed and anachronistic shots are what make this endeavor so interesting. Also a good story, intelligently layed out and beautifully shot...with a great score and many neat little surprises and gimmicks that ADD to the story-NOT distract! Excellent cast and very realistic dialogue. A real sleeper! I really like the ending where it goes back to the 60's with the lead character singing his neat little song...I guess that is the operative word for this flick---character!! Beautiful piece! "},{"Title":"Last addition to the 'Get Carter' canon, but done in such an intelligent and sophisticated way, that i loved every second of it!","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sodemberg in good form, while Mr. Stamp hams it up as your Stepney old china gangster giving a performance which is both deceptively simple and sophisticated with a hint of method thrown in for good measure. Peter Fonda, as the suave record producer Terry Valentine, is the perfect impersonation of a hippie growing old disgracefully and on Big Sur backdrop, reminds me of one of the Beach Boys (Brian Wilson possibly...who probably was a good mate of his in the good old days anyway) the 60s were just like a dream with its own language and locations which didn't really exist, and then you woke up... not just the 60s really, just 66 and a little bit of 67.. showing off to his new starlet girlfriend... There is a rather moving moment toward the end of the film which brings to the fore the essential human frailty, how underneath the mask of our 'adult' certainties there is often a confused little child... And finally, if you like thrillers like myself, this movie is that rare thing, an intelligent sophisticated one, which keeps you on the edge of your seat for a couple of hours, without feeling, like unfortunately happens with a lot of similar productions, that when the credits start to roll, you have been through 120 minutes of disposable entertainment... HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! "},{"Title":"Yet another positive review of The Limey...","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I just love this film. I won't give anything away about it -- apart from just one bit of informationI watched this film in the winter of 2001. It created an incredible mood. There was an ice storm going on outside, in Waltham, Massachusetts, where I was house-sitting for a friend. The video cassette upon I watched the film had been rented from the public library. I was so bored that I decided to throw the tape in. I was feeling, at first, as though I was in for a really boring movie.Wrongo.I thought that the Limey was going to be a chick flick, and if you've read any of the other reviews here, I was clearly wrong. I am unsure of why -- but I do know that everyone whom I've told about this film, who hasn't seen it, always wrinkle their noses when I say the name. The LIMEY? they always ask...and I say like, yeah...The Limey. And when they ask what is it about? I always say --You HAVE to watch it. Seriously. It is incredible.And I've actually had a couple of folks come back, and they say -- you know...you were right.So -- now you've been warned. So if you haven't seen it, then go and see it.Thanks!)- Sammy "},{"Title":"More Like a Lemon Limey","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a bore.  This movie is typical of the kind of indie garbage that is being shoved down our throats lately.  We're supposed to be impressed by the sort of indie hipness this film radiates, yet I found myself falling asleep and wondering why the movie was made in the first place.  The Limey substitutes attitude for substance, and the result is a movie which leaves the viewer not caring what happens to any of the characters.  A real disappointment. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films in recent years","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How to describe how bad this movie really is?  It has a few good suspense scenes, but it's all obviated by poor directing that carries the actors over the edge into the ridiculous in their characterizations, which emerge as stereotypes.  Weak plot about revenge and a faded hippy record producer (Fonda).  Soderberg should give up while he's got some people convinced he's a good director.  They might see this movie! "},{"Title":"Stylish Limey Is Not Your Run of the Mill Crime Thriller","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The very stylish and simple The Limey has me quite baffled.  After digesting this movie for a while, I am still not quite sure what to make of it and more importantly, what exactly is it about.  On the surface The Limey seems like a straightforward geriatric Deathwish with its theme of revenge.  Go deeper and it is more a character study of a man who has devoted his entire being to a life of crime and dealing with a culture that he is not entirely familiar with. Look sideways and it deals with hard core men who are over-the-hill attempting to hang on to their lost youth and vitality by being tough (even though their bodies can't quite cut it anymore), wearing expensive designer suits with tinted glasses and having very young beautiful women by their side.  Whatever the case may be director Steven Soderbergh, of the very sexy and stylish but much more superior Out of Sight with George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez, knows who to handle the crime drama/thriller with panache and style like no one else.Dave Wilson (the very good Terrence Stamp), a smart, intense criminal just released from prison heads to LA from London to look into the somewhat mysterious death of his daughter, who he barely knew.  He believes she died at the hands of her boyfriend, legendary and majorly rich record producer Terry Valentine (Peter Fonda) and will not stop until he tracks him down for answers.The plot here of avenging father seems pretty much lame and not that interesting or complicated at all, but maybe that is the point, not everything in life is extraordinary, in fact much of life is standard, simple and uneventful.  But the plot does not so much drive this movie as do the characters.  In a world of 16-year-old superstar models, actors and singers, it is totally refreshing to see a movie where the majority of characters are over 40, many over the sixty mark.  Even the hitmen of this movie are past their prime.  These criminal characters are not your typical stock characters of most crime films, some are regular Joes who happen to have chosen crime as their career aspirations and deal with the same problems as the typical 9 to 5 office worker.  As the one hitman hired by Valentine's head security Avery (Barry Newman) says, I embrace my lifestyle.While the acting is top notch, especially Stamp, Fonda and Newman, the real star of the film is director, Soderbergh and especially cinematographer Ed Lachman.  Soderbergh cuts so many different scenes back and forth with a flair that I have not experienced yet as with a character speaking in one scene and finishing the sentence in another.  His use of flashbacks of a young Terrence Stamp incorporating Stamp's 1967 film, Poor Cow, are not only genius but a great homage to the actor. Also when we first meet the Fonda character, the background music has lyrics that include easy rider is a curse.  Just great. He also seems to get amazing performances from his actors as he did with Clooney and Lopez in last years  Out of Sight. Fonda still riding high from 1997's  Ulee's Gold does well with the character of Valentine, showing a very vulnerable, insecure and weak man who hides behind wealth and power.  Stamp delivers an intense and powerful, yet totally focused, subtle and real performance that is very rare in this film genre. It is a memorable performance and character.  Cinematographer, Lachman, does an amazing job with shots that are standard fare, but gives them a different angel that make them stand out such as a scene where Wilson tosses one of Valentine's body guards over a balcony into the canyon below. Your typical cinematographer would have focused on this.  Instead Lachman has this scene in the far background while the main shot is of Valentine having a good time at his party feeling totally safe and relaxed in his multi-million dollar home.So the bottom-line, is The Limey a great film, I don't think so. Did I love it, not really.  Was I bored with it, no quite.  I guess it captured my interest in a different and quiet way that most films don't and for that I recommend it.  Also when was the last time you saw 70's semi-icons, Barry Newman (TV's 1974 Petrocelli), Leslie Ann Warren  and once hunky Andy Warhol mainstay, Joe Dallesandro.  Recommended.  "},{"Title":"I prefer staying at home me!","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey is directed by Steven Soderbergh and written by Lem Dobbs. It stars Terence Stamp, Lesley Ann Warren, Luis Guzman, Barry Newman, Peter Fonda and Nicky Katt. Music is by Cliff Martinez and cinematography by Edward Lachman.Wilson (Stamp), fresh out of prison, travels to Los Angeles to investigate the death of his estranged daughter Jenny (Melissa George). Aided by a couple of her friends, Wilson's trail leads to the last guy Jenny was dating, oily record producer Terry Valentine (Fonda), a guy with more than record producing on his CV.Steven Soderbergh picks up on a common film noir theme, that of a man seeking revenge for the death of a friend or loved one, and cloaks it in visual and aural artistry. The story as written is simple, undeniably so, yet the narrative structure spins it into a vortex of complexity and psychological disharmony.Alongside his editor, Sarah Flack, Soderbergh uses flash-backs and flash-forwards to unfurl the plot. Thus we often get a triplicate viewpoint of a scene, such as what will happen, what the antagonist wants to happen or what might happen! It's dizzying stuff but it serves the emotional thrum of the plot beautifully and draws the viewer firmly into Wilson's state of mind. This is the case with dialogue and sound as well, where a current scene will feature previous or future aural snatches. The director also splices in scenes from Wilson's memory banks to marry up the emotional discord, while also deftly using scenes from Stamp's performance in 1967 film Poor Cow (Ken Loach) to show the youthful Wilson from happier times.If this all sounds like style over substance? Then it is, but The Limey rises above this issue because elsewhere there's other great rewards. Notably Stamp's performance and the counter-point characterisation by Fonda. Stamp, in full cockney spouting mode is having a great time, he has Wilson as a feral man of vengeance, but with a knowing sense of parody, he also exudes a sorrowful guilt at his inadequacies as a father. Fonda has Valentine as a relic of the sixties, he's regressing and constantly looks back. It's a smooth performance from Fonda, weasel like but never over the top in villain terms, and the fact that Stamp and Fonda are mostly kept apart until the finale really helps the characterisations to thrive. Good support comes from Guzman and Warren, though Newman only just convinces as Valentine's enforcer.There's good humour to be found here, intentionally so, something that seems to have thrown some folk into thinking Stamp is going over the top. That isn't the case, though, Wilson is a veteran of prison and wry humour is merely one of his defence mechanisms. One of the great scenes in the film sees Wilson launch into a cockney monologue as a stony faced DEA Agent (Bill Duke looking hard as always) listens without understanding a thing he says! It's also worth pointing out that although the story is average, Lem Dobbs' screenplay does throw in a very good ending, a veer from the norm that closes the picture on a strong note. There's so much good about The Limey that it's a safe recommendation to neo-noir fans and fans of Stamp and Soderbergh. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"L.A.-Noir at its (cleverly disguised) best!","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Love this film I've recently (twice) viewed it and am looking forward to one more before returning it....The writing is near-flawless, the casting IS flawless!The cinematography is damn fine, and goes a long way toward setting and maintaining the tone/mood. Overall, I'd give it an 8.5, though can't yet put my finger on why it's not a ten. A bit too formulaic, and some scenes are washed out.Terence Stamp was great, and it was cool to see the 60's film clips.Luis Guzman was stellar.Leslie Ann Warren ( who I'm no fan of,) did good work here.Peter Fonda was spot-on as always. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was very disappointed with this film from the usually very good Soderbergh. The plot was poorly conceived, being a conjugation of 'Poor Cow' and 'Get Carter'. The narrative link with the Loach film is not explored and the director derives the plot almost entirely from 'Get Carter'. What is most annoying, apart from the tedious and dull story, is Terence Stamp's mockney accent. There is nothing more nauseating than inarticulate chic. Peter Fonda's performance was poor and generally the film had no characters of any interest or narrative to hold it together. I too left the cinema just before the end as it was just too much to sit through. Utter crap!! "},{"Title":"I had high hopes, but was really let down","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It had all the makings of a great Pulp Fictionesqe type of hip, crime, good guy criminal with a strong set of principles.   Unfortunately the writing really didn't hold up and the ending really didn't give you the feeling that they had thought it out very well.  "}{"Title":"Wonderfully evocative film","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An engagingly directed film, The Limey is Soderbergh's best since the legendary Sex, Lies, and Videotape.  Complete with a well thought out script and an iconic performance by forgotten British screen legend/cool guy Terence Stamp, there is nothing here to complain about.  Worth repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"Wants to be Tarantino, doesn't succeed","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'The Limey' is a confused, uncomfortable Tarantino-wannabe.  A combination of Tarantino's playing with the timeflow of the movie with scenes deliberately played in confusing orders, along with utterly pointless dialogue - but the problem is, the director and writer clearly don't understand why Tarantino's films work.  The end result is a thoroughly disappointing mish-mash which annoys and sends you to sleep with equal vigor.  Definitely miss this one, it isn't worth the effort to stay awake through! "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is pretty awful and doesn't make a great deal of sense. None of the characters were likeable and Terence Stamp actually came across to me as being fairly dim witted. What sort of sense can be made of a man who murders at least 10 people to get to the man who killed his daugher, only to let said man go once he finally catches up with him? Nonsense through and through. Stay far away... "},{"Title":"bella mafia","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It was hard for me to really grasp just how contrived and unoriginal this flick was!  It had absolutely NO ENERGY, the villains were third rate - my mother probably could have whipped some ass and come out an action star.   As I sit here with my cigarette,  just finished watching this god-awful flick, I dip into my cherrios and wonder why on earth would an English actor like Terence Stamp would sign off on movie like this?  The money?  The Limey was like an expanded teleplay from a television show - no particular period in mind.  Just bad in every way.  The heavy-handed direction left me feeling like a large foot just  squashed me from above.  If the director was large in other ways, he should seek out career opprotunities in other areas of show-biz.  Yeah, not worth the time or effort.  I want those two-hours of my life back, pronto. Cherrio. "},{"Title":"Not worth a butcher's","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In True Lies (1994) there's a scene in which Harry, the Arnold Schwarzenegger character, is sitting there seething as he listens to a used car dealer brag about an affair he's having with someone's wife - Harry's wife, as it happens.  Finally we see Harry snap.  In an act of controlled rage he flings his arm backwards and breaks the used car dealer's neck... then we cut back to the used car dealer bragging, and we realise that what we just saw was just Harry's fantasy - something that didn't really happen.  Call this technique the fantasy flash forward.  (Directors or film theorists may well have their own name for it; I wouldn't know.)  It's a neat idea, and I'm surprised I've never seen it used in a film older than True Lies - it's certainly been used many times since, although never to better effect.Steven Soderbergh uses a fantasy flash forward in The Limey, and it manages to be an outrageous cheat, and to fall flat, at the same time.  How does he pull off this remarkable double failure?  By loading his film, to and beyond breaking point, with REAL flash forwards.  (Some, arguably all, of the flash forwards are nested within flashbacks, or even within other flash forwards.)  It's bad enough Soderbergh editing his film out of order for no particular reason, but when he gives us reason to doubt the accuracy of his footage as well ... I mean, the events are mostly too trivial for it to be worth our while believing them, let alone doubting them.Kurosawa used to say that shooting footage didn't interest him - he only did it so that he'd have something to edit.  The impression this remark creates is false of Kurosawa, but true of Soderbergh; at least, it's true of the Soderbergh who made The Limey.  Watching Soderbergh in the editing suite must be like watching a child play with lego.  Some of the footage he plays with comes from a film made in the 1960s, but the wonder is that he bothered to shoot any new footage at all, given his reluctance to let a shot speak for itself.In short, it's tedious.  The illusion of life comes from what appear to be good performances (but how can one tell?), and the fact that it's a gangster film - make the central characters' actions illegal, and there's always a good chance the film will seem more meaningful than it is. "},{"Title":"An annoying egofest","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frankly, I'm amazed at how many people evidently found this a great movie. Little more than an egofest for Stamp and Fonda, this film is pretentiously filmed and very poorly acted, with a paper-thin plot and precious little to hold the attention.  Stamp is dreadful, rendering an angsty performance of little credulity.  The stylish direction becomes irritating and vaccuous given the sparsity of the plot and the poor acting.  The movie goes nowhere, either - if you make it through to the ending, there's nothing to reward you.  Ultimately, this movie serves almost exclusively as a vehicle for Fonda and most particularly for Stamp - the rather irrelevantly interspersed footage of him as a young man does nothing except remind us both of how good looking he used to be (the film's objective) and of how daft he seems now (not the film's objective).Don't be fooled - stylish direction and pretentious nonsense does not make this a good movie.  Avoid. "},{"Title":"Tell me. Tell me about Jenny!","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the oft repeated line intoned due to the wonderfully staccato'd editing that makes this creative endeavour less a crime film, and more a recursive lesson in retroactive visual memory. This is probably one of the best films ever edited. If crime films are not your cup of tea, you need to watch it just for the editing alone. Sarah Flack is credited as editor, but apparently genius director Steven Soderbergh was not happy with her generic work and changed it to its eventual lyrically beautiful structure. In any case, It's always hard to know where an editor's input ends and the supervising director's effort begins.As to the Plot, it is pretty simple. A British Woman dies in America and her Father, an East End Gangster Wilson, played by the always roguish Terence Stamp (his first name is never mentioned), goes on the warpath to find and throttle whoever was responsible. A straight forward cut and dry revenge film, but this is one of those wonderful gestalt films that is greater than the sum of its simplistic parts.Forever beautiful Lesley Ann Warren provides a soft touch to Stamp's hard edged tough guy, while Luis Guzmán brings local flavor to the set.This is an excellent revenge film that builds to a surprising climax. Unfortunately for Superman fans, this doesn't arrive in the form of Terence Stamp holding a gun to someone's head and demanding them to Kneel before Zod. Nevertheless The Limey has a great ending anyway, that I'll not give away. "},{"Title":"Steven Soderbergh style","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wilson (Terence Stamp) gets out of prison and goes to L.A. Eduardo Roel (Luis Guzmán) had sent him news that his daughter Jenny Wilson (Melissa George) is dead. His is convinced that her music producer boyfriend Terry Valentine (Peter Fonda) is responsible. Valentine was involved in a drug deal which he is now trying to hide and presently has a young girlfriend Adhara (Amelia Heinle). Elaine (Lesley Ann Warren) was once a famous actress and a mentor to Jenny. Valentine's right hand man Jim Avery (Barry Newman) hires Stacy (Nicky Katt) to kill Wilson.Soderbergh is trying his disjointed editing style and a bit of shaky camera work. The style is really fascinating for awhile but it becomes more of a gimmick later on. It overwhelms anything happening in the story and takes away some of the tension. Even the dialog becomes secondary. I really like the use of the old movie but even that has diminishing returns. He's done this in the past like in 'Out of Sight' but it wasn't quite as pervasive. Terence Stamp has terrific menace. He's able to maintain the tension and there is a nice payoff at the end. "},{"Title":"A neat and slick little SS, pic tucked between two bigger ones, warrants your attention","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey is a wonderfully constructed movie, told in a kind of Tarantino-resque sort of way, but with some other tricks too, which gives it's a slickness and makes the movie play better with it's back and forth moments. These attributes really make us care about the story, but it also the characters, really involving, especially Stamps and Fonda's. I didn't realize the movie was this old, this little project sitting between Soderburgh's Out Of Sight and the big 2001's Traffic. He makes good movies, and only good movies, and he captures L.A beautifully, with it's sweltering heat, night and day, using a great choice of color volume in it's shots, that kind of sometimes has you thinking you're watching a David Lynch pic. Again we feel that sweltering heat, night and day. Who would of thought, Oz's Melissa George and Peter Fonda would of ended up doing a film together. Not me. Our only regret here, is we don't really see her enough, but we appreciate what we do see of her, even little kinky moment, that has her stripping for Fonda's benefit. She plays Stamp's late daughter who got in with the wrong crowd, hooking up with a record artist and playboy Terry Valentine (Fonda, again showing us what he can do acting wise) Hard boiled criminal Stamp, (dead, solid, perfect here) someone you don't want to mess with, smart and dangerous, is a guy consumed with revenge, wants blood, determined to put his daughter's killer, underground. Of course his investigations quickly lead him to Valentine, while being helped by our favorite Mexican, Luis Guzman, an actor who's done more films than I've had hot showers. He knew his daughter, and again, and not so handsome Guizman gets a few hostile from chicks, partying at Fonda's pad, and Fonda likes him young. I must say the ending didn't work out, like I expected, but this was another thing that impressed about this small budget, slick flick, where again I praise the telling of story. The revenge plot is pretty well laid out, but it's the way we go into the story, it's characters and motivations, where you don't expect the movie to go into so much detail, as far as the character's backgrounds are concerned, and when we get to the real truth, it's s not what we expect, where as you know, sometimes in thrillers, it isn't. Stamp has it all, a dynamic presence and charisma. He really understands the character, and breathes so much life into it, we're right there with him, understanding his frustration. He owns the movie and our attention. The movie's title is fascinating. "},{"Title":"Not particularly bad, but don't get your hopes up","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A phrase I have used before in these 'ere reviews is 'there's less to this than meets the eye, and risking devaluing it through overuse I'll use it again about The Limey as it sums the film up extremely well. Stephen Soderbergh is a darling director of cineastes and for all I know he was attempting something far more subtle than what we are ostensibly presented with. If so, it was far, far too subtle for this viewer. I read elsewhere that The Limey is a Soderbergh meditation on retirement, but I don't got for that at all. The Limey is, to be blunt, a straightforward account of how Terence Stamp's limey ex-con travels to Los Angeles to seek revenge for the murder of his daughter.Why he had decided it was murder - it was, of course, because this is Hollywood life not real life - is never made clear at all. All in all The Limey is a somewhat banal and unconvincing thriller about a man taking his revenge, but Soderbergh attempts to raise it to a higher plain with the use of artsy-fartsy editing. It doesn't come off. The Limey is by no means bad, but neither is it much of an interesting film either. Go and see it by all means as it is entertaining enough, but there are enough films with the same theme as this which are, quite simply, better, artsy-fartsy editing or no artsy-fartsy editing. I might well have missed the point, but if I have, I suspect the point didn't really amount to a row of beans, and, anyway, I really don't care. "}{"Title":"A great disappointment","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was told I had to see this movie, as it was a violent crime drama with a great story. What I saw was a tired, boring, predictable movie that I tried to enjoy but couldn't. The main reason I hated this movie was Peter Fonda who seemed to mail this performance in, as an awful performance about a bigshot producer, who may have murdered Terrence Stamp's daughter. Stamp was great as focused gangster out for revenge, but a supporting cast of Fonda and Luis Guzman and a bad story brought his performance down. When I saw this in the theater, all I was hoping for was for the end credits to mercifully come and I could be somewhere else. "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 1999? Wow. I'm shocked that's when it came out. I saw it on Netflix in like 2002. But I just mentioned it in another review I wrote and I thought I'd give it some props here. What I loved about this film was how compact it was but what a good story it told. Terrence Stamp was controlled and scary. Plus the editing. I just read that Soederberg did the editing under a pseudonym. How he prelapped the dialog over memory was fantastic. Brilliant. I recommend this to everyone as one of the best rentals of all time. WOrks so well on the small screen. Not really a date movie -- I reserve that for Bottle Rocket. That is like the best date rental.... "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey is a disappointing movie. It is one of those movies that tries to give a new twist to an old genre and fails. If those involved had spent less time constructing evocative cinematography and more on an interesting, original plot, it could have been good. Of course, the central theme of a fish out of water is not new, nor is a narrative based on a quest for revenge. The theme of the relationship of a jailbird and his neglected daughter is not fresh either, having been dealt with in Clint Eastwood's Absolute Power. Still, the material has some power. The two main actors, Terrence Stamp and Peter Fonda, put in good performances. Unfortunately the dialogue is inauthentic. Stamp's character, the limey overdoes his cockney lingo and inexplicably repeated uses the American wrote me instead of wrote to me which is normal to British English. All in all, the movie fails as a thriller and cannot be carried merely on self-consciously arty cinematography. "},{"Title":"I'm looking for a different kind of satisfaction.","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Upon receiving news of his daughter's accidental death, an English ex-con by the name of Wilson takes a hop across the pond to further investigate the possibility of foul play. Wilson first contacts the man who informed him of Jenny's passing, a friend from acting class named Ed. As Wilson slowly begins to piece the puzzle together with Ed's help, he comes to surmise that his daughter was murdered by a record-producer by day, cocaine-smuggler by night, named Valentine. After confronting and disposing of Valentine's second in command, Wilson decides to pay a visit to Valentine himself. Valentine's head bodyguard, Mr. Avery, quickly catches wind of the upcoming storm, and sets about paying off a hit-man to take care of his problem. Unbeknownst to Avery, Stacy the hit-man has a few cards up his own sleeve as well. A difficult situation becomes even more precarious once a third party shows up for the dance, and everything ties together with a resounding bang in the movie's unforgettable conclusion. The Limey builds up to a climactic shoot-out that is quick, calculated, and businesslike, but it ultimately leaves you scratching your head, searching for that fulfilling final bullet needed to put everything to rest.The Limey is unlike your typical revenge flick in the sense that you never really get the payoff that you expect. The good guy doesn't ride off into the sunset with Grace Kelly, with all of his problems solved and all of his troubles left behind. Wilson says that he wants Valentine to know why he has to do what he has to do, but when he's finally given his chance, he discovers that he has more to learn from Valentine than he had initially suspected. Was Wilson hoping to provide Valentine with answers, or was it the other way around? Was Wilson always out for vengeance, or was he secretly looking for redemption? Was Wilson somehow responsible for Valentine's actions? Could Wilson see his own reflection in Valentine's eyes, and could he achieve the satisfaction he desired without any sense of guilt or remorse? These are some of the questions that the movie's final scene proposes, bringing about a flurry of possibilities and uncertainties in a matter of mere minutes.Few of America's lone gunmen movies take the time to try and detail exactly what it is that makes its wayward triggermen tick, and maybe that's why it's so fitting that The Limey is about, well, a limey. Wilson is still a mysterious and soft-spoken murderer, but he's infused with a subdued humanity and incredulous charm that makes his actions all the more sympathetic and understanding. We understand why Wilson feels the need to carry out his revenge, and yet we are able to recognize the hypocrisy of his actions well before he comes to the same conclusion. It is only by seeking to rectify his daughter's death that Wilson realizes he is simultaneously cheapening her life, allowing his own sense of wrath and justice to serve as scapegoats for his own hidden regrets and remembrances. By the end of the movie, Wilson comes to discover that he has simply been hunting after himself all along. Valentine is not his daughter's murderer, he's simply the man who pulled the trigger. Wilson's daughter was dead long before she died, and all of the violence in the world could never bring her back.The Limey could aptly be described as the thinking-person's thriller, relying upon drama, psychology and emotion rather than purely non-stop action. The movie's interest does not lie in Wilson's angry actions so much as the motivations behind his pursuit. The Limey asks us many important questions that extend well beyond any specific genre. How far are we willing to go to avenge our loved ones, and at what point does it stop to be just about them, and start to become about us? What happiness can we find in projecting our own suffering onto others, and how does any of it bring us back to what we once cherished so much? How culpable are we in our own misery, and at what point does revenge become not nearly enough? Is atonement found in blind retaliation, or earnest introspection? And perhaps most importantly, what could we have done differently to simply avoid it all? The Limey shows us that our actions always influence those around us, and that our mistakes will always come back around to us in the end. When we fail to take responsibility for our failures, we lose sight of what truly matters, and we're left with nothing but regrets and fading memories of what truly might have been. "},{"Title":"Blimey! It's the Limey!","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"       The Limey is a generally good shoot-em-up-revenge/action/thriller of the sort that I would probably characterize as a Hollywood factory picture if indeed Hollywood were even producing anything THIS good anymore. It's the kind of film you can have fun with if you don't go in expecting something important or significant.     The movie is about a career criminal who flies from his home in England to L.A. to investigate the mysterious death of his daughter, who was living with a man and suddenly turned up dead in a suspicious auto accident.  He wants to know what really happened.  Just one problem the man he needs to question is an impenetrable record company executive who is mixed up with drug deals as well (I love the stereotype there, what a perfect comment for our times about the corruptness of corporate art).  So the Limey begins a journey through layers of street toughs, hit men, glad-handlers and professional bodyguards to get the single piece of information he craves.     From there, the movie is pretty much reliable formula, but sometimes the credulity is strained a little too far.  In a scene where Terence Stamp (as Wilson, the Limey) takes revenge on some big bruisers who worked him over, he kills two, one escapes.  Now, Stamp is playing a man of around 60 with a fairly thick English working class scouse. Yet, we are told later in the story that the description the escaped man gives the police is just some crazy guy.  No wonder the LA cops have such a bad rep, look at the leads they're forced to work with.     Anyway, what really makes the movie are two fine performances, by Stamp and Peter Fonda, who is appropriately slick and genuinely charming as the record company exec.  And this isn't the type of movie that needs to be stylized, just telling the story will do fine.  But Steven Soderbergh drives me crazy with some cutesy editing which is meant to imply that we're watching a work of art, which we're not.  In one scene where Stamp is telling his tale of woe to a drug agent, the film is cut about six times during the speech. Why?  Doesn't Soderbergh think Terence Stamp can hold an audience for a minute or so?  Who needs it with these phony MTV visual effects?   And I thought the flashbacks using Poor Cow with a younger Stamp was another bogus gimmick.  I much respect Soderbergh's talent and place as an indie pioneer, but he is selling us a bunch of garbage if he thinks he can take a pulp movie like this, slap on some silly jump cuts, and call it macaroni.  He thinks using the imprimatur of  indie film makes it a maverick enterprise  (the only maverick thing here is the casting of Stamp and Fonda).  This is a studio picture using the veneer of indie for credibility.       On the plus side, I applaud the use of 60's British rock on the soundtrack; The Who's The Seeker to introduce Stamp, and The Hollies King Midas In Reverse for Fonda.  Most oldies are used gratuitously in movies; instead of invoking a time and place, they just remind me of the last time I played my car radio.  Here, it is pinpoint.  Like I said, the Limey is a good fun picture if you don't get your hopes up too much.  3*** out of 4       "},{"Title":"Have any of you actually met a Cockney?","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Have been reading many of the comments put here about this fantastic film & there's very little I can add. It's a marvellous achievement & the comparison to poetry is very apt.Terence Stamp as Wilson is brilliant, as many of you have said, but just have many have also said how awful his accent is. The worst since Dick Van Dyke apparently!Sorry to be harsh, but this is ridiculous. I've had the pleasure of knowing several Cockney's over the years & Stamps accent is positively subtle! Some variations are so strong that only another Cockney has a chance of understanding them. To even remark on Stamps accent as an 'attempt' is insulting to this man, because he was born in Stepney, London. He is, in fact, a Cockney!Bear in mind that anyone with a strong accent will stand out in a film like this. Hence why Englishmen are usually very well spoken, so that worldwide audiences can understand them. God help you all if they'd decided The Limey would have been from deepest Liverpool! "},{"Title":"A Film spolt by the acting of Terence Stamp","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Watching this film i feel like apologising to our American friends across the water for one of the worst acting performances i have seen by a British actor for a very long time. Let me explain that i am from London  and i dont think i have ever met a person who speaks in the accent that Terence stamp chose to in The Limey. His attempt at being a wide boy Cockney is so bad that it spoilt what is not a bad film. The story is simple and easy to follow and the film flows throughout......until Stamp opens his mouth. The other actors such as Luiz Guzman and Peter Fonda do there best to pick up the pieces of Stamps awful performance but it never recovers. Watch this for the worst cockney steryotype since Dick van dyke! 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Soderbergh Does Arthouse....Badly !","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not a very groundbreaking premise is it? An ex con going out to avenge a relative who`s been murdered, sounds just GET CARTER  does it not ? It sure does and the worst thing about THE LIMEY is it resembles the god awful remake of GET CARTER!!!!!It`s obvious Soderbergh is aware that he has a very very  worn premise for a film but this arty approach becomes very very tiresome very very quickly. In fact it becomes more than very very tiresome it becomes very very irritating as we cut..........back..........and........forth........between........scenes..........again..........and..........again...........it`s not clever and it becomes very very distracting. It`s not clever and it`s just not on Guv. "},{"Title":"Too self-aware","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film has the look and feel of a Student film project. Yeah, there are some interesting (albeit gimmicky) edits and shots, but the end result was juvenile.The director didn't seem to be saying Look at this film. It seemed as if he were saying, Look at ME! I'm a DIRECTOR!Thumbs down.  "},{"Title":"An Argument for Peter Fonda","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Peter Fonda - wow!  Where has this guy been the last few decades?Terrence Stamp - wow!  Where has he been the past few decades...and why didn't he stay there?Stamp's performance in this film is awful.  From his post bloodbath declaration to his final violent act, stamp lumbers through this movie, never showing us a real sense of urgency, want, or a true malicious action.  Even the killing of a security specialist during a party hosted by Peter Fonda comes across as a cruel joke rather than the opening bell to the war that is to come.To counter, Peter Fonda's never been better.  I understand why people laud him for his performance in Ulee's Gold.  He was basically channeling his father, Henry.  Other than that, I felt he was rather inanimate and sleep-inducing.  In The Limey, Fonda exudes all the charisma a sleazy Hollywood producer would have.  He looks right at home standing poolside of a Mulholland Drive estate, leering into the eyes of the late-teens bimbo he's somehow procured.  Even after the aforementioned murder of his security specialist, Fonda's character feels the impending doom and he shows it through his anguish.  If this film doesn't get Fonda more work in the Kevin Spacey, William H. Macy vein, I will be disappointed. ...and let's not spare Steven Soderbergh.  This from the guy who directed sex, lies & videotape and Out Of Sight?  Well, I wasn't fond of Kafka or The Underneath either.  The unnecessary editing style did more to confuse me rather than to tell a story or to build suspense.  I was trying to figure out why Lesley Ann Warren (who hasn't aged a day in a decade) asked a question in a hotel room and Stamp answered her at an outdoor restaurant.  Also, showing Stamp's first meeting with Luis Guzman, TWICE, had no meaning.  I think someone forgot to screen the first edit before it went to the exhibitors.If you like Peter Fonda, this is some of his best work.  Other than that, stay away...stay far away. "}{"Title":"horrid","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  truly unwatchable............very very good premise attracted me to this movie but it was truly unwatchable....please dont see this movie.  it is impossible to follow and terrance stamp makes william shatner appear to have an understated acting style......again this premise was excellent and could have been a great movie without the way it was shot--i cant describe the method--like stamp was having flashbacks--it was really annoying...and why stamp in a lead role?  this would have been a great film for harrison ford to be in as long as it was shot like a regular movie.  perhaps dennis hopper in fonda's role.  although i do like luis guzman even if he does play essentially the same charactar in every movie he is in......... "},{"Title":"An unbelievably high score for a mediocre film!","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There is nothing worse than a cockney in American films, especially the way that the actor, in this case Terence Stamp, is forced to speak more slowly and clearly than he usually would.  Its also quite embarrassing to have him explaining his cockney rhyming slang to every person he talks to! A FourFilm/The Guardian production give me high hopes, but sorry it wasn't for me.  It was filmed very well and the story and soundtrack were also quite good......if you don't get annoyed by the way the English are portrayed in American films then go for it! "},{"Title":"Awful 60's style art film disguised as an action movie.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you've been repressing your memories of the 60's art film, this movie is certain to bring all those painful moments rushing back. Previewed as a drama/action film, from the first scene the director starts with the cut-aways, the non-sequiter scenes and the all so artful look at the character's innermost wants and desires.  If it wasn't for the trailer spelling out the entire plot in 60 seconds you'd be completely lost. The characters are gross stereotypes. Terrance Stamp's British ex-con is so over the top it's a wonder he could spit out the dialogue without retching. Meanwhile Peter Fonda plays a shallow role that we are obviously expected to believe is the respectable 90's incarnation of his Easy Rider character. If sitting around in underground cafes listening to stoned bongo players recite bad poetry is your thing then you'll probably like this film.  But if you don't believe you should have to take mind-altering drugs to fully appreciate a movie then you should pass on The Limey.  "},{"Title":"Do not see this if you don't like 'artsy' films","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  At this point the movie has an 8/10, but I think that is a bit of a stretch. The flash forwards and flash backwards were agonizing and hearing and seeing the same frames over and over again drove me nuts!! come on. The acting was pretty bad except for Stamp as he did an admirable job with a pretty thin plot and bad cinematography. I give it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Stylish and Entertaining","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I hated it. Then, 10 years later, I gave it another try when I saw that Soderbergh was the director. I'm really glad I did.Some of the scenes are hard to believe. Like the warehouse scene. Why would he walk into that so unprepared? In the real world, they would have just killed him, but then the movie would have only been 20 minutes long. This was the scene that caused me to hate the movie when I first saw it. But this time I overlooked it.What moved me on the second watching was the subtlety and the sadness in the movie. You feel the sadness of him not being able to be with his daughter as she grew up. As for Peter Fonda, he's just annoying. The way he's cleaning his teeth with the toothpick, and the annoying conversations he has with his girlfriend are pathetic and painful to watch. But maybe thats the point. Also, the two pool-playing hit men are annoying and Soderbergh attempts to make them interesting is a little over-elaborate. Like the scene where the one guy is talking to trash about all the actors and extras as he watches the movie set.But the scene with the DEA agent at the end accidentally slipping the file to Wilson was an interesting scene. Wilson's whole speech there was pretty interesting when he tells the DEA agent - I think we're after the same thing. But again, a little hard to believe that the DEA agent is just gonna let him go after Fonda. Like they wouldn't have shown a picture of Wilson to the witness from the warehouse shooting. At which point, the witness would ID Wilson, and Wilson gets arrested. But no, the DEA is gonna let him go after Fonda, and then after all the dead bodies pile up at Big Sur, they're gonna let him fly out of the country. Yeah right. Again, pretty hard to believe.So, while I think this is a flawed movie from a plot believability standpoint, it still has many interesting and poignant scenes, and I was able to overlook the flaws because I was entertained and riveted throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"Soderberg Once Again Is More Show Than Tell","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An Unconventional Director, Steven Soderbergh, Wears His Unconventionality on His Sleeve with a Relative Disregard for much of Anything. He is a Frustrating Filmmaker and even Fans of Offbeat Cinema can Sometimes Say What the?This is a Watchable Exercise in Personal Storytelling and Movie Making that is Pretentious but at times Compelling. Aside from all the Razzle Dazzle Editing and Camera Angles and Movement and the Cross Cutting of Dialog and Images, it is Ironically the Standard Revenge Story that Holds Things Together.Two Substantial and Believable Lead Performances from Stamp and Fonda are quite Engaging with much Character History. Both are Brutes in Their Own Way and the Inevitable Confrontation is what Links all this Staggered Swagger Together. At Times the Movie is Unsettling while being Interesting, but at other Times it seems Showy and Clunky and there are Flourishes that Intrude on the Drama.Overall, not the Directors Worse Showpiece, in Fact, one of the Betters. But it can be a bit much for Casual Moviegoers that might Wish His Talents were left to Their Own Designs rather than Overly Designed to the Point of a Braggadocio. "},{"Title":"Well-directed and acted; a solid crime drama","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Terrence Stamp is truly a marvel to watch as the hard bastard main character of The Limey. He stalks across the screen, barreling head-on into thugs, driven by a thirst for answers. His daughter didn't just fall asleep at the wheel. And someone had better start talking. The low-key tone of Soderbergh's stylish and hard-nosed crime thriller doesn't deter it from resonating with its powerful use of imagery, flashbacks and non-linear narrative. The cast is great from top to bottom; Peter Fonda, Lesley Ann Warren, Barry Newman and (most surprisingly) Luis Guzman. And there's a lingering sadness that remains long after the movie's over. We can credit Stamp for that, through his melancholy and impressive acting job. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I wasn't too sure about the way this one was cut together at first but the style soon began to settle down. It was almost like a scene was made up of several takes, all filmed on one camera and put together with nothing to break them up. In the end I came to quite like it; something different to the normal fayre. The performances were all excellent, particularly Terence Stamp; again a performance that grew on me. I also very much liked the performance of Luis Guzmán, I always feel I'm in safe hands when I see him in the cast. I guess this is one of those that grows on you the longer you watch; a revenge thriller with a bit of a difference, well worth a look.SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDEDMy score 7.5/10You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"B-Limey.","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A year after Steven Soderbergh's The Limey was released, Stephen Kay unleashed upon us their remake of 1971 British thriller Get Carter; a film about a low level hoodlum travelling a relatively long distance to look into the death of a family member, before indeed uncovering sordid plots and such they always suspected were there. The fact The Limey is as good as it is would make it doubly unforgivable if one were to opt for the said Get Carter remake if faced between picking it and Soderbergh's film here. Principally, the man has taken a similar idea but brought a great deal of substance where in Kay's effort there was fatuity; a degree of life and ingenuity where there was formula and this sense of verve and energy where there was a just lot of bland 'muscle' going through the motions. Invoke Get Carter at your peril, remake it at your ***. But where The Limey's catalyst is the suspicious death of one of its anti-heroic lead's family on account of a driving accident, it does so well with the material anyway that it gets away with it &#x96; telling an engaging tale with a dynamic visual approach.The film is about a titular limey (American slang for an Englishman) in the sunny city of Los Angeles, a man omnipresent on account of doing some of his own investigations into a little driving incident wherein his daughter died. Where everything looks harmless and natural enough, our Limey lead Wilson (Stamp) has suspicions that he believes will lead to finding out what really happened. As a character, Wilson is almost certainly of both his era and ilk that is to say, hardened and from a time and place in 1960's Britain that is light years from where he finds himself now. Rough and often emotionless, although not without a degree of kindness revealed through the way he reminisces and speaks enthusiastically about his past and things such as the music he likes, there is something appealing about watching a tale about this carefree Londoner, who knows what it's like to kill, maim, thieve and serve time, plopped into a contemporary California dominated by the beating sun; houses up in the bluffs and punk African American hit men.Soderbergh doesn't hang around, he drops us headfirst into L.A. and Wilsons's universe. A musical track belts out over the images, a singer singing about searching low and high; the lyric they call him the seeker as our Wilson stands on screen - immediately inferring a man on a mission to find someone/thing. We're at an airport, and Wilson has just stepped off the plane from Great Britain. Amidst all the activity out front, it is the two seemingly innocuous police officers of the L.A.P.D. that catches Wilson's eye suggesting some sort of history or link to the law. He knocks about town for a while; meets up with a man of Hispanic descent named Eduardo (Guzmán), who'll provide help and answers, then demonstrates his truly unhinged nature when he marches into a blue collar warehouse and starts pushing around those who run it. Tell him I'm coming! he shouts, and we get a feel for just how both determined and angry he really is.Cut to he who it is Wilson will eventually come to seek Peter Fonda's Terry Valentine; a record producer who lives behind his bodyguards inside of a secluded mansion. Soderbergh pulls a trick on us here, in that while Valentine is essentially the villain of the piece, he is not some snarling; foaming-at-the-mouth; evidently evil individual who slots into the role of the antagonist just as easily as Wilson does the hero. Valentine is softly spoken, even frail looking. We get the feeling should Wilson and this man come face to face; it'll be over quite quickly. He talks to a young woman named Adhara (Heinle), his girl friend, about things such as how one should name their children after star consolations because, like, y'know, it's kind of a cool thing to do. Even his name, Valentine, conjures up the sort of immediate imagery more inclined towards love and fondness and not spite or wickedness, etc. Wilson is, by comparison, much more aggressive and hard bodied; a man not afraid of violence nor probably much into talking about the esoteric qualities of naming kids after star signs.The editing in the film is of particular interest, a film unfolded using stock footage from an old Ken Loach film doubling up as flashbacks of Stamp's character's past; an array of filters and the sort of manipulation of time that sees Wilson recount the same story twice to two different people whilst only ever presenting to us one instance of him telling it. Such an approach calls to mind John Boorman's techniques that he applied to a similarly realist/avant-garde crime picture in 1967's Point Blank; a film told as such so as to replicate its lead's damaged, perhaps even confused, outlook on the world as they recovered from a gunshot wound. Here, having got a sense our lead Wilson (not too far from Walker, Lee Marvin's Point Blank character) is as damaged (albeit in a psychological sense), the idea of splicing the film up by cutting back and forth from strand to strand; tense to tense is inspired so as to invoke a shattered mentality. In a sense, The Limey is the hard boiled revenge film for people who do not like hard boiled revenge films. It is the antidote to those people who get it into their heads that specific genres or 'types' of films are for set genders or those in a particular age bracket. The Limey is very much, as a standalone film regardless, works really well and should be seen. "},{"Title":"Stands the test of time","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a beautiful piece of filmmaking that rewards repeated viewings. Luis Guzman and Lesley Ann Warren--two old pros who make anything they appear in better--are wonderful here, understated but adding so much to every scene they appear in. And Terence Stamp's performance here (like Michael Caine's in Get Carter) is a template for every Brit gangster that came after him. That said, I couldn't get past the fact that Stamp's character would let Terry Valentine live in the climactic scene. Perhaps it strengthens the movie from a dramatic standpoint (such as Harvey Keitel giving the money away in Bad Lieutenant) but why in the world would he do it? "}{"Title":"Slightly hectic - especially when considering the name of the director","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well, the composition/editing is peculiar narrative structure of the movie is presented in disjointed flashbacks by the main character Wilson during his plane trip home to England, and there are frequent dialog and background sound from previous or future scenes juxtaposed with a current scene. Luckily, all this is not too confusing and provides the movie with extra value and distinction. Terence Stamp as Wilson and Luis Guzmán as Eduardo Roel are catchy, but the total cast is not evenly strong (as in Ocean-series or Out of Sight, for example). And the beginning of the movie is more promising, then it becomes an rather ordinary crime movie with an ordinary and predictable ending.However, it is still better than many similar movies and its duration is 1 hour 20 minutes only. Find the time and see! "},{"Title":"Like a B-movie with class. Unfortunately far off the cult status mark","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I sat to enjoy The Limey I was anticipating Terence Stamp's steel-cold stare and Cliff Martinez's score. I was not disappointed, both bring class to this low profile formulaic story of a little mad father out to get the big bad man responsible for the death of his loved one(s).Now I was not the least impressed by Soderbergh's experimental storytelling. Editing is surely creative here. I understand that scrapping a whole backstory about hit men may well have forced it. But I do feel the visual rhythm runs against the whole noir atmosphere. Basically emotion rises from within a shot, action from editing, hence too much editing here prevents emotion (and tension) to settle.In the end you feel Terence Stamp was wasted in an average story where an artsy director favoured style over substance. Soderbergh's approach is actually interesting, only it turns out counter-productive. "},{"Title":"Butchers hook, look....","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An ex-con, fresh out of prison, goes to L.A. to try to learn who murdered his daughter.However, he quickly finds that he is completely out of place with no understanding of the culture he finds.His investigations are helped by another ex-con. Together they learn that his daughter had been having an affair with a record producer, who is presently having an affair with another young woman.An ageing actress, who also knew his daughter, forces him to look at his own failures as a father.....This is an ingenious character study, about a man who is not only a fish out of water because of the length he's been inside for, but also because he's in another country and the fact that he has the knowledge that his daughter has died.The film owes a debt to 'le samourai' in many ways, the lone man and his 'issues'. Stamp hasn't been this good since he played Zod, and he's all menace and also innocence at once. He has a childlike look about him at times, as he only wants the truth, but this is too difficult for some.Soderbergh delivers some standout scenes, the opening credits tell you the majority of the film, the use of the soundtrack is impeccable, the scene with Stamp walking straight back into a building he has just been thrown of, and the whole psychedelic feel to it.But the best thing the film does is incorporate the 60's movie 'Poor Cow' showing Stamp as a youngling, this really adds authenticity to the movie and the narrative.It's an amazing movie, brilliantly acted by all, and one of 1999's and Soderberghs most overlooked movies.. "},{"Title":"Stamp embodies the 1960s in a modern Who Dunnit movie","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am a British 60 yr old woman and am amazed at the criticism on here about Stamp's poor cockney accent! What are you people talking about?? Stamp is a born and bred Londoner and his accent is exactly spot on for the age and place of that character (I should know, my Mum is a Cockney!) This film demands the viewer to think and watch and ponder the complexities of time, memory,perception and character. If you're not up for an intelligent slow-moving thriller then obviously you will be disappointed. As for me, I play this DVD much like I re-listen to my early Beatles albums with pleasure,sadness for the irretrievable past, and an admiration for the artists of that time. It's regrettable that Stamp is not employed more often. It takes a visionary director like Soderbergh to understand the subtleties of this kind of actor that sadly no longer inhabits our modern screens. "},{"Title":"Cockney accent, your having a giraffe (laugh)","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Although Stamp is from the East End of London he has forgotten his roots. His cockney accent is a joke, and I should know Im from his 'Manor'. Stamp explaining his every slang comment is most tedious, cockneys do not do this and only use slang with people that understand it, not Americans unless you are a complete Barclays (look it up)! It is not s true representation of a cockney and Stamp should know better. The script does not help, it is poor in the extreme.The flashy filming is boring and the film has a very thin plot and the overall the acting is second rate. If you want this sort of thing try Get Carter, gangster No1 or even The Long Good Friday. Avoid at all cost. "},{"Title":"C'mon, enough about the accent!  This was a fun movie!","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another poster has already made this point, but I'll make it again. Doesn't anyone here read IMDb profiles? Terence Stamp IS a bloody Cockney! He was born in Stepney, and grew up in Bow and Plaistow. I'm pretty sure you can hear Bow Bells from there. I've never run into anyone who sounded like Alain Delon or Otto Preminger either, but I'm not going to say they don't sound like Frenchmen or Germans because of my own isolation. If you don't like Stamp in this movie, fine -- but I'm pretty sure he knows what English folk from East London sound like. Now, as to the movie. A great homage to Get Carter and other tough guy/revenge movies from the 60s. And I like the musing on battling British/American 60s icons Stamp and Fonda. These days, movies like Easy Rider look silly to me -- they remind me of Rolling Stone Record Guide's great review of the musical HAIR What squares thought the 60s were about. But this movie softly lampoons the idea that the 60s were about anything. I like Fonda's little soliloquy about how mythical, and yet fun, the 60s were, and it's fun to compare the kitchen-sink realism of British 60s cinema with the biker-hippie counter- culture silliness of America. Makes you wonder -- what if Soderbergh had decided to go with Swinging London instead of kitchen sink? Would we have David Hemmings in LA? Beating up bad guys with his Hasselblad? How about Alfie out for revenge? What would that look like? Or maybe the other way -- instead of Dave from Poor Cow, it's Richard Harris from This Sporting Life, come to kick soccer balls at poor Peter F. Or (best of all) Albert Finney from Saturday Night and Sunday Morning, fresh from a night of boozing, to throw up on the guys who killed his daughter! So many possibilities. "},{"Title":"Gritty Poetry","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Limey is a truly poetic movie.  Like poetry, it helps to experience it multiple times from multiple mindsets.  Like poetry many people just won't get it and dismiss it.  Like poetry others may read much more into it than is actually there.  Most movies are prose, scenes arranged to form a storyline and plot.  This movie is different in a mostly positive way.  There are weird scene shifts and loops and other stuff mixed into the pot that you usually don't see.  The Limey is Gritty because unlike typical PG Hollywood action without violence, this movie is much more violence without action.  The Limey is an introverted movie in an extroverted movie world.I enjoy it every time I see it, but I recommend it only with reservations.By the way, there are two great commentary tracks on the DVD.   "},{"Title":"Ultra-stylish gangster thriller but also much more than that...","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What makes this film so great is the way it successfully brings together two distinct genres with great style - the British gangster movie and the American gangster movie. Imagine a cross between Get Carter and Pulp Fiction.Terence Stamp is brilliant as Wilson - the passionless thug going after the man who he believes is responsible for his daughter's death. He plays it utterly ice cool yet full of simmering rage under the surface - a bit like John Travolta's Chilli Palmer in Get Shorty, but *so* much cooler. In that respect this film is very much like Get Carter.It also has a great deal of humour - much of it based around the incongruity of Wilson's cockney banter and the fact that no-one knows what he is talking about. In respect of the humour, it is a lot like Pulp Fiction.And despite there being lots of beatings and shootings, hardly any of it is explicitly portrayed and none of it feels gratuitous - this film is more about gripping you with the tension of the situation than getting down and dirty with macho gangsters blasting seven shades out of each other.On top of that, it is directed and filmed very stylishly - lots of flash forward and flash back intercut the main action, but there are also cut-in fantasy sequences, so sometimes you just don't know what is real and what is going on only in Wilson's imagination. It's very clever and has a great effect.Ultimately, though, the film is about something else other than gangsters - it's about a man 'finding himself', if you like. And without wanting to give too much away, the ending is incredibly poignant. Overall, it is a very rewarding film gripping, funny and stylish, with fine acting from a top quality cast, a great script and spot-on direction. "},{"Title":"Very good in the middle, poor in the beginning and the end.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Soderbergh manages to bring us, the viewers, in close contact with the feeling of revenge. The Limey or Wilson, played by Stamp, has good reason his daughter Jenny got in the deadly web of a snobby and wealthy rock and roll music producer (I liked Fonda in this role), when he himself was still doing time in a British prison. Free and determined to get pay back all by himself, he flies to California where he gets in contact with two former friends of Jenny (Warren and Guzman). Here we immediately have one of the weaker parts of this movie I sort of missed a dialogue or at least one clear motive WHY these people decide to help this strange man, speaking cockney English, carrying guns around the place, and telling everyone he was doing time in jail. We see a lot of black and white flashbacks of the time Jenny was a still a little girl and Wilson a small time crook, but what we don't see is what kind of relation existed between Jenny and Warren/Guzman (the latter supposedly was in the same acting-class). The opening scenes all together are not the best in film history. There is a lot of overdone editing and there is this real strange I am Wilson-scene in the warehouse. But then it's getting better and Soderbergh's way of making movies falls in place. We watch an exciting movie, great acting, and quite convincing story telling. I felt disappointment though watching the final shots. Stamp finally gets Fonda at the shore, the latter unable to flee while he broke his ankle sliding off the rocks (rock 'n roll, coincidence?). This is the big moment, now he must tell what he did to Jenny and how she died. Of course I won't give Fonda's answer away, but I can tell you this though it's not much, there is no reason NOT to watch this fascinating movie. Overall comment Very good in the middle, poor in the beginning and the end. "},{"Title":"An interesting revenge movie, unswervingly bleak","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This, first off, is a much better modern attempt at the payback film than the unbearable Get Carter remake by Stallone. It does, however, share with that movie a strained effort by the leading player. Terrence Stamp, normally a talented and reliable actor, manages to ooze menace at the same time as strangling even the already interesting Cockney version of the English language. At a couple of points I was wondering if there had been a conscious attempt to include as many 'Cockneyisms', delivered in as annoying a manner possible, in one film in some kind of record breaking attempt. In the end, an interesting, edgy, and unpleasant film that will be overlooked but not quickly forgotten.  "}{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film is about an English Gangster going to america to get revenge and in the process he kills loads of americans, sounds good.But then we see Terence Stamp(An Exellent Actor) produce one of his most bizarre performances ever.I couldnt work out whether or not this was his best performance or his worst.Through a lot of the movie he does fine except maybe whenever he speaks in an Cockney accent that an american could have done better.Then we have the scene where he cant even say his own name  Whats your name   My noaaames Wilsorrrrnnn What the hell was the scene all about anyway.Then after his has killed the Americans at the start  Tell em im coming, Tell em im caoerrmmmhing What the Hell was he thinking when he did those scenes!?But dispite Stamps Erratic performance this fim was still good, but it couldhave been so much better.I would have liked to have seen Michael Caine doing the killing next time though. "},{"Title":"A dynamic study of strength and frailty","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Cross-breeding the British gangster movie with revenge movies like Payback, Soderbergh put together a smart, almost intellectual movie with Terence Stamp as a newly-released con out to investigate, but not necessarily avenge, his daughter's mysterious death in L.A.Because he chose the route of a revenge or discovery plot with the gangster theme more as a background, Soderbergh used frequent intercutting across time to enforce the intentional, single-minded nature of Wilson's quest. Present-time dialogue running across images from various moments in the film tightens Wilson's inquiries like a net to create an almost fatalistic feel of foregone conclusions. Wilson's discovery at the end when he confronts Peter Fonda unfortunately provides him with insights into more than just the facts, and it is more than he would have wished to know. The underlining of this with scenes from his earlier film Poor Cow implies a fatalism governing not only his successful search, but also those disconcerting, fundamental flaws as a father that will unfortunately outlive the macho satisfactions of his quest. Like the brief pleasure of a successful crime followed by decades of imprisonment, Wilson quickly finds an answer that leaves him to face an unresolvable weakness.  "},{"Title":"Can't complain about the acting, but the film was, well, boring","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't really watch this as closely as I should have, since my daughter kept waking up and distracting me.  Perhaps i would have liked it more if I had concentrated more closely.  Then again, I don't really like to have to force myself to concentrate on a movie, I like them to pick me up and take me with them.  This one didn't.  I saw it on the strength of Traffic being such a brilliant film.  This one was definitely not in the same class. Tedious and drawn out with fairly tenuous links between characters.  It didn't ring true for me. "},{"Title":"ewwwwwwwww","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had to watch this movie for my film studies class... I learned quickly that it was going to be a 'd*** flick' (substitute d*** for a word which rhymes with chick, but means quite the opposite ;) It's full of positively absurd machismo and crudeness... if you like simple mindless action films with motion-sickness-inducing editing, this is your movie... the plot might have been saved by the gimmicky editing if that wasn't so annoying. Of course, other people may like it, as another reviewer did, but I suspect that person to be in the minority. I guess I am not patient enough... but not every attempt at being artistic really succeeds "},{"Title":"Geheimtip!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Stylish, solid, truthful, underrated, great cast, overall excellent.  And by the way, greatly superior to Soderbergh´s overhyped (but nonetheless enjoyable) Traffic.  I only wish I had seen this on the silver screen rather than as a rental.  "},{"Title":"Technically interesting, but not engaging.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey is a film deliberately steeped in the '60s. Its cast is headed by two of the decade's icons, Peter Fonda and Terence Stamp. Its noir-ish murder mystery plot is generally rooted in the subculture of sex, drugs, and rock and roll and more specifically forms a sequel of sorts to Ken Loach's Poor Cow (1967), in which Stamp played a lead role. And its editing style and disjunctive narration are obviously intended to recall New Wave experimentation. Director Steven Soderbergh creates a sense of simultaneity in the action and extreme subjectivity in the point of view by having his title character, for some reason played by Stamp with a comically exaggerated cockney accent, engage in rapidly inter-cut flashback memories of his relationship to his daughter and projected scenarios of what he intends to do to the man he suspects is responsible for her death. Some of the flashbacks use footage from Poor Cow so that the viewer is treated to the rather eerie image of the actual young Terence Stamp playing the part of the young Limey. Meanwhile, the revenge plot proceeds in the main narrative time three decades later (I think). The Peter Fonda character has aged into a wealthy and rather grotesque rock and roll producer, still with an eye for the young 'birds' and tied to a much seamier drug underworld than the romantic one of Easy Rider. Hit men, bodyguards, and narcs complicate the plot, but to no real purpose except to multiply the number of bodies strewn about the screen in Act 3 and to make the final confrontation between Stamp and Fonda seem rather anti-climactic.All in all, the film is technically interesting, but not very engaging. "},{"Title":"JIM THOMPSON MEETS KUROSAWA","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think Kurosawa would have made a very similar film had Jim Thompson written the script back in the fifties or sixties.  The character of Wilson is straight out of an old samurai tale; rather than revenge for his master it is his murdered daughter that drives his actions.  He is unrelenting and pure in his motives.  He even storms the enemy fortress at the end.  My personal qualm is with the violence; I wish there would have been more. There are so many films that feature violence for no reason that in this case it felt right to include more brutality on Wilson's part.  It would have helped express the isolation of his ten years in prison, his being cheated of his daughter upon his release, even his out-of-sorts-ness of having to be in L.A. while searching for the truth.  I normally don't desire more violence but in this case it would have felt true to the character and even fleshed him out further, and would have helped balance the melancholoy and futilty he expresses for most of the film.Filled with interesting characters whose whole backgrounds are filled out with a gesture or a phrase.  Wonderful filmmaking and certainly Soderbergh's best. "},{"Title":"DIFFERENT SPIN ON AN OLD STORY","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In this day and age with the world moving at the speed of cyberspace and formulas being remixed, redone, repackaged, etc. it is tough as an artist to create something really new and exciting.  So what do you do?You do what Steven Soderbergh has done; he takes something that we've seen before and turns it inside out.  The story is pretty simple.  A convict from across the sea gets word that his daughter has been killed.  He flies in, takes his revenge, then leaves town.The film really stands out in the script.  It is totally devoid of any fat. And the dialogue is razor sharp.  This is a wonderful film invigorated by a different sensibility.  Soderbergh is bold in his technique; jumping forward by minutes to forecast the next move, then moving us back to the present. Then backwards to fill in the blanks.Terence Stamp, as our avenging father is spare and captivating.  Peter Fonda is great in an understated role as a over-the-hill mogule'.  And Soderbergh fits all the pieces together.  There is no good or bad in this film, just shades of gray.  And the shading that Stamp and the rest of the cast bring to the story makes this film more colorful than most of the formula fare going today.Steven Soderbergh said that he had the greatest special effect in the world, A close-up of Terence Stamp.  Well bravo for trusting people to breathe life into the story instead of a bunch of million dollar computers. "},{"Title":"Cock-er-ney faux-accent made me sick.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had (and have since viewing) heard many positive things about Soderbergh's film. And the interesting non-linear jump-cuts, the sudden Takeshi-esque violence, the meditation on past and self, all these things are, to a limited extent, worthy and valuable. But one thing kills this movie, and I mean KILLS it Terence Stamp's accent and lingo as Wilson. Watch this movie in England, as I did, and witness the audience gasp and giggle at a speech pattern that hasn't been heard since Dick Van Dyke last swept a chim-ber-ley. Shame on Stamp. It's not just the accent check out that cringe-worthy rhyming slang. And what is most appalling of all is the way that Wilson cannot fathom why the LA natives fail to understand his (stultifyingly artificial) slang and accent. Similarly Wilson is perplexed at SoCal practices like valet-parking; hardly realistic. The UK isn't Mars.As some sort of time-travelling Alfie-meets-Clueless pastiche it might just have worked, but like this it deserves to be treated with shock, contempt and an insulted audience walk-out. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings on this one...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Terence Stamp gave an excellent performance. His use of dialogue didn't seem to sit comfortably on his shoulders.The film was beautifully shot, but the editing was infuriating. The director appeared to wallow in 'creative' editing at the expense of the viewer's enjoyment.This film reminded me of all the worst things I hated about Easy Rider.Despite all this, I enjoyed it. The plot, though thin, was oddly compelling and despite the arty presentation I wasn't reaching for the 'off' button.Good stuff if you can handle the irritation. 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"If you like abstract art, perhaps you'll like this movie.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you've ever been to the Museum of Modern Art in Washington D.C., and have enjoyed paintings with titles such as 'Black Line on White Canvas', or 'Red and White', then perhaps you will enjoy this movie.  Personally, I just don't get it.  I must admit I fell asleep while viewing this gem, so perhaps I am not the best source for a review, but I found the 'artsy' editing techniques very annoying and boring.  What is the point of continuously flashing back or forward to other scenes, or of showing a character's motionless face while his dialog is being clearly spoken?  Maybe I'm just too stupid for such advanced filmmaking.  Watching this film reminded me of my college modern poetry class, where we attempted to decipher the writings of some seemingly disturbed minds.  If you are into the abstract, then have a go at this movie.  If you like things a little clearer, but still requiring some thought, try 'Ronin'.  The subject matter isn't the same, but it's a much better thriller - in my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"Lotsa holes","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Atmospheric, and a good (if often incomprehensible) performance by Terrence Stamp. However, too many logical holes to recommend. No way a total stranger would risk his life to take on a high-powered record producer/drug dealer because he was in an acting class with the victim, or because the bad guy ignored him once at a restaurant. The Ed character would've been outta there the minute bullets started flying! Also, what was the deal with Lesley Ann Warren's character? Only reason she was there was to give some name recognition to a mostly forgotten (or never known) cast. Finally, I can understand the lead character's refusal to turn the villain over to the police after unmasking him (considering the lead character's extensive criminal history), but after he catches his daughter's murderer, he just lets him go after forcing a confession from him? Not very bloody likely! "},{"Title":"Slick post-modern, stylish noir caper","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Terrence Stamp is excellent as the rambling yet suave ex-con Wilson who arrives in LA to wrap up some of that vengeance business. His daughter has demised whilst hanging out with rock producer Valentine (Fonda) and Wilson wants to know exactly what happened. With a little help from one of his daughter's admirers, grill chef Ed Roal (Guzman) he begins his quest for revenge.This is Soderbergh's first film since Out Of Sight, another slick heist caper flick, and he uses some of the tricks he pulled there - mixed up time line, flashbacks, flash forwards and jump cuts enough to fill the enitre Royal Albert Hall. Some people will find this technique annoying, others may find it ingenious  and inventive (like me). It's cool, slick and well acted, Stamp and Guzman both add another strange character to their CVs and Peter Fonda, well, there's really not much for him to do. Most of his stuff here is reaction, not much action until the very end... A movie looking or feeling like this does not come around too often. Catch it.  "},{"Title":"An average, dull, 6 rated film.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was almost a good 7 rating. Unfortunitaly it just couldn't rise to that height.I found the storyline to be run of the mill dull. I found the camera work to be edited in a style that overused the flashback teqhnique.I will give this movie a 6 rating. Barely better that average, but not good enough for me see if I would have known that it was only going to be that good. "},{"Title":"Good forum for Stamp","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The story line was a bit tedious, dragged in the middle.  The cinematic techniques were effective and Stamp's acting was enjoyable.  Fonda, on the other hand, seemed flat.  Maybe he was trying to be a satirical stereotype but it didn't fit with the tone of the movie. "},{"Title":"Confusing drama-thriller with most unusual cinematic style.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Cockney criminal Wilson (Terrence Stamp) arrives in L.A. to avenge the death of his daughter who he believes was the victim of a hit. Unusual, initially confusing visual style quite abstract yet quite effective. Based as much in the mind of Wilson as in the events in the world around him. Starts off very slowly and maintains mostly a relatively ponderous pace, however not tedious. Several people left the cinema in the middle - very silly of them. Good if a bit eccentric and probably appealing to a smaller audience than most. Definitely not mainstream. "},{"Title":"Linguistics, linguistics, linguistics!","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  From reading many of the comments on the IMDB I think it is safe to venture that there is a visual similarity (at the very least) to 'Out of Sight', but I think that's where it ends.For me, I think Soderbergh was taken by the use of cockney rhyming slang. As those who have seen Schizopolis or Sex, Lies will verify, linguistics and specific inter-dialogues between individuals seems to be something which he is interested in, the way people understand and response to certain words, phrases, sentences, etc.Stamp's use of slang was very deliberate, highlighting at all times when he is using this very different mode of English, yet still characters don't relate to him.I need to see it again, but this was just a quick comment anyways.So on the whole, great.But then Melissa George as an Englishman's daughter - jesus she was Angel in Home and Away! "},{"Title":"The ending is not disappointing, just very subtle","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have been following Steven Soderbergh even through KAFKA and all his other movies, and am happy to see him making films that are getting some attention. This film is so snappy and stylish and exciting that it almost doesn't need a story but it DOES have one, and one that is, I think, a little deeper than most reviews suggest.First off, the performances are wonderful. Stamp is amazing, but the film is virtually stolen by his Latino sidekick, whose every moment on screen is just precious. I wish other directors would watch this movie to get an idea on how to liven up the dull moments of their more conventional movies.Now, the ending THIS WILL BE A MAJOR SPOILER IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE, but if you have, consider this interpretationIt feels like a bit of a letdown when Wilson doesn't kill Valentine, but looked at another way, the ending offers a grace note that illuminates all that came before it. When Valentine tells Wilson the detail about Jenny holding up the phone and threatening to call the police Wilson remembers her doing the same thing to him. And he knows that she wouldn't have called the police, but Valentine DIDN'T know that. In this way he realizes that it is not really Valentine who is responsible for her death, but he himself bears most of the responsibility by creating this need in a daughter that sought a father substitute in Valentine. I take his violence through the whole movie as his projection of his own guilt onto others--there are many discussions with the Lesley Ann Warren character about how he doesn't take responsibility for the way his daughter turned out--at the end he turns away from violence and takes the responsibility for her death upon himself. In doing so he realizes that his daughter was not running away from him, but searching for him in other men. It's really kind of a very beautiful, very literary ending, but one that is I think too subtle for most viewers.I wish more paid film critics were up to the task of interpreting subtle films, but nowadays you have films by Cronenberg, Spike Lee, Kubrick and others who are just over the heads of critics. To say this film is all style and no substance, as most critics have, is really missing the point.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's always a treat to see Terence Stamp acting again. It's also a treat to see Peter Fonda acting again. It's great to see them both in the same movie. Having neglected Soderbergh since KAFKA, I rushed to see THE LIMEY,The actors were wonderful; The scenery was captivating (see Mulholland Drive cracked by the last earthquake and the cliffs of Big Sur (and a rock that looks like a rhino). Now the reader would like to shout la mariée est-elle trop belle (is the bride too beautiful)? Just wait. Soderbergh did a lot of homework in turning a medium stups story into a complicated plot, jumping incessantly from flashbacks to flashups, playing with shortcuts and slowdowns, making life difficult to the bona fide spectators. Life itself is complicated enough, so when you go to the movies, you probably want to getaway from it. If you want straight plots, with a beginning, a treatment and an ending, don't invest in THE LIMEY. If you have read Kafka, Joyce and the like, and are just back from holidays (I was), do it. You won't have to queue, anyhow I saw it just after it left a big screen on the Champs Elysées, for a small desert one, where the good air conditioning will keep it until the heat wave is gone. henry caraso "},{"Title":"entertaining and stylish movie--but only for people with IQs above 80","Date":"8 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I wrote my summary line after reading reviews from people who hated this movie. I guess if you can only appreciate slam-bang zombie apocalypses then you might be bored by The Limey, but most grownups will probably enjoy it. (Don't get me wrong, I like zombie apocalypses too, just not all the time.)Others have already talked about the plot, which I found believable enough for a movie. The super-hot Terence Stamp plays Wilson perfectly, and I loved how the director used Stamp's performance in Poor Cow as a frontstory for his relationship with his daughter Jenny, played, only in photos, by Melissa George.The rest of the cast is also pretty good, including Adhara, Terry Valentine's nymphet girlfriend, a young Denise Richards lookalike named Amelia Heinle who seems as if she might be able to act were she not always either in a pool or a bathtub. Peter Fonda was eerily creepy as an amoral record producer whose main attraction is his money. (In one of the movie's best lines, Adhara says to him You're not specific enough to be a person. You're more like--a vibe. So true.)A special shout-out to Nicky Katt, who--no pun intended--killed it as a hapless hit-man. A small part, but one of the little joys of the movie.Another joy Terry Valentine's two gorgeous houses, one in LA with a pool cantilevered over an open canyon, and one at Big Sur. if I'm reading the box office right, the budget for this movie was $9 million, but it only grossed about $4 million. Truly sad if so. "}{"Title":"What and awful derivative junk film","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is one of the worst I have seen in a long time. It is, at once, poorly written, predictable, derivative and filled with wooden laughable dialogue (but not laughable to be funny, just ludicrous). I just saw the film Harry Brown with is also a British vigilante-themed movie with substantial violence and a roughly similar plot. While that movie is a (somewhat disturbing) gem, this movie is just an amateurish mess. The character development here is weak, the story line could be summarized in two lines, and the acting is by-and-large a disappointment. The one highlight of this movie is that if you get called away for a phone call while it's playing, you can come right back 10 minutes later and pick up without having missed anything that might matter (since you can fully understand the whole plot after the first 10 minutes). "},{"Title":"An excellent and absorbing revenge thriller","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Shrewd, lethal and even-tempered British ex-con Wilson (a superb and mesmerizing performance by Terence Stamp) gets out of jail after a nine year stretch, hops a plane to Los Angeles, and relentlessly goes after shady and sleazy rock music promoter Terry Valentine (marvelously played to the slimy hilt by Peter Fonda), who he blames for the untimely death of his daughter Jenny (lovely Melissa George, who's only shown in haunting flashbacks). Director Steven Soderbergh, working from a lean, witty and intelligent script by Lem Dobbs, takes a standard revenge premise and gives it exciting new life by relating it in an exceptionally clever and creative non-linear fashion; Soderbergh's fluid, hypnotic style and the fragmentary editing play around with time and memory in a fresh, compelling and imaginative way that's positively intoxicating to behold. Moreover, it's revealed that Wilson was a less-than-ideal negligent father who's basically determined to avenge his daughter's death in order to compensate for his failure as an attentive parent; this aspect of the story brings a wrenching extra poignancy to the picture. 60's cinema icons Stamp and Fonda are both outstanding in their juicy roles; they receive sterling support from Luis Guzman as helpful reformed criminal Eduardo Roel, Lesley Ann Warren as sweet voice coach Elaine, Barry Newman as Valentine's slippery, hard-nosed security chief Jim Avery, Amelia Heinle as Valentine's concerned girlfriend Adhara, Nick Katt as scuzzy, sarcastic low-life hit-man Stacy, and Joe Dallesandro as Stacy's dim-witted partner Uncle John. Bill Duke has a great uncredited bit as a DEA agent who talks to Wilson in a hilarious scene (Wilson's gloriously incomprehensible rhyming Cockney slang provides several priceless moments of deliciously deadpan humor. The action scenes are gripping and realistic. Edward Lachman's glittering cinematography offers a wealth of striking images. Cliff Martinez's jangly, jazzy, melodic score likewise hits the bull's eye. A real treat. "},{"Title":"Sixties Icons Stamp and Fonda haven't lost their touch...","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Soderbergh's tense thriller The Limey is very beautifully crafted into a sleek, smart and cool masterpiece of revenge. Terence Stamp plays Wilson, a criminal who has got out of the clink (for a third time) and later found out his daughter had passed away suddenly. Fonda plays Valentine, a rock 'n roll producer who has a morbid fascination for young women and corruption. This movie rolls at such a pace that you are instantly left wanting more (I know I was!). It was great to see Director Soderbergh mix flashback footage from one of Stamp's previous films from the late sixties, Poor Cow I believe is the name of the film. Lesley Ann Warren and Luis Guzman both show up with great performances throughout the film, lots of great sixties music and a really groovy atmosphere make up for a really cool flick. I would recommend this to anyone who is breathing. 10 out of 10 stars any day of the week! "},{"Title":"A Delight Surprise!","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Terence Stamp who should be knighted for his services to drama, plays Wilson, a British convict newly released from prison. He gets a newspaper article in the mail about his daughter Jennifer's demise. Unsure of the actual cause of her death, he travels from Britain to Los Angeles to investigate. He meets a male friend of Jenny who sent the letter played beautifully by Luis Guzman. He also comes in contact with Lesley Ann Warren who was his daughter's voice coach and personal friend. He believes that Terry Valentine played by Peter Fonda is responsible for his daughter's death and he wants answers. This movie is slick in every way possible with a top notch acting cast. Don't miss Nancy Lenahan as the passenger on the airplane at the end. The film quite surprised me. I was expected something completely different and I was really surprised by how much I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"I'm looking for a different kind of satisfaction.","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another one of those men's movies that you probably haven't seen, but should. Terrance Stamp (Oscar nom. for Billy Budd) is menacing as the ex-con and thief who has set out to seek justice for the death of his daughter. It is a daughter he barely knew due to his incarcerations, and he probably romanticizes the relationship they had, but it is his daughter, nonetheless, and damn anyone who would dare to harm her.He is not a talker. he just lets you do your thing and then he does his - effectively. He just keeps coming at you until the job is done.He is our insane Cockney thug of choice.Steven Soderbergh (Traffic, Erin Brockovich, Sex, Lies, and Videotape) does a very good job of keeping the action tense and moving while telling a very non linear story.Luis Guzmán (Traffic, Boogie Nights, Punch-Drunk Love) gives a good performance as the friend who helps, and Peter Fonda (Ulee's Gold, Easy Rider) makes a perfectly sleazy target with one hot babe (Amelia Heinle), who always seems to be taking a bath. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Every movie you ever watch, at any time, will have a different experience for you depending on where you are, your life experiences and how you are feeling when you watch a movie.I think if you have ever felt both hate and the love for a family member and the desire to fight for them, along with some knowledge of England, and it's people, you will find this an incredibly done movie. The acting by all the cast is powerful, and the script, with it's flashbacks, characters and twists, will keep you entertained.And yet for some reason, I found myself feeling very melancholy at the end, having watched the journey of this man, and his own thoughts and conclusions towards the end of the movie, which do not give him the satisfaction he was looking for. Sometimes the things you yearn for don't always satisfy you. Give the film time, watch it with an open mind, and you find it amazing. The main character is a much deeper man than first appears. "},{"Title":"For once, Soderbergh's trademark editing style is put to good use","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Steven Soderbergh has had a really varied career as a director, but in my mind The Limey is his only fully successful film. His other works ranged from very good (Out of Sight) to crap (Erin Brockovich) to, err, interesting (Schizopolis), but this is the closest he ever got to making a masterpiece. A few of his films are well made but The Limey is the only one that really involved me. Some have complained that the story underneath the style isn't all that interesting. Its simple to be sure, but ultimately the characters are what matter here. In addition to the interesting characters, the acting all around is fantastic. And for once, Soderbergh's trademark editing style is put to good use. There are a few comparisons to Tarantino (notably the shot of Terrance Stamp walking in front of a brick wall reminds one of Reservoir Dogs, but its used for different symbolism) but for the most part this is all Soderbergh's.The acting is great from everyone and ultimately makes the film. Terrance Stamp gives a performance as the cockney criminal. There have been complaints that he overdoes the accent, but I can't realize anything and it really doesn't detract from his performance which has a lot of depth. Peter Fonda is certainly an icon but has never really impressed me as an actor. This is the one exception, where he takes his character who is the villain and makes him the most sympathetic and likable in the whole film. One of the film's most successful traits is the lack of any overt good guys or bad guys, as all the characters have positive and negative traits. Luis Guzmán is great as usual and plays his most likable character and Lesley Ann Warren offers good support also.The only complaint I have is the ending which just seems slightly anti-climatic and rushed (if realistic). Still, this is definitely a film that feels better and more layered upon retrospect. One of the best films of the 90s. (9/10) "},{"Title":"A Refreshing Funny, Violent Tribute to Past and Present Gangster Movies","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Terence Stamp shines as The Limey, an epithet never uttered in Steven Soderbergh's movie, though it gleefully compares American and Cockney criminal slang to comic effect (I guess drug dealers in California don't watch PBS's gritty Brit mysteries to learn this stuff) with wonderful dialog (and warning--quite a bit of violence).Soderbergh continues to have fun with the film noir genre as he did in Out of Sight, with flash backs and flash forwards and memories and coulda-woulda-shoulda's--here bleaching it all in the CA sun and having the femme fatale barely hinted at.Many other senior actors could have their careers revived with Soderbergh's technique of interweaving an old movie from their physically gorgeous prime, here a Ken Loach movie that looks practically like a home movie. I'm sure there's old Paul Newman movies this would work with, for example. And Stamp comes out quite favorably compared with his younger self as he eschews all the camp crap he'd fallen into lately.(originally written 10/30/1999) "},{"Title":"tell him I'm f*****g coming...","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" when a hardcore English man takes him self to LA to find out the truth behind his daughters death anything could happen? good ole' terry stamp doing the business with a bitter classic English attitude.i love the fact that he is old, angry and doesn't give a damm. the humor used in the form of the 'cockney slang' ie 'hes my new china' or 'im gonna have a butchers' was priceless, the culture difference between the Atlantic was truly highlighted by this. plus the einstien joke is an actual classic!!!basically a good film on many levels and an interesting idea to mix American and English talent that doesn't include hugh grant or kate winslet.. "},{"Title":"A big fresh breath amidst the putrid air of modern Hollywood.","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have not seen everything by Soderbergh, but this film is so good, I wouldn't hesitate to assume this is his best film ever. The Limey is marked by depth, sophistication, and style with adequate realism to make the story actually seem believable. The plot is simple, yet the script is so well-written that it makes an extremely compelling story, together with top-notch acting by Terrence Stamp and Peter Fonda and masterful direction by Soderbergh. The dialog is so natural that some moments almost seem candid, almost like a more polished version of Cassavettes. Small touches like gun shots that actually sound realistic add even more to the atmosphere of this film. Not to mention, the music is very fitting, and adds a great deal of suspense to an already suspenseful movie. I am not by any means an unconditional fan of Soderbergh, but this film is superb. So many films have failed to accomplish what this film succeeds in doing. 10 of 10 without question. "}{"Title":"Good idea, terrible accent!","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I personally found this film unwatchable for one simple reason. Wilson is played by Terence Stamp, an actor of undeniable brilliance, but who is totally incapable of doing a Cockney accent. The story-line, action and dialogue were fine (from what I saw) but I switched off very quickly because I couldn't take Stamp's performance at all seriously. Not since Dick Van Dyke's questionable accent in Mawy Poppins (and no, that's not a typo!) have I heard anything so ridiculous. Being that England is multi-cultural surely Stamp should have been allowed to play the role with an accent he could actually do well?! Re-dub the movie and I'll buy it!! "},{"Title":"Perfect little film","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As of this writing, I consider The Limey to be Soderbergh's best film, which I think says a lot. There's a refreshing sense of style, grittiness, realism and characterization all packed into a tightly edited film.As you may expect, Terence Stamp blows you away. It's a shame that Stamp doesn't get more starring roles because he showed here that he can still carry the film's lead with tremendous charisma and personality. For me, Stamp was always the villainous General Zod from the first two Superman films. As I grew, I noticed Stamp in supporting roles in classic 80s fare, like Young Guns, and roles in less than memorable films, like Link. So it was extremely rewarding for me to see Stamp take command on the screen.Peter Fonda is a good actor who often finds himself in movies that don't deserve him. Still, he was cool, magnetic and even sympathetic in the role of a villain.The rest of the cast, particularly Newman, Guzman and Warren, are excellent, but I also had the pleasure of seeing Nicky Katt for the first time. He doesn't have many scenes, but like a pre-Sopranos James Gandolfini in Crimson Tide and True Romance, Katt makes his presence known by creating a personality that, while off-putting in his values, grabs you.There's also some great photography as film buffs have come to expect in Soderbergh's work and a great soundtrack. The film may be too artsy and may start off a little slowly for some, but even after what I felt was a slightly slow start. I was sucked in. When I was finished and returned the video to the store, I came away feeling that the movie demanded several viewings. Since then, I've purchased it on DVD and will watch start to finish on occasion. In that time, I've also grown an appreciation for scenes that I originally found slow. I think that's the mark of a great movie. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Stamp/Soderbergh are both perfect!!!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is such a pleasure to watch. The whole idea of the low key drama set in LA works perfectly. Soderbergh creates a whole new way of vision which is exciting and slightly disturbing e.g the flash-backs and the flash-forwards. There are alot of silent shots of Stamp doing normal things- unpacking, smoking etc. It is eerie.The story itself is a simple one of revenge which Stamp goes all out a produces an excellent performance. Peter Fonda is a great villan who Stamp takes revenge upon. Luiz Guzman is also good in his role of aid to Stamp.My favourite part  of the movie is when Stamp goes to the warehouse to find Terry (Peter Fonda). Prior to this there are excellent visuals of him walking to the warehouse they really show the plus points of having Stamp in a movie. The whole sequence is wonderful- even the decking he recieves is done stylishly well.Go rent/buy this film . Just be patient and get used to the style of the film and you will not be sorry. 9/10 "},{"Title":"An impressionistic take on a genre film","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just saw this again for the first time since it was in theaters and I was struck by how much its cookie-cutter structure holds up. It's especially meaningful when you know the story and where (and when) the footage is coming from.Soderbergh has always had a knack for finding interesting ways of telling his stories -- even a mainstream effort like Erin Brockovich uses some narrative shorthand -- and The Limey is no exception. It rewards the patient viewer and is, at times, brutally funny. My favourite part is the way Wilson deals with security at Valentine's party. Beautiful. "},{"Title":"a total 10, this puts Traffic into perspective","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh's triumph of a film, The Limey, stars Terrence Stamp as a Brit convict out to revenge his daughter's mysterious death.  Stamp is excellent, so is Luis Guzman, a Soderbergh regular. Peter Fonda is also great as the oily record exec/secret criminal who is Stamp's prime suspect in his daughter's death.  But the real star here is Soderbergh's camera which never stops shifting perspective. The editing techniques that made Traffic seem so fresh and edgy comes to far better use here. Mixing film stocks and scenes from Ken Loach's 1967 film Poor Cow to provide flashback images of a younger Stamp, Soderbergh's camera and settings keep the mind totally riveted to a picture whose dialogue is so hard boiled it practically steams. Unlike most Hollywood films trying to portray real people and real crimes, Lem Dobbs does not strike a single false note, a laudable achievement in its own right.  Traffic may have been the movie that put Soderbergh over the top when it comes to being an edgy but human artist, but The Limey is his heartfelt masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Gorblimey, guvnor! This is a fine to-do an' no mistake!","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although the film contains many good things (notably the understated menace throughout) I must agree with previous comments that Stamp's horribly parodic cockney accent will surely ruin the film for any British viewer. With the wealth of talent available, I simply can't understand how this got through - it's not self-parody, it's not authentic and it's not funny - I found myself cringing every time he opened his mouth (or norf' an' souf as he probably would have said). I think a two-week course at the Spinal Tap Institute for Advanced Mockney might be required here. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and realistic.","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love everything about this film the story, script and cast. Peter Fonda was perfect as the 60's music mogul and Terrance Stamp as ever has that amazing presence. I especially liked the way the film stylishly ended with the battle weary, hardened Wilson reminiscing about a momment playing guitar in his youth. It's the story of a man who sets out to avenge the death of his daughter only to realise at the point of tasting revenge that he himself is ultimately responsible for her death. Wilson, played by Stamp is a cunning, streetwise criminal who appears to be reckless with his own life but anticipates through experience the reactions of his adversaries. A very entertaining and realistic film. "},{"Title":"A cocktail of good actors plus stylish direction and editing does not equal a great movie","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I like Soderbergh's style-it takes you back to European filmmaking of the 60s and 70s. If I were in Soderbergh's shoes I too would like to reminisce about Point Blank, Get Carter, the Killers and the Ken Loach movies. But is it enough to put together great actors, use intelligent editing, some above average songs of the 60s, to make a top-notch movie today?There are flaws all over. The character of Lesley Ann Warren is never developed but used to develop the title character. The much talked about cockney accent and the `you wrote me (sic)' dialogue does not sound natural with Stamp. When he spoke his lines it was as though he was making an effort to do so. Stamp is great when he does not talk much-recall `Far from the Madding Crowd'. He has great screen presence.  But he is not a Richard Burton who can mesmerize you with spoken words.And the violence-was it necessary? Point Blank, the Killers and Get Carter had better violent effect even though their directors did not show as much violence, especially in the first half. I feel Soderbergh and violence do not fit-he is best doing what he does best documenting characters on celluloid, e.g.., the superb DEA head and Wilson dialogue scene and the scenes in the economy class window seat in the airplane with mere voice-overs.Soderbergh remains an important director for an intelligent viewer today among contemporary US directors. However, `The Limey' does not prove that he has developed much beyond what he had already achieved in `sex, lies and videotape'. In fact this film shows his inadequacies.  "},{"Title":"The Alternative-World Richard Stark","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Richard Stark is a brilliant writer of a series of novels about a professional thief named Parker, a vicious thug who  operates with a strict machine-like intelligence juxtaposed against a willingness to kill anyone in his way. In this film, an alternative-world Parker is deconstructed and reassembled as Wilson, the just-released from prison professional thief whose daughter has died under mysterious circumstances while involved in some pretty sleazy situations with Peter Fonda's high-class criminal dealings. Wilson begins a systematic brutalization of anyone and everyone in his way, both physically and emotionally. His quest, for the reasons behind his daughter's death, is a drive for meaning, not understanding. Wilson does not need to, nor have any desire to, understand the new criminal element, the white corporate faces that front so-called businesses. Wilson,an embittered, coldly-menacing professional thug, is without pretention, seeking only motivation for his particular brand of destruction. Even if Wilson could show concern and love for his daughter, she is dead; Wilson shows love the only way he can, by killing and maiming until he has the answers he seeks.THE LIMEY is brilliant, with much credit given to Soderbergh for the inventive editing that allows the viewer to slip under the tough emotionless mask of Wilson, so that we see the world through Wilson's fragmented, seething mind-set. But Terence Stamp is the reason to become immersed in the story. His elegance lends the film a tormented vision of a once-young, once-beautifulman playfully singing for girls,  lost under the deafeningroar of guns and the lifeless vacuum of prison. A must-see Stamp performance.  "},{"Title":"A career criminal searches for the truth about his daughter's death.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent crime drama with stylized editing and an understated musical score.  There's enough action and tension to keep your interest. The story is a good example of what a script should be  The why of things not the what.  The ending reveals something to the main character and to the audience.  The meaning lingers in your mind.    "}{"Title":"stylish but somewhat empty film","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In style, Steve Soderbergh's The Limey harks back to the days of freeform French, Italian and British filmmaking of the 1960's, utilizing many of the techniques that at the time were groundbreaking and innovative the fragmentation of the time sequence, heavy reliance on jarring jumpcuts, the employment of near-subliminal quick cuts to indicate memory and anticipatory imaginings and a pronounced use of the handheld camera to generate a sense of pseudo-documentary realism.  This throwback in style is more than appropriate because Soderbergh's film is drenched in a '60's sensibility, from the use of many of the stars of the period in both major and minor roles to the actual employment of scenes from 1967's Poor Cow to function as memories for the main character played by the star of both films, Terrance Stamp.All the above elements make The Limey a quite unusual and, perhaps, even unique film of sorts.  But I am afraid that this over reliance on technique does come with a price  the film, as a whole, becomes much more of an exercise than a fully engaging narrative, partly because the visual distractions keep distancing the audience from the story and characters that should be our focus.  Stamp is brilliant as the British ex-con bent on avenging the death of his daughter in the alien world of Los Angeles - and, perhaps, the sense of dislocation caused by the obtrusive cinematic stylings is meant to reflect the similar state of Wilson's mind.  That still doesn't excuse the surprising banality of much of the dialogue and the less-than-stellar performances from an otherwise noteworthy cast.  Peter Fonda and Barry Newman both miss the mark in their roles as a successful record producer and his loyal bodyguard.  Neither their performances nor their dialogue ring true.The Limey seems to have more on its mind than just being a conventional crime revenge melodrama.  Yet, do we really know much more about Wilson at the end of the film than at the beginning?  Maybe it just becomes difficult to be greatly moved by a film that wants to be an elegy for a character we are given no real reason to admire.  Thus, despite Stamp's marvelous performance and the impressive style of much of the film, The Limey doesn't add up to much in the long run. "},{"Title":"Terence Stamp a Cockernee? - No bleedin'chance guv!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I bought this movie on DVD based on some excellent reviews on Rotten Tomatoes. I guess they must have been mostly american and therefore failed to see the absolutely hideous cockney accent adopted by Terence Stamp which spoiled any chance of the film being watchable as opposed to laughable. Actually with ridiculous cutting employed by Soderbergh which grated so much I thought I was watching a film students first effort. Did this guy really make Out of Sight?This is a thirty minute plotline at best stretched to ninety and quite simply is awful. How anyone can rate this is beyond me.'He's my new china, china plate, mate' - yeah great script. I didn't realise this was a Cockney 101 class. "},{"Title":"A Disappointment","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this one - an updated 'Get Carter' or 'Point Blank'. Instead, director Steven Soderbergh opted to make this a visually convoluted 'artsy' film rather than a straight ahead action/revenge flick. Juxtaposed time sequences can be mentally challenging, but here they serve only to disrupt the flow and confuse the viewer. Also, his technique of having characters speak while showing their unmoving faces was particularly jarring... looking for the world like a poorly dubbed foreign film. Taking out those 10 minutes of repetitive and unnecessary flashbacks and flash forwards, and substituting more character development of the Limey himself would have greatly improved this movie. Those scenes with Cockney Wilson and Hispanic Ed, and with the Black DEA Agent, were inspired cultural interactions. Also on the plus side, Soderbergh or someone else came up with the brilliant device of using a 1967 Stamp appearance in the film 'Poor Cow', editing in clips of him so effectively to portray his youth that I scoped the credits to find out if his son was cast for those scenes. All in all, a disappointment, though not a waste of time. Personally, I'd rent 'Payback' again before this one.  "},{"Title":"Excellent film. The quite murmurings of a new wave of filmmaking.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   The film, in all aspects, is an excellent film. The editing creates a link between past present/things old and new/ regeneration and degeneration. This film not only tackles the insular world of these aging men, yet it also deals with the baggage that they (Stamp and Fonda) bring to this film. This interlacing of reality and fiction adds a new depth and meaning to characters that anyone remotely interested in the actors will find refreshing.I also stated in the summary that this film is the quite murmuring of a new wave of filmmaking. As noted in popular magazines such as entertainment weekly, etc. The editing style of this film and others out now or in production (fight club, magnolia, the new feature from the director of 'pi', etc) is very advanced and almost anti-continuity, therefore anti-hollywood. As stated, they are ALMOST anti-continuity, yet fall more into a category of a new continutiy. This cut-up style gives new meaning to its subject matter that a straight forward narrative plot could not. In the end, do yourself a favor and go spend the time to understand and hopefully enjoy films like 'The Limey'. "},{"Title":"Also disappointed","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not everyone is going to like this film.  I read the first half dozen of the comments on this site and all but one by Chris Campbell were praising.  I agree more with his review than theirs.  I don't see what anyone liked about this movie.  None of the main characters was at all sympathetic.   The violence was senseless.   The flash backs and flash forwards, seemed more like gimmicks to disguise a thin plot and shallow characters.   There are intelligent movies out there  American Beauty, Being John Malkovich,  and All About My Mother.  Limey is not one of them. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've just seen a preview of this film - I knew nothing about it until the film started. The Limey, I thought. I also thought never heard of it. Well, it's got Terence Stamp in it, and he's usually good, and it's directed by Steven Soderbergh, and that's great because I thoroughly enjoyed Out Of Sight. On the other hand, it looked distinctly like the opening credits were setting up a distinctly art-house film which I really wasn't in the mood for. I mean, let's face it - this is part of an all-night movie marathon, it's three o'clock in the morning, and it follows Starship Troopers, Go and South Park Bigger, Longer and Uncut. Nope, not the right time for such a film.Usually I'm all for this type of film, but I just ended up comparing it to too many other things. Michael Winterbottom's superb I Want You, for example - there are many similarities in the cinematography, visual style and narrative structure of both films. Secondly, it is obvious to compare it to Out Of Sight - dangerous, because they are two very different films - but nevertheless the similarities are there. The Limey tries to fill an art-house cinema role, and just seems to end up floundering around the nearly, but naff area of moviemaking. Perhaps Soderbergh let the excellence of Out Of Sight go to his head - after all, it was an exceedingly hard act to follow. The thing is, if you compare it to pretty much anything similar, it'll come off looking second best.Reading the other reviews on this website, I am curious to know why so many people were attracted to it. It is perhaps because the majority of comments are from the US, and France - with only one comment from England, and one from Ireland.  So, perhaps the audience reaction is one of enthusiasm for the tough-hardened-criminal with a quick with and a chip on his shoulder that we Brits have in abundance (of _course_ we do - surely you've seen Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, Trainspotting, Shallow Grave blah blah blah...).  Of course such people exist, but that many of them?  Nah.  Terence Stamp was almost convincing as Wilson (leaving aside the obligatory cockney rhyming slang at every irritating interval), but every other character in the movie was criminally neglected - even Peter Fonda's character, the other principle part, was hazy at best. These are characters we do not feel for, I felt no connection with, and by the end of the movie, I really didn't care what happened. As it so happens, I have forgotten what the ending of the movie is. It only finished a couple of hours ago.All this is highly disappointing stuff. We know Soderbergh can do better, and we know Stamp can do better. Yes, the situation is interesting for a while, and yes, there are enough pieces of tension to sustain enough enthusiasm in the film to limp from one set-piece to another, but it could have been so much more.This pupil must try harder. "},{"Title":"Interesting but somehow unengaging","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am a huge Soderbergh fan. sex, lies, and videotape, Schizopolis, Kafka, and Out of Sight are, in my mind, all terrific films. But after anticipating The Limey for months, I find myself disappointed. Soderbergh's directorial style is on full display, and the acting is impressive, but the film's plot never really manages to engage me. Many of the stylistic choices (chopped up narrative structure, multiple perspectives) are quite admirable, but at the end, I feel as if I've just watched the director tinker for 90 minutes. The clips of a young Terence Stamp in Poor Cow are utilized wonderfully. "},{"Title":"Stale melodrama","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This tired revenge melodrama takes a stale plot--out-of-towner Terence Stamp comes to Hollywood to settle score with evil mogul Peter Fonda, and does so--and tricks it up with flashbacks, flash forwards, and admittedly good photography.  These added touches don't improve the movie so much as make it needlessly pretentious.  A real disappointment inasmuch as Soderbergh directed the cool Out of Sight (not to mention the artful sex, lies, and videotape).  This one's not his best by a long, long shot. "},{"Title":"Avoid this dumb trying to be artsy film","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the last time I rent a video without checking in at the IMDB reviews. The Limey is directed by Steven Soderbergh who also wrote wrote the truly awful Nightwatch with Ewan Macgregor and directed such trash as Out of Sight with the anti-talented Jennifer Lopez. Terence Stamp is a fine actor and it is a shame he involved himself in such a bad film. There is frequent confusing editing that seems like it was a last minute decision in order to make up for the lack or story, filming and just plain common sense. This film does everything wrong. What were they thinking? "},{"Title":"Simple pulp goodness.","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey is another excellent work of pulp fiction from Steven Soderbergh, one of my favorite directors. Following right after Out of Sight, one of my favorite pulp movies, he does another film about bad men going after each other. In this one his lead is almost the polar opposite of the young, charming George Clooney and is instead the old and gruff no-bullshit Terence Stamp. Stamp here gives a memorable performance, sometimes charming and fascinating, at other times a pure animal of intimidation. I wish he would get more great parts, because he can eat up the right material, as evidenced well here. I'm going to have to delve into more of his lesser known work.Back to Limey though, the story isn't anything special (a dangerous criminal fresh out of prison goes to Los Angeles to avenge his daughter's death) but with Soderbergh's flare for unique and interesting styles, he makes it feel like you're watching this story play out for the first time. The dialogue flies off the page, written by Lem Dobbs although there are clearly some Soderbergh tilts in certain scenes (his Cockney slang, for one) and the actors all know just what they're doing. It's short and sweet and all builds up to a delightful climax, followed with an appropriately bittersweet ending. There isn't a lot to say about this movie, it's just pure pulp goodness from a true master. "}{"Title":"The plot is good, the style amazing","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey a simple slow starting plot based on a man who had lost contact with his daughter while serving 9 years in prison. He then travels to L.A to find her. When he arrives in L.A to learn who murdered his daughter. His investigations are helped by another ex-con. Together they learn that his daughter had been having an affair with a record producer, which forces him to look at his own failures as a father.Now the angles and the underlying context in the movie is wonderful. Soderbergh used a clever but confusing style to explain the story. Throughout the whole movie you see many shots of future parts that has no relevance to the viewer. But as the movie goes on you find out just what it means. The clever usage of past or future shots to overtake a current conversation is brilliant. He uses this the entire movie.Another clever Soderbergh technique is where he uses small conversations such as phone conversations to present the viewer with information for later parts.All in all Soderbergh showed pure brilliance in this movie. The low budget and mostly unknown cast and crew really gave this film an extra lift, which is uncommon for low budget and indie influenced films. "},{"Title":"More things that happened...","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Soderbergh has a strange reputation as semi-auteur. I haven't seen enough of his small projects to know, but this is how it seems to me from this film; a director without a New Wave to belong to, who has been lucky in his unluck to be a Hollywood big shot. So he creates for a crowd that most likely won't appreciate why he creates, who'd rather gobble down than savour. His sensibilities are French, struggling inside their Hollywood wrap.At first sight this is a breezy take on parochial material, pure New Wave about gangster stuff. But whereas Tarantino, the other director who became commercially successful at around the same time by doing the same thing, does all the work for the viewer and spits out easily digestible grooves and hooks, here there is something to be on the lookout for.It's the post-noir landscape. In this case quite literally a film that begins after the noir has played out, after the money-grabbing scheme and murder. Like other post-noir, it is about the attempt to recreate a reality and surmise truth in the face of uncertainty (the film opens with a disembodied voice demandingly asking tell me what happened).Being a semi-auteur, Soderbergh then semi-delivers on the promise of this. He dismantles the fabrics of this story being told to us and teases us with various points of view, but once pieced together it is the complete picture. It was merely a playful ruse roundly solved, like the Nouvelle Vague favored.Terrence Stamp is great as the avenging father. You can imagine someone like Christopher Walken tearing through the role. Stamp relishes his part but also keeps stuff inside. It's all about precariously potent balance; a man vaguely amused at the cards dealt him by fate, vaguely pontificating on a life gone by, vaguely seething with revenge.It reminds me of Memento in a way, the mistrust and danger in plain sunlight. But mostly the broken man trying to effect control upon an unknown world, until eventually realizing all the bloody effort was for nothing and that the agent powering the illusion was, in fact, himself. "},{"Title":"Something to rattle the cages","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'The guy who made the Ocean's remakes,' 'the guy who made Traffic,' & to whom am I referring? I'm referring to that guy, right there, though to me, he's the guy who made The Limey -- & made the Hell out of it, to be really, very exact. I'm givin' the 'ol Sod a nod. He deserves it, & a lot more I tell you. Though, the only thing truly certain is that this is irrelevant. Limey is kinda like that local, underground rock band that nobody but you knew about in High School. Maybe a few of your friends, nothing to concern yourself with - that is, of course, until they're picked up. No, they're no longer special. Thankfully, this happened to neither Soderbergh, nor any of his work, & whether or not that is a good thing you can decide for yourself. I hope to see more experiments in the future, though I doubt I will - it seems all great artists left on this planet are just about turning in their badges. It's all too melancholic. The Limey sends me on a ride, like anything as good as it that I've had the honor to witness, but in this case it's more like a sapid tidal wave of gratuitousness. Sometimes you feel overwhelmed, like you're going to drown, like you're circling the drain that sucks you through a brewing, bubbling crucible of '60s & '70s pop culture, popping with the froth of Steppenwolf, the Who, the Hollies, & the Byrds. & when you do drown you're greeted with Sarah Flick's crisp juxtapositions - such gorgeousness all the same. Electric, swag-laced dialogue, & tyrannical, bravura acting at every smooth, tasty turn.There are a good number o' things I could call into question here - & endlessly I'd be waxin' peoples' cars, to quote P.T. - such as writing, music choice, Soderbergh's stroke of genius in using Poor Cow, etc. When I reach back into my memories, the majority of what I find is tainted with the more conventional - & thus, tired - use of not only music, but also editing. I'm met with the same tasteless, gray-haired groove masquerading in the guise of something hot off the press, & as such I'm also met with the same anger & subsequent depression that's soon to follow. & so for that reason, maybe solely - though not hopefully - I transform into a horny little school girl on the verge of pumping a glorious money shot when I run into something like Limey. Something as hidden or even trivial as this brings to question a film's own responsibility when it comes to what is commonly referred to as originality. Originality for the sake of originality, or originality for the sake of art & entertainment? In Limey's case, it's for the sake of a balls-deep frolic through the merrymaking of an aesthetic circus.One glaring thing that The Limey suffers from - like a lot of pictures riding alongside it - is the burden of a worn story. Very worn, in fact. I'll say this here now -- The Limey is as much about a vengeance tale as Apocalypse Now is about the Vietnam War. Ahem. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film Containing Twists and Turns","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An excellent thriller which features unexpected friendships and alliances.The cast is excellent from Peter Fonda's corrupted record company man through his dodgy Security Consultant Barry Newman (surely the creepiest part he's ever played) to the witty street thugs Newman's character hires.Wilson's relationships with his daughter's acting teacher (Warren) and one of her students (Guzman) stand out as highlighting Wilson's ability to influence people.Bizarrely people complained about Stamp's cockney accent - the guy was born in Stepney and sounds exactly the same in Poor Cow (scenes of which feature in the film). "},{"Title":"'The Limey' is Big Fun","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Much like when Pam Grier and Robert Forster were casted as an extension of their life-long roles in Jackie Brown Terence Stamp and Peter Fonda dust off their counterculture roles again for Steven Soderbergh's The Limey.Terry Valentine (Fonda) is a record producer, and an aging lothario who, took the whole '60s Southern California zeitgeist and ran with it. Sadly what he ran with it into was a wall. In his efforts to keep making vast amounts of profit dealing drugs, he separated himself from the venture altogether. But when Wilson's daughter threatens to make that link between Valentine and the drugs, he kills her.When we first meet Wilson (Stamp) he is flying to Los Angeles, he has only been out of prison for a short time but after this he doesn't care if he goes back for life. Wilson has just found out that his daughter has died. Wilson is angry and Wilson wants revenge. There is a scene in The Limey where after doing some tough talking four guys rough up Wilson and throw him outside. Wilson immediately shakes himself off goes back in kills three of them and lets the fourth one live to tell Valentine, I'm coming for him...Im f____ing coming! Stamp isn't an invincible action movie cliché rather a hardened man that lucks out against a cast of aging hipsters who thought they would never age. Definitely one of Soderbergh's more fun films (better than the Ocean's Series) if you ask me. "},{"Title":"That's the time when I was loved. . .","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The older we get, the more fascinated we are by time's elasticity, and history's ambiguity. That moment in my past; what happened, exactly? And when? What did it mean?, we ask ourselves. The answers contain the meaning of our lives, the meaning we yearn to discover. Then, the challenge is to accept the truths revealed to us.Steven Soderbergh's The Limey explores those three questions in a perfectly-filmed-and-edited blend of past action and present recollection. A man sits in the cabin of an airplane, remembering the letter and clipping he received, and the trip to Los Angeles which followed. One question resonates for him 'Tell me about Jenny.' Wilson (Terence Stamp)needed to find out about his daughter, and flew to L.A. Events unfolded; now he's returning to England, and remembering.Soderbergh uses the clips from Poor Cow (1967) to give Wilson's memories the vivid clarity that our own home movies convey. It's solemn magic to see and hear family members, lovers and friends of thirty years earlier. alive and present in a living past. Soderbergh understands the importance for Wilson's story of seeing that past as it was, seeing Jenny as she was, so that we can see her charm, share his love for her, and share the urgency of his search.And its this vivid use of the older film that makes powerfully clear the lesson Wilson discovers. Terry Valentine (Peter Fonda) answers a question, and Wilson realises that the answer he's been seeking lies in his own past. More than one man bears the responsibility for Jenny's fate. It's painful. We understand exactly why Wilson walks away, thoughts of revenge abandoned.Some elements of the film lie outside Wilson's memory. Avery (Barry Newman), Terry Valentine's 'security director' hires Stacy (the superbly dangerous Nicky Katt) to deal with Wilson, and the sequences of pursuit are aspects we don't share with the English visitor. A formalist might ask how we can know about Stacy if Wilson doesn't, until they meet in a parking lot, but it's insignificant, because the flow of the story is so clear, and the plot details intertwined so cleverly.Soderbergh's editing, with the overlaps, repetitions, and shifts from present to past, is the basis of that intertwining. He's created a convincing model of the way our memories work when we reflect on our lives - significant moments keep returning, being viewed from shifting perspectives, so that what seemed puzzling becomes clear; what seemed random now reveals its connection to our own choices.I admire also the ways in which Soderbergh has cut film's moments of action, to create the film's jarring rhythm of shock and stunned stillness. Violence erupts, planned and unplanned, and we know right away that we don't understand what's happened. It'll take time and much mulling over to discover the meaning of what we've experienced.At film's end, we're back on the airplane, wondering whether Wilson can accept what he's learned. He seems not to; in the politeness of a brief conversation with the woman seated beside him, he says  I shouldn't have been there. It was these other lads should have been there in my place. Wilson's talking about prison, but to us it sounds as though he doesn't want to take responsibility for what's happened to his daughter, as if someone else was really to blame. That effort to dodge the implications of his own behaviour is the criminal's protective strategy, and it's reinforced with great irony when the young Wilson sings 'Colours' in the film's last frames. Freedom is a word I rarely use without thinking of the time when I was loved. Wilson was loved, but he couldn't accept the responsibility that love entailed, and he's implicated in the death of someone who loved him. Now he's alone, high above the earth, in the pressurised tube of a transatlantic jet, forever about to land, never quite free of his past, trapped in the loneliness of his own making. "},{"Title":"Terence  Stamp is great.","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey is not the best movie to be made but is a good movie. Terence Stamp plays such a cool character. He plays is role with such conviction. I would of like to see him with a better support in The Limey. The plot was quite good but a little predictable and far fetched in places. One the whole The Limey is a good around movie. Not too much visible violence. Not too much bad language and no sex, which is very unusual for this genre of film.Because of the soft content of a gangster movie and the fact they pulled it off I give it an 7.I like that story of a Londoner who had just finished his time in jail to revenge the killer of his daughter. The trail of the killer leads him to the movie world of LA.The end of this movie where Stamp intends to track and kill her killer. When he actually gets the opportunity to put him to his end. He take a humber decision. "},{"Title":"The Good, the Bad and The Limey 1999","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Watched The Limey last night and was left not knowing whether I liked it or not. On the good side it made me laugh in several parts, I thought Stamp TELL HIM IM FAKING CAMMMINNGGGGG was brilliant and the style Soderbergh directed it was very interesting. I quite enjoyed the structure of the story and the way the dialogue was half in time with the visuals and then would carry on with just moody looks from the character. Stylish stuff. I also thought the clips used from an old Stamp film to show his earlier days were really good. With such a simple concept, revenge, that has been done millions of times you have to do something a bit different and I think Soderbergh thought so too.However, on the bad side the dialogue itself was uninspiring. It's a good job Soderbergh did a decent job in creating an interesting structure because in places it felt distinctively 'TV movie'. Fonda was also not the best piece of casting. His performance just felt weak for me. The plot also felt a little shaky in places. How did he know for certain that Valentine was responsible , and don't get me wrong, I like Bill Duke but the whole NARC thing felt like it was just put in there to give Valentines beach address to Wilson.It's fairly simple, without Soderbergh this would've bombed. With a better writer it could've been excellent. As it is, it's a decent 7/10 for me "},{"Title":"Beautiful and touching.","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Excellent movie. What I loved about it is how Terence Stamp's character portrays a real sense of regret. He regrets how he lived his life, how he never really knew his daughter. You can see in is facial expressions that he wishes he lived a different life, not one rife with crime, but a straight life, one where he was a real father. He sees getting revenge as a way of making it up to his daughter, and putting his own tortured soul at ease.I love the way he uses cockney rhyming slang, and none of the other characters have a clue what he is talking about.All in all, a wonderful movie. I went in not knowing what to expect and I was floored. "},{"Title":"More conventional than previously thought but still great.","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I hardly read the comments left on this site but I'm fairly certain that much has been said about this film's 'non linear' structure. This is one of those movies that I can watch repeatedly. This most recent viewing was one my first in a few years and I was struck by how nonlinear the story telling really is. The jumps back and forth hinge more on the character's inner thought process more than it does on any real desire to tell past present and future all at almost the same time. It certainly does this of course but more as a visual thought process then anything else. Compare this film, for instance, to 21 Grams which had a central point in the story and then told about the events before that point and after that point in a path that eventually revealed the center towards the end. Chronologically this 21 grams is a much more challenging film and, when compared to The Limey, the style of storytelling is a bit more justified.That is to say though that this is more of a recent observation than a direct criticism. I am still very much enamored with this film and the unique telling of a very straight forward story. Again, I am also reminded of just what a genius Soderbergh is with the hand held camera something so easy to over use (i.e. most things Dogme)but so powerful in its ability to communicate a subjective view point. Soderbergh's talent with the device is his restraint with it.I have to be careful with The Limey, I'm approaching seeing it too many times. I'll likely not watch it again for several years but it still stands as a favorite. "}{"Title":"Stylistic film with a great resolve","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" OK so my summary says nothing about the film. That's because The Limey doesn't really need much information to have you watching the whole thing. It's a simple story man gets out of 9 years of prison, finds out his daughter might've been killed somewhere near L.A., California, hops the next flight there, and whittles the information down to find the man with the answers. Does he kill him? Does he get killed? Is his daughter alive after all? All of these questions probably bubble inside your head as the film begins in an after-the-fact way, with the a newspaper article about a girl being found dead at Mulholland Dr. in Los Angeles, and the film takes off. Wilson, coldly and seriously played by Terence Stamp, is the father who, after those years in prison, is unusually aware of his surroundings and knows what to do in the face of certain peril.I love Steven Soderbergh's quick back-and-forth cuts from previous scenes in the film to show what Wilson's entire frenetic mindset must be going through. It provided a stamp of originality on this classic whodunnit story. The off-beat, awkward music for the film helped the hunting scenes from Wilson's point of view. I love the house that Peter Fonda gets to live in, too; makes me think back to when he was in The Trip and he was in some lavish house tripping on acid. I also love how the movie just stops for a second right in the middle of the movie to find different hit men and different ways of resolving the film.In all, I gave it a 6 out of 10 stars. It was solid enough to grab your attention, but you didn't know about this guy all the way through (Wilson that is). He starts off like a hero, but keeps killing these random men for answers, and he doesn't quite feel like he's been in prison for as long as he was. It's not quite a classic nor a must-see so I had to bring it down a notch in the ratings, but it was still solid enough, again, to hold your attention. "},{"Title":"my introduction to Terence Stamp","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Looking back on The Limey, I'm a little embarrassed to admit that I'd never heard of Terence Stamp before it came out. I should have recognized him, given that I'd seen him in the Steve Martin-Eddie Murphy comedy Bowfinger earlier that year (but I didn't know who he was).Anyway, Stamp - as a Brit investigating his daughter's murder in LA - plays the same kind of bad-ass here for which he was famous back in the day. It was especially eye-opening seeing Peter Fonda play such a slimy character, given that we remember him for Easy Rider. But in this kind of movie, there aren't really any good guys, so to speak. Maybe Luis Guzman's character is, but everyone seems sleazy in one way or another. Steven Soderbergh was showing the kind of grittiness that he would later bring to Traffic. A very well done movie. Also starring Lesley Ann Warren, Barry Newman, Joe Dallesandro and Nicky Katt. "},{"Title":"For a bad guy it's sort of good","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey can be easily classified as a revenge film. It is in the same vane as films such as Death Wish and numerous westerns, where a lone gunman must set things right by doing what the law either can't or won't. This film is about a man who, after the murder of his daughter, feels he must track down her killer to impart his own form of justice. The characters in this film are nothing new. We have the father (The Limey), a cockney accented, British ex-con. He teams up with a tough Mexican con that is going straight after doing time in the joint. The dead daughter's friend, a straight-laced, wanna-be-actor (who drives a Volvo, as if we couldn't figure out how very straight laced and domestic she really is). Leading the bad guys are the ageing sixties record producer complete with his California vanity and ex-flower child deep sounding but otherwise shallow advice. His partner, which is the films real bad Guy, complete with a cold stair, black Mercedes-Benz, and a sawed-off shotgun. He surrounds himself with the typical assortment of mafia looking goons; fat and dumb so we wouldn't mistake them. This film, despite the unimaginative, overused story line and stereotypical characters is great. The director's use of the camera and his masterful editing stand out. This is a tremendously violent film that never actually shows much violence. Lots of people die, and we are tricked into thinking we have just witnessed these acts, when in reality we never saw a thing. The directors use of flash backs serve to make the main character's memories almost dream like. We see the world through his eyes; a point of view he has idealized over many years, but one that is far removed from what is real. Ultimately, for us the viewer, it becomes difficult to judge just who is the real bad guy. It is this uncertainty that the director wants to instill in us, which he does so well.This film is special. It shows that a great director can take a tired story with poor characters and create a gem of a film. And who said that gold couldn't be spun from straw. "},{"Title":"Flashes of brilliance, powerful performances","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey is on the short list of flawed-but-compelling films that I can watch, repeatedly, for sheer pleasure. It's not perfect. (Maybe Bambi was perfect, but few other films). Negatives The plot is a somewhat clichéd tale of revenge (although it is redeemed somewhat by the ending). Soderbergh overdoes the layered effect of the movie in some scenes, sometimes resorting to multiple jump and stuttering cuts in a single closeup speech, and it becomes an annoyance and distraction when he does. Some events in the movie seem random and disconnected from what went on before - you have to spend time and energy justifying a character's actions and decisions because they don't always make complete sense. And the atmosphere is cold and somewhat alienating. There is very little warmth to be had here. Most of the humane and intimate moments are between Wilson and his friend Eduardo, and between Wilson and his daughter's acting coach.Positives Stamp's Wilson, a London crime figure in his declining years, is ferociously dignified and compelling to watch. He radiates force and charisma, and is a pleasure to watch every instant he is on screen. Stamp is the highlight of this movie, and he carries it effortlessly, but everyone in the supporting cast is excellent. And I do mean everyone, even Fonda, whom I normally don't care for. Also, in spite of the muddled narrative drive (which jumps back and forth and makes the viewer work hard to keep track of the various events and motivations in the story), almost all the characters in the cast are given room and time to speak for themselves. While these speeches may not help you know the characters any more intimately, you get a powerful sense of motivation and intentions and belief - what's on the character's mind, what he wants, and why he wants it. My favorite example of this is 'Stacey the Hit-man' (Nickey Katt) a minor character who meets a meaningless death catching a bullet meant for someone else. But before this happens, the movie spends several minutes with him, including a wonderful scene where he pokes merciless fun at various individuals in a crowd gathered around a movie shoot. His commentary is wildly mean-spirited, but also accurate and insight ful.That is the kind of detailed, nuanced role and performance that take a movie up to the next level. In general, the movie has a crackling energy that make it fun to watch even in relatively quite moments when no one is speaking or doing anything. A good example here would be the moments when Wilson picks himself off the asphalt where he was thrown (and roughed up) by a group of low-level thugs in a warehouse. He stands up, brushes himself off, pulls a small gun from an ankle holster, and stalks back the way he was dragged out. Not a word is said, no music on the soundtrack, but actor, cinematography, and sound design combine to glue the eye to the screen in giddy anticipation of the ultra-violence to come. (BTW, when it does come, it's all off-screen with gunshots and hoarse voices yelling in surprise, anger, and consternation). The ending, featuring clips integrated from another, earlier Stamp movie, is elegaic, mournful, and touching. I was moved by it in ways that far more manipulative (and ham handed) directors like Spielberg could never equal. So I consider The Limey to be a good'un. If you have a taste for films about anti-heroes and vigorous (if somewhat unsympathetic) characters and layered, nuanced film-making, you might like it too. "},{"Title":"Limey is a Romp in the Park","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film really captured my heart. At first I was a little hesitant because the filming style is very disconnected. Scenes jump randomly, and audio doesn't always line up with video. This was bothersome, but I got over it quickly. The only other complaint I have is I felt this film had too many flashbacks to the main character's daughter. It was very repetitive and added nothing to the film. Otherwise, thoroughly enjoyable.Terence Stamp plays Wilson, who is tracking down the killer of his daughter. He is easy to identify with, his English accent and quirky words are fun, and he plays a great stone-cold killer. Other movies have had this same plot, but they didn't have Stamp. Luis Guzman was fantastic as the sidekick. Peter Fonda was very creepy and showed off his teeth more than I really needed. And I couldn't tear my eyes off of Denise Richards' identical twin Amelia Heinle, who was in the bathtub three times in the film (but unfortunately never nude). While not a film that will win any awards, certainly a fun little romp in the woods and a good light action piece to wind down your day. Recommended. "},{"Title":"An artistic film from Soderbergh, that is a good thriller.","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Soderbergh's suspenseful thriller about an old English gangster (stamp) who travels to LA to look for the killer of his daughter. This film has a unique style, which i loved. soderbergh really shows his craft here, great direction, great mood, set up the suspense real well. It is very well written as well, funny at times, and just chilling for the most part. Luis Guzman was great as always, a very underrated supporting actor. This film was very good, the way the director used flashbacks, and possible future cuts (stuff going on in characters head) was brilliant, a lot of people will probably not like this film, but if your patient with it, i think its great. a very solid revenge thriller. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A disjointed story that has a payoff at the end","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Goodfellows. The Godfather. Donnie Brosco. The Limey.That is how much I love this movie (and Donnie Brosco). The back-to-front sequence is somewhat confusing, but makes the movie stylish all the same.The set-up A lifetime, small-time criminal leaves his 20-year sentence behind, as well as his native London to travel to L.A. to avenge his daughter's death. Daddy death wish.The main character, Terrance Stamp, as Wilson, is terrific. So is his best friend, Luiz Guzman, an early role for him and not often listed in some Guzman bios.Much of Wilson's scenes are a flash of him brooding in his airplane seat. Is he coming? Is he going? It all comes out in the end. No spoiler from me. Yet. And only a spoiler in terms of my aftertaste of the movie.Although Stamp is an establish actor in his native England, he is not a known star. You want star power? Peter Fonda is terrific as Wilson's daughter affluent lover and object of Wilson's anger. Leslie Ann Warren is supportive as Wilson's girlfriend. A young Luiz Guzman is terrific and supportive as the best friend. He almost steals the movie from Stamp. As does Fonda.Why do I like this movie? Here is the spoiler (although a small one). It is ultimately a story of forgiveness and personal redemption. It's a story any father could love. And Stamp kicks senior-citizen butt. My favorite scene A blood-stained Stamp shouts after a redemptive killing field, set up by a gritty, memorabilia long walk along a red brick wall Tell him (Fonda), I'm coming.Great action. An anti-hero (Stamp). A buddy story. A love story. My favorite ... story.Stamp could be a star in America. If he started earlier in the states. If you like Charles Bronson, Stamp is more stylish. But quite like Bronson. Check it out and let me know what you think. What are some of your favorites the same tone as The Limey. Another favorite of mine is The House of Sand and Fog. "},{"Title":"gotta respect Soderbergh","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I agreed with what Soderbergh said in the commentary about his critics' comment about style over substance in this film.  You really did not get to know anything about the characters, which really affected your ability to get into the story.  However, I found the settings so captivating and the Soderbergh's stylistic additions so interesting to watch, that I overall was very impressed with this film.  It is one of those films that requires multiple viewings because I feel he was doing a lot here.  I really liked his perspective on allowing the viewer to see the character's thoughts.  That was very effective.Overall, I think Soderbergh is overrated, but this is a great effort.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Soderbergh delivers a slice of Cinematic virtuosity","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are some films that leave you gasping at the special effects, others that leave you panting from their frenetic pace and others that leave you spellbound with their stories. There are very few films however that render you absolutely speechless from their sheer cinematic intensity. The Limey is without a doubt one of those films. Starring Terence Stamp as Wilson, a British 'wealth redistributor' just released from prison, the film follows his pursuit of the truth behind his daughter Jenny's mysterious death in L.A. He discovers that she had been involved with extravagant pop-producer Valentine (Peter Fonda), so they track him down and ruthlessly find out what really happened. On the face of it, The Limey sounds like yer-average revenge thriller, but director Steven Soderbergh shows his mastery of film as a medium and turns it into stunning piece of cinema. Unlike most films, The Limey avoids the trap of being too naturalistic and has a plastic sense of time, that corresponds with the emotions of Stamp's character. Like a piece of music in which certain phrases are repeated with slightly different emphasis, the film repeats various images, moments in Wilson's life to excellent effect. We see the film as an external representation of Wilson's consciousness and really feel as if we are getting inside his head and feeling his pain. Every camera shot looks perfect, with a soundtrack to match. By soundtrack I don't mean the music, but the way that every noise, sound effect and word seemed perfectly placed. This adds to my overall impression of the film being exquisitely delicate in every respect. It may have a high body count, but the violence, like everything else was carefully understated. Throughout the film there are periodic close-up shots of Wilson in an aeroplane; in each one the tiniest twitch in his rugged face is rich in meaning. This close attention to detail combines with superb acting. Fonda, is splendid as the 60's throwback who becomes increasingly vulnerable and isolated as Wilson homes in on him. Stamp has a commanding screen presence and there is a nice interplay between his hard-nosed cockney Britishness and the alien culture of L.A. The Limey is a stylish and moving film from one of the most interesting modern directors.  "},{"Title":"Soderbergh Delivers in 90 Minutes or less or the next ones Free!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My name is.. Wilson. What else can you say about this gem of a movie? Terence Stamp is at his best. His role as Wilson is a masterpiece. A character bent by emotion that has to use every ounce of his strength to maintain his composure. You can feel the tension and share his relief at it's release during the film.  Luis Guzman(Traffic), as always, is spot on as Eduardo. Soderbergh uses 'flash-forward' story telling capture the audience's full attention.  He does this till the plot is established, and at that point only a fire or the bathroom could make an enlightened movie watcher abandon this thriller. And the director does not bore the audience with silly plot twists or 'mysterious'(ooohh) music or camera angles. He(Soderbergh) keeps it short and neat in 90 minutes, any longer would just not have made sense, unlike most bigticket thriller's that need POPular actors and twist after twist and some walk on character from the beginning of the movie was a major player.In other words,(lol) Watch it. If you dont get it, well than they have 'Kiss the Girls' on DVD at Wal-Mart.  "}{"Title":"bit of class","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  great film to kick back to, couple of mates, couple of beers. reminds me of bullit, some really good looking shots of some really classy acting. its a gritty film, strong language and violence but its pulled off really well. the fights are realistic looking, which makes a refreshing change, and the language in context. the running joke of an englishman in America is funny, with cockney rhymning slag 'butchers hook' etc.  nice one. "},{"Title":"A good'un","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hidden at the back of a lot of more recent titles, the title 'The Limey' caught my eye. A look at the box told me everything I thought I was going to need to know; a guy kills lots of Americans as vengeance for his daughter's death, the twist to this guy being that he's British. Probably a 6 out of 10 type thing. I was proved very wrong.What I got is an intelligent, well made, well acted film. I thought Terrance Stamp was perfectly cast as Wilson; I know there's been a lot of people complain that he wasn't a very accurate portrayal of a Londoner. Personally, I didn't think there was anything wrong (compared to the laughable efforts I've seen before, I thought he did very well), but then again, when has anyone ever known an American director to accurately portray a British person? As I say, I thought Soderbergh and Stamp did it very well, but prior to this, everything from The Simpsons to Independance Day has portrayed the British as being royals who live on an island so tiny they must all know each other. So there have been worse.Frankly, I haven't any idea why the scenes kept flashing back and forward, but whatever the reason was, Soderbergh pulled it off brilliantly. (Only complaint being that it became less apparent as the film went on, had he kept it up, it would have made it more powerful still.) He and Peter Fonda also created a very interesting villain in Terry Valentine. In contrast to Wilson's anti-hero, you can really see how un-stereotypical Valentine was. He got someone else to do his dirty-work, he often needlessly panicked, he didn't seem in the slightest bit vicious, yet you'd want to hit him really hard within seconds of meeting him.My compliments to Lesley Ann Warren, Luis Guzmán and Barry Newman, they all did their jobs text-book perfectly. The action scenes weren't overdone either. Frankly considering the hype, they could have been a little more brutal, but they didn't come every five minutes as I expected. The brief car-chase bit is great.9/10 - I expected a knock-about actioner, I got an intelligent well-made film. My congratulations to Mr Soderbergh. "},{"Title":"A Simplistic yet creatively complex thriller.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Steve Soderbergh took this done-to-death routine, revenge-thriller and notably put in some influences of his own. Stamp plays the cockney hardman very well, and I was so surprised that Soderbergh didn't exploit stereotypes, particularly Stamp's character. The most he did was used a bit of cockney rhyming slang, but not too much. Fonda was good but I find his smile irratating (?). Am I alone there? I agree with the review which said that the film rewards patience, not much happens for the first half an hour. And the viewer, throughout the film, gets repeated flashbacks and flashes of future scenes in about 2-3 second doses. The film's violent content only really kicks in for the second half and isn't as gratuitous as it sounds. My favorite part is when the gangsters, about a quarter into the film, drag him out of their warehouse and kick and beat him outside. Then, they say all this typical stuff like  If you show you're face around here again- you're a dead man! English fag! Then they walk back in. What does he do? He pulls himself up, bleeding and bruised, reaches into the back of his belt and pulls out his pistol and walks straight back inside... "},{"Title":"Brilliant Stuff","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yet another great film from Steven Soderbergh, 'The Limey' is a slow-burning and detailed movie, totally driven by a tough yet subtle performance from Terence Stamp. It's a wonderfully low-key, thoughtful film, more mythodical and intelligent than most 'revenge' movies. Stamp goes to find out what happened to his daughter, meets with Peter Fonda's slimey record boss, raises hell etc etc-yes, it's rather formulaic and derivative of 'Get Carter', but there's layers of invention and style in the film-making. A lost classic.  "},{"Title":"Good film, but awful Limey!!","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I started watching this film and enjoyed the first half hour or so. I was impressed with the way it was shot and the way the story started to develop. There were some early indication that it might be a poor attempt to update the classic 'Get Carter', but those fears were soon quelled by the completely different style.However, this was all before Terrence Stamp started to speak. Don't get me wrong, Terrence Stamp is a fine actor and I have been very impressed with some of his past work, but as any Englishman (or Limey) will soon be able to tell, he is no Londoner. His accent is a laughable caricature of a cockney. I thought he was going to break into a rendition of a Mary Poppins song at any moment. When he referred to someone as ' my new china plate' in his 'I'm such a cockney gangster' accent I nearly fell of my chair laughing. No real Londoners talk like that! Terrence Stamp's accent comes from the educated classes of Middle England, and his attempt at a London accent sounds terribly forced. If they had got a real Londoner to play the part, such as Bob Hoskins or Michael Caine, then I would have enjoyed the film a lot more.I would have thought an actor of Stamp's abilities would normally have been able to cope with accents. I can only assume that the producers got him to play up the accent to caricature levels to enable the American audience to distinguish that he is supposed to be a London hard type, rather than a polite 'Oxbridge' type. Those seem to be the only two types of Englishman that Americans recognise. I guess it is similar to the fact that I wouldn't be able to tell the difference between a New York accent and a Texas accent, unless they were highly caricatured. I guess if you are not English this film would be enjoyable. If you are English then try to stop laughing! "},{"Title":"Very cool","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You hear about mythology throughout your life, and yet most movies that touch on it end up ruining their themes by overdoing them. The bad guy is really bad, and the hero always has quick one liners. Like the mummy type of stuff. Well, The Limey pushes all of those movies aside and shows them how to do it. It uses experienced and aging actors like Peter Fonda, Leslie Ann Warren, and Terrence Stamp and they all represent experienced people in the real world. One is a record producer who lived in the sixties and made his fortune there. Another is a vengeful father who spent his life in prison and has now gotten out. These guys take what they are doing seriously. No corny one liners, but real moments of excitement and feeling. It doesn't hurt that it's directed by the great Steven Soderbergh (Another great one is Out of Sight, and still another is Sex, Lies, and Video Tape). This movie has everything going for it. Great acting, writing, and filmimg. Even the use of music is right on target.  "},{"Title":"Look out L.A! Here comes The Limey!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the tale of career con Terence Stamp attempting to hunt down the Los Angelinos he believes responsible for the death of his beloved daughter, without the help of any discernible, what do they call it..erm,...evidence.Despite the fact that he travels to California basically on a gut feeling that she was murdered, and not the victim of a fatal accident, and armed only with the address of her L.A friend (Luis Guzman), he eventually tracks down the perpetrator and dishes out his own style of justice. "},{"Title":"Not everybody's cup of tea","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It is not the story, but the story-telling that sets this film apart. There is a certain distance between viewer and viewed, which in 'Limey' is too self-conscious for most audiences to bear. The broken line of time and the difference between dialogue and on-screen action will make you uneasy at first, but in the process of getting the story told, all pieces of the jigsaw fit together perfectly. 'Limey' is not a fast-food product, it is more like a French-cuisine specialty. Some may find it delicious, others - not to their taste.  "},{"Title":"Gritty and elegant at the same time","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Talk about a tough guy.  Wilson's idea of softening up the bad guys is to let them pummel him until they lose interest, letting their guard down.  Terence Stamp plays the rough-hewn Wilson without falling into cliche by using the occasional flash of humor.  This film's cast of characters are mostly atypical, except the girl that plays Peter Fonda's toy girlfriend.  Her sole function seems to be taking one long bath after another.  Since you never see her below the neck, and what's above the neck doesn't do anything, we could have done without her.What had most interest for me are the characters in the middle; the friends of Wilson's dead daughter. Luis Guzmán shows surprising range and Lesley Warren does a lot to hold the story together.  I can't help feeling that Peter Fonda was under-used as the bad guy, and his cheif bodyguard (Barry Newman) seems oddly out of place.Soderbergh obviously wants to break new ground with the artsy way he plays with flash-back, flash-forward, and imagined (didn't really happen) sequences.  He pulls it off here, but this obviously could become overdone easily by Soderbergh or imitators.Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Far better than most","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not for everyone, but anyone who values acting, plot and good solid film making more highly than Special Effects, Loud Scores and being sledge hammered by the director should take the time to see this movie.  Overall Outstanding. "}{"Title":"Extremely idiosyncratic treatment rather spoils and excellent vengeance plot","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a pretty good vengeance crime tale released English convict comes to U.S. to find out what really happened to his dead daughter. Finding out she was likely murdered, he sets out to get the perpetrators. That's about it, but a heck of a lot of involved action takes place before the denouement. I won't say what that is, but if you can sit through all the flashbacks, flash forwards, and flashbacks within flashbacks, you will find it rather startling. The director/editor seems rather reluctant to get on with telling his tale. Is this sensible editing? Personally, I like straightforward story telling, but directors and editors these days don't think they have done their job unless they constantly call attention to themselves. This kind of thing is not ART. It is just self-indulgence on the part of the production team. If you can tolerate all this, you'll get some excellent acting and a satisfyingly complicated plot, with effective suspense almost from the beginning. In the end, there seem to be almost as many dad bodies as in a Shakespearian tragedy. "},{"Title":"One of the strongest gangster films of the nineties.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gangster movies of the nineties often rely on violence to create the tough-guy image.  (i.e. Joe Pesci, Casino, ballpoint pen, you do the math....) I can assure you that Terence Stamp is just about as calm and collected a human can be while he takes care of business in a very efficient and thought provoking manner. Mr. Soderbergh really makes this film worth watching.  His audio overlay techniques give a lot of depth to an otherwise simple film.  Wonderful acting, great angles, and believe me, a great capture of Los Angeles.  Also check out Poor Cow, it is somewhat of a prequel! "},{"Title":"Gor'blimey, it's a bit of orl right!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The scriptwriter infuses some humour by introducing cockney expressions into an otherwise very violent film.  Wilson, the Limey (Terence Stamp) goes to Los Angeles to investigate his daughter's death through a questionable car accident. He discovers that she has been associating with a man heavily involved in the unlawful drug market.  The final shoot-out scenes with bullets crashing through plate-glass windows is tense and exciting.  Every character in this film has a doubtful past and most of them should be locked up. However this dangerous bunch of criminals get their just deserts in the final scenes.  The story is presented in an unusual way.  Much of the dialogue represents the thoughts of the Limey as he contemplates his next move.  This is a bit confusing at first with the numerous flashbacks and flashforwards.  Eventually the scenes fall into place and the nightmarish outcome is finally revealed.  The concept of the film is quite different from the usual thriller. It's well done and not a frame is wasted, thanks to the expert direction of Steven Soderbergh.  Poker-faced Wilson (a superb performance by Terence Stamp) maintains a determined expression throughout as he unflinchingly avenges his daughter's death.  A real thriller this one. "},{"Title":"Interesting, Good, but Overdone","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"       I bought this movie because I think Stephen Soderbergh is a great director. He has the ability to make a very simple scene seem unique. I respect that. So it was six bucks and I bought it.     When I began watching it (anyone who's seen it will agree) I was a bit confused. For anyone who saw Out of Sight, remember the scene where Karen and Jack are talking at the bar, and then it would cut back and fourth between that and the flirting in the hotel. The scene worked because it was unique and had a certain coolness to it. I quess that Soderbergh thought it would be nice to do it again. Accept this time he does it throughout the entire film. At times it worked, and others it just got annoying. Kind of like Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers when it comes to excess editing.     I think the performance's were great. They really fit in with the characters. I'm not saying the main one's were bad, but I did highly enjoy the supporting ones more. I think whoever the girl was that was with Henry Fonda the whole time was great. She was very sweet and her and Fonda fead off each other very well. I think one of today's most underrated actors is Nicky Katt. Lately, it seems like he has been in a great deal of the films I've been watching lately. He seems like he is everywhere and he is good with all of the performances.     Overall, this was a good film that I'm not sorry I bought. I think if it was toned down a little it could have been better. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Quiet, controlled, calmly hypnotic movie","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's a quiet, controlled movie, very fragmented, just like the protagonist's life. It's got a strange chronology, with flaskbacks, flashforwards, and the like. It rewards the patient, attentive viewer with numerous details. It also has Soderbergh's trademark visual style gorgeous cinematography, often unusual camera angles, camera and audio effects (stop-motion, quick zooms, inaudible dialogue...). The soundtrack is hypnotic, and Soderbergh uses it to great effect. Terrence Stamp is intense and totally convincing as the lead character; Luis Guzman is great, as is Peter Fonda, and the rest of the cast.It's an unusual movie, as it is sparse on action, but deep on character development, themes, and artistic style, and it shows a rapidly maturing and improving director experimenting and getting better and better. It's a movie that rewards the attentive viewer, and if you enjoy something more artsy, and more unusual, be sure to give this gem a try. RATING ***1/2/**** "},{"Title":"wasted occasion","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What an idea!! The real flashback, taken from the real youth, in particular from a performance, of Terence Stamp is an amazing point of start, probably worth half a movie. And how to comment the soundtrack (Who, Byrds & co. with slightly unusual but classic tracks from the sixties) and all the atmosphere of End of an era perfectly embodied by two symbols of that age, Stamp (one of the Free Cinema UK icons) and Fonda, the Easy Rider character (in decaying state, a possible alternative to the tragic ending of the biker in the original movie)? So, with all these premises, why The Limey isn't a 10/10 but only a 7/10? Because these premises ARE the film, as if it wasn't never realized, but remained on paper, pale trace of a masterpiece the real result (probably due to the nature of Soderbergh, artisan more than artist, and to a poorly written script) is a somewhat good movie who could be better acted, directed, etc. It remains enjoyable but what a great chance missed! "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was far from an excellent movie but it was still enjoyable to watch. Terence Stamp is doing a terrific job as Wilson, the guy from the UK that comes to Los Angeles to see what happened to his daughter.Out of 100, I gave it 77. "},{"Title":"It's not trying to be another typical revenge thriller.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An intelligent and sharp film about Wilson (Terence Stamp), an ex-convict with a deep Cockney accent from the U.K. who comes to Los Angeles determined to look into the mysterious death of his daughter and tries to connect the murder to a wealthy music producer Terry Valentine (Peter Fonda). Stamp and Fonda are both excellent here and backed by a solid supporting cast (Lesley Ann Warren, Luis Guzman, Barry Newman, and Nicky Katt).Director Steven Soderbergh and screenwriter Lem Dobbs make a good point here that Wilson has come to L.A. not only to get back at Valentine, but to find out the truth as well. This film also shows that it's not trying to be another typical revenge thriller.Soderbergh takes a page out of one his previous films, Out of Sight, mixing in flashbacks that the Stamp character has of his daughter. The move turns out to be a smart one and is helped by good editing along with a nice musical score by Cliff Martinez, and the photography by Ed Lachman (The Virgin Suicides, Light Sleeper) is a real treat. "},{"Title":"Mesmeric revenge flick with a warm heart","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was initially amused by Stamp's overemphasised Cockney-isms, but as you familiarise yourself with the character, this fades away, although his insistence on quoting rhyming slang and then explaining it can grate a little!  Seriously, this is a nugget of a film, the sort of thing you stumble across on TV by accident and think wow, that was amazing!.  The story involves a just-out-of-prison Londoner named Wilson (Stamp) whose daughter has died in LA, apparently in a car accident.  A friend of the daughter implicates Terry Valentine (Peter Fonda) as being a negative life influence and party perhaps in her demise.  To complete the triumvirate of 60's cult actors, Barry Newman appears as Avery, Valentine's erstwhile head of Security. All of the men have an air of their time of true living being passed, a quiet pining for the lives they used to or (in Wilson's case, due to incarceration) never quite had.. This is the true magic of this movie, the huge emotional subtext of ageing and loss, which in some way reminded me of Jackie Brown in that the reflective side of the characters is given more room to breathe than you normally expect.Soderbergh, as in Out of Sight (1998), uses editing trickery to evoke his characters feelings.  Wilson has regular flashbacks to seeing his late daughter on the beach as a child, or threating to shop him to the police as a 7 year old!  Old footage from Ken Loach's classic Poor Cow (1967) show Wilson in his late 20's, at his prime, and give a poignancy to the whole film which leads to the ending having an emotional gravitas that took me be surprise somewhat.Fonda is effortlessly good as he is, more or less, playing himself.  His slimy, inept, past-it 60's nostalgic record producer is as easily dislikeable as Wilson is simple and from the heart likeable.Overall, a stunning, if slow movie that touches in a way that other similar films rarely do.9/10 "},{"Title":"The REAL successor of Point Blank...","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Because it is based on the same novel, Payback has been held up as the (gag) remake of Point Blank. Anyone who has seen The Limey, as I have, could definitely tell you different. Though the style of the film obviously comes from John Boorman's sometimes forgotten masterpiece, Soderbergh deserves credit for expanding on that style and giving it some touchs that make it even better.Point Blank had a hopscotch method to it's storyline, randomly jumping around from past to present to future and back again at the drop of hat (suggesting that it's main character, Walker, was actually dead). Soderbergh goes further, giving a voice-over to some of the final words in the film, and running through several possible futures at the dinner party. All adrenline junkies should definitely stay away from this film on account of that fact; nothing about how things develop is straightforward or typical of the action genre. That said, it's everything that someone with an appreciation for a damn good film of any genre could want. Another interesting item of note is the fact that both films take place in L.A. and have leads with only a last name with a W (in this case, Wilson).This is probably the best role that I've ever seen Terence Stamp play, a hard-edged ex-con with a vicious streak the size of Santa Monica Boulevard. He's not an especially likable bloke, but he gradually becomes someone you can sympathize with. Peter Fonda, to my mind, was a natural for the music producer, a shallow, vain sellout who has made a fortune out of other people's talent. He has everything that the market teachs us that we could want, yet you get the sense that for Fonda, it's a hollow victory, made even more hollow by Stamp's vendetta.The film's greatest strength to me is that absolutely NOTHING winds up the way that the viewer thinks it should. That may be a bit offputting for some, but it truly helps make The Limey stand out from the rest of the all-too-predictable landscape of cinema. Watch it and see for yourself. "}{"Title":"One of the best to come along in years","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I agree on everything positive said about this most unique and special film. A small budgeted film that personifies the highest quality of film making; sound, photography, EDITING, script, direction and acting are superb. A real gem. "},{"Title":"If you are patient, this one is a keeper","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those movies that does not start off with fast speed action.  In fact, it starts off at a snails pace.  Where this movie sucks you in, though, is right from the beginning.  You begin the movie off wondering what is going on.  Before you know it you have watched the whole thing.  Some people would get upset with all of the flashbacks throughout the movie, but these add to the growing plot.Within the first few minutes, I was questioning if this was one of those movies that is acclaimed only by dingbat critics, who have found the artistic value.  It definitely starts out giving that appearance.  As the movie starts to grow on you, it becomes quite entertaining.This is not a movie that I would watch over and over again.  It is, however, a movie that I didn't mind renting for the first time. "},{"Title":"Terrence Stamp Shines","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Pretty good movie. Stamp gives a believable performance as a man searching for the secret behind his daughter's death. Peter Fonda's performance was pretty weak while Luis Guzman did yet another great job in a supporting role. The movie is pretty relaxed at times but in the end it is worth it if you stick with it. The movie is peppered with numerous flashbacks but done in a manner that adds to the depth of Wilson (Stamp's character). "},{"Title":"beautifully choreographed...","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i say choreographed because the film flows like a modern ballet. the editing and noir-like voice-over meld like a fine silk. the acting is top notch. terence stampp is lovely to watch. peter fonda's acting has improved with age and experience. luis guzmán is one of my favorite soderbergh staples.all in all it was a leisurly ride though a fathers life (or lack thereof)with his wife and daughter. under it all it was a deep look into our lives. what do we cherish, what do we honour, what did we do; how does it affect our friends, our family, ourselves. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not for me","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Limey was a hard movie to watch.  It could be the editing which jumped forward and backward in time, essentially making the scenes idea scrapbooks rather than time linear.  It is an interesting idea, and worked rather well, although it was somewhat annoying at the same time.There were a lot of other annoying things about this movie.  None of them overtly heinous, but detract none-the-less.  Like Peter Fonda's character, very flat and static.  Actually all the characters are static, including the Limey.One fun thing about the movie was Wilson's accent.  Especially when he is recounting the tale to the head DEA agent. "},{"Title":"Amazingly shot and edited.","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An extraordinarily cool movie with a kind of 60s style of free-from, new-wave kind of story-telling. Soderbergh is without a doubt among the most interesting Hollywood directors nowadays. Amazingly shot and edited. I especially like the Nicholas Roeg-style overlapping dialogue. Great acting and a very effective score by Carter Burwell. Wonderful atmosphere. In short I like this movie a lot. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Good, But Could Have Been More","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**	The story of a man seeking truth and vengeance, `The Limey' stars Terence Stamp as Wilson, a career criminal who intends to find out what really happened on the night his daughter was killed in Los Angeles.  While serving a nine year stretch in prison, in England, Wilson receives a newspaper clipping about an accident in which Jenny (Melissa George) died when her car went off a cliff on Mulholland.  When he is released, Wilson goes straight to L.A. to track down the man Jenny was with at the time, a record producer named Valentine (Peter Fonda).  He begins by contacting the man who sent him the clipping, a friend of Jenny's from an acting class, Ed Roe (Luis Guzman), an ex-con himself who steers Wilson to Valentine. 	Director Steven Soderbergh approaches the material artistically, using a definite pace (occasionally too slow) and interspersing brief flashbacks of Wilson and Jenny, which prove to be very effective.  Stamp does well with his Wilson, having reached an age and maturity that gives him the perfect look and overall countenance with which to ably bring such a character to life.  Fonda's Valentine comes off as fairly one dimensional; he comes across believably enough, but without any of the personal traits or mannerisms that could have made this an interesting character.  The supporting cast includes Barry Newman (Avery), Joe Dallesandro (Uncle John), Nicky katt (Stacy) and Lesley Ann Warren (Elaine). 	`The Limey' is an interesting character study, but hardly compelling.  Wilson is a hard guy, a man who's spent most of his life in prison; it's hard to muster up much sympathy for him.  Valentine made a reputation (and  a lot of money) during a couple of years in the sixties, and hasn't done much since.  He's a man you neither like nor dislike, but could probably do without in your life.  His remorse about what happened to Jenny seems shallow; it's all about himself, rather than her.  The only truly sympathetic character here is Jenny; through the flashbacks you learn enough about her moral attributes that is gives you the insight to fully understand what really happened the night of the accident.  This film has some nice moments, with one especially interesting sequence that takes place at a party at Valentine's house, in which Wilson repeatedly envisions himself shooting Valentine.  There's a pensive quality about this film that works, and Soderbergh's off-center approach is interesting, he has a nice touch; essentially, he's delivered a good movie that could have been more.    I rate this one 6/10. "},{"Title":"Almost perfect!","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A simple plot became a wonderful movie because of its interesting direction, excellent acting of Terence Stamp and very good music. The flashback of Stamp playing himself very clever and fits in, in a perfect way. "},{"Title":"just plain cool...","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the coolest movie I've seen in a long time.  The editing is amazing. Stamp is amazing...and funny.  The script is simple, yet effective.  The photography is amazing.  The music is hypnotic.The film takes its time, though, which I didn't mind because every scene was so well composed and Stamp is such a trip to watch.  Soderbergh is one of the few directors out there who can be artsy without being annoying.I highly recommend this one to those who generally get it.  If you're not one of those who get it, don't blame the editing for crying out loud. "},{"Title":"Very good despite 'you wrote me'","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this film and the directorial effects of strange cutting and overlapping dialogue, but equally I can see these are intensely irritating for others. But isn't it good that sometimes a film challenges you like that?I actually live in South London, where this man is supposed to come from and I've rarely heard cockney rhyming slang. I have heard 'let's have a butchers' for have a look and the more euphemistic 'I'm having my chalfonts done' (Chalfont St Giles = piles) but nothing else and it seemed very contrived to me to have Wilson spout it and then have to explain it.That said, this is a great little revenge thriller with Fonda great as a bizarrely toothsome cowardly villain with good support from Newman but it is Stamp who really walks away with this - probably his best outing since Billy Budd.And yes, I have to agree with an earlier comment as it immediately grated with me and Stamp should have known better. No Brit would ever say 'you wrote me' - we'd always say 'you wrote to me'. "}{"Title":"An Oscar for the cinematography","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having grown up in England in the Sixties,Terence Stamp seems to me now like a relative,an older Uncle..he's so familiar. But he does lose his OWN character for this movie persona.. and yes,it is a tongue in cheek role for moments  of light relief..ie.The scene with the bemused black FBI agent.The script hasn't been praised at all or at least enough.It was brilliant and waves of genius  crashed on our shores of perception as in the scene with the pony-tailed hit man ( full of hatred for humanity) giving a running commentary on some film making going on in down- town LA. I confess there were a couple of moments we considered whether or not our dog had fleas.These were the entirely erroneous scenes with the middle-aged woman.No need.The movie had enough going on.Perhaps the director should have deepened Peter Fonda's sugar baby character a little more.The women were depressingly stereotyped...but then that was probably deliberate...the film did question how people from different cultures stereotype each other and get it WRONG as in the  early warehouse scene where 'our Tel' is mistaken for an alien from another planet.(Our Tel is a term of cockney endearment for Terence..I mean here of course the primary character,Wilson.)I liked the editing once I'd got used to it.It usefully emphasised points/emotions/thought processes/plans/dreams/fantasies.Realities.I've always adored flashbacks...as LONG as they move the story along and enhance it. I think little gal was shown just ONCE too much on the beach. But I loved thegrainy effect of these clips. So,this leads me to the cinematography.Direction...fine,script SUPERB,the musicwas totally suited to the atmosphere and went a long way to making it a more special movie......so..the skills of the cameraman(I digressed)...well...WOW!!!Unexpected angles,zooms,long shots,sweeps across the bays,the most BEAUTIFUL scene?On the balcony when Fonda and Newman talk ,drink on table in foreground.The sky,the light angles,the colour,the perfection of the scene...oh WOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I'm giving this movies a 9/10.It was very well cast,except for the goonish what's her name with big nostrils.  "},{"Title":"unexpectedly good","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from this after Soderberg's last crime film with Jennifer Lopez turned out to be one of the worse films I've ever seen but this slight but engaging thriller proves that he is still a film maker of some note. Terence Stamp's reputation as an actor has been called inflated after his performance in this film but since the direction is already so mannered I think his slightly parodic 'every Carter you've ever met south of Watford' villain is appropriate to the material. For some reason it reminds me more of Stephen Frears, perhaps because Stamp starred in 'The Hit' with similar off-beat material. The unusual multi-layered cutting style works surprising well at moving the story along as well as keeping the routine plot interesting. The whole thing also reminds me of one of those old episodes of 'The Rockford Files', especially the shoot out at the end with a variety of gangsters unexpectedly turning up at once. Barry Newman and Peter Fonda also add to this nostalgic mood. The sad and ironic ending is an excellent twist and gives an unexpected moral base to the picture. A final bit of praise goes to the film's brevity. It does not outstay it's welcome and if other Hollywood films would resist the urge to inflate slight material beyond the two hour mark then you may find audiences coming out of the cinema with less equivocal reviews. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly made, powerful flick almost ruined","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   Soderburgh's penchant for timetwisting, overlapping dialogue onto scenes of still mouths, splicing in flashbacks and forwards (as demonstrated in The Underneath and Out of Sight) here reaches a level of subtlety and skill verging on genius, the look of the film throughout and the emotional pictures built up by the editing techniques are truly quite amazing. The characters too all have interesting back-story and quirks, the plot though simple works well and throws a lot of new ideas at a tale that had nearly been done to death since Get Carter etc.  Nearly a great film then, but what happened with Stamp? Great actor yeah, trying to portray a man cut off in time maybe, but he just can't get away with doing cockney, his voice has just picked up far too much of that deep, rich quality that all great stage-trained British actors seem to develop (Olivier, Guinness, Gielgud, Richardson, they all had it) which makes for great Kings and spiritual masters and Supreme Beings but isn't really that good for London hard men. This small flaw could maybe have been overlooked in what was otherwise a fine performance (a trifle overblown at times perhaps, but really quite interesting and convincing) if it wasn't for the appalling dialogue he's given. The occasional anachronism is perhaps intentional for a man cut off from the world for long periods of his life, but a lot of what he said he just wouldn't say. I don't only mean the banal and improbable use of rhyming slang just to give himself an opportunity to explain it (the whole point is you only understand it if you understand it), there's also stuff like you wrote me, she didn't write me going on here which he definitely, 100 per cent wouldn't ever dream of saying if he hadn't been hanging around Hollywood looking for movie work for the last twenty-odd years. Not that I mean to criticise or anything.   Overall, worth a look if you're a fan of Soderburgh, noir, Get Carter, Stamp, Fonda or Home and Away, but probably a lot more enjoyable if you're not British and couldn't spot badly stereotyped dialogue if it gave you a dry slap.   "},{"Title":"Steven Soderbergh's film is a masterpiece of modern film noir, told in stylish jump-cut sequences intercut with flashbacks to an earlier Terence Stamp feature, and fully packed with tongue-in-cheek dialogue.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In The Limey, Terence Stamp plays Wilson, an English ex-con trying to find out the real cause behind his daughter Jenny's death. She is supposed to have died in a car accident on Mulholland Drive in Los Angeles; one of those treacherous, winding roads in the LA hills. Despite being described by Jenny's friend (Lesley Ann Warren) as a ghost in her life, Stamp remembers vividly each and every moment spent with his daughter, as shown in frosted flashbacks at varying stages of her youth.Steve Soderbergh, whose prior film was the very finely presented Out of Sight, once again plays with jump-cuts, flashbacks and time distortion. This is a masterful technique in his hands, as we are shown in the climactic scenes, which would lack their impact without the background provided through these cinematic flashbacks. This time he has created an L.A. noir that is more a tale of alienation that embraces the outcast in this suspenseful and stylish film. "},{"Title":"A little gem of a movie","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Limey is a classic Soderbergh movie - flashbacks and forwards, cool performances, and an excellent script.  Terence Stamp's performance takes a bit of getting used to, but is nowhere near as out-of-whack as M Mcdowell in Gangster No. 1, though there are similarities.  LA locations are used very well, the movie is beautifully shot.  In short, I'm a big fan, and think this under-rated movie is a little gem, in the same way that The Underneath was. See it. "},{"Title":"Terence Stamp in his Greatest Performance!!!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Terence Stamp is The Limey an ex con from England who is investigating the death of his daughter Jennifer. His prime suspect is Terry Valentine (a slick little weasel record producer)played brilliantly by Peter Fonda. The movie concentrates on Wilson (Stamps Character)seeking out Valentine and avenging himself of anybody who steps in his way. Excellent support given by Luis Guzman and Leslie Ann Warren. Stamp is so convincing in his role, and his dialogue is so cool! He should have been given at least an Academy Award nomination. Steven Soderbergh does a great job of directing and grafting in earlier cuts of a film made previously by Stamp. Credit should also go to the young hit man with the pony tail who gives a couple of hilarious monologues during the movie.The young actress who plays Peter Fonda's girlfriend is absolutely stunning. I believe her name is Nikki Katt. Barry Newman of Petrocelli fame does an outstanding job of playing Valentines right hand man. The Limey is great entertainment all the way around and has really made me a huge fan of Terence Stamp and Peter Fonda. It is amazing how much more charisma these two have over the so called young hot actors of today like Pitt and Cruise. Don't miss The Limey. It is a great movie. "},{"Title":"An absolutely brilliant, fascinating piece of cinema.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The plot for Steven Soderbergh's eighth film, The Limey, reads like the cheapest of thrillers. This is not entirely unexpected, as he has previously utilised B-film ideas. With the grossly underrated The Underneath he updated a classic noir, and in Out of Sight he exploited Elmore Leonard's source-book plot clichés to great effect. In The Limey, Soderbergh goes even further. With such a tired idea as the basis, he sets himself free to meditate on deeper thoughts on how memories function.Apparently, Soderbergh has been influenced by Alain Resnais' early films, where the human memory is always in the thematical forefront. Yes, The Limey resembles nothing so much as Hiroshima, mon amour &#150; as Don Siegel would have seen it. (Or maybe it's the other way around; Resnais reworking Magnum Force). Editor Sarah Flack and Soderbergh have constructed The Limey as a French New Wave film (Left Bank, that is), starting with the exhilarating introductory shots of Wilson on the plane/with Ed in the car/alone, etc. &#150; like Atom Egoyan's The Sweet Hereafter with its slightly disorienting aeroplane scenes. Obviously, Soderbergh walks in the paths of several mainstream Hollywood directors who have tried to make an `American Nouvelle Vague' film, including Scorsese, Coppola, Allen, and more importantly here, Dennis Hopper.Of course, Easy Rider is what Soderbergh wants us to remember when we see Peter Fonda's tanned Californian face. The casting is at the centre of most texts on The Limey &#150; rightfully so. Casting Fonda as a vain music producer (who cashes in on 60s nostalgia) with a perfect smile, and Terence Stamp as a Cockney hard-man, seems a stroke of genius. It adds to the feeling that The Limey is an echo, an echo of Easy Rider and Resnais, but also of Ken Loach's Poor Cow, scenes from which appear in The Limey as flashbacks into Wilson's memory. The revenge motive is continually frustrated, as if Soderbergh is playing with audience anticipation. Like in Boorman's 1967 masterpiece Point Blank (another echo), Wilson is a haunting angel, a walking anachronism who belongs neither in sun-drenched L.A. nor in contemporary London.There is plenty of material in The Limey to discuss endlessly in cinephile circles (as for instance, why is Luis Guzmán's Ed wearing first a Mao, then a Che Guevara T-shirt?), but suffice to say for now that it is an absolutely brilliant, fascinating piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"Well-made, but too cool for its own good","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Terence Stamp (who's still a damn good-looking man) and Peter Fonda (whose teeth are scary!) are really good, but everybody's so detached, it's hard to really like any of them very much. Luis Guzman is very fine as the sidekick Terence adopts. I like the trick of using footage from POOR COW for flashbacks in Terence's life. Well worth the pay-per-view. "},{"Title":"Good story, annoying editing","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While I thought the story was well thought out, the only times I enjoyed watching the movie were when there was none of the scene jumping.The film was constanting jumping back/forward/around and was just plain annoying. "},{"Title":"Excellent but overstylized story","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a good solid drama with some strong performances.  Wilson (Terence Stamp) is an ex-con who just got out of prison and is looking for answers regarding the death of his estranged daughter in a car crash.  He suspects foul play and he is certain that her ex-boyfriend, music magnate Terry Valentine (Peter Fonda) is behind it.  So he undertakes to seek the truth with vengeance in his heart, leaving a good deal of carnage in his wake along the way.The story itself is an interesting human drama including a number of character studies.  The drama worked, but the character studies of Wilson, and his daughter Jenny were unsatisfying even though a significant amount of time was devoted to them.  The most important character study, that of Wilson himself, leaves us with more questions than answers.Unfortunately, this film is an example of style overwhelming substance.  Director Steven Soderbergh has created an icon of visual style that is so prominent that it overshadowed and pushed the story into the background.  In reality, based upon the amount of dialogue and the number of meaningful scenes, this story probably could have been told in 45 minutes.  But through the magic of multiple perspectives and redundancies on every scene, Soderbergh managed to double that.Soderbergh's visual interpretation was nothing short of brilliant.  It was creative genius at work to be sure.  Veteran cinematographer Edward Lachman must be commended as well. The use of angles, lighting, filters, music, and breathtaking locations near the ocean were all superlative; but those endless cutaways eventually made me want to throw myself from Valentine's swimming pool overlook.  Incessantly, sometimes every two or three seconds, he would layer cutaway upon cutaway in a dizzying array of perspectives on the same scene.  It is a terrific technique when used to dramatize a point, and Soderbergh is masterfully creative in its use.  But to assemble a feature length motion picture from a patchwork of cutaways flitting back and forth through time with constant disruptions in continuity was like eating nothing but your favorite flavor of ice cream as your every meal for a month.  There comes a point where too much of a wonderful thing becomes distasteful.  It made it seem like Soderbergh was in desperate need of a little Ritalin during post production.  (Which is why this film will probably be the delight of the Attention Deficit Generation.)Terence Stamp gave a strong performance as the tough and enigmatic Wilson.  Stamp is an old pro and gives the character power and determination.  Peter Fonda's renaissance continues with another fine portrayal.  Oddly, this may be the first time I remember him smiling so much.  He has played so many dour characters, it almost looked strange to see him grin.  Lesley Ann Warren added very little in her role as Elaine, a friend and instructor of Wilson's daughter.I was very impressed with the work of Nicky Katt, who played Stacey.  He was a very cavalier, yet charismatic villain with a wryly philosophical bent that made him both sinister and funny.  I'm looking forward to seeing more of his work in the future.This was an smartly told story that sputtered a bit at the end, but in balance was first rate.  It was fabulously filmed from a technical standpoint, but it became a bit too self indulgent.  It forgot that the purpose of outstanding filmmaking technique is to enhance the story, not simply to show off.  I rated it a 8/10.  It is worth seeing just for its merit as an illustration of the art form.  If you can survive all the cutaways without sustaining cortical whiplash, you will probably enjoy the excellent story that lies within.  "}{"Title":"Stylish, well-directed crime pic","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There is a scene in Steven Soderbergh's Out of Sight that anyone has seen it can recall.  Bank robber Jack Foley meets Federal Marshal Karen Sisco in bar where they take a time out.  As the conversation progresses, the film flash forwards to later that night in her hotel room, while the dialogue continues in the present.  The film brilliantly cuts back and forth until the tension peaks and resolves.  That scene is only about 3 minutes long.  Soderbergh's follow-up to it, The Limey is 90 minutes long and is filled with scene after scene that utilizes this fantastic cutting and pasting technique.Terence Stamp stars as Wilson, a British ex-con whose daughter is mysteriously killed.  He comes to L.A. to figure out exactly what went down and who's to blame.  Pretty simple plot, and you can pretty much pick it up even in the middle (so if you find it on cable, don't flip immediately).The joys of this movie are in the direction and editing techniques I mentioned above.  Conversations start in one location and jump to others.  It's a little jarring if you haven't seen Soderbergh's early work, but give it time and it'll grow on you.  The film muddies the lines between past, present, and future so that the film is less about narrative than the power of emotion and memory.  Kudos to the production crew for finding old footage of Stamp to add authenticity to the flashbacks, and stylizing the footage to make them instantly recognizable.Good direction and editing wouldn't add up to much if the cast and script don't answer with a truly cool collaboration.  Just like Out of Sight, this movie exudes cool from every inch of celluloid.  Don't kick the Limey when he's down; cause he's going to get up again and do a hell of a lot more than just kick. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bravo...Bravo...  This was a fun movie to watch.  Perhaps dark at times, but fun to watch.  Can't say much else.  The only draw back is some of you may not like the art house elements.  This movie had great camera angles.  I loved it.  9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Accent?  I'm American.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To those complaining about the accent, I can only say that it is a very small part of a role, and being American, I did not notice until I saw reviews mentioning it.  Too bad it gets in the way of some people enjoying it for what it is. The rest of the movie was excellent in so many ways.  The jump cutting was slyly effective.  It sets things up so that you don't know in important moments whether you are seeing what really is happening, or whether you are seeing the limey imagining what he would like to do or say.The acting is perfect. The final realization of the film is almost perfect, although I wanted Wilson to tell Valentine that Jenny would not have reported him, just to rub in his mistake.  I suppose this would have been lacking in subtlety. However, at this point, there was not much being held back, I felt. I recommend this highly, and only rated it less than 10 (I gave it a 9) because of the aforementioned rubbing in not taking place, which is really unfair of me, I suppose, but that's my take on it.  "},{"Title":"Great film which is obviously misconstrued by most people","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  People expecting an edge-of-your-seat thriller (which, judging from other reviews on this site, many were) will be profoundly disappointed.  What The Limey gives us is a deep character study disguised as a revenge flick.  The movie is not about drugs, murder, and mayhem, but outgrowing a lifestyle and having your past catch up to you.  Steven Soderbergh, a great director, despite a few career missteps, takes some thin material and breathes life and weight into it.  Visually stunning with a great cast (Stamp is irreplacable and one of my fav character actors, Luis Guzman from Magnolia & Boogie Nights, comes off very well, too), this is a fine motion picture which elevates the original script tenfold. "},{"Title":"Revenge flick tough to figure out","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you haven't heard of this movie, maybe you've heard of the lead actor, Terence Stamp, who was in Billy Budd back in 1962 and most recently seen in The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, in which he played a transsexual. Stamp, an acclaimed British actor, here plays a Cockney old boy bent on finding out who caused his estranged daughter to die and exacting revenge on them.So what's the movie really about? Tough to say, really. In some ways, it's a lot like just about any other revenge movie you've seen (remember Mel Gibson in Payback?), but in other ways it's just off-kilter enough to set itself apart from standard-issue action movies. Stamp's character, Wilson, is tough to understand, so that alone might be enough to turn off viewers, but at least the movie itself makes note of that, as several characters ask him what in the hell he's saying. I think it's always a good sign when a movie is smart enough to make fun of itself and not take itself so seriously, especially when the movie is a mindless action movie. Sadly, however, the action portion of this movie is a little lacking, as if someone took a giant twisty straw and sucked all of the volatility out of it. Sure, Wilson's bent on revenge, and you can all now shrug your shoulders as you all say, So? I'm with you on that, and I just saw the damn thing. The good news is that since this was directed by the same guy who did Out of Sight with George Clooney, the direction really is an asset. Not enough of an asset, unfortunately, to offset some of the duller moments, and of course no amount of able direction can overcome the Huh? factor induced by a moribund script.PRO Good camerawork, good performance by Stamp, good direction.CON Dull for an action movie, motivations are cloudy, and that Cockney accent needs translating "},{"Title":"A solid effort from a great director!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh has done it again.  After the superb Out Of Sight, he has crafted a film that yet again features a hip cast (Terrence Stamp, Peter Fonda and the great Luis Guzman) in a compelling story.  Like Out of Sight this film also jumps around in time a lot and you are never sure what is the past and what is the present.  When all is said and done, you have a great, simple story told by a master and starring one cool cat.  Wilson is one of the coolest bad-asses I've seen.  "},{"Title":"Soderbergh is my god","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The neglect of this film at this year's Academy Awards is the biggest atrocity.  Everyone should see it and finally give Steven Soderbergh the recognition he duly deserves.  I couldn't stop talking about this one after I had seen it, and now that it has been released on video, my raves can go on.  Terence Stamp is the coolest man on film now and don't even get me started on the wonderful Luiz Guzman.  When are these fantastic actors finally going to be recognized for their sheer talent?  Really, just rent it and judge it for yourself... You shouldn't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Most Overlooked of 1999","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A very stylish, very original, and very satisfying film which no one I know ever heard about.  (I chalk this up to the absence of marketing.)  I am very glad to see Soderbergh picking up right where he left off with Out Of Sight.  This time, the whole movie has the dreamlike feel of the romantic interlude between Lopez & Clooney in O.O.S., thanks to sharp editing and innovative non-linear storytelling.  This style actually works very well with the plot, because we're trying to figure out what's going on while the main character tries to uncover the mystery of his murdered daughter.  Terrence Stamp and Peter Fonda give understated but powerful performances in 3-dimensional roles.  A real treat for film lovers.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Terence Stamp is my new personal hero","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Without Terence Stamp I don't think this movie would have been half as good - it is one of the best movies of the year - and it is a reflection on the Academy Awards that Terence Stamp was not nominated for best actor.  He is phenomenal.Not to say that the movie would be crap without Stamp - it is a good script and great production design, and the score is wonderful.  The colours were especially nice and some of the cinematic composition blew me away.  But Stamp stole the show. "},{"Title":"A suspenseful thriller perfectly set up by Soderbergh","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As a great admirer of Soderbergh's work I think 'The Limey' is a climax in his visual dynamics and non-chronological narration, that he already suggested in 'Out Of Sight'. 'The Limey' is a cool thriller full of suspense and deep meanings, and with Terence Stamp you've got a great actor whose stone-like face remains unforgettable.However, as often with Soderbergh's stories, there is a strong lack of real emotional bond to the viewer and we look upon it from a rather unaffecting distance. But despite that, it's a stylish and wonderful work. And Steven Soderbergh continues to be one of America's most interesting directors who developed his own style of narration ever more and more with each of his films, now culminating in 'The Limey'.Some viewers may be disturbed by the way Soderbergh edited this story, but as soon as you can follow along and 'take a look between the cuts', you'll realize a detailed and marvellous character study that has been perfectly set up by the director and his cast. And it's also beautyfully photographed. "}{"Title":"Entertaining, but quite slim plot-wise","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those films where the plot matters only to a certain degree. Everything centers on the character played by Stamp-which is wonderful,by the way-and his avenging quest. Stamp IS the movie, actually,with his marked brit accent (there's a scene involving him and a DEA man which left me laughing like crazy) and he has the physyque-du-role for his part. It has to be said that visually the movie is a sight for sore eyes. This ,together with the wonderful lead,makes watching THE LIMEY rewarding. Sadly the plot lacks a bit of direction... Rating6 "},{"Title":"Ambitious and original thriller","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the best thrillers of recent years. The Limey slows down a little in its middle section, but is ambitious in terms of how much enriching marginal detail it subtly includes. The basic story owes a lot to Boorman's Point Blank. If Stamp's hard man is not quite as stony as Marvin's character, it's a close run thing, and the scenes which establish his violent temper are among the best in the film. But the real subject of the film is the passing of time and its effects. Stamp and Fonda play (as well are are) survivors from an earlier era, which they carry with them. The film is interested in what this baggage means to them and what it has done to them. Soderbergh's camera dwells on their faces, studying every crease.In particular, we see Stamp's face again and again. For instance, in his window seat on the plane, with sunlight scanning his features. The camera can sometimes seem to X-ray the actors, making the performances secondary as it brings out the personality beneath. It's similar to how David Lynch films his performers in that he takes from them more than they realize. But Lynch will often turn this to menacing effect. With Soderbergh there's not so much a threat as a feeling of dispassionate intimacy.Couple to this Soderbergh's cutting style. He pushes his audience to the limits of its patience and emphasizes a looser study of character than we're used to in this kind of film. It feels like he's quickly sketching around to catch fleeting impressions. The cutting dissociates us from the events of the story, risking the loss of narrative momentum, but it encourages us to imagine the characters as real people, suggesting that they have other stories to tell, quite apart from the story of this film. "},{"Title":"Now this is new Editing!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was very impressed with the Limey! The editing is so surprising, mixing reality, flashback, feeling, wishes and social comments all into one new style. I love it!And though the story is simple, the message is deep when you think about it, the film is full of nostalgic quotes, acting is great (no need to say that), and the characters are amazingly powerful (and that includes one dead character).If you want to see what film can really be like, go see this one! "},{"Title":"Very well done -- I give it a 9","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I hadn't heard a lot about the Limey other than the fact that it was on a bunch of critics top 10 lists. I must say that I was very pleasantly surprised. I thought the experimental direction by Soderbergh worked well lending it an almost other worldly patinaThe direction along with great acting by Peter Fonda and Terrence Stamp is what really lifted a moderate script. "},{"Title":"Great fun and moving nonsense.(possible spoiler)","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Anyone I've asked hates this film.  Me, I haven't had as much fun since RUN LOLA RUN.  I think the disappointment stems from Soderbergh's disingenuous summary 'GET CARTER remade by Resnais', and the expectations this arouses. He is clearly talking nonsense, and having typical Soderbergh fun (which, as ever, is very difficult to catch) the film is much more about play, the failure of cinema and the 1960s.  What's most remarkable is the Proustian sense of history repeating itself Soderbergh, after a big success, Hollywood at this feet, squanders it all on an intellectual jeu d'esprit designed to alienate EVERYone.Soderbergh's tag is somewhat insulting - CARTER doesn't need Resnais, it is one of the last British masterpieces, as startling and dark an interrogation of the limitations of narrative as anything Soderbergh has offered.  The plot here is vaguely similar - a hardened ex-con goes to a strange milieu to investigate the death of a relative.  But the differences are crucial. Carter's relative was a brother, the abused teenager a niece.  Carter's revenge is therefore at a remove from him.  Wilson's quest is his daughter, a daughter disappointed by his persistant life of crime, who finally had enough and fled to the States.There is also a difference in the figures of the gangster and this feeds interestingly into the question of style.  CARTER is shot as straightforward narrative, with Carter dominating and forcing the plot.  And yet his power only leads to final emasculation and dissolution, his death is an end note for a genre.  Wilson, however, is repeatedly fragmented by style, by the strangeness of milieu, by the elliptical and elastic treatment of time, and yet he succeeds in both accomplishing his quest and achieving a sense of renewal.  Both are men from different times lost in a world that has utterly changed - Wilson learns to adapt.But even this is ultimately irrelevant because it presupposes a conventional treatment of character which THE LIMEY persistantly refuses to offer. Soderbergh has for a long time been subtly subverting the very representation we're supposed to be watching on screen.  The invocation of Resnais is worthless - true, Soderbergh uses overlapping image, montage, narrative and sound to crated an unstable drama that undermines character, plot, linear logic.  But it's never too unstable - once you get, quickly, used to the rhythm(s) of Soderbergh's editing, nothing is difficult to follow.He doesn't loop time back on itself as Resnais would to the extent where both time and place as coherent entities are destroyed, and the character/pawns are lost in a vacuum sucked of all reliable signifiers. Say a narrative is a series of blocks going from 1-12.  Soderbergh might rearrange 2 and 3, say, now and again, but the plot follows a linear narrative that is easy to follow, everything follows as it should, with conventional enough flashbacks.  True, it is by breaking up the inevitablitiy of his plot, in a way Carter cannot, that Wilson becomes free. As a great man once said, 'A minute freed from the order of time has re-created in us... the man freed from the order of time'.What is important is not Resnais per se, but the whole range of 60s modes of culture - music, actors, directors, painters etc. - that Soderbergh brings into his stew.  It IS possible to watch THE LIMEY straight - there is an excellent car chase and some cracking violence - but the film feels improvisatory and amateurish, like Soderbergh took out the camcorder to muck about with his mates, using and discarding styles when it suits.  The presence of old icons like Peter Fonda force us out of the narrative - his stories and persona remind us of a different story, different people, different dreams.  It depends how alert you are - if you recognise Barry Newman as Fonda's minder, the car chase is less a plot component than an ironic inverse of VANISHING POINT, an awesome chase movie, in which Newman was chased over America by the police for two hours.This iconography has its locus in Terence Stamp (still astoundingly beautiful and graceful after all these years).  His performance has been largely ignored over here in favour of the ineptness of his accent, but this latter is something he tries on, like his clothes, his gun, his persona, his cockney rhyming slang.  These are of course patently false - like him, they are definitively outmoded.  But so is the film.  It's astonishing, as with RUSHMORE, that a film harking back over 30 years should seem fresher and more challenging than what's concerned 'modern' today.Check the remarkable scene in the narc's office where Stamp gives a monologue that amounts to nothing more than a stand-up routine of tired cliches of how an American director thinks hard Brits speak.  It is obviously ludicrous, but Wilson isn't a character.  He is the ghost of the promise of the 60s note the haunting, dreamlike strides he takes early on, a somnambulent walking through the empty wasteland of modern LA.  The constant flashbacks refer not to his character, but a character Stamp played in the 60s, a time when he, Fonda, Joe Dallesandro starred in daring, new films that promised to destroy the mainstream, but never did.Soderbergh manages to make the individual plights here very moving - Wilson's oneiric flashbacks; the sexual undercurrent of his quest which ends in his daughter bleeding, as if he has just violated her, not Fonda (the film is very much about how cinema is masculine, and the absences and suppressions this allows); the depressing, inevitable circularity of the plot; the extraordinary use of space, landscape, sunlight, and shadow to open out and refigure character (especially Fonda's house, hanging on the precipice of a canyon); the unsettling, shifting power of the gaze; the hilarious black comedy (see Wilson's wonderful dispatching of a bodyguard) - but ultimately this is a film about disappointment, age and the failure to deliver. "},{"Title":"Smashing!","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really found THE LIMEY to be another great piece of filmmaking from Soderbergh.  I really don't have anything new to say that hasn't been said, but let me just point out what an adept talent Soderbergh is behind the camera (as well as in front of it.)  This could really be put in a box set with Soderbergh's previous film OUT OF SIGHT and Quentin Tarantino's near-masterpiece JACKIE BROWN, though THE LIMEY is more similar to the latter than the former, in its handling of aging once-hipsters. At the end, we figure out that THE LIMEY, while being a film with a now-familiar mix of crime and dark absurdist humor, is actually a tender look at loss and attempts to recapture and relive youth through the eyes of Peter Fonda and the British Peter Fonda, Terence Stamp.  Soderbergh handles this theme so delicately you'd think he is a filmmaker twice his age. THE LIMEY is a wonderful, innovative, intelligent picture, but, to be truthful, I'd like to see Soderbergh move away from the Elmore Leonard-styled stories and back to things like SCHIZOPOLIS, an earlier masterpiece of his.  Tarantino seems to be stuck in the same place, as he is now working on Leonard's 40 LASHES.  I think the 90's saw enough of the man's work (including Levinson's GET SHORTY, a TV series based on MAXIMUM BOB, and countless mentions in the Hollywood press) that we can move in a new direction.  But I digress.  Go see THE LIMEY, even if you're sick of the type of story that Tarantino popularized so well.  It transcends itself many times over, and will, it is my guarantee, leave you with a wistful smile on your face.   "},{"Title":"Stamp Powerful in Soderbergh's Film Noir Classic","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow!  An adult film that works beautifully on two levels  as a pure film noir and ultimately as a flick about a father/daughter relationship (or the lack of one).  Stamp is so terrific it's tough to think of the film without him in the title role.  He'll be robbed if he doesn't get an Oscar nod.  Soderbergh has done a miraculous job of directing, and his playing with time and dialogue and overlapping lines all seem to work within the context of the story.  What a terrific supporting cast  Guzman, Warren, Newman, and of course, Fonda who's just wonderful as the record producer.  The sense of place....LA and Big Sur.....and the great music, especially the moody jazz riffs all contribute powerfully.   "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw The Limey at the London Film Festival and i have to admit that it was fantastic. Steven Soderbergh and Terrance Stamp really have excelled themselves. the stunning editing is something that took a little time to get used to but after awhile it became unnoticable. it really gave a rambling impression of someone thinking back on past events which Wilson (stamp) was certainly doing. Stamps performance is outstanding, his cockney accent maybe a little docile for some but he really captures the feel of a simple criminal living off the most basic of emotions. Fonda was good. The real star here though is the amazing camera direction, the shots of the swimming pool is one that sticks in the mind. the downplaying of Wilsons killings also helps to reinforce the fact that its second nature to him - doesnt warrant his attention. Soderbergh continues from 'Out of Sight' with a fresh, captivating film. the plot may be a little thin and the end shootout a little 'deux ex machina' but otherwise a very good film. my favourite of '99, along with Thin Red Line and TPM and......... "},{"Title":"Stamp Dazzles us Again!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not since the days of Sir Larry Wildman (Wall Street) have we seen such a superb performance from Terence Stamp. Supporting cast is eclectic but still effective.  Oscar calibre Best Actor and Direction.The use of flashbacks and symbolic imagery dazzles the viewer. Wilson's (Stamp) use of his cockney patois is quite amusing in the airport sequence! The Poor Cow flashbacks were highlights.  Stamp's rendetion of Colours was heart-warming. I found this film most enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A film for grown-ups","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just seen The Limey. At the end I had to offer a little prayer of thanks that someone, somewhere can still make a movie for people above the age of twelve.I can enjoy films like The Sixth Sense and Enemy Of The State or The General's Daughter, but basically they're all kiddies' movies, whatever their superficial subject matter or quota of sex or violence.With The Limey you feel you are in the company of adults, people who are tough, uncompromising, but very flawed. People you might actually meet. And people that ultimately you do care about. The story is simplicity itself. There are no twists or surprises. The story plays itself out to the end. That ending could have been done differently, but why should it?No, what you have got here is a group of film makers, in front of and behind the camera, with total confidence in the integrity of their story and the sure belief that the strength and believability of the characters is enough.For me, the backwards and forward cutting was not a gimmick. The way the film was put together, draws you into the story and in fact helps the viewer understand the motivations and thought processes of the characters. in other words, just like in Point Blank, it's there for a reason.And as for Stamp and Fonda. As my old man, God rest him, would have said, A pair of diamonds!     "}{"Title":"Wow! A masterpiece!","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a tremendous movie-- a real masterpiece. One of the big treats is the creativity and innovativeness of the director and camera folks that played with the story and our perceptions of reality-- but never slipped over into pretentious b.s. Oh! You can just imagine the film school minions imitating this for years to come-- and of course producing shlock and artsy-fartsy dreck instead!This is one of those movies that may or may not be like other movies, or famous milestones from the past-- whatever. It stands alone as a wonderful movie, all by itself. Hooray for Stamp, Fonda, Warren and Guzmn-- and all the rest. Wow! I gave it a well deserved 10. "},{"Title":"Stylish and hypnotic kaleidoscope of a movie","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh has directed a stylish and hypnotic kaleidoscope of a movie about a career criminal named Wilson who comes to Los Angeles to avenge the death of his daughter.Terence Stamp (still the most celestial actor gracing movie screens) delivers a beautiful and moving performance as Wilson (The Limey).  It's the best role he's had in years and he easily commands the screen with his charismatic presence.Peter Fonda smoothly conveys the slimeyness of Terry Valentine (the object of Wilson's wrath).  Barry Newman excels as Fonda's enforcer.  Louis Guzman is a delight as Ed and Nicky Katt is convincingly creepy.  The lovely Lesley Ann Warren fits in well with the rest of the cast - some more screen time for her would have been welcome.Clips from the movie Poor Cow are included in the movie as flashbacks to Wilson's past.  They work nicely - letting the audience see the actual younger Terence Stamp instead of another actor.A whacky sense of humor is displayed at times but never fully escapes - Soderbergh preferring to let a haunting sadness take precedence.The movie deserves Oscar consideration in several categories.  Terence Stamp, Steven Soderbergh, and Sarah Flack (the editor) definitely should be recognized by the academy.    "},{"Title":"Soderbergh continues his retro explorations...","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a fantastic movie! They (meaning everyone except Soderbergh) just don't make them like this anymore--I kept expecting Steve McQueen and Ali McGraw to walk around a corner. Stamp is absolutely astounding, for starters. His dress, manner, and word choices are of a man who's obviously spent the majority of his life in prison. He's Austin Powers, only frozen in gaol instead of ice. Prison has also shaped the way he experiences time while prisoners count the days, measuring each one meticulously, they are also unstuck in time, because each day is exactly like any other. Once he's back on the street, Soderbergh and Stamp make time fuzzy (snippets of conversations that haven't happened yet, decision-tree branches that may or may not become reality) in order to plunge the viewer right into Our Hero's head. It's an incredibly visceral experience. "},{"Title":"Finally!  A role worthy of Terrance Stamp.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Terrance Stamp has paid his dues in Hollywood, playing secondary roles in B grade films.  While he has had some memorable performances over the years (he was the best thing about Superman II and perhaps his best work to date is Pricilla Queen of the Desert) The Limey is the first film that actually showcases Terrance Stamp, and proves that he is an actor to be reckoned with.  The Limey is a about an ex-con from Britain who travels to Los Angeles to find out the truth behind his daughters death.  From the very beginning this suspense thriller comes across as a cut throat, low-on-heart, high-on-style flick, remeniscient of those sixties Brit films with mean heroes and fast cars; the kind you discover from time to time late at night on television.  When the main character, Wilson, played by Stamp, confronts the man who sent him a newspaper clipping about his daughters death, he states, quite bluntly, I wanna know who offed my daughter.Wilson's daughter Jenny was apparently killed in a car accident.  Wilson seems to believe it was murder and he targets a hot shot record exec, Valentine, played by Peter Fonda, as his main suspect.The film moves very quickly.  Scenes are mixed with current events and quick flashbacks.  There is no wasted dialogue here.  Every word uttered is an important revelation about the story.  The characters are developed as much as they need to be and little time is left for sentiment.  Much like the main character, Wilson, this film gets to the point right away. I suppose it's no accident that The Limey has a distinct late sixties - early seventies feel to it.  The soundtrack includes classics by The Doobie Brothers and The Who.  Peter Fonda's presence in the film, (playing a seedy character no less) is an obvious throwback to his early work.  The flashy editing is a tribute of sorts of many an arthouse flick from those days.  There are even flashbacks to Wilson's younger days where clips from an earlier, and maybe forgotten, Stamp film, Poor Cow, are used. I found the Limey to be a surprising treat.  I did not expect the film to be this good, nor Stamp's performance to be so great.  While this movie is not a box office smash, I am confidant that it will find its audience over the next several months, and that an Oscar nomination is in Terrance Stamp's future! "},{"Title":"what is the equivalent payback?","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Limey story is an often told one, a man seeking revenge for a death persumably by heinous persons.  Some might say a father seeking revenge for his daughter, but as there is not much reason to believe there is a tight bond because father/daughter, the revenge might just as well be a violent assault by a recidivistic ex-con.  Yet Wilson is too neat for that sort of violence, he wants to know the why of Jennie's death and offer a equivalent payback.And there is the story...what is the equivalent payback; only learned as woven through the dialogue that staggers forward and backward.  Miss the dialogue, and you will miss the story.   This is not just a film of flash backs and flash forwards to any of several potential events; the dialogue carries the story.  Unfortunately, for those without an ear for an English brogue, the film requires more attention than it rewards, but if you hear the story there is plenty of payback for your effort.     "},{"Title":"A exceptional gem!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Steve Soderbergh is a great director who is rarely known about or seen. His most popular work was the excellent OUT OF SIGHT, which many people dubbed as a George Clooney movie. I can talk about Clooney, but I won't (just read my review on THREE KINGS), I'll talk about Soderbergh.  Soderbergh uses the same pulp style that Taratino uses in RESERVOIR DOGS and PULP FICTION, a lonely and vicious hero, sleezy villians, and the story not being told in chronological order. What makes THE LIMEY unique is that you don't really know when the scene that you're watching is taking place.  Is it a flashback?  Is it a flashforward?  Or is it current time? But by the end of the film, you'll figure it out, and realize the when it does take place.  The pieces of the puzzle will be put together and it will all make sense. Terence Stamp stars as Wilson, a convict who was just released from prison in England.  He finds out that his only child, Jenny (Melissa George) was killed in a car accident in Hollywood.  But Wilson won't accept that story.  He believes that his daughter was murdered, and that Jenny's former boyfriend, rich music producer Valentine (Peter Fonda) had something to do with it.  So Wilson goes out to Hollywood to seek out revenge. The story sounds familiar, but thanks to Soderbergh, it still stands out.  Like I said, the story is told in a random order, that will leave you guessing when is it taking place. And the acting is what also stands out.  I feel that Stamp deserves a Oscar nomination for his wonderful performance as the vengeful father.  And Fonda is one of the most softest villians that you'll ever see in cinema.  A great scene is when Fonda's character Valentine, tells his current girlfriend Stacy (Nicky Katt) what the 60's were like.  And what a better person to tell a generation who wasn't around at the time, to describe the rebellious decade.   Since Fonda was in a lot of biker movies, including EASY RIDER. THE LIMEY is only a 90 minute film, but it goes by very quickly!  Not one scene drags, and every character in the film is intresting.  By the time the film is over, you'll realize you were told a complicated story within 90 minutes, and there is more information told in this film, than in ARMAGEDDON which is a hour longer. ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Beautiful California Coast and Violent Action","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I happen to love travelogues of places I love.  Those great shots of the Big Sur and the gorgeous home in the canyon mean, See it on the big screen. Then there's also the fine, fine acting of a former 'pretty boy' turned actor, Terence Stamp.  Did you know that he was so poor as a young struggling actor that he and Michael Caine used to share the same suit to use for auditions?  In this one, he's an ex-con out on a 'leave of absence' from the English prison where he's spent most of his life.  He's certainly not setting out to go straight.He's seeking to kill the man responsible for his daughter's death.  Talk about visualization.  We see Peter Fonda killed so many times that the ending is anti-climactic.  Stamp with a face  which is sprinkled with blood speaks of the horror of death so much more eloquently than the gallons of gore in 'The Fight Club.There's laughs aplenty, as he speaks with the DEA agent about their mutual aims, and the bonding is made complete when he returns another agent's badge lifted earlier.  Is it Joe Dellasandro who plays the hitman--who mixes philosophical talk with put-downs--as he admonishes the security chief Newman to 'wear a tie next time' from his booth in the pool hall?  He's someone to watch, as he makes comments about the actors on the movie set, a beautiful man...too gorgeous to be straight.  We're sure to see more from this actor, and if I have his name wrong, please correct it.The writing is exquisite.  I guess I just don't 'get' Peter Fonda, maybe it's cause I keep looking for his daddy in him.  Or maybe it's all those teeth and gums.  He looks OK when he keeps his mouth shut.  Watching the flashbacks and Terence Stamp's face on the plane back to England, as he reminesces is a wonderful experience.  How much he can say with a mere twitch of the lips!!!  Now I'll have to watch some more of his old movies.I love British and American movies, but rarely do the twain meet, and rarely will you hear so many comments comparing the two cultures.  Aside Wouldn't you love to see all the 'old guys' in a movie together--Peter O'Toole, James Coburn, Michael Caine, Terence Stamp, Sean Connery--before they pack it in? With Lee Marvin and Steve McQueen superimposed alongside them?  (Why do the Americans die off so young?)See this movie...it's great. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Of '99","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This will turn into a cult classic. Both Fonda and Stamp are in excellent form Fonda as a slightly befuddled LA sleazebag/music biz biggie with money problems, and Stamp as his nemesis, Wilson. Stamp's playing of an East End gangster is impeccable, and much fun is had with the incomprehension of the various Californians who don't get what a 'China' and a 'Butchers' might be, from Cockney rhyming slang. Stamp is unstoppable, and several of the scenes are going to stick in your mind. The kind of low-key, subtle violence that strikes you as real, unlike Hollywood car chase shenanigans. Behind the action is a very clever plot. And it's all wrapped in a startling well thought out method of previewing scenes, flashing back, and keeping the viewer slightly off balance about what's coming next. I'd go see this again, and I rarely ever do that with mainstream fare. "},{"Title":" The story...what is the equivalent payback?","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Limey story is an often told one, a man seeking revenge for a death presumably by heinous means.  Specifically, a father seeking revenge for his daughter, but as there is not much reason to believe there is a tight bond between father/daughter, the revenge might just as well be a violent assault by a recidivistic ex-con.  Yet Wilson is too neat for that sort of violence, he wants to know the why of Jennie's death and offer an equivalent payback.The story...what is the equivalent payback?...is only learned through the dialogue that lurches forward and backward because masking this simple story is a cinematography of repeated sequences starting a little earlier and going a little further each time; varied settings for a continuous conversation; flash backs and flash forwards to any of several potential events.  It makes for interesting viewing, but,miss the dialogue, and you will miss the story.   The cinematography, though out of the ordinary, is not enough.  The dialogue carries the story. Unfortunately, for those without an ear for an English brogue, the film may require close attention.Nonetheless, if you hear the story there is plenty of payback for your effort.Quite a few script lines keep you attentive.   The most irreverent follows `Who gives a s___ about you, ...'  The most indecent has to do with a pseudo-intelligence test question.Postviewing  given what you know about Wilson and what he says about Jennie...why wouldn't she call the cops on her dad?  Did she care about him? Would she call the cops on Valentine?  Did she care about him? Could there be an equivalent payback?   Did Wilson ever really care about his daughter?  We have no reason to believe so during the movie, and even less at the end. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Story with Awesome Direction","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have to dwell of the direction by Steven Soderberg.  To quote a friend of mine, In...credible!  The way he jumps around time is awesome.  He takes a part of a scene, a little part, and he takes these little parts of various scenes and puts them together.  Temporal and spacial unity are thrown out the window to create an effect that nevertheless makes sense.  We can follow the story with immense ease.  Who would have thought?This effect is used for dramatic effect at Peter Fonda's party (who has been better, but was still convincing nonetheless) where General Zod (I mean, Terrence Stamp) shoots him before the director cuts to him making his initial approach.  He then shoots him again hitting another part of him.  Was the first a dream or is this one or are they both?  It's only until Luis Guzman (I like him a lot) grabs Stamp's arm that we know for sure... none of them happened!!!Now the rest of the movie the acting was great, but they seemed stifled by the dialogue which was fair but not great.  I had some difficulty believing that Stamp KNEW that Fonda killed his daughter without any sort of evidence, and just started killing people.  Although he was right, his initial action seemed almost fascist.  This was later made up for the satisfying ending.All in all Pretty good or 7/10 "}{"Title":"Another Stirring Triumph for Soderbergh","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh's latest offering is a further example of status as one of the current masters of cinema.  His trilogy of sorts - The Underneath, Out of Sight, and, now, The Limey - presents a powerful portrait of contemporary America, in a series of rich portraits, compelling themes, and deep sub-texts from gambling to amorous commitment to parental love.  Ironically, his new film is seen through the lens of a foreigner - the Limey.Soderbergh has been developing a style which I liken to one described by the ultra-independent director Jon Jost as a composed film in the sense that a musical composer works.  Soderbergh's films have a lyricism that is beautiful and compelling, and that always works to deepen the characters and situations being presented.  I always find it humorous that whenever directors begin playing around with editing, lighting, and the like in a way to pull away from currently accepted styles, the narrative is described as medium or weak (the classic argument against Touch of Evil).  On the contrary, this film displays a superbly written screenplay which offers finely wrought characters and a narrative that is driven by character and not situation.The aspects of the film that will receive the most attention are the performances, especially Terence Stamp and Peter Fonda.  Stamp's portrayal of Wilson is one of the most powerful pieces of acting in recent years, and Fonda's performance should be studied by students of film in relation to his work in Ulee's Gold.  They could learn quite a bit.Go and see The Limey!!  This powerful and poignant film is one of the finest examples of the potential of cinematic art in stretching the visual, aural, and emotional potential of the big  screen. "},{"Title":"Great Revenge Film Noir","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Limey is a wonderful reworking of the film noir tradition through the styles of French New Wave.  It is also something of an homage to John Boorman's Lee Marvin classic,Point Blank, in  its time-shifting, flashback style and the incredible Energizer-bunny indomitability of the film's revenge-bent hero.The most fabulous thing about this film is the performance by Terence Stamp. It may be his best performance ever, and if he doesn't get an Academy Award nomination out of it, he will be robbed.  He is tough, intense, and thoughtful.  Even in repose, when he is shown to be thinking of his dead daughter, he manages to register emotion on a basically expressionless face. You also have to give the old man credit for being willing to share screentime with his younger, incredibly beautiful self, which Soderbergh does in utilizing clips from Ken Loach's Poor Cow as a kind of combination flashback/home movie to fill in the character's back story.  Most people would recoil at the idea of showing the contrast between their older and younger selves, actors or not.This movie seems slow and laggy in spots, especially at the beginning, as you adjust to the jump cuts and overlapping dialogue.  But the gimmicks fall into focus as the story unfolds, and they help the overall tone, rather than hinder it.  There's plenty of violence and suspense.Peter Fonda also gives a fine performance, as does Barry Newman. Interesting to note that both Fonda and Newman were in AIP cult films of the early '70's, Dirty Mary and Crazy Larry in Fonda's case, and Vanishing Point in the case of Newman.  This film is a tribute to the old lions who make up its cast.  They do a great job. "},{"Title":"alright!","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  saw the limey today.  enjoyed it!  i liked the way that the action kept switching from the present to the past and to the future.  i particularly liked the way they used an old picture that terrance stamp did many years ago and incorporated it into this new movie.  i liked the ending, it made perfectly good sense to me the way this movie ended. "},{"Title":"Excellent, elegant thriller","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Los Angeles as seen here is a strangely desolate, hazy, yet spatially engrossing environment, and lends itself ideally to Soderbergh's temporal experiments. He seldom allows a scene in the film to unfold uninterrupted - instead he flashes forward to scenes yet to come or back to images from those already elapsed, or to fragments of memory, or to alternative possibilities. It's an in-your-face technique, and at first it's a little unsettling and not particularly productive - one realizes, with some sadness, how easily the radical experiments of 30 years ago led to stylistically hollow hyperactivity - what's often called an MTV style. In its opening stretches, The Limey merely resembles an elegant application of a chaos theory to filmmaking. But it quickly calms down, and coalesces. Stamp is wonderful as the calmly focused limey Wilson, who's spent most of his adult life behind bars, offering no concessions no one can understand his Cockney-slang saturated talk. His considerable limitations, as an effective player in the seedy LA underworld, actually invest him with a serene sense of liberation there's one excellent scene, when Stamp is interrogated by a DEA cop, where he cuts loose with a beautifully fluid but highly vernacular monologue, knowing that not a word he says will be understood. If such liberation is emblematic of the sixties, then it's as if Wilson's long confinement has left him relatively unscathed by everything that's happened since in his morally gray way, he's an ambassador of integrity and stability (exemplified by Stamp's almost spooky failure to age very much).The Fonda character, by contrast, captivates his jailbait-aged girlfriends with indulgent memories and echoes of the sixties, while positioning himself on the cutting edge of the nineties - he's an apparently perfect survivor and synthesis whom, we find out eventually, is actually just a sham involved in a shady deal to keep him afloat, hopelessly passive and dependent on his guns for hire. As the classic Easy Rider rebel who's lately reinvented himself as ever-smiling, genial Oscar-nominated reincarnation of his father, Fonda is also perfectly cast here. So the film's style, as it goes on, seems ever more eloquently questioning and disruptive as it wraps itself around these two enormously resonant antagonists, always emphasizing the fluidity of time, the echoes of moments just elapsed and premonitions of those yet to come. In addition to all that, it has a number of fine supporting performances, several truly exciting action sequences, some exquisitely funny lines, and - at only 90 minutes -  a concision that's to be admired, in any decade. "},{"Title":"effective handling of a thin story","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  THE LIMEY would probably make a good litmus test for filmgoers in some way I haven't quite figured out.  What seems to divide viewers is its unusual editing structure, particularly how lines are sometimes played out against film of the character pulled from other moments in what is probably the same conversation, snapping back at the end to the synchronous image as the speaker finishes his or her thought.  I think it's successful; we seem to get extra information about the character's inner life, perhaps garnering clues to their trustworthiness in a way that Terrance Stamp's killer, Wilson, does.  He's a thief, and he cases these people; notice, too, that the device seems to be used until we know the character a bit, then let aside as the action moves toward the story's denouement.That denouement is a little unsatisfying and feels telescoped when it arrives, but then the entire plot is a bit thin a man released from jail - again - pursues a trail across the globe to solve his daughter's murder.  The editing, acting, and characters themselves make this very watchable; Stamp is quite good and fierce and funny (watch his action immediately after getting dumped in the street), and Barry Miller is terrific as a steely protection man.  Small parts are humanized (I liked the hit man Miller's character hires, his quick response to the job offer, and his brief comic asides as a television production rolls).  Only Leslie Anne Warren's character is a bit lacking.  Sixties songs are mixed forward with some punch - the Who's The Seeker sounds terrific here - and the entire effort is entertaining.Something which interested me was how the violence in this movie felt so real.  There are several possibilities.  The violence builds from what might be considered small acts - a man's face being thrust to his desk rather than, say, a building exploding.  Also, these elements aren't exploitative bits of mayhem (one bit of ankle-crunching, in fact, happens in the dark and is nearly invisible; three murders in one scene happen off frame); that always helps.  The attention given to the sound gives each moment its punch, as well; when Miller's character, Avery, slams his car into Wilson's, the moment is quick, simple, and the crunch of metal immediately recalls any such sickening sound we've heard in real life.  (I think the simplicity of the stunt and its dogged pragmatism - Avery is out to get these guys - helps enormously.)Soderberg keeps things moving quickly - only the scenes between Leslie Anne Warren and Terrance Stamp seemed in danger of bringing things down - and uses his editing palette and various film stocks to good effect.  Yeah, it's more than a bit artsy - crossing the terrific THE UNDERNEATH with the has-its-moments SCHIZOPOLIS -- but pretension is only annoying when it fails.  Here, once again, Soderberg comes through with a winner.  "},{"Title":"British ex-con searches for daughters killers in LA film noir","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Excellent move about a British career criminal searching for his daughters murderer in Los Angeles. Terrance Stamp does an over the top cockney accent liberally peppered with 60's London slang. Totally focused on his daughters murder Stamp rampages thru LA from downtown to the Hollywood Hills.  "},{"Title":"Best movie of '99 so far","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Now he gets it. Steven Soderbergh realizes he isn't Sundance Quirkster #6; he's Don Siegel II. Save JACKIE BROWN, THE LIMEY is the best L.A. noir of the nineties; it's also the last word in lost-promise-of-the-sixties movies. Pitting cockney ex-con (Terence Stamp) against amoral music mogul (Peter Fonda), the movie is, as Soderbergh described it, Billy Budd versus Captain America; it's also the story of a man with a soul who didn't make it, warring a man without a soul who did. These two figures, squared off in an existential deathmatch over the murder of Stamp's daughter, speak volumes about the ways in which one generation's spiritual wrestling can injure, or erase, the generation that follows. The screenwriter, Lem Dobbs (whose EDWARD FORD is perhaps the greatest unmade movie never made), can now stand, as he ought, among the top rank of American movie writers.Perfect down to the tiniest bit of art direction and improvved gag from a day player, THE LIMEY exhilarates as much as it haunts. Its closest kin is John Boorman's flaw-free crime biopic THE GENERAL. With all due respect to the cast (there's not one actor out of place), the star here is Soderbergh, emerging from a chrysalis of the eccentric and taking center stage. This is his first fully grown-up, totally achieved movie. It's marvellous. "},{"Title":"Artful, independent American cinema lives","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have to hand it to Steven Soderbergh in an era where independent American film often falls into one of two stiff categories (play-it-safe studio knockoffs like Happy, Texas and novelty acts like Blair Witch), he continues to make original, challenging, and above all entertaining films. With The Underneath, Out of Sight and now The Limey, he's also proven to be pretty much the only interesting American working in the noir genre today - so much for the promise that artless noirist John Dahl (Red Rock West) once held.The Limey drips with smoggy L.A. atmosphere all the way through. One of the most wonderful things about Soderbergh's films is the distinctive atmospheres he creates around the cities his stories take place in - New Orleans in sex, lies and videotape, St. Louis in King of the Hill, Florida and Detroit in Out of Sight. This film shows L.A. in all its sun-baked glory.A final appreciation for the startling editing. Relative newbie Sarah Flack proves that, under Soderbergh's creative lead, she is just as capable at nonlinear editing (in both senses of the word) as Out of Sight's editor, the legendary Anne Coates.Support artistically muscular filmmaking and go see The Limey. It goes without saying that the actors are all first-rate, especially Terence Stamp, who for my money turns in THE coolest performance of the year. "},{"Title":"Tight story, creative structure","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This comes as no surprise seeing how Steven Soderberg's last movie was Out of Sight, which used similar techniques in its offbeat narrative. Without repeating himself (no frequent freeze frames that populated Out of Sight to be found in this one), Soderberg puts his stamp on the film in different, and equally unique (albeit annoying to some, I'm sure) ways.  The film is highly entertaining, especially when it zones in on the blind obsession of Wilson.  Terrence Stamp doesn't get enough parts in movies (maybe he's very selective).  The only other films I can recall that featured him are Adventures of Priscilla and Superman II, and in both he played pure comical (or comic book) roles.  His character is edgy, mysterious and often funny.  Peter Fonda was not hateful in the film, and he wasn't supposed to be.  He basically does his '90s version of Easy Rider, which is no big surprise (the awful Renee Zellweger film Love and a 45 featured a bizarre cameo from Fonda, doing the same stuck in the '60s thing).  The climax was a bit disappointing, considering the buildup (what happened to the long-haired, wisecracking, pool-playing thug?), and was very familiar to those who've seen Soderberg's last film.  But an enjoyable, tight character piece nevertheless. "},{"Title":"More roles for Mr. Stamp, please!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I could not believe the same director that directed the awful OUT OF SIGHT made this! It's so good to see the wonderful Terence Stamp back on the big screen where he belongs. After that magic performance in the wonderful THE ADVENTURES OF PRISCILLA...QUEEN OF THE DESERT, it's a change of course for Mr. Stamp; he's more moody, straightforward and getting to the bottom of things here... which is the cause of his daughter's death in America while he's been banged up in an English jail. But THE LIMEY is so much more than a run-of-the-mill thriller. It's a story of love lost, chances missed and the unstoppable passage of time. With the ressurection of Peter (DIRTY MARY, CRAZY LARRY) Fonda in support, it's the tightest 90 minutes of cinema I've seen in ages.  Ultimately, if you've even the slightest interest in cinema, THE LIMEY is unmissable. AND MORE FILMS FOR TERENCE STAMP, PLEASE! "}{"Title":"One of the most boring films I've ever seen","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm getting to the point now where I'm distrusting the ratings on this site because so many movies with above 7 ratings turn out to be boring pretentious tripe. Honestly, there was nothing in this movie that redeemed it. The acting was almost non-existent, the editing was clumsy and bizarre (possibly in some mis-guided attempt to appear artsy) and the plot..... well there really wasn't one. There was certainly no action, no suspense, no thrills, no warmth, no likable characters, no intrigue, no message, no interesting dialogue, no gripping relationships or drama .... just a lot of repetition of boring scenes (for what purpose is beyond me), blank stares for long periods of time (possibly an attempt to build drama but all it did was build frustration with how awful the film was) and lots of pointless badly written wooden conversation between characters. I got just over half way through and felt proud of myself for having suffered so long but at that point I started skipping bits of the film. I started carefully, only skipping small sections and soon realised I could easily jump several minutes at a time and miss nothing at all. Finally made a huge skip to the last 10 mins or so. YAY! I thought, a bit of action! Even tho I couldn't care less what happened to anyone. I was just hoping for relief to the tedious boredom. But my hope was short-lived and actually changed to anger because the ending made not one bit of sense in the context of the rest of the movie. It was lame and silly. I fail to see how anyone can give this a score above 2. I might have to start watching movies rated below 5 and maybe I'll have better luck. So dear reviewers, slow, boring and badly written/acted/shot/edited/produced does NOT equal meaningful and artsy. It just equals a waste of everyone's time. Conclusion Don't' bother. Watch In Bruges instead. That's one of the few movies with a decent rating that actually deserves it. "},{"Title":"Utter garbage","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frankly the title and my score says it all  utter, UTTER garbage. I originally saw this when it first came out back in 1999/2000 and struggled to get through it. As that was around 12 or 13 years ago now, I thought I'd give it another go to see if a) time had been kind to the movie, and b) if my film taste had changed in that time. Apparently, the answer to both those questions is a resounding NO.There's only so many times and from so many camera angles you can see a guy say the same line before this wacky directorial style starts to grate. The story is paper-thin, the acting is laughably wooden, and the direction is as bizarre and talent-free as I've now come to expect from the *ahem* Director Steven Soderbergh. Oh and as a British viewer, I found the fact that Stamp explains his cockney rhyming slang to every American he meets, rather embarrassing. And there's not even a decent pay-off at the end of this waste of celluloid.Complete tripe from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Eminently forgettable mockney-export","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" We had to wait until Jonathan Glazer put together Sexy Beast for a really pungent ex-pat mockney-thug characterisation (Ben Kingsley's psychotic Logan). Nonetheless, Terence Stamp is always a strong presence on the screen, not least vocally. Perhaps his task is a bit earnest in this revenge drama - perhaps the plot a mite complex.Well, Peter Fonda isn't much help by not being particularly convincing in his baronial role (in the excellent Ulee's Gold he had to summon resolve, not menace). Soderbergh's to blame I think. He's tried to tell the story plainly and it's not really worked in a corner of the world that had been turned on its head by Guy Ritchie. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Very good film","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey is a very good revenge film with great performances from Terence Stamp and Peter Fonda.The plot of the film isn't original but the plot's execution is very original.This isn't the traditional revenge film.Terence Stamp and Peter Fonda have great performances here.This is a very competent and entertaining movie.Like I said before,The Limey isn't a traditional revenge film,but it's very fun,the plot's execution is very original and it has great performances.I totally recommend this movie.It's not a great film but it is worth of a look.Rating8 "},{"Title":"A great film, one of the best movies of the 1990s","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Inventive and visually striking. Soderbergh's use of footage from the Ken Loach film Poor Cow, featuring a younger Terence Stamp, was inspired. Stamp's performance is amazing - he's alternately humorous, menacing and mournful. Why don't directors make more use of this guy? Peter Fonda puts a humorous spin on the Easy Rider persona that grew around him in the 1960s. Here he's a 1960s survivor who's morphed into a pampered businessman, existing, as one character puts it, as more of a vibe than a person. The supporting cast does fine work as well. This movie's reputation will likely grow in the coming years along with another (mostly) overlooked Soderbergh film, King of the Hill. "},{"Title":"Artwork reminiscent  of the classic Reid Miles Blue Note album covers","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A good film, no doubt. Pleased to see the poster design harks back to the Blue Note album covers of the 50s and 60s. This one in particular reminds me of the Freddie Hubbard album 'Hub-tones'. Stramp is an interesting example of the kind of tough guy who couldn't really be called very physically imposing but, like Bogart, pulled it off with a steady gaze and force of will. I imagine this must have been a most satisfying role for him given the sorts of films he sometimes got mixed up in in the sixties, (Hemmings and McDowell enjoyed/suffered the same sort of deal). There is a tendency now to believe Soderbergh is somehow past his prime but he has made bad films in the past. I wouldn't be the only one who thought 'Erin Brokovich' was a thin and unsatisfying movie. "},{"Title":"brilliant psychological thriller","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Limey is absolutely fantastic. This is a rather simple story toldin an extraordinary way- the art of film-making. Every last cut keptme on the edge of my seat. Soderbergh constantly plays withpoints of view, location, and time to confuse and delight hisaudience. The best part of this film, besides the editing, is the boughts oflaugh out loud humor- unexpected in a revenge thriller.Terence Stamp and Peter Fonda are perfection. This film serves as a sort of precursor to Memento, The SaltonSea, and 21 Grams. "},{"Title":"PECKINPAH AS SEEN THROUGH THE MIND DREAM OF ROEG.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The limey is truly one of the great poetic films of the modern cinema era. I am reminded of the great Christian Metz theories of film as walking through a dream while watching the film and the films of godard, bertolluci and tarintino.The noble quest of Terrence Stamp to avenge the death of his daughter and come to terms with his own loss and vulnerability is at the heart of the film. The fake facade of the California dream as personified by Peter Fonda gives new meaning to the sun drenched sun scapes of the southern california of our film lexicon and sun drenched images of our common film memories. One is reminded of the poetic visions of films subconsious to resurrect the thematic meter of our consious association with film. The films of altman, nicolas ray, kubrick, trauffaut, and lynch come to mind.Truly a great film. With characters beutifully constructed in any film of cassevettes. Imagery as brutal as that of peckanpah. Who would have thought that we'd be rooting for stamp to overcome Captain America.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant acting, writing, direction AND editing","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a film that can be watched a number of times - and the viewer will always see something new. Editor Sarah Flack has done a stunning job of assembling sequences that flash forward and back within a given scene. It's too bad that this site can't post the original script, so we can see how much cinematic technique was added by the director. With splendid writing and acting, The Limey will have as long a life in our imagination as a far more straightforward crime film from a far more straightforward era, The Maltese Falcon. "},{"Title":"My Name Is Wilson- Incredibly stylish and clever","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Limey is a clever and thrilling film that kept me guessing till the end.  The talent is stupendous, Terrence Stamp especially who has a starring vehicle in which he plays Wilson, a old bank robber who has gotten out of prison to go find out what happenned to his daughter.  Great story and terrific photography & editing bring out the best here, but the talent is also good including Luis Guzman and Peter Fonda.  Terrence Stamp gives his best performance here as the old man from England and works to an advantage.  A "}{"Title":"Doesn't live up to it's critical acclaim. Disappointing.","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There's a theory in film which suggests that if you can't tell a story front to back without flashbacks and fast-forwards, jump cuts, special effects, etc. and make it interesting, perhaps you haven't got much of a story to tell. And so it is with The Limey, a shallow story which Sonderbergh manages to dress up with camera and editing but really has very little to offer. Nonetheless, it's better than average as good guy/bad guy movies go and worth a watch if expectations are kept low and critical acclaim ignored. "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Sweeter Than Curly Fries","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was quite good. The acting was top-notched. Terence Stamp was excellent. Apparently, the real-life limeys thought that his Cockney accent wasn't good, but it wasn't grating. I thought that he perfectly expressed emotion. He played an extremely complex character. I felt a genuine sense of pathos for him. Even better was Peter Fonda. I think this role of his was the best I've ever seen, better than Ulee's Gold or Easy Rider (which wasn't really an actor's movie, so don't crucify me for that comment). He was certainly not the standard Hollywood scumbag producer whom we see in a lot of movies which take place in that place. He was actually kind of likeable. Though he had done plenty of bad things, he seemed to have been trying make amends with his past. Notice how he acts around his girlfriend. When I saw her, I thought, Oh boy, another Hollywood fantasy where an aging man sleeps with an extremely young girl. But it was never like that. Fonda seemed to really care about her, as if he were trying to right the wrong that he did to Jennifer. And his girlfriend did not seem empty-headed. She was kind. She was genuinely interested in her lover's past. It was not as if she was just there for the money. But the crazy jump shots and weird editing really took away from the film. In fact, it was so annoying that I gave this film an 8 instead of the 10 it should have been. I liked the way the director narrated some of the background information over Wilson's journey to the place of illegal business to which Eddie drove Jennifer. There is this sort of editing, and it leads into a quick burst of  carefully directed violence. Very effective. What I disliked was the way there would be a shot of a character standing there with his mouth shut while the same person would be speaking in a voice-over. Now that was grating! The flashbacks were sort of hackneyed, also. Many, many movies show flashbacks in a blurry or grainy film stock.This editing was so distracting, that I bet a lot of people will hate it just for that. It takes away from the great story and acting. Without that editing, it would have been better than Out of Sight.   "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzz.....so boring.","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't even know why on earth I completed this movie. I should have turned it OFF after 20mins. I don't care if there's a good point in the end or whatever he tries to tell us by *******spoiler******** at the beach in the end. There's not a single nerve in this movie, its boring, you don't care whats happening, you don't believe the characters, they try to be cool but are NOT. Oh boy!!. I could go on forever.I could make a really BAD and BORING movie, but would a good point in the last minute save it and make you think Oh, thats a good point, good movie!...? If you think so; WASTE 90 minutes of your life and go see this one.YAWN.....Zzzzzz. "},{"Title":"The worst film I have ever seen","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Quite simply the worst film I have ever seen.This film has made it my ambition to make a documentary called Tell them I'm Coming (the tag line of The Limey) where I recruit some real East End cockney geezers/gangsters, travel to LA and beat Steven Soderberg to death for making such a horrendously awful film.This film left me feeling violated. I feel I have been abused by having to sit through Soderberg pleasuring himself with 85 minutes of the most self indulgent film making I have ever seen.What is up with the sound in this film. You can hear everything in a scene down the friction between the fibres in the actors clothes. It is a horrible abrasive noise in every scene. The only thing you cannot hear obsessively exaggerated is the actors dialogue. That doesn't matter really though as it would inspire absolutely no interest at all.The flash backs are probably the most painful element of the movie. especially the exerts that are taken from an early Terence Stamp film in some crazy attempt to add idiotic sympathy into the turgid mess.Another annoyance is the way every scene is cut up into shots from different angles and even locations. It becomes confusing to watch as things do not make sense chronologically and visually. Looks like some one went mad in post production.This film is bad in an awesome way. I know of films that are crap but The Limey is like a dagger of pain that removes the will to live from the viewer as they watch it. It's like the celluloid equivalent of Pandoras box without the hope. "},{"Title":"dreadful dialogue","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  as a londoner i might be biased but the constant cockney slangjust plain grated. Ok people do speak like this occasionaly but not every other word. Almost found it racist and tottaly - in my opion - destroyed anotherwise superb story and directional style..... "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Director Steven Soderbergh's 1999 so-called crime-action film, The Limey, is easily the best film of Soderbergh's that I've ever seen. Part of this is due to the innovative narrative structure that makes all but the most of the last few minutes of this great film a flashback, and the rest is due to an excellent script by screenwriter Lem Dobbs, whose other great success came a year earlier, in Alex Proyas's sci fi film Dark City. Both films, despite their seeming divergence, are acutely focused on human memory, and both deal with the fragility of such in novel ways. In fact, in rewatching The Limey on DVD, after six or seven years, and then watching it with the two available audio commentary tracks, I'm amazed to have seen something in the film that no other critic apparently has, and that is the fact that the viewer is never sure whether or not any or all of the remembered scenes depicted are, indeed, real (within the fictive cosmos the film resides in).The 85 minute long film quickly sets up the idea that the protagonist, named simply Wilson (and seemingly the same character as that portrayed in Ken Loach's 1967 film Poor Cow (called either Dave, or Dave Wilson- I'm not sure for I've never seen that film, and there are conflicting accounts as to whether of not that character had both names revealed), and portrayed by Terence Stamp, is an ex-con out for revenge following the seeming accidental death of his daughter Jennifer (Melissa George- as an adult), a young woman who was living with a shady L.A.-based record mogul named Terry Valentine (Peter Fonda). Within the film's first ten minutes viewers get the first 'action' scene of violence, and already identify heavily with the lead character, Wilson. The bulk of the rest of the film is about Wilson's memories (or fantasies?) of his daughter, from the time he is on board a return flight from L.A to the U.K., and all the critics agree that the film is a series of memories, even if they disagree about what is the actual present time it displays. Some critics, as example, claim the airplane scenes represent flashforths, not flashbacks; some that seem to be chronological (although the scenes seem to be in proximate chronological groupings, not individually chronological), while others are not; but not a single critic seems to have ever questioned the verity of what Wilson's memories are, or, if indeed, they are strictly memories, and not fantasies. After all, this film is a 'revenge film,' and revenge is, next to sex, the top theme of fantasies. Of course, some would argue that the scenes from Poor Cow seem to imply Wilson is all that he claims to be. But we only get snippets of this. Is Wilson really an ex-con? Likely. Is he in L.A. looking for revenge? Likely. But after that, is anyone really sure what is memory and what is fantasy, and, indeed, if Wilson's 'memory' is accurate? The Limey is the rare example of that most overused and abused term, an utter cinematic masterpiece that explores memory as a thing in itself, as a way to communicate, as well as a form of regret. It asks serious queries of the human psyche- not just those of kind like what is good?, or what is evil?, but those of degree like what constitutes a crime?, and when does it become a crime?, as well as the aforementioned queries of whether the film, the vehicle for this philosophizing, is dream, memory, fantasy, and if Wilson ever really gets (or got) off that airplane? To return to the aforementioned film, Another Woman, that film ends with the explicit question Is a memory something you have or something you've lost? The Limey shows better than any film I can think of, that the answer to that query can be neither or both. "},{"Title":"Most enjoyable, fast-paced, offbeat movie.  Love it, love it, love it.","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am writing this 10 years late. Thank god for Netflix (yet again!) -- otherwise I might've missed seeing this exceptional movie. (Not a stockholder, just a movie lover.)Soderbergh won an Independent Spirit award for his directing and the movie was nominated for many awards so it is a crime that Stamp and Soderbergh and the movie itself were not rewarded with Oscars. The story/premise is most original. I think this is a perfect movie and one I will always remember. I look forward to viewing it again and again and introducing it to family and friends. I really cannot believe some of the negative comments I have read at IMDb. It is unkind, I suppose, to point out that statistically some viewers must be morons. But it is what it is. Knowing absolutely nothing about the film beforehand -- I was engaged from the beginning. Stamp's performance and Soderberg's direction were compelling and other-worldly. I defy anyone to name a better acting job than that of Stamp in this movie. If anybody ever deserved an Oscar for leading man, it is Stamp, with a flawless performance. And I was enthralled with Soderberg's innovative direction. The combination of the story, the direction, the acting (the entire cast is good) and the picturesque locales make this film utterly riveting.If you are critical of The Limey, something is wrong with you. "},{"Title":"To kill or not to kill","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You gotta love the limey because he has a mindset that allows no gray area to infiltrate his thinking. Either he gets his wishes or you get a throttling or a gut full of lead. All the bloodletting was possibly unnecessary because what Wilson really wanted was to be informed of the nature of his daughter's death. As he told the DEA supervisor, after a while, you can just let things go prison teaches you that.  On the other hand, Wilson was a testosterone filled missile with a guidance system made in hell; unpredictable to say the least. He wavered back and forth between a seriously questioning senior citizen and a swaggering Cockney street punk totally capable of capping several tough guys without a change of expression. Fonda was good as the high living record exec caught in a web of danger because of his inability to manage his life. The bit with the dialogue overriding other sequences of the film was a bit offputting but this was still a nicely done little package.  "},{"Title":"A great flick","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Probably Terence Stamp's best role - at least in the last 20 years.The classic-rock tunes fit perfectly, the cinematography is great, the characters are very real. (Stamp is a Cockney by birth, so that's his real accent.) Peter Fonda and Stamp make a great pairing, and while the nature of the plot keeps them apart for most of the movie, it's electric when they finally meet on the beach. at the film's end.I really like Luis Guzman too - with his Che Guevara shirt. He's a great reluctant sidekick.Sure, it's a standard murder-revenge plot, but the way it's done is superb. Rent it and you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"An okay movie","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this on DVD, and I'd have to say I enjoyed it.  With the same premise as Get Carter, The Limey is much more disjointed as far as narrative goes.  Soderbergh went a little crazy with the editing, trying to piece together dialogue being spoken in 3 different locations/situations.  It's a bit weird and takes getting used to; I personally thought it was a bit overdone.  We also don't get much background into the characters, particularly Wilson.  It's the same ol' story seen so many times before, but done in a different, artsy kind of way.  I enjoyed it, but it could've been better.**1/2 out of **** stars. "}{"Title":"I don't get the accent complaints","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Stamp does one of the best Mexican accents I have ever heard in this movie... all you English people don't know what you are talking about...Seriously, though, if you think Soderbergh's mainstream flicks are better than this you should probably just stick to made for TV movies.  This is a top five, easy... "},{"Title":"Watching this movie makes waterboarding a child's play","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really don't get the IMDb rating on this piece of trash... because that's what it is, a piece of trash with capital T! Pseudo avant-garde bullshit camera moves that were everything but natural or fitting.Dialogs that seemed made out of brick, so forced, so pretentious, so misplaced, so disconnected, so incredible bad.General acting below B-movie level, with the zero talented Peter Fonda leading the circus.Editing taken care of by amateurs, character development a sad joke and the plot... What plot? This movie is a big nothing. It's an insult which doesn't deserve the classification of movie and should be wiped out from the cinema records. "},{"Title":"The Limey","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Definitive star vehicle for Terrence Stamp(..it seems he was born to play this role)as a British criminal man, Wilson, who wishes to uncover the truth behind his daughter's death. Peter Fonda, a beleaguered rock'n'roll producer, Terry Valentine, is Stamp's target. Barry Newman(..of VANISING POINT fame)is Fonda's security guard, Avery, an enforcer who protects the interests of his employer. Lesley Ann Warren is Elaine, a friend of Wilson's daughter he befriends as well as Luis Guzmán(..who portrays cook, Eduardo Ed Roel, another friend of Wilson's daughter's thanks in part to their acting class together)who helps him on his pursuit for answers. Sure Wilson has thoughts of killing Valentine, but he'd rather find out the truth about his daughter before any attempts of settling a score. Great role for Nicky Katt as a hood Avery turns to when he needs dirty work tended to. Just as good a cast as you could ask for and director Soderbergh builds characterizations through a careful editing process going back and forth through time as Wilson dotes on his past regarding his daughter, while others surrounding Valentine(..such as Katt's Stacey and his partner, and DEA agents who have been tailing Valentine for helping push heroine)have plans of their own he often gets in middle of. Within a tight 90 minutes, we get all we need to know about Wilson thanks to the way the film is directed and written(..good use of a film directed by Ken Loach starring Stamp as a young man living a rather poor, but happy, existence with his wife, before being sent to jail for petty crimes). I particularly was satisfied with the climax because while everyone is killing each other, Wilson is able to confront Valentine face-to-face with a much different result than we are used to in these types of films. To say this was an atypical revenge film would be an understatement, and that may be it's greatest strength. THE LIMEY also establishes Wilson as a fish-out-of-water character whose slang and language leaves many confused and bewildered, yet he leaves a lasting impression. My favorite scene would have to be Wilson's one-on-one with DEA boss Bill Duke, both out to get Valentine, for different reasons, attempting to understand each other. Lesley Ann Warren had a real chance to show just how good an actress she is when given a great part..her work opposite Stamp, a quiet camaraderie that develops because of her fondness for his daughter, is subtle and effective. Also, Stamp's unusual bond with Luis Guzmán is actually touching. A really great movie if given a chance. Fonda's producer is rather sad, a relic needing companionship, always looking over his shoulder in fear that the boogeyman could come from behind any minute. Acted in a minimalist fashion, with quietly moving moments here and there. I think, at it's best, the movie shows a father's regret for not being a more vital figure in his daughter's life. "},{"Title":"An instant classic for sure! ( Small Spoilers )","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh knows perfectly where he's going with his career! He has the right senses and marketing skills to reach and please a large, mainstream audience with films like Ocean's 11 & Erin Brokovich but, on the other hand, (and that is highly respectable) he never lost his devotion and admiration towards smaller, artsy cinema.  The Limey certainly belongs in the last category, along with some of his previous movies like Sex Lies and Videotape, Kafka and The Underneath. Perhaps The Limey is even his best achievement till this date since it really breathes a fresh and remarkable atmosphere. The story itself is rather simple and nowhere near groundbreaking, yet it feels like you're watching something completely innovating and difficult. Even the use of a messed-up structure isn't new but Soderbergh succeeds in making it all look like he invented this particular style. The idea of editing a long forgotten Stamp movie into this film under the form as flashbacks is truly brilliant! The few short scenes coming from Ken Loach's `Poor Cow' portray Stamp's entire character and they give the viewer more feedback than anything else ever could. Yet another fascinating aspect about The Limey is the terrific use of subtle and oppressed humor. There is not one sequence that you'll laugh out loud, yet the situational humor of a British man in a modern American culture becomes unintentionally funny. The highlight of this is Terence Stamp explaining his presence to a Californian police officer. `There's only one thing I don't understand&#133;and that is EVERYTHING you just told me', he says, referring to Stamps bizarre and funny British accent.Which actually leads me to the absolute BEST element about The Limey in the opinion of yours truly&#133;It has one of the greatest character-drawings I've ever seen! Unlike all other crime-stories, the characters in The Limey aren't stereotypical beings. Even the main &#145;bad guy' is basically just an insecure and scared millionaire with a consciousness. And thank God that his girlfriend isn't just another brainless bimbo with big breasts and an illiterate capacity. Enthusiast action buffs will probably use this as a reason to claim that this film is dull and lame. Perhaps&#133;but at least it's something original and a lot more realistic! Of course, this sublime movie element would never have succeeded if it weren't for the wonderful acting performances. Terence Stamp gives away one of the greatest roles in his entire career ( and he has done A LOT ). He's very charismatic and believable as the former British con that investigates and avenges the death of his own daughter. His strong male voice and angry appearance impress the audience immensely. Equally good is Luís Guzman and for once not typecast as the Latino gangster scum! Peter Fonda is sublime as always and he parodies his own character in &#145;Easy Rider' terrifically. If it were up to me, The Limey would be obliged viewing for every self-respecting fan of cinema. A small and modest story that almost lives up to the best efforts of 40's and 50's cinema.    "},{"Title":"Really good film - but not as clever as it thinks it is.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wilson is released from prison in England and travels to LA to look into the death of his daughter. He joins up with Ed and begins to put pressure on record producer Valentine who he believes is mixed up in the death. Valentine is also mixed up with drug dealers and increases his security around his home.This film is all Steven Sodenberg. From the very start it is very heavily stylised in terms of direction and editing. The film constantly jump cuts to later scenes and earlier scenes relating to what is happening in the main scene. This lends a lot of doubt as to what actually happened with Wilson's daughter until the end, but it also serves to make the audience think the film is cleverer than it is. The cutting gives the impression of a film that is multilayered and complicated but really it's not as deep as it wants to be. The plot is simple and quite linear although the characters are quite developed and interesting.The only problem with the direction is that it seems to be referencing Reservoir Dogs at 2 points. At one point the music is the same as RD's and another scene sees Wilson walk in slow motion alongside a red brick wall (a la the opening credits). It's hard to believe Sodenberg didn't know that the latter scene was so similar and it's not clear why he did it. The comparisons with the Tarantino movie can also be seen in the dialogue - many of the characters chat about nothing in particular in the same way that those in RD and Pulp Fiction do. However these are very minor complaints and can be easily ignored with all the crosscutting back and forward in time. One very good touch is the use of extracts from the film Poor Cow which are used to show Stamp's memories of years gone.Wilson is played by Terrance Stamp and he perhaps makes him too Cockney for his own good - at first this grates because he sounds a little like Dick Van Dyke. However after 5 minutes you get used to his accent and it seems natural. Peter Fonda is good as the businessman sucked in to a violent world of his own creating. He balances his laid back nature with the more hunted side of his character well. Support is good from Lesley Ann Warren and the excellent Barry Newman, as always Luis Guzman is fantastic in a supporting role - he's not a leading man but he constantly turns in understated performances.Overall the film is interesting and quite exciting. The conclusion is not as satisfying as it could have been but is quite touching. However the clever editing does not make a clever film and the film is not as deep as it thinks it is. "},{"Title":"Jaw-droppingly awful","Date":"16 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I only just caught this on TV but had been aware of it. I think Stamp is a more than competent actor and the cast looked great. Hadn't seen Barry Newman since 'The Lawyer' many moons ago and wondered what had happened to him. I have to say this film is execrable on every level. Stamp is supposed to be a bit of a Cockney hard man out of prison. At first I thought his use of out-dated 'Mockney' that the Yanks didn't understand was a bit of a joke but then realised it was serious. No one from London would not be aware that Yanks wouldn't understand it. Stamp also is completely out of his depth and appears embarrassed. He can't do the persona or the accent. He is supposed to be a fish out of water, but we get no sense of being in America anyway. Why Stamp should shoot six guys who basically have nothing to do with it makes no sense. And of course he just happens to have a spare gun we know in advance what's going to happen.Quite why the decent Eduardo would hang around with such a nutter is not clear. My main gripes are the dire script. Peter Fonda is shown as a dopey hippy who likes pretty young girls cos he can't let go on the 60's. Hardly the kind who would be a cold killer. Stamp seems to be reading the script for the first time and is just waiting painfully for the movie to end so he can collect his cheque and disappear. It would take an idiot not to see that it would all end at a beach house and that Stamp would finally learn just how naughty he had really been. Probably one of the worst movies ever. "},{"Title":"Nothing to get excited about...","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It has all been done before and been done much better. I didn't like the lack of character development or script. I get the whole strong quiet type characterization but I would have preferred more of the type of dialog we see when The Limey is talking to the DEA agent.Vengeance is mine said the Lord, but after spending over an hour of my life waiting for this movie to pick up, I'm the one who feels like dishing out a bit-o-the-old' vengeance mate! Please don't make the same mistake I did. The time spent is defiantly not worth the pay off.If you are looking for good English/limey action try Snatch, Lock Stock And Two Smoking Barrels. "},{"Title":"The Limey!","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This here movie The Limey is a very strange but good and interesting film. It has very good acting by Terence Stamp which is a performance worthy of an award. Bill Duke, Luis Guzmán, Peter Fonda, Lesley Ann Warren, Nicky Katt, and Allan Graf are also in the movie. There isn't a bunch of action scenes in the movie but whenever there is its exceptionally well performed and staged. The different camera angles and filming makes them really look good. The music is good. There is a whole bunch of scenes you see in some films like when a person is talking but the person's mouth isn't moving and then a second or two later it does because they are in a different place or you hear them talking but don't see them until a moment later. Its not unusual as this has been seen in many other movies but it makes the experience watching this different. The Limey is a smart and clever film that is really unique and I recommend this movie to anyone who likes really different movies!  "},{"Title":"The Limey is a fun movie to watch with one ground-breaking trick.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched The Limey on DVD today.  I was expecting more.Terrence Stamp plays the Limey, seeking the truth about his estranged daughter's death in L.A.  The trick is using actual 1967 movie footage of Stamp in flashback sequences.However, the director and editor needed to use some fairly fancy techniques to make this an interesting 90-minute movie, because it could have been told in a straight-forward manner in only 30! Still, it was well-done with interesting scenes and some good action.I don't know if they intended for it to be funny, but I laughed during several of the more gruesome scenes.  Afterall, most of it was bad guys chasing bad guys, so it didn't really matter who got killed, did it?  Thus the laughs. And Peter Fonda's character was a bit lame, couldn't shoot worth a damn.Anyway, watching this movie is just a good guilty pleasure. It is well-done, but I can give it no more than 6 on a scale of 10. The DVD picture and sound were top-notch. "},{"Title":"Soderberg Does Art-house Badly","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Not a very groundbreaking premise is it? An ex con going out to avenge a relative who's been murdered, sounds just GET CARTER does it not ? It sure does and the worst thing about THE LIMEY is it resembles the disappointing remake of GET CARTER . Actually it's worse than that because while that film was a straightforward MTV influenced movie this one is more like MTV on acid - without MTV It's obvious Soderbergh is aware that he has a very very worn premise for a film but this arty approach becomes very very tiresome very very quickly. In fact it becomes more than merely very very tiresome it becomes very very irritating as we cut - back - and - forth - between scenes - again - and - again like - this . it's not clever and it becomes very very distracting along with other very formalist aspects of film making as out of synch voice over etc . It's not clever and it's just not on Guv One can see Soderberg is trying to make something a million miles away from the mainstream as if he's got an agenda to reboot tried and tested narrative formula with experimental visuals in much the same way as French New Wave did , but this agenda gets in the way of the storytelling and ultimately sinks the movie "}]