[{"Title":"One of the most unique and daringly good films in years","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"131 out of 160 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog Way of the Samurai   * * * * Stars Forest Whitaker stars in this amazingly good character driven film. Whitaker is Ghost Dog, a New York hitman who lives by the code of the ancient samurai. When a job for the mob goes wrong they decide to cut their losses and put a hit out on him. But since he's a samurai and not just a normal hitman this proves to be a huge mistake for them. This film really works on three levels. First is the duality of the film's coolness factor and the strength of Whitaker's performance. Whitaker radiates cool in this film. In every scene and every frame, through both action and inaction we know he is being of awesome power. His performance is note perfect. There's one scene where a grievous wrong has been done and we see Whitaker absorb the devastation, then he narrates that when a making decision it should be done in the space of seven breathes. Once that decision is made and we realize Whitaker's full fury will now be unleashed upon his enemies, it sends a tingle up the spine of the viewer. Whitaker's resolve shines through the screen and through his subsequent acting the pace builds until we reach the film's ultimate battle, which is a really, really good fight scene-one of the most satisfying ever filmed.Furthermore we have the film's philosophy. This aspect of the film is the most important of all even more so than Whitaker's superb performance. As the film's tale unfolds we do need learn about the Way of the Samurai through the eastern philosophy Whitaker espouses as he narrates the film. Often times the film breaks from the action just to linger on the narration and let in sink in. It's a technique that helps set the tone of the film and makes it a completely absorbing experience. The third thing that the film does really well is it is character and not plot driven. At least just as much time is spent following Whitaker through his day to day life as he interacts with people in his community as is spent on the action parts of the plot. In many ways the film works as commentary on the values of modern society. The scenes with Whitaker and his best friend, a Haitian ice cream vendor provide this film with true heart and soul. We see repeatedly that the two friends can understand each other because they are at peace with the world and in tune with their surroundings, so that their bond transcends mere language. Ghost Dog also has a touching relationship with a young girl that he hopes to impart his code to so that she may one day have the tools of knowledge necessary to escape life in the inner city. These are characters that would have been interesting a two-hour film just living their lives without the samurai and hitman aspects of the film. However both aspects work exceptionally well, the effect taken as a whole make this one of the best films of the past few years.Besides Whitaker and his friends, one other great performance is given by Tricia Vessey as Louise Vargo, the young girl that sets all that happens in motion. It's a small part but a key one that she does an admirable job with.If there is a flaw with this film it is that the gangster villains are unnecessarily racist. These scenes are somewhat jarring on first viewing, but are at least consistent with the film's ultimate tone that the gangster's way of life is dying, while the code of the samurai is timeless. It is no coincidence that all the mobsters are much older than Whitaker. Both characters note numerous times that the world is changing, the difference is the gangsters say it with fear and trepidation, while Whitaker notices it as observation. Like the changing of the wind the changing of time and circumstance is neither good nor bad when weighed against his code.While Whitaker deserves infinite praise for his performance, almost just as much praise must be given to director Jim Jarmush. His directing of this film is quite daring and even more skillfull. His approach to the narration is unusual and yet it works on multiple levels and lets us this is a film more about tone than action. The character driven film is a rare commodity. Most films are plot driven moving from point A to point B with no more creativity than a child connecting a dot-to-dot. Here we have a film that starts with its characters and lets them live the lives they've always lived before the central plot elements invaded their existence. The plot is addressed in a timely enough manner, but we see the characters have their own commitments to fulfill too. It's a hard trick to make a character driven film really work without seeming disjointed or slowly paced but Jarmush succeeds masterfully. Jarmush also fills the film with other references in the background that emphasize the character's natures-such as book on bears or the dialogue of a few cartoons here and there. Many films of try to do this, but few films I have ever seen do it as well as Ghost Dog does.A final note, the ending of this film that is one that will be very divisive. People will either love it or hate, personally I loved it. It is an ending that is true to all that his come before for both the characters and their conflicting codes but also one that is both surprising despite being adequately foreshadowed.    "},{"Title":"Who Would Believe This Is So Good?","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"116 out of 151 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the strangest, and most likable movies I have ever seen....and I have seen a lot, believe me. Scene after scene was bizarre. I watched an amazement on the first viewing, chuckling here and there. By the third viewing, I just laughing out loud throughout much of it. The dark, subtle humor in here is as good as I've ever seen on film....even though it may be classified more of a gangster film than a comedy.The humor mainly involved the gangsters, who were a bunch of old Mafia men. A mob never looked this pathetic but they were characters. It was especially fun to see Henry Silva again, a man who used to be an effective villain back on a lot of TV shows in the 1960s. He didn't say much in this movie but the looks on his face were priceless. The funniest guy, at least to me, was the mobster who sang and danced to rap music!The byplay between Ghost Dog, the hero of the movie played wonderfully by Forest Whitaker, and the ice cream man, who only spoke French, also was fun and entertaining.Almost every character in here was a strange, led by Whitaker who plays a modern-day hit-man who lives by the code of the ancient Samurai warriors. He also trains and communicates through carrier pigeons. Hey, I said this was a bizarre movie!The violence was no-nonsense, however, nothing played for laughs and unlike Rambo-mentality, people who were shot at were hit and usually killed right away.Along the way on this strange tale was a lesson or two on loyalty, racism, philosophies, kindness, communication, etc. How much of this you take seriously, and how much as a gag, is up to you, I guess. The more I watch this, the more I see it as clever put-on comedy....yet sad. It's not to easy to describe but you wind up getting involved with these odd people.The movie changes rapidly as Whitaker does in this story. One minute he is a brutally bear-like hit-man and the next minute, the gentlest of souls.A very unique film. The title looks a bit stupid and one you would easily dismiss as moronic, but it is far from it. Great entertainment. "},{"Title":"a fascinating, strange hybrid of black, Japanese and Italian culture, with a perfectly detached, somber lead in Forrester","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"77 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jim Jarmusch is one of the few filmmakers in Hollywood able to make bodies of work that are challenging, thoughtful, and with a distinctive voice. Like the Coen Brothers, it's hard to make his films accessible to the public like many other films at the cineplexes, and that's part of the joy in watching a film such as Ghost Dog. It's such a strange kind of story, but it's a story that extremely well crafted, even when some of the characters aren't developed enough past a certain point. While I can't really say that it's a great film, there are plenty of great things about it.Such as a pulsing, rhythmically engaging soundtrack (I'm not a big fan of rap and hip-hop, but the artists on here are better than expected) with the RZA behind the seat. Delicate, finite cinematography by Robby Mueller (who's other superb collaboration with Jarmusch was on Down By Law). A performance from Forrest Whitaker, as the dedicated, un-hinged-from reality 'samurai' known as Ghost Dog, which ranks among his best and shows in plain sight that he can carry an action film with patience and cool. And the film also carries a fine sense of humor to many scenes - the fact that these gangsters (one of which Dog's boss) watch more cartoons than take care of business is as funny as the way they interact sometimes. While it tends to streak on parody, in the characters there's still the fascinating Jarmusch has in mixing the cultures. It's a hard film to classify, for even though it's a martial-arts movie, the only sight of a sword is used for practice and not a blood-bath in Kill Bill. It's a gangster movie, but every five minutes or so there's philosophical notes on the way of the samurai that seems more in place in a (good, thematically engaging) art film than a (good, shoot-em-up) Hollywood actioner. It's a movie about urban-life, yet the only signs of Urbana are shown from a distance, where the only two who will talk to Ghost Dog are a Haitian ice cream guy (who provides a wonderfully weird scene on the roof with Ghost Dog), and a little girl who likes to read. But it's this mixture that can keep a viewer on his or her toes, especially once you realize the psychological state of the lead as much as his spiritual state.Parts of the film might turn off one group, but the other parts of the film might keep the same group enthralled. In fact, it's as interesting a comparison to be made to Kill Bill (itself a hybrid) as it is in the spiritual and stylistic parent, Le Samourai by Melville. Like those films, at the least, Jarmusch's film asks to be looked at more than once...Anyway, three cheers for Garry Nobody Farmer! "},{"Title":"A Tour de Force for Whitaker","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"79 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Men clinging to noble, outdated ideals in a world that no longer cares about such things that's the concept here. Whitaker shows amazing strength and control in an antihero role that is necessarily secretive and subdued. Silva and Tormey turn in solid performances -- Tormey is especially poignant as the second-fiddle mafioso, torn between his admiration of Ghost Dog and his devotion to his own sempai (Silva).The excellent soundtrack, courtesy of RZA, adds its own somber-yet-hip mood to the work. Jarmusch frames his characters on rooftops, on 'hood byways, in mansions, in the back rooms of Chinese restaurants, and everywhere there is a feeling of the walls closing in, of things coming to an end, of finality. See it. It's a good movie.  "},{"Title":"I live by a code","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"52 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is about codes of conduct, with 2 main codes that are dying out or are dead.One is the code of the Mafia the other is the Samurai.The basic plot is this. One of the Mafia wiseguys must be killed as he is having an affair with the daughter of the Mafia Don.The person they get to do it is an African American who lives by the code of the Samurai and goes by the name of Ghost Dog. To be honest, I have met many Japanafiles so this is not so unbelievable. But the code of the Mafia means that if you kill a wiseguy then you must be killed or the Mafia person who hired him must be killed.Jim Jarmusch makes movies where the characters close relations based on only very small things. The Mafia wiseguy saved Ghost Dogs life, so now he must be his retainer. He lives off the land (lives on a roof, steals the cars and equipment he needs to do a job). There is also a friendship between 2 people who don't speak the same language. It is the connection between people that is so important here. If you saw Dead man and like it, then you will love Ghost Dog. It is funny, serious, dark, tragic and beautiful all at the same time. Dead man missed the mark with some similar themes (though the DVD of Dead man has some deleted scenes that would have made the movie much better and reflected better the idea of small connections being strong connections).I loved this movie, and I don't expect everyone else to. Art house movies have small audiences for this exact reason. I know a lot of people who avoided this movie because they thought it was cheesy. The answer is, yes it is, and most of the bad reviews reflect this same idea.Also I love the sound track, with lots of Phat beats, and uses Hip Hop (African American culture) to reflect Japanese culture. "},{"Title":"A big surprise that really works","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"51 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jim Jarmusch isn't exactly a household name when it comes to Hollywood directors. I don't know about other people, but personally I had heard of his name before, but certainly couldn't name any of his movies. Now that has changed. Since I've seen Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai I'll try to see at least a couple of his other movies as well, because I really liked this one.Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is a quite unique movie. It tells the story of an African-American mafia hit-man in New York who lives by the rules of the Samurai, in simplicity and alone with his pigeons, who calls himself Ghost Dog and who is always faithful to his master, a local mobster who has saved his life several years ago. When the daughter of the local mob boss witnesses one of Ghost Dog's hits, he must die himself. The first victims are his birds and in response, Ghost Dog goes right at his attackers. He is lethal, but does not want to harm his master or the young woman. And while his life is in constant danger, the only people he ever has contact with are a little girl, with whom he discusses books, and a Haitian ice cream man who only speaks French and doesn't understand a word of what Ghost Dog tells him.I guess the best way to categorize this movie is to call it a mix of the movie Léon, the Samurai code and hip-hop culture. Normally you would think that such a mix could never work, but this time it does. I admit that it certainly isn't a normal mix, but Jarmusch avoids the traps that would make this original and daring movie a complete waste of time and which would turn it into one unbelievable and unrealistic mess. I know it sounds strange, how can a movie that combines Italian, Japanese and hip-hop culture into one ever become one solid movie? Don't ask me, I don't even know how he came up with the idea, but it works and that's all that matters.This movie has several strong points. One is the way everything is told and shown, which make this a sober, but powerful movie. Especially with the quotes that are taken from the Way of the Samurai and that are voiced by Forest Whitaker, a solid base is formed. This helps you to understand why the man does what he does, why he lives his life like that and why he will always respect his master. If this hadn't been in the movie, I would probably not have liked it a bit. The other strong point is the acting. The mobsters look a bit stereotypical, but are well portrayed by people like Cliff Gorman, John Tormey, Richard Portnow,... but the best performance definitely comes from Forest Whitaker. Normally Whitaker plays the role of a good guy, like for instance Jody in The Crying Game or Captain Ramey in Phone Boot and it has to be said, he really has some talent for that kind of roles. But, as he proves with this movie, he is capable of a lot more. He plays the role of the samurai hit man, doesn't look like he's fit for that role at all (at least, I would never think of him when it comes to that role), but does it really very well. As a conclusion I would like to add that the sound track is also very nice. Normally I'm not too much a fan of hip hop in the movies, although I can appreciate it as a form of music on itself, but this time it really works. Add to this some nice acting, a cool and well-written story, some funny moments (like for instance a rapping mobster) and what you'll get is a movie that is fun and interesting to watch. I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Interesting and deep, but not as deep as it tries to be","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"33 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film; it has pretty much everything a great film needs a great score, great actors, great performances, etc. The film revolves around Ghost Dog, perfectly portrayed by Forest Whitaker. He is a assassin who lives by the code of the Samurai. Apart from him, we also follow the fate of several mafia men(though nowhere near as intimately as we follow Ghost Dog). These two very different groups, Samurai and mafia, are both depicted reasonably well, giving us insight to how the groups work, and, more importantly, their code. Both groups live and die by the code, and this is probably the most important thing in the movie, and it's shown with respect with both Samurai and mafia; I'm not entirely sure that it's correct all the way through, but that's not what's most important, anyway. The film has reasonably little action, but it's not supposed to be an action film, by any means. It's fairly slow throughout the film, but it never really bores you to the point of not watching any more; I've seen the film at least five times now, so believe me, I know. The film is very stylized and cool throughout, which definitely has some part in keeping you interested, but the theme and story/plot plays a bigger part, I think. The plot is pretty good, and though it keeps a fairly slow pace throughout the film, it also keeps your interest for the entire duration of the film. The acting is all good, though not everyone pulls off as excellent a performance as Whitaker. Isaach De Bankolé portrays Ghost Dog's best friend, and he does gives a great performance. So does Camille Winbush, who portrays a girl who Ghost Dog befriends and discusses books with. The characters are well-written and(mostly) credible. I'm not entirely sure that the film does provide a totally correct version of the Code of the Samurai. The soundtrack is great; it's made by the hip-hop artist RZA, but most of it will be enjoyable to people who aren't into hip-hop. Also, I guess it's more of a score than a soundtrack; there isn't any time where the music feels out of place in a scene. All in all, a great film, but not for all tastes. Don't go in expecting an action film; don't go in expecting a very deep an entirely intellectual film; don't go in expecting a regular movie; go in expecting to see a decent(if not good) representation of both the mafia code and the Samurai code. I've heard some people describe the ending as an anti-climax; I don't know what they were expecting... I won't say that I saw it coming, but I wasn't disappointed when it happened. It had to end it, and I think the director, Jim Jarmusch made a good decision on that. I recommend this film to people with an interest in Samurai, fans of Jarmusch and people looking for a reasonably deep film. I don't recommend this to fans of action movies, as there's fairly little action in the film. No matter who you are, if you're going to see this film, make sure you have the patience for it; it's worth sitting through the two reasonably slow hours for. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Jim Jarmusch masterpiece!","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"29 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is possibly the best Indie film of the 90s. Its certainly up there. There are so many things I'd like to say about this film - I could write a dissertation! So here's attempt, in point form-The cast All I can say is WOW! Forest Whitaker blew me away - even more so than he usually does.-Notice how the cartoons are a direct prediction or reflection of the scenes surrounding their viewing? And how the gangsters are all awed by them. An interesting connection to the cartoonish gangsters themselves - gangsters who are all old and have fallen into gross caricatures of what gangsters should be. It gets to the point where Vin praises Ghost Dog for sending them all off 'like real gangsters', implying that they're fake.-Louis and Ghost Dog live by a similar code - except that Louis betrays his code in the end. Interesting how G.D. says, me & him, we're from different ancient tribes and now we're both almost extinct. Almost prophetic as it leads to the High Noon style Western showdown, where G.D. sacrifices himself in order to remain honourable.-The best friend, marvelously played by Issach de Bankole, is able to communicate back and forth with G.D., even though neither of them speak the same language. Yet they always know what the other is saying.This is a classic samurai tale, and a classic fairy tale. A fascinating connection to Rashomon, featured in the film, which takes the same story, which changes drastically as its recounted by different witnesses. Yo have the sens in this film that those who are involved on the same plane are separated by different understandings of reality.You really need patience to appreciate this film and its various divergences. Many of the slow moments are extremely pertinent to the parent themes of the film. Set in Unknown, USA - which may as well be feudal Japan - the film breaks boundaries of communication and social/moral code. The end is important in all things. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Top-notch","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"33 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Basically, Jim Jarmush's best (and most accessible) film; Forrest Whitaker's best performance (and the best performances by a host of little recognized but worthy character actors), the best sound track, best music from the RZA; - I mean, '90's film-making just couldn't get better than this, and if you're having trouble understanding this, then read some books and see some movies, because this is a film that does not talk down to its audience, but expects us to live up to it.This is a film about the clash - and potential interweaving - of very different cultures. That the interweavings ultimately become untethered, is solely because we are not yet ready to live up to the promise of being a multi-cultural melting-pot that we have always promised ourselves we'd become.... But that doesn't give us any right to lose hope or stop trying.Ghost Dog is the spirit of this possible future. We don't have to have the worst of every culture, we could actually bring together the best.Magnificently written, shot, performed - and, despite a grim finale, one of the most optimistic films on this topic I've ever seen.It's a good book - I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Highly overrated","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I went ahead and watched this film because the premise sounded interesting to me. Despite being wary due to the hard-to-take-seriously title and trailer, I gave it a shot. Now I wish I had my 2 hours back (or was it 3?). The movie starts off slowly and never really picks up. It felt as if an entire half of the film consisted of scenes where the main character was driving his car to rap music in the background or of scenes where mobsters watched classic cartoons. There are but 1 or 2 characters that you might actually care about, and they don't include Ghost Dog who pretty much always has the same expression throughout the movie. There are some funny moments thrown here and there but they are far too sparse. There isn't any character development, or plot for that matter.Before you dismiss this review as coming from someone who seems to have a short attention span, I'd like to say I'm an avid film watcher and a huge advocate of independent and/or artistic films including 12 Angry Men and The Man From Earth, both of which are films that take place almost entirely in one room and consist of mainly dialogue. This film, on the other hand kept the word boring running through my mind. Ghost Dog is not a thriller because the bad guys are so inept and unrealistic that any sense of danger disappears, nor is it a drama because the characters are mostly stereotypes and show no development, nor is it action because of its focus characters sleeping, driving, watching TV etc etc. If I had to make up a genre for the film it would be hip hop comedy spy movie that isn't that funny with cultural references. Even from a technical standpoint, the director doesn't do any interesting as far as camera shots and cinematography goes. Perhaps if this film was 1.5 hours shorter, I would have liked it.If you read a few dozen Japanese haiku poems instead of watching this movie, you won't miss out on anything. "}{"Title":"Reflections","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Superficially, this is a set of mirror images the code of the mob vs that of the samuri; urban anarchy vs the order of nature; inner grace vs ostentatious coolness; the word vs the deed; small acts vs the context of death. People talking different languages.There's a post-Greenaway use of the read (and seen) written narrative that sets the viewers' perspective -- Jarmusch's work has always been an internally self-aware narrative of external acts, usually the normal movements of life.The main thing is probably missed by RZA who takes himself seriously. Jarmusch goofs on all this, heavily on the mobsters, and more subtly but profoundly on black urban preening. Whitaker is in on the irony -- being really cool means knowing its a joke, and Dog is cool in dimensions that Shaft/RZA can never reach.Pulp Fiction had some clever dialog and a neat narrative folding, but what QT tried in terms of style (even the attempt is interesting), Jarmusch balances it perfectly here.The small center for me was between the two reading girls, and the implication that there were as many movies unfurling as there were characters -- we were seeing only one. "},{"Title":"Out of Character For Jarmusch","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog certainly is an intriguing film. It breaks some new ground for writer/director Jim Jarmusch, who usually creates simple, funny, and heartfelt black and white films with many underlying themes. Ghost Dog is one of his few color films, and it is also the most out of character picture he has made to date. Instead of a slow-paced comedic drama, Ghost Dog is a slow-paced bloody crime film.The plot deals with Ghost Dog (Whitaker), an expert mafia assassin living in present-day New York City who lives his life according to the ancient code of the Samurai.Jarmusch somewhat reverses what Akira Kurosawa did in Throne of Blood by bringing Eastern culture to a Western setting. It's a rather fascinating idea, but I can't help but feel that Jarmusch kind of falls into a trap he teeters on almost constantly in his films while he's so busy creating a slow, brooding atmosphere and interweaving subtle underlying themes, he occasionally forgets that this is still a movie. He still needs to keep the audience entertained. Ghost Dog sometimes moves so slowly that one becomes a little bit bored and anxious.Another thing that doesn't work particularly well in Ghost Dog are Jarmusch's signature scenes of off-beat humor that often just come completely out of nowhere. They usually work quite well, such as Iggy Pop's and Billy Bob Thornton's blackly funny scene in Dead Man, but they just feel awkward here. E.g., Jarmusch develops a very peculiar group of gangsters in Ghost Dog, gangsters who think they're straight out of GoodFellas but are so incompetent that they can't even pay their rent nor figure out who they're trying to whack. This is often quite amusing, but sometimes Jarmusch just goes over the top, such as when he makes one of the fifty-something Italian gangsters begin going on about how he loves rap and even start rapping his favorite verses right in the middle of a meeting of criminals. It's just uncomfortable.Still, there's plenty to like here, and there are quite a few homages for avid film-lovers to spot, such as a cool little nod to the butterfly scene in Seijun Suzuki's Branded To Kill. Also, the acting is often spot-on. Forest Whitaker is absolutely perfect as Ghost Dog - detached, subtle, nuanced, and, most importantly, human.Still, I hesitate to recommend this film. Jim Jarmusch is most definitely an acquired taste, but even his fans may find their patience tried during Ghost Dog. "},{"Title":"Intertextual onanism","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this film, I couldn't quite work out if it was one of the best, or one of the worst films I'd seen in ages. I knew it had to be one extreme or the other, which does count in it's favour, as I'll take awful over mediocre any day. It seemed to be made up of really great, and really cringe worthy scenes, but lots of the greatest films ever are like this, Brazil and The Man Who fell to Earth spring to mind. Put Apocalypse Now in the flawed masterpiece category as well while you're at it. Weighing up the good and the bad in ghost Dog produces a different result though. Bad points include Jarmusch's insistence on studding the film with such toe curling moments as when the main protagonist is greeted respectfully by the gang of Bloods and you just have to wait for the other shoe to drop, for him to be greeted equally by, yes you guessed it the Krips. You pray it won't happen, because it would just be too corny, and excuses involving irony won't help, but no, there it is,the money shot ....S'up G-Dawg. Another shocker the we's gonna shoot uz a big BLACK Bey-ah Ezeikiel scene. Jesus what did they put that in for ? It bears no coherent or cohesive relevance to the film in any way, and is another waiting for the other shoe to drop moments. You're Jim Jarmusch for God's sake. Don't be predictable. That scene really annoyed me though, because it follows a lecture about the ways of Bushido, about how the samurai serves with honour, and cannot be distracted by a) personal emotion and b) superfluous tasks such as shooting cartoon hillbillies The other really bad point, was the films signposting of its cultural references, and assuming that the audience know nothing. ....Yes there's a girl on a sofa reading Rashomon we all know what it is, we've all seen the Kurosawa, some of us have read it, some of us have read in the shady grove etc. But they can't leave it at that. I really expected and wanted to like this film. It stars the mighty Forrest Whittaker, a true great. It's by Jim Jarmusch, another titan, and that alone made me enter the film with a feeling of goodwill that it was impossible to lose entirely however bad it might be. The other point was the bird landing on the gun sight, and the plug-hole sink assassination. OH how I loved them, how I hugged myself with smug glee knowing that they were a homage to Koroshi No Rakuin I even looked around, wondering who else recognised it, and trying to spot those who didn't..... ho-ho, the saps. I later realised though, that all the film was doing, was massaging film-nerdy egos, giving us a cheap thrill of semi-obscure film recognition, and I think I hate the film more for doing that. There was nothing original in the whole ghost dog film, it was just a hotch potch of direct lifts from other films,literally, stylistically and thematically.Lifting good scenes from a good film, and splicing them whole sale into a mediocre one is not really homage, nor does it make a bad film good. It just gives nerds something to get excited about, and possibly makes you think Shouldn't I just watch Koroshi No Rakuin instead ? Like Mick Jagger so nobly said what's the point of listening to us playing 'I'm a King Bee', when you can listen to Slim Harpo doing it ? Exactly. Why watch pseudy references to other films, when you could be watching something with its own ideas. I give this film 1 star, not because it doesn't deserve more, but just to lower it's overall average "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog? Ghost Plot.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is a film that showed much promise, but delivered none. The tone of the movie attempts to be serious, but at the same time, displays mafia characters who's Abbott and Costello slapstick antics discount any validity the film may have offered. This is one of the most loosely framed plots I have ever seen, combined with horrendous acting (aside from Forest Whitaker). I do not recommend this movie to anyone.  "},{"Title":"The tale of an inner-city, New York, Samurai warrior by Jim Jarmusch","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This new film, written and directed by the Dean of Independent film makers (Down by Law, Night on Earth, and Dead Man, just to name a few of his masterpieces), is a WONDERFUL, entertaining, and powerful work about a New York City inner city young man, played marvellously by Forest Whitaker, who studies and lives the way of the ancient Samurai warriors.  He has adopted the role of retainer to a minor  mob boss, whose orders he carries out with flawless precision. Jarmusch once again pairs up with cinematographer Robby Muller, with the predictable result that the film is visually magnificent. In typical Jarmusch fashion, the hip hop sound track (music by RZA) is also masterful. Ghost Dog is exciting, emotional (even touching), engaging, and, most unexpectedly, funny. "},{"Title":"Nice little movie from Jarmusch","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Back in the late eighties and early nineties, Jim Jarmusch had established himself as the coolest cat in film directing. Films like Down by the Law and Night on Earth had made him a favourite long before the likes of Quentin Tarantino came on the scene, and Jarmusch was most definitely at the height of American cinema. These days, Jarmusch isn't quite as well liked as he once was; but this hasn't stopped him directing good movies. Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is much more down to earth than most of Jarmusch's earlier films, but it still has that coolness in it's essence, and although it isn't vintage Jarmusch; it's still a very good movie. The film isn't quite like anything I've ever seen before (and that isn't something I see much of these days!) as it's plotting is so relaxed that it's pretty much at walking pace throughout, and it's relaxed atmosphere isn't something that has been seen too many times in cinema, especially not modern cinema. All in all, what it lacks in coolness; Ghost Dog makes up for in originality.This movie is very much what film fans would class as an indie. It's just too absurd and daring to possibly have studio backing; and that is credit to it's director, as this film helps to prove that indie films are often far more likable and inventive than their big budget counterparts. The director has made best use of the casting, and Forest Whitaker, despite not being an actor with an impressive list of lead roles to his credit, pulls out an excellent performance that brilliantly fits the tone of the movie. This is the sort of casting that shows you don't need a well respected and highly paid actor in your movie for it to work, just one that fits the role. Jarmusch has written lots of great and absurdly funny scenes for the movie, the best of which is the one in which Ghost Dog's employer explains the arrangement to a baffled group of colleagues - it's comedy genius! The film, at times, gets a little bit too arty for it's own good and that may make some viewers roll their eyes. It's also perhaps just a little too relaxed. Still, it's not bad. "},{"Title":"A great mix of mysticism and hip-hop","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch has never been a  part of the typical convention, and  his Ghost Dog further embodies  his unique position in Hollywood.  Forrest Whitaker gives his best  performance since The Crying Game,  embodying the silent Ghost Dog who  is cold, yet full of depth and intrigue.  Sadly, this film didn't do as well as it  should have, but then again, it was  probably for the better. The select  few who have seen this film will know  they watched a rather special and  different kind of film experience. "},{"Title":"Jarmusch peaked","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is by far Jarmusch's best film. I'm all for slow flicks if they work, but man, Jarmusch just doesn't have many good flicks.That said, this movie is just downright ill. The ice cream cat in this joint is one of the best characters I've ever seen. Forest bring the house down as always. The Rza lays down an original score that I copped immediately after I saw this.Calling this Jarmusch's best film doesn't say much for an underwelming body of work, but this movie is just straight up dope filmmaking. Period. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, charming and smart art movie","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog is for me the best Forest Whithaker's movie. It was a great surprised when I saw it after so many years after its release in 1999. Jim Jarmusch made a movie to please audiences a big broader that the typical art movie fans who follow him.His idea of mixing ancient cultures works well as both a tribute and a parody at the same time. The laughs are not constant but there are definitely scenes that will make you smile when you realize the connections.The mafia guys are representing a declining tribe which used to rule businesses and now are limited to 60 year olds who still take care of the family. Some quotes really represent that declining era - for example when the big boss says he was expecting for Ghost Dog and buttons down his jacket, or one of the mafia guys says he will at least die as a gangster, those are clear references to their feelings over the end of their era and the reality of present times. The gangsters are all very cartoonish, and the 50's cartoons are there throughout the movie being watched by the gangsters who are mesmerized by the scenes that mimic the movie plot. Those cartoons are also a tribute to times that can't come back any longer. On the other hand, the way of the samurai remits us to another ancient culture, which insists in stay alive and relevant - through Ghost Dog, the mafia girl or the young lady who Ghost Dog mentors. The sword is briefly shown and replaced by contemporary weapons, but the thoughts of wisdom are there, well applied throughout the movie, and make us think about its applications. This is significantly helped by the pace of the movie being interrupted by those metaphoric passages of the book. The passenger pigeons are a poetic remembrance of the beginning of the century, and illustrate how Ghost Dog likes the old values. Finally, another declining icon, the ice cream truck, is shown extensively to help make the connection between two men who merely have in common their ancient roots in Africa. They don't even speak the same language, but almost read each others minds.Excellent movie by Jarmusch, who chose to use a heavier tone on purpose, maybe to please a broader audience, maybe to pay tribute to another era - of gangsters, westerns, respect, and - why not - romance. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Mysterious, compelling...","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog....one of those movies you can watch again and again, and never tire ofwell I think so anyway.Yes, it's better second time around, lots of films are, and it's a film that grows on you more and more.I suppose it's another of those movies we could call a cult, though that seems to be a bit of an over-used phrase nowadays. Forest Whitaker, as ever, is outstanding in his role, and you can't help but smile to yourself at the rather comical small time crook family who believe they're running the show.All in all a fine movie to pass the time, and one I believe you will return to again. 7.5/10 "}{"Title":"Not bad at all..","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Amazing that all these people don't like this film..It's pretty good. Some action, interesting quirky characters, and some excellent acting. Now personally the criticisms expressed here didn't bother me. I don't care that he doesn't follow the old samarui ways. People take what they want from books and culture. They read into these things what they like.Thats how it is with Ghost Dog.. He wanted to live his life how HE thought a modern Samuri would. Its silly to criticize that. I thought the music worked fine, and the film was actually kind of moving.Now if your the type the demands absolute realism or want characters to reflect some kind of historical accuracy - don't see this film. If your the type that can't take some slow parts to a movie skip this as well. But I thought it was really good. Whitaker is the best black actor today, IMHO.Pete "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog is Money","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is a smoked out dudes fantasy.So you have to like The Sopranos, Bruce Lee movies, Swingers, and The Thievery Corporation, however most dudes do.I'll admit its a bit out there at times but you can't tell me the laser scope through the pipe move wasn't pretty tight.  And Whitaker tak'n out the whole crew was sick...no dud George Parker this movie is liget.Its a low budget homerun and Whitaker good as always.  "},{"Title":"Don´t point dirty fingers too fast - let it sink in first","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can see why people may say this movie is dull or confusing, ´cause it´s abit of a melting pot, but people in real life r much more strange and contradicting than this. Some people always scream out loud whenever a movie character is more complicated than donald duck.If your feet are itching prior to loading the vcr/dvd/whatever - go for a run or sumthin - then chill out.. If u can handle life u can handle ghost dog..I luuuuuved it, and have seen it 10 times in 3 yrs.9/10The score I also like - RZA is wicked "},{"Title":"Brilliant moviemaking","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is a great movie.  It has a good amount of action, gorgeous cinematography, incredible acting, offbeat and funny humor, and yep, one cliched story.  This is not a movie *just* about Samurai warriors, the Mafia, or ice-cream trucks; it's also about the power of storytelling, and how we really are more alike than different.First, to address a common criticism here.  Yes, it's much slower paced than a typical action film, and indeed, there are long scenes of Forest Whitaker driving or weirdly paced meetings of mobsters.  But think about all those long shots of people riding through the desert in Westerns, or those meetings between the bad guys in your typical action flick, and it kind of starts to gel.  There are almost constant references to all kinds of cultures and their archetypal heroic stories.  In many ways, Ghost Dog is really no different than any sort of Western or samurai film; there's a hero that we feel pretty ambiguous about (Forest Whitaker looks and acts cool, but he does kill people for a living), there's good guys and bad guys, and there's townspeople, and lots of talk about honor and obedience and all that stuff.  These kinds of stories are simply everywhere, from El Cid to Rashomon to Star Wars.So I think this what the interaction between Ghost Dog and the ice cream man is about.  They understand each other simply because they're human beings. And we can relate to this movie for the same reason.It's true much of this film can come off as being contrived or even stereotypical, but timeless stories are like that.  The mobsters certainly aren't very bright, either, but I got a sense that they were pretty small-time criminals, and not the wealthy, brilliant kind we see in The Godfather movies.So, enough analysis.  Rent it, kick back, and enjoy seeing something like you've never seen before.  Only you've probably seen the same story hundreds of times, because it's been passed down for centuries all over the world. "},{"Title":"Sincerely, top 20 of all times","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Plot Line A good Samaritan rescues a kid from a near fatal situation. The kid now believes he is a sworn servant of the Samaritan, a samurai. The Samaritan is a member of the Mafia. Then urban life happens.Bar none, one of the best films ever. Many might find it slow at times, too melodramatic, too urban, too black. To those people I respect our individual right to savor specific aspects of a film which please the senses. This movie, however, is more of a spiritual/psychological journey with close ties to that of a samurai. Forest Whitaker portrays our main character, Ghost Dog. He is an assassin with ancient Japanese ambition and with monogamous loyalty through karmic intervention to Louie (John Tormey) who is but a mere thug in a literal 'Loony Toons' Mafia ring. This movie combines superb acting across the court filmed in close perspectives and with a soundtrack so appropriate (it tells the movie even if you were to watch with your eyes closed, I tried).It's a shame independent movies gather dust. Our next Otis Redding is serving us food at a two-bit Diner. Any frailties aboard this movie, though far from obvious, would only be on account of insufficient funds. The directing and cinematography is at times surreal and at other times, comic book. The proverbs inter-laced with Forest's dialogue gives the viewer a chance to breath-in breath-out and be ready for the next chapterBottom Line Best Forest Whitaker role to date. A Meditation on film. Observe the maxims that lie within the movie. The brotherhood in honor amongst the harsh urban community, leads to the way of the Samurai. "},{"Title":"A Wu Tang Film","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a die hard Wu-Tang fan because their world is so complexly layered as it incorporates mostly urban Black American, east Asian, and Italian American mafia culture as does this film. That is why their music is riveting as is this film. Everything about this film points to the Wu, the fact that it has a score composed by RZA, the soundtrack containing Raekwon, Method Man and the Ol Dirty Bastard. The dialog is something similar to what Quentin Tarantino may write. As the world of hip hop is slowly dying I hope that the Clan is still reaching out and providing their influence on the youth that need it the most. This is the way of the Shogun. Cash Rules Everything Around Me. "},{"Title":"Absolutely beautiful","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I didn't know what to expect with this movie. I don't even recall why I put it in my Netflix queue. Probably a friend of mine recommended it. Although I knew already that I think highly of both Forrest Whitaker, and Jim Jarmusch. So I guess I had an idea that this was probably good times ahead. And let me tell you people, I was not disappointed. During the almost 2 hours this movie lasts, I didn't think one second that such scene or that one was too long. This goes completely against some of the critics that I have read in here. I don't know how anyone who's got some critical abilities could come up with such complaints. If you want to see a movie with real dead time, please go see Caché by Michael Haneke. (seriously, you probably don't want to watch this movie)Anyway, I am not about to relate all the events that happen in Ghost Dog. It's been already done by so many people. And yes, the concept of the assassin following the Samurai's code in the midst of the Mafia world is just a wonderful idea. And this movie certainly contains a lot of great concepts. Such is the one where Ghost dog's friend, the ice-cream guy speaks only French. This is really fun to watch, as they both figure out what the other one was saying despite the language barrier. True friendship goes beyond that barrier!But there are a few other observations I would like to make. It seemed strange to me that the Mafia gangsters were always watching cartoons. Sure they are other clues to get us to see how incompetent, and uncultured they are. For instance they can't pay all their dues, they haven't paid the rent in 3 months, they sit in the back room just playing cards, etc. But the cartoons? I think that this could have been avoided. Also, the scene of the killing through the sink was a bit too far fetched for me. On another hand, there is this mysterious dog. What did he symbolize? Was that the animal spirit who tried to remind him of his duties? I loved also the handing over of the Samurai's code book to the young girl. Truly a key moment for us to realize that he's done. His mission is over, and he will follow the code of the samurai all the way. What else? Ah yes, excellent acting from Forrest Whitaker, but this is probably not really surprising to anyone who knows him.I highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"one star because zero is not an option","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoiler Alert It never gets better. It is a rarity among terrible movies in that it cannot be enjoyed even for its badness.Don't be fooled, folks. It looked terrible, it sounded terrible, and yet, because it enjoyed mostly positive reviews,this viewer was betrayed into giving it an undeserved benefit of the doubt. Trust your senses. You will not like this movie.As a few complaints in evidence of its awfulness, I will mention that the film is replete with trite platitudes, faux-symbolism, and never manages to be funny when it attempts to be. If there is one redeeming quality to this film, it is that I need not see it again. "},{"Title":"walks the line between creativity and cheesiness","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is a highly entertaining movie, however, there are moments when it lacks originality.  When Forest Whitaker's Ghost Dog practices his 'way of the Samurai', it sometimes seems like he's taking himself way too seriously. And it's definitely a very Americanized way of looking at the Japanese philosophy -- quite simplistic and stereotyped.  Not to mention the Italian goombas in the movie, who are stereotyped to the point of seeming like a parody of the Italian gangsters we've seen on TV and in the movies.  But besides this, the movie really is quite charming, especially the ice cream man. "},{"Title":"Bleah - spoilers","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now I'll be the first to admit it when I say something that may be blasphemous or unfair, so I would like to apologize in advance for my ranting about how much I disliked this movie.That about sums it up too.  I disliked this movie.  To be more  specific, I disliked the concept of this movie.  The cinematography was good.  The mood was nice.  And the acting was satisfactory. However, the story is fatuous, unacurate and misleading.  It is also offensive.I am a quarter Cree Indian, and for some reason I feel insulted, on a personal level, by the nature of Whitaker's character.     First of all, he's a black guy.  And this isn't a racist remark, I swear.  The thought of a White, Hispanic or even Native American swinging a katana on a rooftop offends everything that the katana represents.  The katana represents the soul of a Samurai, imbibed with the souls of his ancestors who guide and protect the Samurai.  For Ghost Dog to use his guns instead of the Katana is also an insult to the blade and the souls inside, and where the heck did he get a Katana anyway?  It must be one of those replicas, which insults the Samurai caste even more.Also, Ghost Dog showed no honor.  Near the end of the movie, he shoots a bodyguard in the back through a window and then assassinates a man by shooting him in the face through a faucet drain.  Not only is this a cowards way to kill an enemy, it's more like a ninjas way; silent assassins; a group that samurais deny exists, but hates none-the-less.Then he tries to kill his boss, when he finds out his boss is a baddie.  You know what a true Samurai does when he learns his master is proven bad or dishonorable?  He kills himself, to prove that he would rather die then lower himself to the level of his doggish master.Everything about the character was a giant contradiction to the real code that all Samurai adhere to Bushido.So, we have great cinematography, good ambiance and so-so acting encompassing a satiricle plot and premise, (which unfortunately is the most important aspect of it) , making it an unsatisfactory overall film, and an insult to everything a honorable bushi(samurai) holds dear. 2.5/10  Bleah "}{"Title":"A strange and fascinating film","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog Way of the Samurai has one of the most unfortunate titles, in my opinion. The title of the film comes off as a mediocre '90s gangster rap/samurai mash up, starring Forest Whitaker. This film is much more than that. It is about a hit-man called Ghost Dog, a kind soul who is indebted to his mafia retainer. By day, Ghost Dog walks the streets, visits neighbours and feeds his pigeons. By night, he kills for the mafia. One day, a contract goes wrong, and his ageing mafia allies turn on him and his retainer. Ghost Dog resolves to do whatever it takes to keep his master safe.Ghost Dog is one of the coolest and most original films I have seen in quite some time. The film blends '90's hip-hop culture with Bushido wisdom in a weird and darkly comedic way. The characters are menacing and goofy at the same time, but not in a campy way. They feel fleshed out, real and vulnerable. The blend of styles is great as well. I am a huge fan of Japanese film, and this blends Japanese samurai elements with 1990's rap culture, blending gang violence with codes of honour and ethics seamlessly.Ghost Dog Way of the Samurai is one of the most under-watched films around. It is easily a cult-hit, and deserves a wider audience and attention. "},{"Title":"For real?...","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is one of those movies that might have seemed like a really god idea on script and in concept idea, but translated to the screen not so much. Why? Well, because the storyline was not overly great and the cinematography even less so.The idea of an Afro-American hit-man who lives by the ancient Bushido code just didn't Work as well as the writers might have intended. Nothing racism or anything here, just an observation on the character and how the character didn't really fit into the Bushido creed. But making matters worse was to have a barrel-shaped man trying to put the art of the Samurai to the screen. With all due respect for Forest Whitaker and his great acting talent, then he was just the wrong physical choice for the role of Ghost Dog.I will say that Forest Whitaker does play well in Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai, despite being wrongly cast for the role, but he ended up looking like a fish out of water.Once the movie ended, I sat with a very bored feeling and thinking 'what was the purpose of this movie?' Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai wasn't innovative or spectacular in any way. And the overall impression is of a below average movie experience. "},{"Title":"JIm Jarmusch scores over Jean-Pierre Melville","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This Jarmusch film needs to be compared with Jean-Pierre Melville's 1967 French film Le Samourai because both stories are essentially the same. Further both films have birds playing a major role. Both films have a female witness to a key assassination. Both films have the assassin stealing cars.Thankfully the Jarmusch film shows birds returning to thank the humans and the bonding is key. For Melville, the bird seemed to have intelligence and communicated to the human through unusual twittering. Jarmusch was probably closer to reality here.Jarmusch succeeds where Melville failed by adding philosophy, interesting supporting characters--the ice cream vendor and the smart girl who carries books in her lunch box. Melville merely reduced the story to a cop and an assassin trying to resolve the respective mysteries. "},{"Title":"Regular Jarmusch","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In terms of the actual content, I had never seen Jarmusch make a crime/action film. But once you extend from that, you realize that yes, this is very much a Jarmusch film. The acing, the look, the tone of the whole thing, very reminiscent of an art foreign film in terms of what it actually does. Don't get me wrong, the film does have enough action, but yeah, it won't be for anyone. I didn't love it and if I hadn't seen other Jarmusch films before I would probably grade it lower, but I already know how his films tend to fare with me over time, so I'm taking that into account. Definitely something to linger in the mind, see how it actually does a few months from now. "},{"Title":"Forest Whitaker samurai hit man","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog (Forest Whitaker) dutifully follows Hagakure, The Way of the Samurai. He lives in a rundown shack with his pigeons. He's a hit-man for local mafia guy Louie (John Tormey) who saved his life 8 years ago. Louie puts out a hit on Handsome Frank. GD kills him but the daughter Louise (Tricia Vessey) of the mafia boss Ray Vargo (Henry Silva) is there to witness it. Louie has to get rid of GD to avoid being involved in a made man's murder. The problem is that Louie only communicates with GD through the pigeons. GD's best friend is the french speaking ice cream man Raymond (Isaach De Bankolé). Little Pearline makes friends with GD. The mobsters start killing any black pigeon handlers and they kill all his birds. He has to take on the mob but he can't take out his master Louie and the girl Louise.It's mobsters and samurai. No, it's not Tarantino. In fact, it's far from Tarantino. The action is not as cool. It's functional 90s action with a particular cheesy visual effect. The moment when the mob guys confront Louie about his hit man is rather telling. Jim Jarmusch seems to be trying to be funny there but he doesn't have the snappy Tarantino dialog. The weird stuff he does better like the french ice cream man. I stop paying attention to the non-sensical Samurai philosophy but it adds to a surreal feel to the movie. A lot more surrealism would be better and more to Jarmusch's wheelhouse. This is a great idea with an OK execution. "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog The Way of the Whitaker doesn't overcome the supporting cast","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I appreciate the fact that Ghost Dog was an attempt to experience something different in a film. It combines quite a bit of cultures into one movie. I can appreciate that but I believe that the execution of this was poor, the acting was sub-par and the dialog left quite a bit to be desired.Forest Whitaker is great in just about every role he has. This was one of the exceptions to that rule. He looked awkward doing samurai moves on a rooftop as the moves were all there but he wasn't as fluid as you might expect from someone that was supposedly training to be a samurai for so many years. Whitaker did a very strange move every time he put his gun away. It was an attempt to show him sheathing his weapon like a sword but it was distracting and awkward. Whitaker delivered a good performance but the movie as a whole just wasn't that great. He was, however, the best thing about this movie with Camille Winbush as Pearline coming in a close second.The character of Ghost Dog is one that develops over the course of this film. Whitaker does a fine job in delivering a complex and developing character as Ghost Dog is always looking to improve himself and help those around him based on the code he lives by. As the movie progresses, you learn that the story is not so much about Ghost Dog but mostly about this code he reads. The more he reads, the more you understand his character, what the character has to do and most importantly why the character does what he does. The film progresses into a clash of codes that leads into a clash of characters. Without saying too much, this film shows what happens when one code is put against another code in the most extreme of circumstances in the large city of Jersey.The writing was a bit strange at times and came off as trying too hard to inject humor into this otherwise dramatic action film. One of the best examples is when one of the characters is rapping in his bathroom. The scene feels a little goofy and changes the tone of the film as there are some other goofy parts between serious scenes that follow. I could not tell at times whether Jim Jarmusch wanted me to take the film seriously or not because of some of the silly lines and goofiness of the delivery of lines by the mobster bosses. Another example is when Ghost Dog shoots one character in the arm twice and that character makes a point to mention it excessively as to tell the viewer how good Ghost Dog is at shooting. This is something the viewer can figure out for themselves if the filmmaker thinks they are intelligent enough. That is a prime example of poor writing as Jarmusch clearly thinks that the audience needs to play to a less educated crowd.Another problem I had that was fairly minor but equally as distracting was the character of Raymond. Isaach De Bankolé plays a charming character that seems quite unnecessary. It almost seemed as if Jarmusch was attempting to inject even more diversity into this already diverse film by adding this French speaking Haitian, Raymond. I liked the character but he could have spoke English and it would have worked just as well. The French was a bit odd and felt like a way to add filler. It didn't do much for me but I do understand why the character was there and why he would want to add someone like this. Again, it felt like a distraction more than anything.Ghost Dog was a potentially awesome film that, in my opinion, lacked in execution. If it were done with better acting by the supporting roles and if the filming of the movie didn't feel so dated, this movie could have been great. "},{"Title":"The Samurai in the Modern World","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie a while ago and then bought it not so long ago so I have seen it probably about three times. It is a good movie but after the third time it still held me somewhat but it seems that it goes really slow. That is not necessarily a bad thing, and I guess that it is the nature of this movie as we watch a modern day samurai wonder around the streets of a northern American city doing what samurai generally do, and that is serve their master. In a way what this movie is trying to construct is the idea of the samurai in the modern world.It does work, and as I said it is a good movie, but it is interesting to note that there are ideas about holding on to the past and moving on to the future. The movie itself is broken up into numerous chapters which are each introduced by a quote from the Hagakuri, which is also known as The Way of the Samura. Basically Ghost Dog uses this book as his bible, to the point that he carries it with him everywhere, and reads it regularly.The other interesting feature of this book is how it intermeshes cartoons within the action of the movie. You don't notice it at first, but it becomes noticeable later on. For instance there is a cartoon of Betty Boo waving a net around trying to control some birds, and then we have Ghost Dog, on his rooftop Manse, waving a flag by which he trains his pigeons.I suspect that the quotes from Hagakuri also relate to the chapter in the film as well, but I must say that I am not all that willing to deconstruct this movie to the point that I try to understand how the quote relates to that particular chapter. As I said, it is not necessarily a boring movie, but it isn't one that I would like to watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Counter Racism?","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm wondering what other's opinions on this is.It kind of seems a bit racist that most of the Caucasians are depicted as racists and idiots watching cartoons while the black people are all very intelligent and interesting. I know there are countless films that are the opposite though, I wonder if the movie was meant to be an insult to Caucasians in general as a come back to all the racist movies against black people. The movie reminded me of Spike Lee's Do the Right Thing.I mean there are a lot of ignorant and stupid people of all races and maybe this was just a bit of counter-racism to the races who have offended other races in the near past. And lifting up your race is not a bad thing either, I just wonder how far you can take that without being racist yourself. "},{"Title":"this is an indy classic","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" So I revisited one of my favorite movies Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai, well is it an indy classic, well i say hai (that's yes gaijin)! What makes this the best movie that Jim Jarmusch has done (which is a list that includes so many greats including broken flowers, down by law, coffee and cigarettes, and dead man) is just well everything. The plot that borrows both from the Japanese books rashomon and he hagakure is brilliant, the acting is top notch. The title character is played by Forrest Whitaker in a performance that is just as compelling as his portrayal of Idi Amin. The first musical score by the RZA fits so perfectly that it is one of those times when I have to say the movie would have lost something (thought not much), if it was not there. The use of old cartoons for whatever reason is brilliant. The odd characters that pop up throughout the film are one of the things Jarmusch does brilliantly and this movie is no exception, and the ending is perfect. What else can I say oh yeah did I say brilliant yet!! Look if you only love chick flicks this is not your movie. If you only watch popcorn flicks maybe this movie is beyond you, but if you are part of the semi intellectual hipster crowd that is my demographic and you have not seen this movie, run don't walk to your netflix cue and love this masterpiece too. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Jarmusch Mixes It Up","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based loosely on Le Samurai, by French New Wave director, Jean-Pierre Melville, Ghost Dog tells the story of a hit-man who lives by the code laid out for him in the book, The Way of the Samurai. It is a dense film, at least in the sense that Jarmusch mixes several genres in this tale, in a way that only Jim jarmusch can. It is at first the story of a warrior, a hit-man, who lives and breathes a certain way of life in order to survive. It is then a gangster picture, in the Goodfellas or Sopranos sense, with sharp urban gangster dialogue and some of the very same actors that helped revive the genre in the seventies, eighties and nineties. At times, it also reflects the art-house sensibilities that helped to make Jim Jarmusch famous, particularly when Ghost Dog communicates with his one and only friend, a Frenchman who speaks no English. Ghost Dog does not speak French either, yet the two enjoy each other's company and speak to each other regardless, knowing that the other may not understand the words they speak but the tone of their speech and the emotions they are expressing are somehow getting through. And finally, this film borrows some elements from the western genre, with a final showdown in the middle of the street, with two gunman and their guns drawn, filmed in the same manner as the final confrontation in High Noon.Now, stir all these bits and pieces from the various and greatly different worlds of cinema together and, again, you have a dense, touching and often hilarious film, made by a master filmmaker. Jim Jarmusch puts his heart and soul into every story he tells and Ghost Dog may be the greatest example of that. When this film was made, it seemed he had already left behind the simpler, yet still poignant, stories told in films like Stranger Than Paradise and Down By Law, for more complex tales told in the vein of films like Raging Bull and Taxi Driver. The character of Ghost Dog is a multi-dimensional figure, who is suffering from the inner conflict of having to protect himself from the man who had once saved his life. According to The Way of the Samurai, Ghost Dog owes this man everything. Still, now that the man is forced to kill Ghost Dog and Ghost Dog must wrestle with his sense of duty and his sense of self-preservation. It is this conflict that is at the crux of the character, as well as the story. Ghost Dog is a colossal figure, not just in size but in scope as well, much like Robert Deniro's Jake Lamotta in Raging Bull. And Forest Whitaker brings home the performance of a lifetime in the role, projecting all the conflicting feelings and emotions within Ghost Dog. Never mind Idi Amin. This should've been the film that brought Whitaker the Oscar. "}{"Title":"It just didn't work for me","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The name of this film was sufficient for me to want to rent it, but it was a disappointment.I am a big fan of quirky films - e.g. The Big Lebowski. I am also a big fan of slow films - e.g. Solaris. But this film was just too strange and not involving enough for me to enjoy it. It is well worth watching purely because of the fact that it is very original, but it is not worth that second viewing.Some of the music sequences made the film feel as if it was dragging due to the repetition of four-bar riffs. The music also made the characters seem distant, which I did not feel was to the film's advantage. The clichés also bring a smile at first, but the continuously clichéd dialogue from the gangsters and the one liners soon become tiresome. The boat scene also disrupted any flow that the film had.This film seems to be caught between being a serious, art film and parodies of that type of film.A good effort, but will not become a cult film as it might have. "},{"Title":"Almost amazing, but misses slightly.","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kudos to treisprezece for observing that this movie is, indeed, about communication.  Once you realize this, the whole thing falls into place.  However, I don't think I would have picked up on this without the afore-mentioned review, and that equates to a flaw,  IMO.   I suppose that this would become evident upon a second or third viewing, and so maybe it's a strength after all.Regardless, while I really love this movie overall, it suffers from several stretches painfully slow pacing.   The great parts and the overall beauty of it far outweigh these slow sections, but it would really be something to see what this movie could have been with a big production budget.Still, VERY highly rated, unless you only like non-stop action flicks.  "},{"Title":"Great quotes; lots of good moments in this film.","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The IMDB page for this movie ought to have some quotes from the film, as other films do, because there are some great lines here ... I especially love the scene where the gangsters are asking about the name, Ghost Dog.... is it like a rapper's stage name? Or a native American name? Hearing the gangsters' various ideas is funny; one of them starts imitating Flav-O Flav sp? of Public Enemy. I'm not going to quote the movie; but if there were a way to submit quotes, I suppose I would have done so. "},{"Title":"Live by the code, kill by the code...","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mystical in a strange way. Ghost Dog (Forest Whitaker) plays a peculiar samurai-like hittman for a gangster. My first thought was, hey, do they have to shoot EVERYBODY? But after a while you'd notice that isn't the focus of the movie. It is so much more.Some scenes just leaves you thinking, what?? But in a good way! ) That, combined with lots of strange and interesting characters, makes the movie a really good one. "},{"Title":"A Hidden Treasure","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is an excellent ode to Hip-Hop and samurai movies, molded into a framework of European film making.   It is a meditation on philosophy, literature, the banality of violence, and on miscommunication. As such, this is a great movie with a strong independent feel to it.   The story is very simple. A man (Forest Whitaker) who was once saved by a mobster, lives a life dedicated to perfection of the martial arts guided by the Hagakure, the code of the samurai (Hagakure roughly means Hidden Leaves or Hidden By Leaves and was written by Yamamoto Tsunetomo, a samurai who was denied seppuku and lived out his life as a buddhist monk, which is when he wrote his book). Whitaker is a hitman with only one employer (the geriatric mobster who saved him) and can only be contacted by carrier pigeon. When a hit turns bad, he is forced to fight off the mobster and his fellow geriatric made men (who are less Al Pacino in The Godfather, than Al Pacino in Donnie Brasco). They personify the same dying way of life that Tsunetomo represented when he wrote his book, which is as much an obituary to a dying ethic, as the samurai class needed to adapt itself even during the Tokugawa shogunate (let alone after the Meiji Restoration in the 19th century).If you're looking for a fast action movie with lots of hyperrealistic blood and guts, you will be disappointed. However, if you are interested in the interaction of movies and literature, violence and miscommunication, honor and philosophy, and culture clashes (not in the least the director's slow moving European style superimposed on one of the world's fastest cities, New York), this is a wonderfully set out masterpiece. At turns hilarious, camp, profound, I found the action actually pretty good. In this movie, it isn't about luck or superfast guns, but it is the person who is most prepared to kill who wins.Forest Whitaker, Camille Winbush, John Tormey and the rest of the cast give performances that range from very nice to great. "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog Review","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Based on the film's trailer, I was expecting to see some kung-fu style karate kicking, but that just wouldn't be right-Samurai use blades for action. Wait, there's none of that either. Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is a modern day drama about an urban man owing his life to a petty mob clown who happened to step in during close tragedy. The exact tragedy isn't explained fully and vaguely is depicted in two slightly different ways. Perhaps, the scene is a tribute to Rashomon a story by Ryunosuke Akutagawa (an also Akira Kurosawa masterpiece) about an event witnessed by several people with different perceptions that would change lives forever. Ghost Dog doesn't quite have the interweaving style like Deceiver or Go; yet instead narrates like a comic book. Each scene turns like a page, interlacing passages from Hagakure, the very samurai codebook Ghost Dog (a masterfully solemn Forest Whitaker) lives by following the aforesaid near-death incident.There are many imaginative elements to the simple-plotted Ghost Dog that are sure to strike viewers' fancy. First off, action films are hardly this action-less, and crime dramas don't usually portray the protagonist doing most of the crime (even if Ghost Dog is indeed justifying this for a superior). There are long takes with Ghost driving around his neighborhood slums, with nothing in sight but street waste, spray-paint, and food shop owners doing nightly chores. More importantly, the streets can't see him. Be it by the stolen Lexus, Mercedes, and Jaguar, or even strolling around hooded with a briefcase in hand, Ghost Dog appears invisible to everyone but his own people. That's the way of the samurai (or ninja?!?).Another element that is surely going to trip people off is the instructive use of the carrier pigeon to relay messages. Perhaps this was director Jarmusch's way of conveying the communicational differences between two varying cultures, being, much like Do the Right Thing, the blacks and Italians. Even later is a pitiable scene where Sony Valerio, perhaps the most stereotyped of the film's characters (and there are a lot of them), prances around his bathroom floor to a hypnotic Flavor Flav unit, subsequently waiting for his timely death. The scene does have some merit, however, through Jarmusch instilling the possibility that his feeble-minded mobsters are in the vein of the inedible characters they enjoy. Rather than Godfather-watching or sports gambling, the Italian gangsters are portrayed as cartoon lovers. Each cartoon, brilliantly, is a little preview of what's to come.Perhaps the most important element of Ghost Dog is sound. Wu-Tang Clan's The RZA installs a soundtrack unlike any composition Hollywood would dare to deliver. The varying synths, bells, whistles, strings, you name it, go hand and hand with the spiritually driven conquest. You could likewise watch the movie blindfolded and string along with the motions of the plot. Lyrics from Killah Priest are right on touch with what's going on in Ghost's head; the instrumental to Raekwon's `Ice Cream' sooths the background when Ghost Dog's French-speaking-only best friend-the ice cream man-is introduced. Freestylers and Wu-Tang affiliates, Timbo King and Dreddy Krueger, park bench rap about the mysticism of Ghost Dog right in front of his eyes. The rest of the music from The RZA beautifully propels the film's narrative. Ah, if only it all could be so simple.3.5/5 stars "},{"Title":"One man show of Forrest Whittaker","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An excellent movie - Forrest Whittaker is truly amazing. He doesn't talk too much he is just looking, however he is one of those rare actors who can play with his face and eyes. Sometimes the movie is funny, especially when there are those cumbersome aging mafia men on the scene and sometimes it's sorrowful (e.g. when Ghost Dog's pigeons are killed or when he is sitting in the park alone). Some scenes can be little lengthy but generally the movie is definitely worth to see at least one time. "},{"Title":"Quirky stuff","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll keep this short, but this is a quirky tale of a hit man, who betrayed by his hirer, is forced to take all of them out.  That doesn't sum it up well, but oh well.  Along the way we meet the weird character of Ghost Dog,played skillfully by Forest Whittaker, and the mafia family, who watch cartoons and listen to hip hop and rap music.  Very weird for sixty year old men!  Also the character of Ghost Dogs best friend, the French ice cream man, who is played really well.  Anyway, it does drag a little in bits, where absolutely no talking or moving for that matter is seen or heard, but other than that, this is a good film, which is intresting, thrilling, funny and sad. "},{"Title":"Cool movie!","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a really cool movie.I saw it yesterday and want to see it again. Actor Forest Whitaker is quite impressing in this movie.He has a calm atmosphere over him,he does not speak much,but those kind of roles are often the hardest ones.Rest of cast is well chosen. Many of the scenes is highly stylized(sort of John Woo,just lesser noise) and the dialogue is very funny at times.Especially Louie`s meeting with his bosses is a standout. Even the music`s good,by rap group RZA.It fits the personality and actions of Ghost Dog perfectly(his sword training on roof is a highlight). So,let me clear something.This is NOT for everyone.It is cool,stylish and funny.But,unfortunately,not very exciting. It`s a special movie,japanese samurai mixed with rap and mafia.What do we get with this? I  don`t really know.It`s not in any genre. Just watch it,you`ll be rewarded.Rating- 9/10 "},{"Title":"**** out of 5","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot of films want you to see them, pick them apart, and experience them even. They rely on the goodness that the audience interprets without being told. Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is much to that same effect, but instead of seeing it, it just wants you to watch. Ghost Dog is a hard film to decipher; it is sort of a tongue in cheek type experience. It is profoundly moving yet obscurely goofy, hilarious at points (it features one of the funniest heart attack related deaths committed to film), not because it has set out to be, but maybe because we laugh out of sympathy. The statement in this film is abnormal in its own sense. It focuses on a main character partaking on a journey and a bunch of mobsters reflecting characters that they are supposed to be within a movie, they are not important. You don't care about them. There is humour in this because what they are meant to be is a lot funnier than what they actually are. Ghost Dog on the other hand is an honest character, filled with compassion. He is a hit man, probably one of the most interesting since Jean Reno in the Professional. He lives in a shack atop a building with the only people who understand him, the pigeons. He works for a local mob, `whacking' people as a favour to a man who saved his life in the past. After a hit goes down that wasn't supposed to be, Ghost Dog is wanted dead by the mob. But enacting this plan seems more trouble than worth their while so they sit in musty basements and cheap halls, thinking about it, talking about it, but never really getting the job done. The relationship between Ghost Dog and his boss Louie is very interesting, even funny in how Louie tries to explain it to his bosses. Ghost Dog does not want to be paid per job, he accepts money once a year, on the first day in autumn, and the only way to contact him is through a pigeon that visits Louie on a daily basis. It is this that sets up where Ghost Dog wants to go but never takes the viewer because certain circumstances, sometimes unacknowledged at first sight, make such procession impossible. The division here between comedy and image is impeccable. Somehow it finds a balance, sometimes awkward, but nevertheless consistent. Maybe it is because director Jim Harmusch never lets the atmosphere become more meaningful than the characters. This is the kind of thing you love to see once but can never anticipate in wanting to see again. The photgraphy reminded me of other independent features, ones that uses images to provoke subconscious emotions like Gummo for instance. Images of bright contrast but dark disorder, as if almost to be straight form a comic book. And yet this one still remains cynical, never wanting to take itself seriously, because to do so would bring forth plot holes large enough to destroy all motivations within the story, but never allowing itself to become parody. On the other hand, the character of Ghost Dog on his own is quite beguiling. He is a man who, although in a line of work that is dedicated to cold and violent terrenes, lives life by code. A code he has studied and based life upon, The Way of the Samurai. He is a dry and witless character; almost clashing with the universe he exists in. He is a soft-spoken soul, maybe because he has nothing to say or maybe because even when he speaks no one understands him. He narrates himself through the film. Talking inside of his head only to say that of which doesn't apply to his surroundings, there is something funny here, but in the harshness of its text, we take it for more than it is, not a device but a trick. I suppose this is why he finds redemption in his friendship with an ice cream man who doesn't understand English. The irony is that Ghost Dog does not understand the French that his beloved friend speaks, but in a moment of clash they both understand each other perfectly. At the other end of the tunnel lye the `bad guys' (I use the term for no other reason than lack of a better word). These men are a group of b-grade gangsters, ripped directly out of a film that Martin Scorsese would make out of humour after the real film had been made. We see three men sitting around a table. One, a Robert De Niro look-a-like. Another a stone-faced man of priority, and an old fellow with a cane who only speaks when he has something unintelligent and insignificant to say. This is a hard film to understand, it doesn't motivate itself through its story or actors. It is a film that will require a second viewing in order for you to place your focus on the right aspects, and delve further into character structure, how they interact with each other and how they are placed into a situation out or irony and not action. Forest Whitaker stars as the title character in a performance that many would be afraid to take. I was worried where Whitaker would take this character, I had hoped he wouldn't reduce him to hero status, he didn't. Instead Whitaker plays his character as a presence not a person, begging you to know him but never rightfully understanding him. I like films that try to take risks, I indeed liked this one, it took many a risk. It took me places that many films would be scared to go. It played with my senses, and used a structure so twisted and strange in formula that it left me with one question that I don't believe has a reasonable answer. I had to wonder; at what point does the cynicism outweigh what the audience is to interpret? "}{"Title":"Praise for the film.","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai outstanding!  I enjoyed the movie when I first saw it on Showcase that I stayed up all night just to see it a second time. I can't say enough to justify my liking of this film. The only people that probably don't like it are the closed minded fools that think computer icons are art. A portrayal of life in the streets, Ghost Dog is an exceptional film with musical, directing, and writing genius. I'm looking forward to wacthing more movies from Jim Jarmusch. "},{"Title":"Cultural Disillusionment and Degradation (may be spoilers)","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time last night and I am still trying to get my head around.  It is much different from what I expected.  Mainly, I was not expecting the comedic portrayal of the mobsters.  I nearly laughed out loud they were so stereotypical, and I did not expect any levity in this type of movie.  But about two-thirds through the movie I realized what was happening.  They were stereotypes of the traditional mafia style.  They were intended to look funny so as to inform the viewer of how silly that ancient culture is.  Then it dawned on me  the movie is a comment on the futility of ancient cultures.  Minutes later, this idea was confirmed by the voiceover comments on how all cultures crumble eventually.Therefore, this movie represents a discussion on the how all cultures degrade and are lost.  In actuality, the two ancient cultures (the mafia culture and the samurai culture) obliterate one another.  As mentioned in the movie, sometimes it is useful to return to the old ways, but the most must be made out of every generation.  This is probably best represented by Pearline, who carries ancient books around in her modern lunchbox.  Of course, this all may be complete nonsense; I am thinking as I type.  But this is the only way I can resolve the strange portrayal of the mobsters in my head.The movie has numerous high points, particularly the job of Forest Whittaker and the perfect music by RZA, it really emphasizes the mood, and particularly the stillness of the samurai at work.  However, the movie is not without its faults.  At times it is almost over-stylized.  Especially the driving sequences.  Though highlighted by the music, ten minutes of Forest Whittaker driving aimlessly on damp city streets is too much. Three minutes conveys the mood just as well, and would not get boring.  With style I want I want to be brushed, not hit over the head with a hammer.  In all, I would say this movie is very good.  At least, it has kept me thinking about it for some time, which is usually the mark of a very engaging work. "},{"Title":"Good plot, corny interpretation","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie is about being a samurai -- to follow the samurai way and be able to perform one last action even though your head has been cut off (in the film the hero is obliged loyalty to his master, but master at a turning point becomes enemy).The movie contains lots of quotes with samurai wisdom, but they are almost impossible to understand right without background knowledge.  Instead they are made into puns (not very good ones). I guess the film is supposed to be cool and comical, but in my opinion it fails so bad that the otherwise really good plot is almost totally obliterated.If you like ancient East-asian war strategy this movie has a good plot with a good twist at the end, but I would not call it a good movie. "},{"Title":"seemed odd at first, but it works well.","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first the idea of this film seemed a little weird ( a hitman who studies the way of the samuri), but after seeing it, it all worked.  Forest Whittaker gets a chance to shine in a starring role, and he does a fine job.  The soundtrack is very good as well, and goes well with the film.  The film also had some very funny bits in it, especially the mafia syndicate that he works for.  Henry Silva gives his usual strong performance, this time as a mob boss who watches cartoons.  In all, a very strong film and I recommend it.  4/5 "},{"Title":"A film with long term effects and no redundancies","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What impresses me most about Ghost Dog, more than the funny, endearing, beautiful and suspenseful qualities is its perfect structure Everything is interlinked. There are no redundancies. Every at first meaningless detail turns out to be interlinked with something else. If you have only seen it once or twice See it again. I usually watch films only once, but I have seen Ghost Dog five times by now, and at the fifth viewing, I still discovered more. One of the most intriguing and thought provoking films I've seen.***** SPOILERSThe cartoon sequences and their connection with the plot. Betty Boop and Varga's daughter. The grandiose likeness of the man building a boat. Ghost Dog's robbery not only of the man's suit but also of the woman's dress. Raymond, his friend, and Pearline, his heir. Ghost Dog versus the bear, which is also what Raymond calls him.And the incomparable statement about life contained in all this interlinked symbolism. A really fascinating film. "},{"Title":"definately in my top 20","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not much else to say, I have seen this movie several times, and Forest Whitaker just oozes coolness in it. It has made me think, which is more than can be said about most other films I've seen. I love the slow pace of this movie, it underlines the importance of being in connection with the world, without being focused on the material side.  "},{"Title":"Have you ever seen Branded To Kill?","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really loved Ghost Dog.  The characters had a nice depth to them; the film was serious but not so much that it made everything too heavy handed and overbearing, in fact the film has an honest coolness and comedic quality to it, if it has any flaw it would be the fact that it balances on that line of seriousness and comedy too much, I felt myself constantly being swayed both ways.Another thing I loved was the striking amount of similarities Ghost Dog had with Branded To Kill, which is one of my all time favorite flics, I could point out 15 or so different direct omages and similarities between the two films but that would be no fun. I give ghost dog an eight out of ten.  Good Stuff.     "},{"Title":"Fascinating movie handled with care","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog (Forest Whitaker) follows the Hagakure, a real book (I hadn't heard of) written by a samurai in the 1750s, which represents ancient wisdom of how to be a person of good character. Because he was helped out by a mobster named Louie (John Tormey) as a youngster, and because the condition of the samurai is in seriously devoting one's body and soul to his master he becomes Louie's retainer. That is, Ghost Dog has been with Louie for a long time and, on another level, Louie pays Ghost Dog a retainer every autumn for the past year's work -- sort of the opposite of paying, say, a lawyer a retainer to make sure he's available for you later when you want him. Ghost Dog is an assassin following the code and living the life of a samurai and he's contrasted against the mobsters, holding on to their dying tradition. It's a warring of two ancient tribes in contemporary, urban America.One of the passages of the book of the samurai says that the samurai should meditate on death daily and should consider himself as dead. And boy, are there some deaths. When Ghost Dog takes out the trash, he really takes out the trash.When Ghost Dog is ordered to make a hit on a made man, Handsome Frank who is having relations with the Big Boss, Mr. Vargo's (Henry Silva) daughter things get a little more complicated. The girl wasn't supposed to be there when Ghost Dog takes out Frank but she is and now the Big Boss and his right-hand man Sonny want Ghost Dog eliminated.Thing is, Ghost Dog lives on a rooftop, in a shack with, I don't know, thirty or so pigeons. That's how Louie communicates with him, by attaching notes to a carrier pigeon. When we see him walking down the street, he's that big crazy guy who everyone on the street knows. He's a little off, but he's respectable (isn't it nice that he doesn't want to fill Louie with more holes than he needs?). He's also graceful -- look at the way he does his samurai sword dance and the way in which he handles his guns. Just the way he walks is refined.The girl -- the daughter of Mr. Vargo -- has this book, Rashomon that Ghost Dog takes and lends to one of the few people he talks to (aside from his best friend, the ice cream vendor), a little girl from the park.The whole movie is a big contrast east meets west, black and white, French vs. English. It's interesting to mix Ghost Dog's Zen state of meditation with his elegant assassinations -- the killings are pretty impressive. (The real killer -- the one through the pipe -- is supposedly lifted from a movie I can't remember and haven't seen anyway. Just thought I'd note that.)There's only one part of the movie I had a problem with while watching When Ghost Dog shoots one of the mobsters, protecting Louie, he does it with Louie's gun. He tells Louie to say that he Ghost Dog attacked them both. Either way, he still used Louie's gun. It's all cleared up, though, when Sonny tells Louie later that the boss, Mr. Vargo has doubts about his story.There's lots of funny stuff here, often in the form of the mobsters. Sonny rapping at a table or in his bathrobe, for instance. Mr. Vargo doing Indian impressions. One of the best bits comes from the book of the samurai One should not look for anything else in the Way of the Samurai. It is the same for anything else that is called a Way.I haven't seen Jarmusch's other films, so I can't compare, but this one isn't slight like someone has noted. It's light on its feet, it's airy, but it isn't slight. It was shot by Robby Muller, surprisingly enough, Lars Von Trier's guy on Breaking the Waves and Dancer in the Dark. The movie doesn't really have any suggestion of those films' grittiness, and since this film takes place on the urban streets, that strikes me as sort of different. It's a smooth-looking movie. Airy and sort of blue. The soundtrack from RZA from Wu-Tang Clan (named after a group of monks, a fact I didn't know until watching the little extra documentary on the DVD) is moody hip-hop that's just great. Whitaker, in a really fantastic, strange role, is no less than perfect. I'd hate to make such a statement based on this film, without having seen Jarmusch's others, but this is a masterwork (and if this is any indication, Jarmusch may have more than one).**** "},{"Title":"What a wonderful film!","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I bought the DVD yesterday and watched it. I've found a film I'll watch again and again, of that I'm certain!The acting was superb all around, and on top of that we have a movie that gives you things to think about- not prepackaged ideas, but ideas for the viewer to extrapolate from himself. The philosophical points that run throughout this movie are the stuff of dreams, while the movie itself is the stuff of legend! "},{"Title":"A small masterpiece","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of those which pleases and even delights me at some scenes, through great acting or great plot scenes. SPOILERSI want to try to analyze some things in this review.I asked myself on the meanings of some things...and this is what I kind of thought, without any kind of documentation. First of all there are the pigeons. Beside their role as carrier pigeons, they might represent something else...sometime during the film we get to see a white pigeon with blood on it. I consider that means that there will be no peace, or the peace will have its cost. And there would also be the fact that pigeons are the only animals who kill animals of their art.Those books seem to have an important role in the whole story. Too bad I haven't read them. The fact that Ghost Dog lives under the laws of a book alone might mean something...I personally wouldn't live by a book, but I might take notes for life from some...Then there's the moment when he was attacked and Louie came and saved him...a fact that I also read in another review, the fact that when Louie remembers it the guy points the gun at him, but as Ghost Dog remembers it, he sees the gun pointed toward him. No real explanation for this...The last thing would be what the relationship between Ghost Dog and Raymond. I believe they are a kind of true friends. The kind that does not really need words to understand themselves. Although, they do not really know each other...they just understand each other. So are they really best friends? Still, probably so because I doubt Raymond knows many other people....The movie isn't a pure action movie, like the ones you can see lately. The music is just perfect, and the tension is created by a terrible silence. So despite the lack of a huge amount of events, I did not get bored as I did in some other, more eventful movies.The scene I found thrilling was the one when the mobsters told Louie they had to kill Ghost Dog. The way all stayed at the table, and looked at him...so brilliant!This movie is certainly worth a 8,5 or even a little more. Yet, I do not believe everyone will enjoy it, because I consider it a little more demanding than other movies...still, I might be wrong. "}{"Title":"Why wasn't this nominated for an Oscar?","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ****Starring Forest Whitaker, John Tormey, and a bunch of pigeons.An African-American pigeonkeeper, who also acts as a Mafia hitman, finds himself being chased by the Mob.  He finds an interesting way of his life by following the way of the samurai.  Whitaker gives a brilliant performance in the title role, and, in my opinion, should've been nominated for an Academy Award (if not won by him).  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Three genres in one, superbly done","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't trust those who say it is not a good movie. They don't know. I showed this movie to some 20 of my friends. It was a good test because they represent a great variety in style and taste. And what happened? Everyone liked it. This is due to the movie's quality in using elements from different genres.Firstly, it is a killer/gangster story focused on its lonely hero. Secondly, it includes a good parody on mafia flicks/characters. Thirdly, it highlights Ghost Dog's mental attitude towards his job and surroundings with Eastern philosophy. His obligation/detachment to the Samurai codex determines his conscience and his deeds. Referring to the gangster plot, a subtext is revealed behind the surface.Therefore, Ghost Dog works on several levels gangster drama, mafia parody, philosophic essay. Whether you are into fine images, lonely heroes, cool atmosphere, intertextual/film historical references, coolly styled action, Eastern philosophy or narrative structure - you'll find your bit. "},{"Title":"A very good remake of an old french movie.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Several years ago, near thirty, I saw a french movie from Jean Pierre Melville named Le Samouraï at my city, Montevideo. The theme was very similar. The film was a little masterpiece of this filmaker noir. Reading the comments from the cinephile who wrote about the remake I thought Well, he´s very severe with this movie. A movie is just a movie where the reality doesn´t matter so much.This film has a very good performance  by Forrest Whitaker and the photograph is excellent  , an enjoying hommage to Melville.  "},{"Title":"Simply riveting...","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Alice Liddel's critique of this film surpasses even those by professional journalists in the genre.  There is nothing to add to her observations and interpretation except to say that, Jarmusch manages extremely dexterously to translate Melville's imagery into a totally different setting. Forest Whitaker's steely performance is, in my opinion, more convincing than Alain Delon's excellent portrayal of a hired killer. What I think puts Le Samouraï in the class of film noir is the presence of Cathy Rosier as Valérie, whereas Ghost Dog remains in a totally different category which we associate with the Mafia films of the 40s and later.  Jarmusch has integrated visual poetry with muted quotations from obscure books; in Melville's masterpiece it is Henri Decaë's camera that gives the film the poetic dimension. "},{"Title":"A lot to like...","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I reckon there is a lot to like about this film, even the things that may be hangups in other films!  Enveloped in a chilled, bassy and enthralling soundtrack you have a simple but well written plotline with well carved, if exaggerated, characters - I loved the french ice-cream man - which travels at a pace that in other movies may be slow and snooze-inducing but here feels right.  You are able to make your mind move at the same rhythm as the loping stride of ghost dog and RZA's music.  The thing I enjoyed most about this film though were the little eccentricities - Jim Jarmush has an unusual imagination.  I can't name them or else it will spoil it for those who haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"The old world is gone already, get over with it and get moving","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  - NO SPOILERS CONTAINED - Ghost Dog is a psychotic character. He lives life according to Bushido, the ancient Japanese code of conduct of the Samurai. Start your day by accepting that you are dead already, says the book and this is pretty much what Ghost Dog does. Since when his life was saved by a mobster, he took his oath to live every day like an ancient warrior.The old mobsters live in a similar dream world of their own. Their code is the code of the gun and the family, presumably not successful any more since they cannot even afford their rent, close its eyes to the reality of their fat, middle-aged self.When those two dream worlds get drawn close by a contract gone sour, the only option for both factions is to collide according to their individual rules, leaving ample room for reality to eventually resume control of this load of pigeon-sh*t.Jim Jarmusch creates a superbly paced film where violence is as comical as Forest Whitaker's samurai looks. Stereotypical carricatures and situations pop up in various places into the plot to enforce the absurdity of the situation at hand and to further devalue the possibility that we're watching a true hood film.Forest Whitaker delivers a top-notch performance, as good as any I've seen. His hypnotising stare will be still stuck into my memory for a long time to come. All other characters are supporting ones really, but deliver good, solid performances as well.The cinematography serves the purpose adequately, using double-exposures and long tracking shots to immerse. The music is hypnotic and fits perfectly with the mood. And the whole construct holds surprisingly well, considering the far-fetched plot elements.Approach this film with a bitter sweet mood. Laugh at the eccentricities of the plot (the samurai meditation scene is a roar) and cry your heart out for the lost souls that Ghost Dog and the Mob are. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Captures the spirit of the Samurai perfectly","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this film not only entertaining but also thought provoking. It captures the essence of the Samurai discipline perfectly. The plot was never predictable; it proved to be engrossing. The proverbs were also perfectly placed and helped to enhance the whole feel of the film. The film was also well balanced as it contained lighthearted moments to compliment the more serious parts of the film. Some may find the whole concept of the film implausible, however this is looking past the true essence of the film which is the idea of transplanting an ancient code into a modern way of life. If this film is viewed with an open mind it will reward the viewer greatly. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Sleeper Classic","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  &#145;How can Fatboy Whittaker kick anyones arse? He'll be rubbish' I thought. How wrong could I be. I loved Ghost Dog. Everything was so well, but not over, done. It wasn't glossy, but it was edgy. The soundtrack from the RZA is fantastic and adds much to the proceedings as does the camera work and the performances of the main players. I particularly liked the narration, from the Samurai book. It helps explain Ghost Dogs actions and fits in very well with the whole scenario (especially when you wonder why he has just mugged a couple and it explains a samurai must always look his best, then showing him striding out in an armani suit!). And the scenes with his French friend are hilarious.Whittaker convinces as Ghost Dog. He is suitably naïve, yet maintains an aura of menace (he gets props from the Crips AND the Bloods) and always seems in control. His physical actions were not great (unconvincing martial arts and what is that gun waving about? It doesn't look like sheathing a sword) but his gun play was decent enough. I particularly liked the allusions to Rashomon too.All in all this is a strangely understated film which, in different hands could quite easily have turned into a glossy Hollywood bloodbath (Black Samurai Assassin versus the Mob with Hip Hop soundtrack has &#145;Big Budget' action fest written all over it. Fortunately Jim Jarmusch handles proceedings in a more cerebral fashion and it is to his credit that this approach works incredibly well. Ghost Dog is top dog (sorry i couldnt resist). "},{"Title":"A very special movie!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am sure that Jim Jarmush watched Seijun Suzuki's branded to kill from 1967 before he saw this. This is a good film because of it's both touching and funny sometimes. It has a great mix between it. There are three main characters( all of them perfectly acted), Ghost Dog, his best friend a French-speaking who sells ice cream in the park and a child that he discusses books with.Those three characters are what I think the best of this film. And I also likes the unexpected humour very much. But the film has a problem It's not exciting at all. And that is a problem that does that this film is not great, still really worth watching. The sound track is very good.7/10 "},{"Title":"Stylish, excellent soundtrack, but idiotic bad guys.","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is stylish and easy to watch, although lengthy tracking shots of the city viewed from Ghost Dogs car start to irritate after a little time. The soundtrack is stunning, and visually it's very nice. The humour is somewhat offset from the norm, but it does make you laugh. What did annoy me is the way a lot of the humour was derived from the idiocy of the Mob, surely they would be a lot more intelligent than they are made out. Apart from that, it's got some very nice touches. Worth a look. "}{"Title":"Missing key elements","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had a chance to watch this movie last night. It was very creative - I haven't seen any other movies of the like! It was also very slow, which is okay as long as it makes a point... and I think this is where the movie fell short.The character was very easy to understand on the surface, but he was not very well developed (only through flash backs) and minor quotes from a Samurai book?? The movie was well directed, I liked the constant pace of the movie.. nothing seemed too fast or too draggy (if it could get any slower! lol).I couldn't connect to the character as well as I would have liked. I saw that he was following the Samurai way, but the reasons behind it were not very clear on screen. And where exactly does this guy get his gadgets from? The ghetto-friendly, neighborhood, 7-11??And if you plan on watching this movie, remember that it is a slow-paced movie that takes a while to tell it's tale.6/10 "},{"Title":"I´d rather watch Melville and Besson - Spoilers","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers Well, the one line summary says it all. Melville´s Le samurai is the original and there are elements of Leon. And they are better - much better!In the Samurai Alain Delon is a lonely warrior / professional killer who keeps a bird in cage and is stealing cars for his jobs (with so much suspense in these scenes!).  Even the end is exactly the same the samurai seeks death in dignity and is getting shot with an empty gun in his hand. The world has changed he realizes and there is no place for the samurai in it.Delon is not killing so many people like the Ghost dog. But I guess Jarmusch liked Leon very much or even Desperado by Rodriguez. So he added this, too. And let me guess the girl will become a professional like Ghost dog (like Natalie Portman in Leon)?So what was Jarmusch thinking after all? Where is the unique, the original thought in this movie?I can´t see the point in making carbon (celluloid) copies.A 4/10 rating by Macaulay Connor "},{"Title":"A classic.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film creeps up on you- upon seeing it at the cinema I said that could have been one of the best films I've ever seen. Though I left it a few years before seeing again- now I think it's a classic and one of my fave films. Not that Jarmusch has ever made a terrible film ('Night on Earth' & 'The Year of the Horse' were a bit so-so)- but this could be better than 'Stranger Than Paradise', 'Down By Law', 'Mystery Tarin' & 'Dead Man' (all classics).The film does have slow moments- the ADD-afflicted nature of audiences these days may be the reason people found this 'boring'...The film's that this closest resembles are 'Leon' (though that was slightly OTT), Boorman's 'Point Blank' (the unstoppable hitman out for revenge)and Kitano's 'Sonatine' (the hitman waiting for that inevitable death). There are also aspects close to Schrader's 'Mishima' (the Samurai code), Kurosawa's 'Stray Dog' (and a nod to the source book of 'Rashomon'), the boat on a roof is not unlike the ship in a tree in Herzog's 'Aguire,Wrath of God'- though the major influence (referenced in the end credits) is Jean-Pierre Melville's 'Le Samourai'. I also think the influence of early Godard is present (A Bout de Souffle, Pierret Le Fou, Bande a Part and Alphaville)- especially in the deconstruction of convention or the end shoot out like a Western...Nice cameo from Gary Farmer, reprising his Native-American role from 'Dead Man', complete with his killer line @stupid f***ing white man- though the theme of death and transcendence is also continued from Jarmusch's great Western. The RZA's score is excellent, as effective as Neil Young's in 'Dead Man'- and along with the Wu-Tang work on 'Black & White' their most satisfying material this side of ODB's 'Nigga Please!'. The original of 'Armigideon Time' is wonderful to hear...The camerawork by Robby Muller (24 Hour Party People,Until the End of the World) is great- the exposed film that leaves traces on-screen, the tunnel scene extending on the city imagery of 'Blade Runner' or the constant dissolves and cuts that show the same shot as if it were many (this seems to stem from the walk Travis Bickle does near the start of 'Taxi Driver', where he's just got off work and takes a drink from a brown paper bag).*SPOILERS* There is much humour- the best friend French ice cream salesman (Roger from ER) gives us the best subtitle gags since 'Annie Hall', while the shooting of Louie in the same arm is great. Ditto the Public Enemy loving Mafioso or the old man mugged while shopping. Plus the scenes between the little girl and the ice cream salesman and Ghost Dog are very touching.'Ghost Dog-The Way of the Samurai' is a great film- not a dumb movie but a film; perhaps people who like films are becoming an arachaic tardition and everything is changing to suit the idiotic ('Attack of the Clones' or the existence of 'Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo' or 'Coyote Ugly' prove this). This is one for film lovers- 10/10. "},{"Title":"It does many things...","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK this film tries to do many things it's a mafia film, it's a hood film, it's a hitman film and it's a Samurai film...it can't possibly be 100% great at any one of them,right? OK, but bear with me. Goodfellas, Casino, Godfather trilogy etc. are better mafia films. Boyz 'n' the hood, Menace 2 society, maybe Juice are better hood films. Leon, The Killer, maybe Nikita are better hitman (hitwoman) films. Yojimbo, Seven Samurai.......well, you know the better Samurai films. This film is a bit of a blend of all of them - with plenty of knowing references - and it finds the middle ground (or whatever you'd like to call it) in magnificent style. This is helped by one of Forest Whittaker's finest performances (and there have been some good ones over the years) and an overall feel to the film which is almost like a play, set as it is in several acts (works brilliantly on DVD, by the way). Not a popcorn no-brainer, but a rewarding film. Warm up the Sake and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Way cool movie","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot and I thought that the entire movie is just pure gold.  The movie has Forest Whitaker playing Ghost Dog, a hitman who is now being chased by the mob.  He uses his force by the way of the samurai.  Forest Whitaker, and everybody else in this film knows how to act. Everybody.Overall I absolutely LOVED this movie and thought that this movie is very cool.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This film is cool as ice.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch,  who's done some pretty cool stuff (Dead Man with  Johnny Depp) made one cool film when he wrote Ghost Dog way of the samurai.  The title character adheres strictly to the bushido, the honor code of the samurai.  If a samurai's head were to be cut off, he should still be able to perform one more action.  and other lines from Harakure (spelling?), the book he always reads.  A chill, relaxed artsy hip hop soundtrack by RZA from WuTang gives the movie its awesome pace.  I highly recommend this if you like philosophy, hiphop, samurai, or great cinematography and dialogue.  Ghost Dog's best friend only speaks french, so they understand each other without spoken language.  Ghost Dog walks through his neighborhood without touching anyone or disturbing a stone, like he doesnt exist.  It is very cool, subtle and honorable.  "},{"Title":"Great On Many Levels","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How many directors have the guts to mix philosophy with film in this way? How many have the talent to do it in a meaningful and innovative way? I can't think of too many but with Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai, Jim Jarmusch has done it. With Ghost dog, we see that Jarmusch has actually thought about his film and thought about how to tell this story. Jarmusch shows us that he cares about detail but is not bound to some foolish rule book. The philosophy, music, characters and setting all come together to make something which becomes more than just a movie. For Ghost Dog, The Way of the Samurai is a way of life and this movie, in its own way, is also like a way of life.   I am very impressed with how Jarmusch brought together this movie. He thought about casting, not starts, but characters. He thought about music and what context it would be in. He, unlike so many others, thinks!My favourite scene was when Ghost Dog came across the hunters. It's Classic!This movie is a damn classic. "},{"Title":"too simple","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw many of the classic Samurai movies in the 50s, and recall that the battles were quite complex, but Ghost Dog seems to encounter little resistance. The action would have been more interesting if he had had real encounters with his adversaries, say if he had marked their foreheads with some mortifying tattoo, or had clipped their earlobes off. (Or else he could have used a sword...) Things were just to easy for the guy. "},{"Title":"Quentin Tarantino, eat your heart out...","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of movie (a '70's pastiche) that Tarantino has been trying (unsuccessfully, in my opinion) to make for years. Beautifully written and directed, GHOST DOG juxtaposes everything from 1970's blaxploitation flix to contemporary music- and does so very well, indeed. Whitaker's performance is not to be missed. In fact, the veterans who comprise the Family members deserve mention as well, particularly Henry Silva, who delivers hilarious lines with a face so straight it would impress Buster Keaton. Humor permeates this film, which is another plus. A philosophical look at the art of war...  "},{"Title":"Meditations on Life, Death, and So Much More","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before anything else, I have to say that Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is definitely a love it or hate it movie. As for myself, I absolutely loved it.Why did I love it? Well it is one thing for a movie or story to be entertaining. Schwarzenegger and Stallone entertain. But for any story, whether it be a book, movie, or what have you stand out and be truly good, (at least in my humble opinion), it must do at least one of three things; move you, make you think, or be deep enough that you find new things every time you see it. Ghost Dog does all three for me.As for the plot, you can read about it elsewhere, and it is not the main strength of the movie, so I will summarize it quickly. Ghost Dog is a hitman who religiously follows the code of Samurai. Ghost Dog is the retainer, or follower of a Mafia capo named Louie, who saved his life years earlier. Ghost Dog has performed a number of perfect hits for Louie and his crime family, but when the latest one goes awry, he finds himself at odds with the crime family, who are now trying to find and kill the mysterious warrior.As I mentioned, it is not the plot that is the strength of the movie, but rather the characters. Jarsmuch's writing and vision, (and Forrest Whitaker's superb performance), help create an unforgettable character and do something rarely accomplished in film which is bring true humanity to a very odd, and at times, violent man. Furthermore, this is done with a rare appreciation of subtlety and minimalism, quite rare in this day when films, books and movies prefer to hit their audiences over the head with a sledgehammer as opposed to challenging them and take the dreaded risk that they might not get it.As for making you think, Ghost Dog is very much a story of ideas and layers that take time, (and repeated, careful viewing) to fully come to light. For example, besides the obvious revenge plot of the movie, just a few of the other themes that are explored include; the study of a man who is a killer and yet is also a person we like and respect. A look at cultures and men on the edge of extinction. The bonds of friendship, and loyalty. The meaning of honor. What it means to devote one's life and purpose to a code of behavior. The clash of ancient ways versus modern ones. A look at a profoundly world weary man. The slow death of old cultures and myths in modern America. Reality vs. artificiality. Loneliness and reaching out to others. Looking at violence as both poetic (Ghost Dog's practicing martial arts and his battle against the gangsters in Ray Vargo's house), and cold-hearted and brutal, (the Mafioso's violence on innocents, Ghost Dog's assassinations). The interaction between different generations, moralities, and codes of conduct. And this is just what I can come up with off the top of my head!Secondly, Ghost Dog is also a film of tragedy; an art too often eschewed these days for the proverbial happy ending. The tragedies too happen on many levels and come from many angles, even some from the bad guys! First off, Ghost dog himself is obviously a tragic figure, both in the fact that he is man following a way of life that effectively ended centuries ago and then there is his fate, which I will not spoil. There is the tragedy of Ghost Dog devoting his life to Louie, an obviously lesser man. There is the spark of nobility we see in Ray Vargo, who knows that Ghost Dog is coming to kill him, and yet meats this with a calm stoicism to match Ghost Dog's.And yet, for all that the film gives us, it also holds key things back, leaving us with unsolvable mysterious that make us wonder and keep guessing long after we first see it. For example, what caused Ghost Dog, an obviously gentle man, to take up the code of the samurai and become a remorseless killer? Who was Ghost Dog before these events? And then there are the things that can be interpreted endlessly, like the use of the cartoons, Rashoman, certain symbolism, etc.And while I have to apologize for the length of this (although this is one of my favorite movies, I didn't mean to go on THIS long!), I have one last thing to say, and this is aimed at the people who claimed that the movie makes no sense or isn't realistic enough. It's not meant to be. The movie is a surreal look at things, and an allegory. It's not strictly based in reality. It's a case where the message or ideas the writer is trying to convey is more important than basing all the minutia of the story completely in the real world. In other words, don't take it too literally. Instead, sit back, keep an open mind, and maybe you'll enjoy a great movie experience.  "}{"Title":"Everything seems to be changing around us","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One thing that has always seem to bother about Hollywood is the way that they market some movies.  Okay for instance, the previews for movies like Event Horizon or The Way of the Gun are totally marketed the wrong way.  From the previews of Event Horizon, they led you to expect another Alien rip-off but instead ended up being a genius freak show of a horror film.  The previews for The Way of the Gun led you to expect a no-holds-barred action film (this fact was helped along with Limp Bizkit's Break Stuff playing in the background), but ended being one of the smartest crime thrillers of 2000.  Now we have Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai.  It's about Ghost Dog(the never-better Forest Whitaker) who is a modern-day samurai and lives by himself on the roof of an old building.  He is also a hit man.  He kills quick and swiftly but does so by adhering to a special code of Samurai.  Ghost Dog is often employed by a dysfunctional crime family.  When a hit on a local mobster goes down the wrong way, a hit is ordered out on Ghost Dog.  When Ghost Dog gets word about this, he decides that he is going to fend off against the mobsters while still honoring the Code of the Samurai.  The previews for this movie are extremely misleading.  They lead you to expect another ghetto movie but this it is not.  It is actually a very intelligent and deeply moving crime drama.  There is some action, but thankfully those scenes are few and far between because this movie doesn't need action to deliver its message.  I must admit that is what I thought this movie was going to be but boy was I wrong.  A simple way to categorize this movie is just Samurai philosophy mixed in with an urban setting.  I really like Ghost Dog's philosophies and theories about the world.  He says that the world is changing.  He is right about that.  Things are getting bad but despite that, he is still able to live in peace with the world around him.  Special praise should go to director Jim Jarmusch. For he has created one of the most intellectual and challenging films ever made. Forest Whitaker is perfect in this movie.  I know that he hasn't been in too many well known movies but with the exceptions Oliver Stone's Platoon(he played Big Harold) and Bill Duke's A Rage in Harlem, you could say that he has been quite over-looked by critics and the movie-going public.  He has charisma in this film.  Ghost Dog's relationship with a Haitian ice cream truck driver are amongst some of the best scenes in the movie.  You see although the truck driver can't speak a word of English and Ghost Dog can't understand a word he says, their relationship still works on many levels.  Besides, they don't need words to play a game of chess. Some people who say that they didn't like this film, say that they understand it.  I admit that it is quite difficult to understand but you must learn to see things as Ghost Dog sees them.  He is not a violent person at all, but chooses to kill because it may very well be the only way he cam truly be at peace with the world.  I'm sure that not even he can really understand why the crime family that has come to trust him would all of a sudden want him dead.  But of course, that is what this movie is primarily about philosophy and the way people see things.I really like the scene where the Haitian ice cream truck driver reads the bear book.  The one passage he reads The bear is a solitary animal, adaptable to all sorts of climatic environments and foods.  In groups, they share food when quantities are abundant despite their limited social interaction.  The bear is formidable adversary with no predatory instincts at all.  But when surprised or wounded a bear may attack and becomes very dangerous.  In many ways this describes Ghost Dog.  He is solitary, can do whatever he wants despite being by himself all the time and is only dangerous when he feels threatened.  ***SPOILER***  The scene where he kills the two bear hunters and Ghost Dog explains what bears meant to ancient cultures I think is meant to exhibit his nature and his beliefs. Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai certainly is not a film that is to be missed by anyone.  Everyone needs to see this film regardless of whether or not you are a fan of these kinds of movies.  10/10       "},{"Title":"Great homage to Kurosawa","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The more I think about this film, the better I like it. It treats its source material very respectfully, carries some brilliantly understated performances, and has *gasp* action without dumb explosions and humour without dumb one-liners. This is not a popcorn movie, but a well-crafted film featuring lots of people who can act. Remember, using your brain can stave off senile dementia.One slight gripe. The wiseguys are great as comedy, and also as a representation of something deeper being lost (so much for Men of Honour), but their stupidity sometimes becomes a little too surreal. Even so, a film isn't often funny, haunting and thought-provoking.  "},{"Title":"A film that should be seen!","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog features a subtle yet compelling performance by Forrest Whitaker and some very creative directing from  Jim Jarmusch.  Whitaker is very convincing as a modern- day Samurai.  He also manages to play a character who does bad things yet he is likeable and is actually the one character in the plot who has a sense of honor & decency.  It also features a number of memorable performances by Henry Silva, Cliff Gorman, John Tormey and pretty much everyone else who appears in this film.The interchange and release between Ghost Dog and the little girl and the ice cream vendor are touching and seems natural.  And despite the dark subject matter there are some truly funny moments in this film (Passenger Pigeon!)Ghost Dog is a film that deserves to be seen and talked about.  It is much better than the usual muck from Hollywood these days, see it!  Its probably better than whatever film won best picture that year. "},{"Title":"thought provoking *spoilers*","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a little slow at first, but the content was so provocative that I couldn't turn it off. I'm glad I didn't. This movie follows its own path. If you haven't seen this movie then please don't read the rest of this. This movie doesn't play by the rules. There is a scene where you see Ghost Dog walking down the street and he notices a criminal shadowing this old man carrying a bunch of grocery bags. My first thought was...ok here we go...he's going to have to rescue him. The old man beats the crap out of the would be attacker. The old man was asian (or I assumed so because he knew a martial art)so I thought ok...he's going to engage the old man in conversation or that the old man was going to be a real samurai. NOPE didn't happen. I was thrilled. It was an isolated incident. There are a number of these incidents. Ghost Dog encounters a number of young black men and or course hollywood has us trained that we assume that there is going to be a conflict. Instead there is a respectful exchange of salutation. I knew that Jarmusch didn't play by the rules so I expected some of this, but this was something new. It was very refreshing. Please see this movie if you haven't yet, but if you haven't you shouldn't be reading this far. ;-> "},{"Title":"Poor summary of a samurai","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** First the good news I liked the 'moose' scene, as the three mobsters discussed Ghost Dog's fate, and one or two other disconnected elements such as the ice cream man and the little girl who reads Night Nurse - but a thread of such loose elements do not a satisfactory whole make, and so thumbs down to this - which is a shame as I usually like Jarmusch.Is it me, or are films which put text up on the screen and read it to the viewer at the same time irritating? I'm surprised a 'bouncing ball' prompt wasn't added to mark our place through the words in this film so often did things pop up to ram home where it was all coming from. Like his hero, Jarmusch seems to find wisdom in a book and not experience. Whitaker's gloomy performance has been praised, but to me it seems monotone, and his special medallion, presumably there to emphasise necessary cultural 'baggage', hangs like a golden millstone around his neck. In short, like a famous review once said, the actor 'ranges across the whole gamut of emotions, from A to B'. Maybe Jarmusch intends in this way to express stoicism. Instead he communicates a lack of vitality - completely diffferent from the hidden strength that informs (say) Toshiro Mifune in 'Sanjuro' or other famous Samurai flics, where we believe we are seeing a dangerous man in repose. Like the famous end of 'Queen Christina' the audience can read everything (or nothing) into a complete lack of expression. Rather than exuding danger, Whitaker merely suggested sloth (a situation not helped by the inept and curiously unthreatening opposition he faced.)The sight of Ghost Dog's somewhat portly figure briefly practising the martial arts was unconvincing to say the least - and pointless in practical terms, as he always uses a gun. Perhaps Jarmusch thought so too, as he dresses it up in fancy optical work. Ghost Dog's adoption of the samurai code was mysterious, remains largely unexplained, and the eventual flashback explanation of his motivation I found peremptory. In short, everything which was subtle and unspoken in Melville's 'Samourai' (one influence, for instance) was here spelt out and taken too far. One example in the French film the assassin has a single bird in a cage, Jarmusch gives him a *whole pigeon loft*. And how I inwardly groaned when Rashomon duly appeared as 'required reading' matter!Jarmush hangs his digressions onto a stripped down revenge plot which had no real surprises. Everything takes so long, unfortunately with little impact - from the longeurs of Ghost Dog's initial car drive, through his sleeping with the pigeons, onto his relationship with a dog which seems to reflect back his own boredom. 'Ghost Dog' has a plot I could have written out on the back of an envelope - and had room to fold the flap down. If Jarmusch had taken time, fleshed things out more, balanced out the characters (classic heavy Silva in particular is utterly wasted) he might have pleased more than the arthouse crowd who take whimsicality and cultural reference for profundity.Finally of course, there's a big irony. If a real samurai was ordered to death by his master(or his master's master) he would shortly commit hari-kari, not go after the 'shogun' or the equivalent elite, which would be considered a shameful act. The best one can say about 'Ghost Dog' is that it is humourously quirky and passes 90 minutes. But it ultimately remains unfocussed and without any real tension. "},{"Title":"The Philosophical Forest Whitaker","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a graduate of an American university with aspirations to be a baritone, Forest Whitaker displays how much of a thinker and philosopher he is. We finally get the opportunity to tap into his brain, and with a plot like 'The Diary of a Hitman' with Sharon Stone, we see the middle class graduate engage with the street life of urban America. Although Forest looks like an unlikely candidate that would graduate from university, and could play any ordinary character, he does present to the world the intellectual properties of his mind in this film, and enables you to see him as an academic with a sound mind. "},{"Title":"JARMUSCH EXTRACTED A PERFORMANCE FROM WHITTAKER WHICH TURNED ME AROUND ON THIS ACTOR - NOT PREVIOUSLY ENAMOURED OF HIS STYLE","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is a film filled with small brilliant moments the sum of which do add up to the parts.  The script, performances, music, camera work, direction are nigh on faultless.  I confess to loving Jarmusch almost as much as Sayles so going in I was always going to like the film, but I was completely surprised by how much I liked it.  Jarmusch has a way of doing that to you.  Come on, Jim.  How about another film, quickly.   "},{"Title":"A great movie with an unforgettable meaning.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  GHOST DOG THE WAY OF SAMURAI (1999) Rating 8/10I didn't know much about this movie or the stars in it. I wasn't expecting too much of a good flick. But I actually really dug this movie! It is unique, thoughtful, mind-blowing, action-packed, quirky and soulful and really takes you into the important moments. You're almost there. Jim Jarmush blew me away with his effort. His direction is focused and plausible, his writing is professional, intriguing and totally unexpected and his acting is unexplainably real. Jim is the bomb at facial expressions, you can almost see his eyes talking &#150; it's an incredible performance that takes this African-American a step higher. The movie is sort of slow, but it works around the plot well. There is a lot of violence and language but it doesn't take you off the meaningful and stunning main perspective of the movie &#150; it's all about love. That's the vibe that I got from this movie, and whether it's right or not, this `vibe' certainly made me feel lots of different emotions. The characters are all developed excellently and the scenes with Ghost Dog and Pearline (played by a young newcomer named Camille Winbush who does a brilliant job) are truly powerful and memorable in weird ways. If you're prepared to be entertained, moved, intrigued and see a lot of birds, then run to see Ghost Dog The Way of Samurai.  "},{"Title":"Yes and no...","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this a strange film to watch. Basically, there are two components to this film. The first is a character study of a hitman who follows the 'Way of the Samurai' and an interesting look at this ancient philosophy being followed in modern society. I found this part of film compelling viewing and Whitaker's sheer presence on the screen seemed to keep me interested. The direction was generally superb with great use of music and visuals.The second component was the plot involving a bunch a gangsters. This was just plain awful and full of holes. The characters' actions were often incomprehensible and unjustified. It was just silly, as was a lot of the dialogue. The gangsters' acting was also laughable. They came across as completely unmenacing and inept and would seem more appropriate as villains in a Police Academy-type film.Whilst watching this film I felt that there must be 2 directors at work - one directing the scenes with Forest Whitaker and another director for the other scenes.However, for me at least, the good outweighed the bad and it was definitely worth my spending two hours and the rental fee. "},{"Title":"Utterly cool, and genuinely original in places.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Forrest Whitaker plays an elusive modern-day samurai (hit man), totally loyal and totally focused, living by the ancient warrior code.  Until he falls foul of the local Mob (who he works for) through no fault of his own, and sets out to destroy those who would threaten his master.The RZA's score is amazing, and so different to normal Hollywood fare, aided and abetted by Jim Jarmusch's incredible camera work and pacing.The obvious comparison would be Leon (another fantastic film).Special mention should go to the local gangsters, whose characters are so fresh compared to off-the-shelf baddies.  Watching Ghost Dog will put you in such a chilled mood, leaving you focused and refreshed. "}{"Title":"Darn good","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, Jim Jarmusch is one hack of a director, and this time he created this post-modern masterpiece about a black killer ( Whitacker ) that goes against a whole family of old, decrepit italian mobsters.I think that this is one of the best movies ever, and whan i say that, i think about the story, which is good and keeps your adrenalin pomping, i think about the way this movie was shot, which reminds me of italian classics like Zefirrelli, Antonioni, good dialogues, great performances of almost all actors.Notice how the toons always tell us ahead what is going to happen in the film, notice the excellent music by RZA, notice how, Jarmusch puts together different cultural aspects and mixes them together in what i consider to be the best way to mix all that eastern philosophy, rap music, toons, pictures about the mob...One of the best pictures ever !!! "},{"Title":"Raving in a rational and objective way","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is just beautiful on every level.  It's deep layers of symbolism, lots to be read in to the film.  It's intelligent look at the way it treats minor characters.  It's touching... Can't say more without it being a spoiler.The action sequences are done with real class when I say they're done in slow-mo, most people will probably think of John Woo's inimicable style, but Jarmusch has gone for a less in-your-face approach that is an intrinsic part of the films atmosphere.  An atmosphere which, I must say, is perfectly constructed.  The often muted colour palette goes with the sombre music and the artistic shots of the pigeons.  This is in stark contrast to the scenes we see of the mobsters, which use the incidental music from the cartoons they watch.  The Soundtrack is fantastic throughout, and is one of my current favourite CDs.If you fail to come out of this film thinking, then you've been failing to watch it properly.  The director has done a brilliant job of weaving an ancient story into a modern context, maintaining the integrity of the original plot and ensuring that the viewer does not take the film at face value. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was one that I'd heard alot about before finally seeing it.  And even after my friend's hyped it up so much, it still surprised me.  I've never been displeased with Forest Whitaker in a film.  He's a great actor with an odd on-screen humanity.  The script is tight.  The acting is way above par.  And the direction is superb.Things that were totally auxiliary to the plot were the things that really made the film special.  E.G., the friendship between Ghost Dog and the ice cream man (despite the fact that they couldn't understand each other...or could they?), the segment about the old guy on the roof building a boat, etc.  Beautiful film-making.  I gave it 9 of 10. "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai, revolves around its mythical character, a modern-day, New York contract killer who lives by the rules of an eighteenth century warrior text.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Narrated from the main character's point of view, Ghost Dog clashes its protagonist's lifestyle and philosophy with the mentality of the Mafiosi who hire him.Known by a few as Ghost Dog (Forest Whitaker), the master of adaptability lives on a rooftop, roams the streets unnoticed and executes his assignments with calm determination. The quiet, solitary hit man owes his efficiency to his strict adherence to the set of rules outlined in Hagakure The Book of the Samurai. After pledging his loyalty to Louie (John Tormey), a mobster who once saved his life, Ghost Dog becomes indirectly involved with Ray Vargo (Henry Silva) and his wacky crime family, including Sonny Valerio, Big Angie, Vinny and the Old Consigliere (Cliff Gorman, Frank Minucci, Victor Argo and Gene Ruffini). Conflicts arise when Loui sends Ghost Dog on a mission to kill Handsome Frank (Richard Portnow) and Ray's attractive daughter Louise (Tricia Vessey) unexpectedly becomes part of the process.Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai finds humor by contrasting the Mafiosi culture with Ghost Dog's Samurai philosophy, and by depicting a world where characters speak different languages but say the same things. This becomes evident when Ghost Dog befriends a French-speaking African ice cream vendor (Isaach de Bankolé), with whom he carries on conversations by pure intuition.In spite of the excessive inter titles (which display the rules of the Hagakure, and which interrupt the film's rhythm rather than simply guide the plot sequences), Ghost Dog successfully represents the main character's spirituality on a technical and narrative level. In one scene, a panoramic shot of the streets is dissolved with a close-up shot of Ghost Dog, stressing his point of view and blending it with movement. These concepts are further explored through Ghost Dog's highly stylized movements, which are enhanced by the use of chronophotography to produce a stroboscopic effect (causing Ghost Dog's movements to appear ghostly).Furthermore, Ghost Dog creatively fuses elements that are characteristic of different movie genres. The film portrays a world that houses the cultures of Japanese teachings, martial arts, mob iconography, hip-hop music, and even classic cartoons such as Woody-Woodpecker and Felix the Cat (which may be seen as satirizing the notion of violence through movement). All in all, Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai offers the viewer a caricatured and a dramatic exercise on subjectivity. "},{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was an interesting film about, for the most part, a man trying to live his life with honor despite the great lack of that trait in today's society.  I found the film to be quite entertaining, and enjoyed the Way of the Samurai narrations throughout.  This is not a gansta film, despite it's stupid title.  And the film must be approached with an open mind.  Worth the rental fee. "},{"Title":"A major disappointment","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Many reviewers loved this film but, I thought it was terrible.  The dialogue was very silly and seemed to go nowhere.  It felt like improv gone bad. The editing was horrible with scenes that extended way to long to add to the story.  During the rideaway scene, the camera was on Henry Silva puckered face about three time longer than it needed to be.  How long did the director think he needed to keep the cameras rolling on scenes for the audience to get the point.  Scenes of Ghost Dog walking or playing music in the CD were not just flashed but treated like whole chapters.It should have been an intriguing story and Forest Whittaker did a great job with what little material he had.  My thoughts are that it had so many technical problems that it killed what should have been a great movie. "},{"Title":"Heavy on Mysticism and Surrealism","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So many people believe that if they watch a film, it has to give you a point that is obvious and it has to be there to entertain with gratuitous violence or comedy. Commonly accepted classics such as 2001 A Space Odyssey and Full Metal Jacket (both Stanley Kubrick films) are laden with their inner messages and entertain in a different way. Film is a powerful medium, and of course to use it to its fullest potential is something that must be applauded, as has been done by Kubrick. Ghost Dog Way of the Samurai is not a popcorn-and-Coke movie that you can watch with a few mates for a laugh. It is understandable that some would be disappointed with the film if they had expected this. Rather, it explores issues and characters, not plot elements and good vs bad scenarios.Ghost Dog is a character film, where the film explores the people and discovers what makes them the way they are. This means that Ghost Dog is not for everyone - it doesn't entertain with the violence and the 'cool moves'. Rather, it explores one man's journey to become a true samurai in modern times, relating his actions and the actions of others against the traditional codes.It is east vs west and so much more. The peripheral actions and items (eg. cartoons, comic books etc) reflect on the characters themselves and their mentalities. The smallest things around the characters allows us to 'see' what their true thoughts are like and how they act. The French-speaking ice-cream vendor? The boat? The overt love of pigeons? Think about what these mean instead of dismissing them like a sauce stain on a garment.To watch a film like Ghost Dog takes concentration, patience and time for consideration. To say it is 'crap' with so much ease is to be uninformed and impatient. Perhaps take the time and effort to see beyond the groovy pictures on the screen and think about the message being delivered to us. "},{"Title":"A brilliant and original film about one man's lifestyle","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the most original films i have seen, Forest Whitaker shines as Ghost Dog. The film is so smooth thankful to some of the best Editing and Cinematography I have seen. but the best thing of all in an age of the bigger the noise the better it is amazing to see a film that is so quiet and peaceful,I loved that about it. None of my friends have seen this film yet but they will, it deserves to gather a cult following and be as famous and appreciated as films like 'Shaft' and 'Reservoir Dogs'.  "},{"Title":"Compelling stuff, Dont let the stupid title put you off.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First let me start by saying that the title of this movie must of put many people off watching this straight away which is a complete shame because this movie is a treat. Forest Whitaker stars as a hit man who follows the ways of the Samurai .He upsets a group of gangsters by not carrying out a job to their satisfaction so they decide he has to be whacked. They picked the wrong guy, he himself takes them out one by one. What i really found confusing was why they wanted him dead? did i miss something? Whitaker is superb as the loner and pulls off this role to perfection.All the way through the film he reads text from a book about the life of the Samurai which is a very good touch to the film. This is a little gem. 8 out of 10.     "},{"Title":"Truly Beautiful","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This may be one of Jim Jarmusch's FINEST movies, a truly moving experience about the human spirit.  If you can appreciate things that are not run of the mill, and truly spell binding then RENT THIS MOVIE. It ranged from laugh out loud funny to absolutely tear jerking, I cannot put into words how touching, moving and refreshing this movie is, I can honestly say it may have changed my life.It breaks barriers and stereotypes and I love it. 'nuff said "}{"Title":"No time for Gangsters.","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There were many things I liked about Ghost Dog - its script, performances, atmosphere, camera work and marvelous original music. What I liked most about the film, however, was its determination to avoid mystifying and romanticising mob violence in any way. There is so much hokkum in the movies about mobsters with a code of honour, but Ghost Dog contrasts the behaviour of its mendacious, back-stabbing and ineffectual mob villains with a way of life (the way of the Samurai) that seems infinitely more philosophical and honourable. Obviously the way of the Samurai still encompasses a regrettable violence, but it does not appear to do so for reasons quite so reactionary and trivial as those attributed to the gangsters in the film. Having said that, if I had one problem with this film, then it was finding it hard to believe that someone so spiritual and philosophical as Ghost Dog could ever work for the mob in the first place. This seemed insufficiently motivated to me - but perhaps that is because I don't properly understand the role that violence, loyalty and service play in the Samurai code.  "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog a superb intellectual tour de force!!","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was most fortunate to see GHOST DOG when it was being distributed as an independent film, at a quaint little movie theatre in downtown Washington, D.C. The audience comprised of hip-hop heads, tourists, the middle-aged, young and old, black, white, Latinos, you name it EVERYBODY WAS THERE! And I was deeply surprised and pleased to see how the audience came together to laugh, scream, and cry over this unsung hero, GHOST DOG.The cinematography and music were just as haunting a presence as Forest Whitaker in the title character role of Ghost Dog. The catch 22 paradox, that Ghost Dog has vowed loyalty to his master in spite of his master betraying him, goes against the action film law Kill or be killed. You can glimpse the tender humanity of the killer in the way he relates to his pigeons, the little girl on the block, his Haitian ice-cream vendor friend, the bear, and the mobster's daughter. He is most poetic in his Samurai musings, as his voice echoes the law of his killer trade. My favorite part in the film is the stylish way Whittaker returns his gun to its holster after he pops somebody. THE BROTHER IS TOO COOL IN THIS FLICK!! Unfortunately, Ghost Dog's world is a violent snare that ultimately comes to claim him as victim...much like the downfall of Charlie in Flowers for Algernon. (a really old, OLD film). I do not think this film got the proper respect that it deserved; this was one of Whittaker's best performances EVER!!               "},{"Title":"Forest Whitaker makes this movie","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, it's a strange movie.  But it's SUPPOSED to be strange.  It goes very deep into the emotions of organized crime, loneliness, self-respect, and the life of a wannabe Samurai.  Forest Whitaker is excellent, as usual, portraying `Ghost Dog', the code name for a mysterious self-training modern-day Samurai who lives with pigeons in a small shack on the roof of an apartment building and works as a contract hitman for a Mafioso.  Just reading this, it looks a little too weird to be entertaining, but you'll have to watch the movie to understand it.  It does make sense when you see it, and it's very easy to feel for and relate to the main character.  I love the way it was filmed, adding to the mysterious nature of the main character and the organized crime lifestyle. "},{"Title":"The purpose of cinema","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For as long as I could remember I have been interested in strangely unique films. Many of my peers dismiss films such as Ghost Dog as garbage or crap or worse. I just don't see through their eyes.   Upon learning of Ghost Dog The Way Of The Samurai (through the old idiot box!) I was instantly sucked in. My curiosity was running at an all time high. I had to know the world of Ghost Dog, and especially the character himself. However, getting to the theater proved difficult in itself. So the gem became lost to me, until the first week of March, when the movie was playing on local cable here in Canada. I was overly thrilled! Can you really prepare yourself for a film like Ghost Dog? I have a problem being that when my interest is peaked for a film I tend to have horribly high hopes for it being good quality. Like Mission Impossible 2, Woo behind the camera Cruise in front, how can they go wrong? Urgh! Ghost Dog is not an `urgh'; this movie is instead a cinematic dish, best served to those rabid fans of gangster films, samurais, and beautiful moments.From the start the viewer is treated to snippets of written text denoting the Way of the Samurai, this is the first sign of genius; these short paragraphs all have some relevant meaning to Ghost Dog's journey through the course of the film. The only other time that I've appreciated the foretelling of events to come was in the Limey. The second thing that denoted genius at work was the relationship between Ghost Dog and Raymond the Frenchman. This aspect of the film had me smiling wide-eyed and everything for the entire film. I love the fact that these two can communicate with each other without ever understanding what the other is saying. I can't praise that enough because it has been something that I've always wanted to see working a movie. It was very neat to watch their friendship because their meetings always displayed some of the best moments in the movie. The friendship felt so real, it was great. Finally, my favourite genius aspect was those crazy gangsters. Man, if you want to treat yourself to a merry old time watch these gangsters work. They are dangerous, but at the same time they are incredibly funny. It's great to just mix the drama and serious tone with some comedy from the bad guys, of all places. Usually, it's the hero who says something witty or gets caught up in some funny situation to make us laugh. But now even the bad guys get in on it. That just adds to the movie's bizarre, yet very cool feel. Very NICE! Also, deserving admirable mention are the soundtrack (very nice on the score for Rza, I love the base and it fits naturally), and the character of Pearline (usually I hate kids in movies like this, but she actually learned a valuable lesson from Ghost Dog, it's great to watch their relationship grow as well). Whitaker is a fantastic lead, if he can continue to do more roles like this he may end up becoming the new hero for those who have lost faith in heavyset actors. And Jim Jarmusch&#133;bless your hard working heart, my respect goes out to the cast and crew of this fine feature. Don't miss Ghost Dog Way of the Samurai for anything!  "},{"Title":"A Jim Jarmusch masterpiece","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is a truly extraordinary film. But then, Jim Jarmusch is an extraordinary film maker. It's true to say, I think, that Jarmusch is one of a handful of American directors who can legitimately be termed 'an auteur' While Stranger Than Paradise, Down By Law and Dead Man, were very good, with Ghost Dog, Jarmusch has excelled himself - it's like Ghost Dog is the film Jarmusch has been waiting all his life  to make. Forest Whitaker plays Ghost Dog, who studies and lives by the teachings of the Samurai code. The film opens with Ghost Dog preparing to carry out a 'hit' for minor mob boss, Louie. This, like every other assignment he is given,is carried out with chilling precision. Only, something goes wrong, and the mob decide Ghost Dog needs to be eliminated. A trite plot device? Yes. It's how Jarmusch goes about showing what happens after that, that separates Jarmusch from the majority of today's directors. Not for Jarmusch, cinematic histrionics. No car chases, no deeds of daring do.Jarmusch just lets the story unfold, in a manner so matter of fact, it mesmorizes. While Forest Whitaker is outstanding as Ghost Dog (He was Charlie Parker in Eastwood's much neglected film, Bird), he still has to compete with excellent performances by John Tormey as Louie, Cliff Gorman as Sonny Valerio (what a wonderful scene - among many, where Gorman sings along to a rap song while cleaning his teeth), and a face from the past, Henry Silva, as kingpin Ray Vargo. For me, some of the funniest scenes are Ghost Dog's encounters with Raymond, who operates an ice cream truck, but can only speak French, a language which Ghost Dog doesn't speak. I can't recommend Ghost Dog highly enough. I thank the lord that there are people like Jarmusch making films. Cinema going would be bereft without him. P.S. I believe the scene where Ghost Dog 'whacks' Sonny, was 'borrowed' from a French gangster film of the thirties or forties. Does anyone know the title of the film? "},{"Title":"Very, very cool","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I reluctantly went along to see this film on the insistence of a friend, and boy was I glad I did. This movie is unusual, original and fresh, really something quite different. It's a movie with a code at its core, and that code permeates its entirity, dictating the rhythm and much of the imagery. Surprisingly, there's also quite a lot of humour (mostly provided by the inept, overweight mafia hoods), which neither seems inappropriate or out of place, but rather adds to the somewhat surreal context the story is placed in, as well as a contrast for the greased-lightning action scenes. The music too is powerful and strangely haunting, the hip-hop beats helping to drive the rhythm of the film and providing a strong counterpoint to the contemplative readings of Hagakure.The only other movie involving far eastern themes I've seen this year was 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon', which although a well-made film was predictable, monolithic and lacking in the plot department (as well as being monstrously overhyped). In spite of 'Dog's pretensions I wouldn't hesitate to put it above 'Dragon', Oscars and all. It sounds like pants but it's really very good. "},{"Title":"'Ronin' meets 'Goodfellas'.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before I watched the latest film by the veteran indie film director Jim Jarmusch, Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai.  I never had the thought that I would witness a film that was so unusual yet I was satisfied and left in complete awe.The film follows the life of Ghost Dog (Forest Whitaker), a simple-minded African-American adult who works as a hitman or retainer for Louie (John Tormey), a local mobster who saved Ghost dog's life several years ago.Following the night when Ghost Dog made another hit on a mobster although the daughter (Tricia Vessey) of a well-known mob kingpin, Ray Vargo (Henry Silva) witnessed the murder and let Ghost Dog borrow Rashomon, the book that she just finished reading.  Louie comes into a room of a local Chinese Restaurant where Vargo himself, Sonnie Valerio (Cliff Gorman), and the Old Consigliere (Gene Ruffini) are seated at a table.  Once Louie takes a seat, Sonny asks Louie what ke knows about Ghost Dog and wants the effective hitman neutralized as he put it.  There's a funny moment in the conversation when Sonny compares to Ghost Dog to the rappers like Ice Cube, Ice-T, Method Man, and mentions his favorite one, Flavor Flav from the rap group Public Enemy.  Then Vargo compares Ghost Dog with some Indians like Crazy Horse and Black Elk, and follows with a nice impersonation of an elk call.  Watching his cheeks become enlarged had me laughing out loud.There are several good moments where Ghost Dog meditates and practices using an samurai sword (in slow motion, which is a great touch) and punching outside his home that's a rundown shack on the rooftop.  I notice that he's not alone because there are pigeons (carrier most likely) that he feeds and uses one to send or recieve messages to or from Louie.  Throughout the film, Whitaker reads short parts from Hakagure, a book that he uses as a code to live by.  When he's not busy, Ghost Dog talks to an Ice Cream vendor (Isaach de Bankole), who doesn't speak a single word of English nor is he that ice cream is really healthy.  And once Ghost Dog finds out from Louie that the whole mob is after him and if they didn't find him, they'll whack Louie instead.Whitaker is good here as the title character and when he goes after the mob.  He does it without making it look fancy or cheap and watching him take out any of the thugs (in slow motion again) in Vargo's house is something to see.That scene isn't the one that payoffs for the film, it's the one where Ghost Dog and Louie meet face-to-face on a neighborhood street.  What makes it even better is that there's a conversation instead of a heated exchange of words nor cold glares.  I get the thought that director Jarmusch is making great references to the classic western High Noon and the late great Japanese director Akiro Kurosawa.The performances in this form were great all around and Jim Jarmusch, who wrote and directed the movie has made a beautiful one here.  Rapper The RZA, who composed the film's score, makes a marvelous one in mixing rap songs and mournful music.In conclusion, Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is certainly one of Jarmusch's best films.  "},{"Title":"Not for everybody","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The premise of the movie is intriguing a modern black man follows the way of the samurai in one underworld neighborhood.  The execution is exceptionally different.  Forest Whitaker is mostly silent throughout the movie as Ghost Dog, absorbing the world, and affecting it when he has to (or wants to, which may be argued too philosophically).The world Ghost Dog lives in is simple.  With one turn of events, things change.  And Ghost Dog can feel it.  How he reacts to the situation - with resolve, poetry, and some efficient ass-kicking, is what makes this movie great.  The people he interacts with show only a scratch of this enigma.The story moves, at best, langoriously.  It gives a feeling of otherworldliness of disorientation, and now that I think about it, there's no other way to tell this story (besides the somewhat predictable ending). If you are the kind of person that takes a moment just to go Hm., I definitely recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Ghetto Defendant","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A modern tale of asian martial-art philosophies, and the ole' shoot em up gangsta flick. Intense soundtrack and another excellent role by Forrest. The movie is excellent in all aspects, but has a bit of predictability in Forrest's role. (Need I say no more). Beautiful. "},{"Title":"A quiet action movie...","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This particular little gem is in serious danger of being forgotten...though, when one watches the film, it's understandable why. It's too violent for the serious drama, too literary for the (insert vomiting sound to the point of dry heaves) Tarintino crowd of faux crime, and way, way too little action for the testerone junkies who watch appalling, shoddily made action films for the cool explosions instead of the non-existent plotlines.So, having established what Ghost Dog Way of the Samuri is not, what exactly is it? When it comes to thumbnails, only one brief descriptor comes to mind a quiet action film. There are, of course, some serious differences between it and your standard action film. They are as follows1)Fewer targets. Adding up the body count of your average action flick would probably result in the approximate population of a small city. Here, there are only a few aging thugs still trying to pretend that all is well with Cosa Nostra (Italian for Our Thing; watching these sad relics makes me think of Andrew Vachss only unpublished novel, A Bomb Built In Hell, written in 1972. One of the major characters, a mobster doing a life sentence says something to the effect of Our thing is dead. It used to be a blood thing, now it's just criminals.). Still, they are menacing enough to make the viewer miss the real danger to Ghost Dog.2)A moral center. The only ethos of your average action film (important exceptions being the Hong Kong films of John Woo) is whoever has the most ammunition wins. Every now and again here, we are given passages from the Way of the Samauri, which add heft and meaning to the cold and final actions of a master assasin.3)No real love interest. I don't think I need to explain that those have been de rijour since at least the Golden Age of James Bond, if not further back. Not so here. The only one that comes close is the mobster daughter we meet in the beginning and things don't play out like you would think.4)The violence. John Woo still did it better back in Hong Kong, but the violence here is a close second. Here, it is vicious, cold, and final. No second chances. It almost makes one realize what it takes to commit such acts...not something to contemplate comfortably.5)A vulnerable hero. Granted, Ghost Dog pulls off all his kills without a hitch, but it must not be forgotten that how he came to be in this business was based on a moment when he was helpless. The only reason all his kills go down so smooth is that he is better prepared than his targets. This is true even in the movie's ending, when the circle of blood closes.This will be a movie, like This Gun For Hire, The Limey, and Point Blank, that will stay with me for a long time, regardless of how it is ultimately remembered. The wisest words of all usually come in whispers. "}{"Title":"A different way...","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch gives a good lesson of how a good action film can also have some deep lines. With the hook in a great Forest Whitaker performance, a simple script, good supporting roles, the director shows again his bag of magic. Of course, after the film you will be watching book stores for the samurai book. Look around, check this film, read the book...and perhaps you can learn something too... "},{"Title":"A Haunting Message","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a truly excellent film about a man who was born in the wrong time period.  Whitaker's character clings to the code of the samurai even though everyone around him finds it laughable to live by any kind of code, to say nothing of one from ancient Japan.  Anyone who has ever tried to hold themselves to a code of conduct, especially in the face of popular derision, will be heartened, and sometimes haunted, by this movie. "},{"Title":"This dog was a different breed...","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If U happen to be the kind of fan who craves action this is not the film for U. Ghost Dog is a film about ancient Samurai philosophy and its effects on a young man and his life. A young man who is really into literature and philosophy and keeping his word no matter the consequences.  There is action in the movie but, the pace of this movie lends itself to the subject matter. Kudos to the editor and producer in the way this movie was put together, although I was a little disappointed with the weak storyline(rocking chair mobsters way past their prime). I am a fan of Mr. Whittaker and he held my attention throughout and I loved the dog in the movie...take a chance and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"The way of the Samurai is the only way","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a fantastic film, seemingly ignored by most - It is incredibly understated and moody, from the slow memorising utterings from Forest Whitaker to the driving rap music played in the background.If you like Leon - watch this now.  The story of the single minded assassin, a complete loner in the world, but with a strange obsession (plants or pigeons anyone?!).You could possible look at this as a re-working of Leon, such as the poignant moments such as Leon and Natalie Portman, and Ghost Dog and the French Ice Cream seller, but this is an excellent piece of cinematic genius in it's own right.It has everything - who would have thought Forest could be this cool?  There are many funny bits, and it is full of memorising slow motion clips that add atmosphere to the whole picture.Please see this - It isn't the greatest film ever made, but you will be thinking about this for days, thinking of all of the intelligent messages about life it tells.  Enjoy.    "},{"Title":"Brilliant potrayal of the samurai!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film had all the aspects of an enjoyable movie, it had a good cast, it was well scripted, the location was brilliant and the soundtrack wasn't bad either.  What i felt really stole the film was ghost dogs friendship with the french guy from the ice creme truck.  I laughed at every conversation they tried to have with one another.  The basic plot of the film is describing the way of the samurai and how he lives his life.  He is betrayed by the people he works for and therefore must look after himself and gain revenge on the gangleaders that have betrayed his way.  Forrest Whitaker plays his finest role to date as ghost dog, who is silent but captures the screen with his daunting appearance.Watch this film and enjoy it, it was a real pleasant suprise! "},{"Title":"whitaker is great, but that was about all for me","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  first off I think I will take alice liddell's recommendation and see 'Le Samourai'...anyhow about the film.. Jarmusch and Whitaker played the role of dog great in my opinion.  Always meditated and focused on the hit.. I loved his routine of walking to the car, starting it up, cruising around, watching life around him as he prepares to end lives. I liked the pigeons, the hatian, and the little girl, the respect dog got from all the inhabitants in the neighborhood.  It made for an interesting environment in the movie. That's about all that i could take though.. the italians were annoying, too simplistic, and cliche'. the bear scene wasn't necessary, that girl he didn't kill had no reason to have 'Rashomon' in my opinion, and had no reason to pop up later either! and I didnt'd like all the killing, it was way too senseless in my opinion. I would have liked it if he killed nobody, better... although that would probably make the film seem useless.The eastern philosopical interludes were neat at first, but i found them somewhat simple-minded.. I dont' know if Jarmusch picked them ad-verbatim from bushido texts, but they seemed frail to the little bit of bushido philosophy that i have read in passing. also the film is about an hour too long to bearOne peculiar thing i noticed was the 'debt' that whitaker bestows the italian guy.. it seems like the italian shoots whitaker's attacker after he aims it at the italian, however whitaker remembers the event as the man aiming at whitaker, so perhaps he was under a false assumption? one of you fans of this movie can watch it again and tell me if thats what i saw, i sure don't plan to watch it again, I'm sorry but Jarmusch's technique makes me cringe, i'll explain some other time why but its late so i will end with that. "},{"Title":"THIS is the best movie of the year","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I missed this on it's theatrical release, because Gladiator came out on the same day. While it's mafia characters aren't that original, and you don't get a new insight into mobsters and gangsters, this is a very original, cool, stylish and funny crime movie from indie legend Jim Jarmusch, which benefits greatly from the excellent performance of Forest Whitaker. The main thing that made Ghost Dog so great was that it wasn't you're average Tarantino rip-off, it was slow paced, offbeat, strange and quirky, giving it this kind of cool that you don't get in most gangster movies, and it stays with you for a long time. So, for me, this was a nearly perfect gangster movie. Great soundtrack too, from Wu-Tang member RZA. 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"Shades of Leon by Luc Besson but without the latter´s frantic action filming style  style.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Shades of Leon by Luc Besson but without the latter´s frantic action filming style  style. Instead the characteristic Jarmusch pace and mood.The Henry Silva et. all mob scenes are worth the price of the ticket alone. I have seen the scenes more than once (DVD Reg. 2 version has an extra deleted scene as well) and cannot help smiling every single time especially when comparison is made between modern day rapper´s names, Indian tribal names ... and last but not least the Mob nicknames. Forest Whittaker is actually quite convincing in the role as a modern day inner-city Samurai - quite cold and heartless when he does his job. Easily accessible even to those not familiar with Jarmusch's earlier works and style.  "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog surprised me. A lot. This movie is what Ronin was supposed to be.Forest Whitaker plays Ghost Dog,a mysterious hit man who studies and works by the way of the samurai. He has an oath against Louie (some Italian actor,not well-known at all)who saved his life when he has about to be killed by a street gang. Ghost Dog doesn't talk a lot. He communicates with Louie with the help of pigeons. Anyway, Ghost Dog has two real friends. A little girl who reads a lot and a Haitian ice cream vendor who doesn't even speak the same language as him. One day, Ghost Dog breaks his pact with Louie and kills one of his family. A whole lot of killing ensues. Louie puts a lot of old Italians after Ghost Dog. However,they end up killing a lot of tall black guys on rooftops.Ghost Dog is an excellent little sleeper, and you should really give this one a try. The performances all around are great. The movie,even though it feels gritty and violent,has some funny moments with the Haitian guy. The movie is even poetic at times,well shot and the soundtrack by RZA fits the movie very well. There are however a couple of problems. First of all,every 10 minutes or so the movie is interrupted by Whitaker reading a passage of his samurai book over a balck screen. I undersand the signification of this, but ti slows down the movie a little. The second gripe I have is that Whitaker never used his sword or his sniper rifle. (Okay, I realise that's stupid,but it would have been so cool.) A real treat. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 2000!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" GHOST DOG is strange, funny, moving, and easily one of the best films of 2000. Forest Whitaker is wonderful in the title role, an assassin who lives by the code of the Samurai and his quirky and violent involvement with New York mobsters. The film is filled oddball characters, beautiful symbolism, and unexpected moments in which some are downright funny. I couldn't help but to smile throughout the films' two hour running time. The Academy probably won't listen, but GHOST DOG deserves at least an original screenplay nomination. It is a true original. A 4 star film! Don't miss this diamond in the rough! "}{"Title":"Weird, but truly genuine!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WOW!  This film is weird BUT I LIKE IT!  It's original!!  This is a hip-hop gangster samurai flic who's best friend is a Haitian that speaks no English (yet somehow they manage to talk to each other and understand each other).  Forest is the samurai, who is an excellent assasin, smooth without a trace, just like a ghost.  He works for a mafia guy who saved his life at a young age.  Ghost Dog, is a good killer but his 'retainer' has been told by his bosses that Ghost Dog must be killed or face the consequences.  So it is up to 'Ghost Dog' to save his skin, protect his retainer, and somehow keep his honor. Ghost Dog is such a unique character, who seems to be from two different centuries.  He packs silencers and high tech car-jacking equipment - then asks to be paid on the first day of autumn, and contacts his boss only by carrier pigeons.  The pigeons lead to hillarious scenes where the mafia go around to several roof tops where pigeons travel and end up whacking the wrong people (since they don't know what 'Ghost Dog' looks like).  Also this film has the BEST assasination scene I have ever seen in any movie ever.  That was neat (if you've seen the film then you know what I am talking about). The movie is a little slow, and lengthy, but it is neat and Whitaker's character is just too original and memorable to forget.Rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Too Little, Too Much","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While likeable, this movie treads most of the same territory as previous Jarmusch films - particularly Mystery Train and Dead Man.  It offers the same sparse characterization and storyline as any previous Jarmusch film, but seems like it's begging for a little more in the story department and about 45 minutes less.  It was just waaaaay too long for what was actually in the movie.  And some of the music was kinda bad (I thought rappers were supposed to be rapping WITH the rythmic beat, not against it).  Hell of alot better than Night on Earth, though. "},{"Title":"Stranger than your average gangster flick","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"      Whoever couldn't find anything positive about this film must've been brought up on laissez faire, straight down the middle band movies.    Ghost Dog is not a film definable by plot, action or character. It is more a series of vignettes based on Ghost Dog's philosphy.   The film is rich in irony,  esp. the interaction between the French ice cream guy and Ghost Dog (Ironically, they nearly always reflect what the other says.)      The film deliberatly contradicts gangster conventions, and the amazing cinematography adds to the detachment of us from an intriguing killer, similar to Leon, but minus much of the warmth, but retaining the skewed morality.    The gangsters in the film are easy to kill, because Ghost Dog's only real threat is Louis, who he isn't allowed to kill, building up to a simple, dignified climax, and a neat closing philosophy.     Well done, Jim. 9/10 "},{"Title":"There is more here than just a movie","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is a violent bloody movie but it's not gratuitously so.  The respect given to the works of Hagakure moved me in an unexpected manner.  Forrest Whitaker is convincing, funny, and heroic. By the end of the movie you love and honor Ghost Dog in a way that is disturbing given his choice of vocations.  It is a very anti-heroic movie that I find refreshing after having to sit through the C**P of Pay it Forward.  I will watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"Can be better","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While the idea of a modern Samurai is great, they focused too much on how ghost dog killed those 'stupid' mobs. Those mobs are so stupid (maybe they are too old) that I don't feel excited about how ghost dog killed them. It is way too easy! Another thing is about development of the character. While we feel curious about the character of ghost dog, they kept showing us just how he steal car, kill people...Really a waste of character. "},{"Title":"A bizarre action drama movie","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was very good, however quite odd. For example, the main bad guys were always watching cartoons and it would show on the cartoon exactly the way that Ghost Dog was going to kill them. One fine example is when a guy was watching a woody woodpecker cartoon where the water was shooting out of the pipe, Ghost Dog was removing pipes in the basement. When the mafia hitman went to use the washroom, he noticed a red light (infrared) peering out of the sink. The guy looked down and -- you guessed it -- bang, right in the middle of the forehead. "},{"Title":"Great movie, beautiful style, beguilingly tongue-in cheek","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you like Jarmuch you'll love this one.  It's almost as good as his first effort--Mystery Train--and is a very self conscious take on the Samurai genre films of Kurosawa, and of course, the Westerns that influenced him. There are plenty of clever little references and credits to these old films, and the plot is every bit as simple.What Jarmusch adds--besides the playful parodies, is his usual wonderful filmic rhythm--every bit as studied as Hal Hartley or Alan Rudolf--but with perhaps an even more painterly visual sense.Why don't mainstream filmmakers make movies like this? "},{"Title":"Better than I expected. And I expected a lot from this movie!","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just splendid.  I knew, even before watching it, that I would like it a lot. First of all, I was told that it's about a hitman and about his philosophy of life. That aroused my curiosity. Then, I was told that there are two types of comments that viewers make after seeing the movie. Some of them say this is not the fast-paced action movie that they expected. Others say that it's not exactly the typical Jarmush movie because it has too much action. This apparent contradiction made me even more sure that I'll like the film. Finally, I watched it. It is even better than I expected! "},{"Title":"Unexpected and funny","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think it was a great movie, despite that I had different expectations from it. My expectation was a cool fast bloody swordcutting movie with some style. Instead I got a slow pacing funny movie about a samurai-hitman waving with guns (instead of swords) and following a japanese code with rap as background music. It is a slow movie with lots of different cultures mixed in it (maybe too many). Although the message that I got from the movie (which I think was read books) was a little bit over done, I still want to watch the movie for a second time, just to learn and understand the Samurai sayings more and the relationship of the cartoons and the killings (which I actually got at the end of the movie). And maybe understand the role of the mafia daughter more, who I think was actually ruling the mob bosses... If you liked Pulp Fiction, then I think you will appreciate this movie too. But if you are the typical  fast action movie type, then please skip it, it's not worth it and it will be only annoying. I think it is a great movie and I will rent it for a second time, when I am more in the mood for it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A satisfying, thought provoking, feel good movie","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Visually and audibly captivating, this movie shows that you can be serious and funny at the same time. Its a true multimedia experience - speech, music, and visuals are employed separately and together to provide multiple messages.The total rapport between Ghost Dog and his best friend who don't speak each others language is just one highlight of many. "}{"Title":"A Jim Jarmusch masterpiece","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is a poignant film that adeptly shows the futility of living in accordance with ancient ways in modern society.  As the film unfolds, Jarmusch introduces his tragic urban hero, Ghost Dog.  Within just a few seconds, the audience becomes fully aware that the hero of this tale is not your traditional hero/hitman.  This is a man who has managed, in a heartless, materialistic society, to live by the virtues of the ancient Japanesse samurai.  Surprisingly (in my eyes, at least), Whitaker portrays Ghost Dog impeccably, fully accentuating every nuance of Ghost Dog without missing a beat.  Jarmusch has made a film which perfectly balances the adversity that his protagonist faces with light-hearted, touching scenes with Bankole and Winbush and hilarious scenes with Gorman imitating Flav-a-flav.  Each shot is meticulously laid out with the end product being a visual and narrative masterpiece.  This film is one of the very few outstanding films from the first half of the dismal year of 2000.   "},{"Title":"An excellent film!","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is the tale of a black samurai hitman, I know sounds weird, but it is amazing.  Jim Jarmusch (Dead Man) writes and directs this unforgettable tale of a man following a code, the code of the samurai.  Forrest Whitaker is the title character and gives his best performance.  Funny, weird, heart warming and powerful are just a few words to describe this masterpiece.  Rza of the Wu Tang Clan provides the music and film itself delivers the emotions.  A perfect 10. Don't Miss!!!!! "},{"Title":"intriguing. . .","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  jarmusch creates a character capable of showing us the noble side of an assassin. ghost dog has dignity and values and this is what makes him endearing.  he moves in darkness and hides beneath a hood.  the darkness of the movie is the result of the seriousness of the life in question, not those of whom ghost dog disposes of, but that of the killer himself.  this film is built upon strange, thought-provoking contradictions. . .obviously, the character of ghost dog who is, at once, kind and brutally cold, the fact that ghost dog dedicates his life to serving a murderous gangster coupled with the reason why this situation exists (the uncharacteristic actions of said gangster with reference to ghost dog), the juxtaposition of the ancient ways and those of modernity, etc.  more interesting topics of this film are language (particularly the amusing ability ghost dog has to communicate with an ice-cream man who only speaks french) and the medium of cartoons and their place in a dark, gritty urban story such as this.  a deep and wonderful piece of cinema which will hopefully cast some more light on an under-appreciated director (and writer). "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is a great quirky film!!!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Forest Whitaker, gives a magnificent acting performance as the main character of the film playing, The Ghost Dog, a hitman who lives by the code of the Samurai. He is employed by an employee named Louie,portrayed by John Tormey, who works for mob boss,Ray Vargo played by deranged Henry Silva. The Ghost Dog performs a hit on a man they want dead. Unfortunately for the Ghost Dog, he killed the man in front of the mob bosses detached, but very pretty daughter Louise Vargo, played by Tricia Vessey. For that indescretion Louie is ordered to kill the Ghost Dog. The Ghost Dog has plans of his own to defend himself, yet maintaining strict obedience to the code of the Samurai. The movie has some interesting side notes as the Ghost Dog befriends a young girl, and a French Haitian ice cream salesman. There is humor mixed in with the violence and action. This was a very entertaining movie although I did not like the ending very much. I did not care for some of the RAP music, however the Reggae music was very cool. I still highly recommend the movie though. "},{"Title":"mis-match of cultures","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  what a disappointing jarmusch. he tries to map eastern culture onto a non-moving, silent blob of matter - whitaker. he looks really like a dog, but hit so many times by his owner, his dignity is just mapped on instead of felt. if the character of an american film adopts a foreign code, i want to see (and i mean see, watch instead of just talking about it, another big problem of the film) what made him follow this line. Ghost Dog is a slave of his program, the need for it remains in darkness, he just acts according to it, there´s no movement - what a bad unfolding of a character. the whole structure and intention seems similar to that of the realistic novel. it wants to mediate something authentic, which is impossible; especially here. it simply lacks maturity. "},{"Title":"Longer Than It Needs To Be","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first read the story for this movie, I was very intrigued. I have a bit of an interest in feudal-Japan kind of stuff and I really thought it was a good concept for the film. The other reviews for this movie seem to be very positive, and I'll grant them that, it is a good movie, when something is happening. Probably it's just the fact that I have seen a lot of fast-paced and no-nonsense action flicks, but I found this movie far too slow.That's basically my only complaint about it. It's just too friggin' slow! Sure, it's fun to watch him drive from place to place, but for how long? Sure it's cool to see the big bad guy watch cartoons but for HOW LONG? Not very.My recommendation to the creators of this film - make a version called Ghost Dog Turbo and cut down about a half an hour, then get back to me. I'll like it a lot more then. "},{"Title":"Another worthy entry in the Jarmusch oeuvre","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch films are a special treat. He only makes a new film every four years and the long hiatus between Dead Man and his latest Ghost Dog has been worth the wait. With Ghost Dog, Jarmusch has seamlessly combined so many different elements. The film echoes such classics as Tokyo Drifter, Sonatine and Point Blank, but retains Jarmuschs' distinct style and personal vision. Forrest Whitaker is stoic and mesmerizing as the title character. The soundtrack by RZA of Wu-tang is stunning and hypnotic. A great blend of action, drama, comedy and tragedy. One of the best films of last year, a shame it didn't get more of a distribution. Should find a cult on video though, like all of Jarmuschs' films.  "},{"Title":"An Effective Lesson","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch has written and directed an effective movie that teaches while it entertains.  I enjoyed the performances by all the actors especially the interaction between Ghost Dog and Raymond.  It provided comedic relief.  Overall, the movie gives the viewer an opportunity to search their soul.  Too bad this type of movie is seldom viewed by mainstream moviegoers because they really miss good cinema. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and interesting.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be engaging. I was interested in the characters from the start of the movie. I liked the look and feel of this movie. I enjoyed the acting of Forrest Whitaker. This is another film by Jim Jarmesh that I have found to be a worthwhile view.I will rate this movie 8 out of 10. A solid, entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"a really violent b-movie","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch is an artist disguised as a commercial filmmaker. Ghost Dog is like a painting that you enjoy for its composition even though you can't quite understand it. As you look it over, some things that make sense to your eyes while other things you could do without. Jarmusch's latest is loaded with images that only Jarmusch himself could explain. Call it filmmaker's prerogative.The rules of commercial filmmaking, as in &#145;Hollywood' filmmaking, state that you must hold the audience's attention at all costs. If it doesn't keep the story moving, then cut it. It's okay because it'll just end up as a bonus feature on the DVD two months later. My feeling is that Jarmusch couldn't obey these rules if he tried. Even if he's the only one who knows what it is, the man comes bearing a message. He's not looking just to entertain, but to provoke thought. You won't find Ghost Dog to be a very good film, but at least you can say you saw something interesting.What it is, ultimately, is some good B-movie entertainment. By this I mean that it's hilarious, always intentionally so. But hidden beneath the pot shots at overweight, middle-aged wiseguys and hitmen is a tragic story of human beings not communicating with each other. The entire film seems to be about noncommunciation. Ghost Dog (Forest Whitaker) is a reclusive samurai warrior who everyone in his neighborhood knows and respects. Ironically, he has no real friends. He has devoted his life to doing favors for a mobster named Louie (John Tormey). Louie saved Ghost Dog's life when he was younger and, according to the code of the samurai, is now his servant for life. The two men only meet once a year and Ghost Dog gets his instructions via passenger pigeon (The scene in which Louie has to explain his dealings with Ghost Dog to his boss is the most hilarious scene in a movie this year). Louie doesn't understand Ghost Dog, seeing him only as a thug with motivations for killing as senseless as his own. It's this lack of understanding that drives the story to its conclusion.I was disappointed at how much gunplay there was. There is one scene that shows Ghost Dog on his rooftop practicing with his sword. The only weapon we ever see him use, though, is a gun. Jarmusch uses television cartoons, oddly enough, to foretell what violence is about to happen. These violent cartoons are all these mob guys ever watch on tv. For a film that wants to make a statement against violence and guns, there sure is a lot of both in it.Grade C+  "}{"Title":"Slick, Funny and very unique","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jarmusch continues to push the boundaries in  his latest offering. I have found his previous  films innovative and clever but a little shallow.  High on technique and hip posturing and low on  emotional content. With Ghost Dog the filmmaker  appears to be reaching some degree of artistic  maturity by combining technique with a deeper  emotional resonance. Whittaker's central character  is deeply moving and few actors could have hit the  high notes required to make this role work. His  exchanges with his best friend the icecream man  are both touching and very funny. I'm not sure that the ending worked particularly well however all in  all one of my favorites for the year. New York setting.... I think Jarmusch was deliberately avoiding a specific locale setting, however the  tunnel did look decidedly like the Brooklyn-Battery,  so my stab is Brooklyn, not that it matters. "},{"Title":"Rocks!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is beautiful, desolate and hilarious.  Even though I think it's sort of pointless to compare Ghost Dog to Night on Earth or something else just because they have the same writer and director, I couldn't help but notice how much easier it was to appreciate the quirks in Ghost Dog.  It's a movie as deep as some French art flick and as quotable as Johnny Dangerously.  Forrest Whitaker is awesome. Definitely worth multiple viewings. I've noticed the setting described as New York. Not only does it not look like New York, but I think people say it is because of the characters, which is an extremely naive assumption. "},{"Title":"Amazingly Artistic Film","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll confess here that this is the first Jarmursch film I have ever seen and that I'm not necessarily a big fan of slow-moving action movies, but this poignant film was one of the most amazingly deep films I have ever seen.Forest Whitaker plays a hit man for the Mafia, who must maintain a loyalty to the mob boss who  saved his life as per the Samurai code he lives by. The man lives alone, is friends only with a Haitian ice cream man who speaks no english, a young girl with whom he discusses books (the amazing Rashomon among them)and the pigeons via which he communicates with people.The film is definately off-kilter, but has the deepest message of a film of its genre. The film moves slowly, it is an independent film, and it's paced that way, but it helps you soak in the film. It's more like a painting with so many layers and levels that the longer you stare the easier you understand its beauty.The film is layered in a hip hop version of Samurai, like the Wu-Tang Clan, which is why RZA has done the soundtrack and even (randomly) appears in th e film. The music adds to the film rather than detracts from it like some of the other hip-hop influenced soundtracks out there (ie Blue Streak, etc.). It gives the film an urban feel that makes it modern even while it's commenting on modern society via an ancient code of life.Amazing. Watch the film, but expect Jet Li martial artistry or a John Woo editing piece.10/10 easily.... "},{"Title":"poetry in motion? and then some!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This masterpiece evolves from three giants - 1-jim jarmusch - brilliant, touching and funny script, which is directed masterfully, is the basis of the movie. 2-forest whitecker - rarely you meet an actor who can make you cry with a move of an eyelash. 3-the RZA- the soundtrack specially written for this movie is the soul of it all. go! see it! and then see it again. yours truly. "},{"Title":"Whitaker is brilliant in a very good film","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is a film I knew I would like the first time I heard about it and its premise and that Forest Whitaker (a personal favourite, I must say) was in it. And I did like it! In fact, I think it's a really good film, and Whitaker's performance is exceptional. In the film he actually manages to move with what must be called clumsy grace even though that is contradictory. It is a touching, entertaining, sad, and funny film. I also love the RZA's music, which I have since 1994 or something like that. His music suits the mood of the film perfectly, I must say though, that I was quite surprised to see him in the film, hadn't heard anything about his cameo before. Well, Ghost Dog is a quite brilliant film. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Interesting, liesurly paced dark comedy with much to satisfy the patiant viewer...","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked 'Ghost Dog', It had the feel of a movie that had been edited on a kitchen table...a true 'indie' film from begining to end...great cinematography, a cool story, and acting fairly tongue in cheek.(But slow...so very slow...)A liesurly paced film with lots of haunting shots of urban squallar...at the center of it, is the haunting prescence of Ghostdog, a young black man lost in the ideas of the ancient text of the samurai. Truly he is a minority, lost in the deep thoughts of his beliefs while the world seems to be caving in around him. He is a hired hit man for a set of geriatric gangsters who seem to be living in there former glory. These fellows are far from GODFATHER menacing,frankley, they're sad. (All the posturing and escentuated accents are done for laughs)For some reason, Ghostdog gets on their badsides. And before you can say 'GET 'EM VINNEY' they put a hit on the hit man.Which leads the shadowy quasi-samarai guy to seek them out before they find him. Of coarse to help soften the tone set by Ghostdog's brooding melancholy, you have moments of trippy humour that you can only find in films like this.(Like an old Italian mobster rapping with FlavaFlav, or Ghostdog's relationship with a kindhearted hatian vendor who only speaks french...)On the one side, this movie was great; I felt personally that the pacing could've been worked on, and I would've enjoyed even a hint more of why Ghostdog evolved into the mass of self thought he had become. A lot of unanswered questions, and really slow pacing had me shifting uncomfortably in my seat.The resolution was fairly weak, but the very end where 'a passing of knowledge' occurs was very cool, and hopeful... The acting was uneven, but the moments that occur within the darkness and light of this film make up for most of it's flaws. Just make sure you watch it with a pot of good java handy...7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Cool Movie, leisurly paced and thoughtful...","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked GhostDOG, it looked like it was edited in a garage in Detroit. It has a beautiful, gritty texture to it that is enhanced very much by the music and the melancholic performance by Forrest Whittiker.The story about a hired hitman who lives by the code of the samurai is at times deeply profound, incredibly slow and just flat out silly. I found myself squirming at certain characters presented in the film, but realized that the main thought is people disconnected with the present and living in the past. Both GHOSTDOG and a group a seedy, geriatric Italian gangsters are simply out of time, out of place. With GHOSTDOG, this is in his overall demeanor...still trapped in the cold realties of urban sprawl, his depth of thought planely makes him the minority of the minority. While with the gangsters, their time as hoods of the streets has passed; all the real profit is made  by corporations, whom are a bit more intimidating than a bunch of cartoon watching, posturing old men.The plot is simple, we are introduced to GHOSTDOG, that thoughtful mass of inward thought, then the gangsters. A misunderstanding occurs that has the gangsters after GHOSTDOG, which leads to an inevitable conclusion...At times very funny, very profound, and as paced by the underrated Mr. Jim Jarmusch, as slow as all heck. Ghostdog is a quiet, thought provoking little gem ...a true garage film of the high order.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Messiah of filmakers","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw Ghost Dog first, then I saw a double feature with Dead Man followed by Ghost Dog. I cannot for the life of me decide which is more brilliant. The former is a fantastic satirization of innercity America -- a post-gangster movie with an excitingly eccentric cast of characters, each with their own bizarre personalities, woven together in a mesh of night shots of a decaying urban hell, animated cartoons, purposely nauseating occasionally insightful Samurai ethic, and messenger pigeons that relay the absurdity of the whole experience to the characters in the movie, and to the audience. The movie matures upon each viewing and lingers indefinitely in the mind. The tip of each character's iceberg is sufficiently placed to make one wonder forever about what lies underneath. Viewed after Dead Man it positively boggles the mind and rearranges your neurons both movies almost identical in theme, mood and tone, but could never be more different on the face of it. I don't have the nergy or articulation to convey this just go see them. This man is up there with Sayles, Truffaut and Greenaway he makes movies that spawn generations. 10/10 "},{"Title":"I still want some more","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to confess, it was the first Jarmusch movie I've ever seen. My uncle in Iran always told me about Jarmusch, but I never had the opportunity and the brain of watching a Jarmusch movie. After I saw Ghost Dog, I felt like I never did before. It was a complete new movie experience for me. I wasn't getting if the movie was all joke, or dead serious. I was like, damn what in gods name did happen. After the second time I knew that Jarmusch is brilliant, and I started to get everything from him, knowledge, movies everything. After I saw Dead Man, I understood Ghost Dog even better.You can't describe the plot, I at least can't give a review, but it's the most amazing, fascinating and brilliant movie I've ever seen, next to Dead Man. You may not share my feelings, but anyway, I don't care.  "},{"Title":"woof woof, jarmusch","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ghost dog as entertainment stands up and engages as art too.  jarmusch is in control and knows his business.randomly i didn't think much of the quotes.  de bankole was immensely charming.  i love wu and hip hop.  neat camera work.  all the action of the film seems ridiculously unnecessary - i can't shake how little of the plot is served.  plus, whitaker deserves more star role.a nice film.  thanks for reading. "}{"Title":"This is one of the strangest yet the best movies I've ever seen, and that's quite a lot!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For starters, a movie including Forest Whitaker in the cast, just had to be excellent. And... Yes it was. It's dark, it's  weird and the atmosphere throughout the entire movie is great.The soundtrack (from RZA) really ads up to the feeling of it all and makes it even better.So, what about the story? The whole plot is just fine. Some old-time-wannabe-mobsters run their own personal show/war. Ghost Dog (Whitaker) is the retainer of one of them. His whole life is based upon the wisdom of the excellent book Hagakure (go buy!). He lives according to the ancient ways of the samurai and he does a good job doing so.Well. There's not many special FX or anything but that's nothing negative. This film just doesn't need any. It's brilliant. Jim Jarmush isn't exactly a favourite of mine, but oh my God, he did it. This film has stayed on top of my all time favourites ever since...It's quite hard to pinpoint what's so good about this film, but one thing I can say is that if you want something apart from huge explosions, sobby drama or college-comedy, this is the movie. It's like nothing you've ever seen "},{"Title":"magical meandering tale","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again, Jim Jarmusch manages to pull together an unlikely cast of characters into a beautiful meandering narrative. His marriage of Eastern texts (actually onscreen), western animation (on televisions), lush visuals and trademark subtle wackiness, is a pleasure to watch from beginning to end. Forest Whitaker is unassumingly brilliant as the titular Ghost Dog, and the supporting cast are all extremely strong (with special mentions going to Isaach de Bankole as his french-speaking ice-cream vendor friend, and also young Camille Winbush who shines). The cinematography is never short of brilliant by regular Jarmusch collaborator (and longtime Wenders collaborator) Robby Muller and the atmospheric soundtrack by Wu-Tang's RZA adds to the eloquent eerie tone. Jim Jarmusch is one of the true maverick filmmakers still out there (one of my absolute favourites) and this film proves his ability to say a lot very simply. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The best blending of genres ever made.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have never seen a movie that could be shelved in almost any category at the local video store. The film had drama, comedy, martial arts, action, and on top of all that it managed to find a common ground between Oriental culture, hip-hop/inner city culture, and a mob story. The soundtrack which runs the length of the movie is uniquely similar to the movie itself, it blends all the things I mentioned in the movie description and ties them to a haunting yet soothing beat. It is loaded with great gags that can be picked up with a watchful eye but not too hidden. This movie should have been up for Academy Awards the past year but wasn't, my guess is because the one thing it lacked, it wasn't British enough for the Academy who rarely looks past their self-absorbed British heritage. In the eyes of many well-known critics this was a 4-star film so I know I am not alone.  "},{"Title":"Jarmusch continues to set the standard...","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch continues to set the standard for originality in the world of independent filmmaking.  This time blending Samurai, Gangsta, and Mafioso ethos into a whirlwind of unexpected humor, thick moods, and exception to stereotype.  The pursuit of unique characters is typical for Jarmusch, but here he appears to have made it more intrinsically part of his objective.  The plot doesn't necessarily suffer as a result, but the viewer is required to submit to the mood of the film through welcoming the long subtle scenes, unlikely humor, didactic quotations (teetering between facetiousness and earnest advice), and unrealistic intonations of a fable.  To those who have already honestly enjoyed the multi-faceted innovation of Jim Jarmusch, this won't come as much of a surprise.  His films don't warm up to you&#133;you warm up to them, or you leave cold, irritated, and confused.  Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is perhaps even more so this way than his past films. As usual I left the theater believing wholeheartedly that Jarmusch is an alien, and wishing that more of the aliens (strategically placed amidst our society) would come forward and create independent film.  Everything from the occasionally catatonic flow to the imaginative plot line comes across as unique and refreshing.  The pretense embraced through the didactic musings is designed to get the viewer as close to the main character's page as possible (which is an esoteric perspective if not a spiritual individuality).  The idea is not that you necessarily agree with the way, but that you see where it ambiguously resides.  There are few shortcuts to thinking here, but little to be confused about once the basic objectives of the film are understood.  After this initiation, the viewer is left to ponder the significance of repetitive scenario&#133;laugh at the way stereotypes are twisted and tweaked into exceptions&#133;awe at Jarmusch's unorthodox literacy and style&#133;appreciate the versatile talents of Forest Whitaker&#133;groove to the solid soundtrack by RZA&#133;and find comfort in the simplistic profundity of the various messages as the rather predictable, yet interesting, plot unfolds.  Few Directors possess the talent, vision, and skill to pull something like this off.  And still, while it gets my recommendation, it's not for everybody (Jerry Bruckheimer and John Woo became outrageously popular filmmakers for a reason).   See it with an open (yet perceptive) mind, ear, and eye, or don't bother.  "},{"Title":"An action assassin film reaching Zen status","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not kidding, it is the Zen level of an action film, with a self-sufficient assassin, quite a few pigeons, Mafia gansters who watch cartoons on TV, and a French-speaking friendly ice cream van owner, to the crime boss daughter who reads Rashomon (Akira Kurosawa's 1950 Japanese classic), and the innocent unabashed young girl who reads a lot - the books are in the lunch box she carries around. There are rooftop conversations casually exchanged yet enlightening - almost insightful. Quirky because it's not your everyday happening. Sublime because of its philosophical approach and being so Zen about it all. Definitely entertaining. It's a thoughtful, thinking person film. What a treat for Jim Jarmusch fans - absolute delight watching Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai. And the bonus of Forest Whitaker as the cool Zen master of an assassin, working as a contracted killer for the neighborhood Mafia, is beyond cool! What a tale - a fable indeed. Jim Jarmusch's first 1984 Stranger Than Paradise is still quite a favorite. His 1995 Dead Man with Johnny Depp central to the film, and Robert Mitchum briefly appearing, is another philosophical thought provoking film. Both shot in black and white - rare filmic treats.  "},{"Title":"The surprize of the year","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I cannot believe that I almost passed this one up. I thought anything called Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai would be one of the worst films that I have ever seen, but oh how wrong I was! After a pretty slow beginning, I began to see the sad beauty in the life of Ghost Dog. After the first 15 minutes you find yourself knowing what will happen in the end (which I will not be so callous as to reveal) but yet that doesn't seem to matter for once, because you want to be along for the ride. The mobsters provide an unusual comic relief, as does the French-speaking ice cream man. I found this film to be delightful and one that I will want to see again.I give it 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A very unique movie experience","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost dog is probably in my top 5 movies of all-time.  The combination of eastern philosophy with the moody RZA soundtrack and comedic elements make this an amazing experience. I would have to say that Forest Whitaker is perfect as the assassin, and turns in one of his best performances. Anyone know when it comes out on DVD?? (seriously)  "},{"Title":"Disappointing, given Jarmusch's earlier work","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jarmusch is interesting in how much he does with very little.  But the thing about subtle filmmaking is that you run the risk of ending up with nonsense if it doesn't work out.  He has tiptoed on this line in the past (successfully, I think).  Somehow, this is the least subtle and most nonsensical film of Jarmusch's that I've seen.The gangsters were simply bad, really shallow caricatures and nothing else. Louie in particular, who we see the most of, was atrocious.  Whitaker was slightly better, but not much.In fact, upon reflection, I think the single best character in this film was the French-speaking ice cream man, and I don't speak French.  It's possible that his delivery was just as flat as everybody else's.And cripes, that scene with the hunters?  I began to seriously wonder if Jarmusch had actually done the film during that scene.  I mean, he was just beating us over the head with it.Anyway, I felt the same way about this one as I did about Three Kings, i.e. it could have been a much much better movie, and I was intrigued and depressed about the possibilities that were hinted at and then wasted. "},{"Title":"You All Missed The Point BIG TIME","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Umm, I am suprised that no one mentioned this yet, but this was a remake/homage to a GREAT french film called Le Samurai by Jean-Pierre Melville from 1967.  You must see this movie at some point, but it might be a little hard since it has never been officially released in the States. I loved Ghost Dog, and thought it was great to see how Jarmusch modernized such things as Ghost Dog's electronic key cracker for cars, but all and all I thought Ghost Dog missed the most beautiful point of Le Samurai.  And that would be the atmosphere Melville created.  Le Samurai used very little dialogue, and the atmosphere he produced was beautifully simple.  I thought this was lost in Ghost Dog, and left wondering if this meant a commercial direction for Jarmusch.  I mean, after what he accomplished in Stanger Than Paradise, I thought Jarmusch would have been a perfect director to pay homage to Le Samurai.  Nevertheless, I still enjoyed the movie, the humor is great, and Forrest Whitaker was amazing. "},{"Title":"Great Black Humor","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch is a quirky, idiosyncratic American independent filmmaker with strong ties to Europe. His films, such as DOWN BY LAW and NIGHT ON EARTH feature European actors in key roles. JarmuschÕs popular following on this side of the Atlantic seems to be larger than in North America, where he is mostly regarded as a cult figure.JarmuschÕs newest film GHOST DOG THE WAY OF THE SAMURAI, featured at the 1999 Cannes Film Festival, is an intriguing variation on the well-worn crime drama genre. It is stylishly filmed, moody, existential, and punctuated with howlingly funny moments of gallows humor.The hitman-samurai association is not all that tangential. In feudal Japan, samurais sometimes carried out assassinations at the behest of their masters. The association was not lost on French filmmaker Jean-Pierre Melville when he created the film LE SAMOURAI, in which Alain Delon played a lone hitman betrayed by his employers and fighting for survival. JarmuschÕs film was certainly influenced by it. Something GHOST DOG shares with MelvilleÕs film is the captured essence of the loneliness of the hired assassin, someone marginalized by working in a dirty, unenviable profession and incapable of forming normal, full-bodied relationships with people.Forest WhitakerÕs Ghost Dog is a poignant, tragic figure - a lone, introverted, doomed young man. Saved from death at the hands of armed white assailants by Louie (John Tormey), a low-level mafia figure, Ghost Dog figures that he owes Louie his life, and so becomes an executioner, carrying out mob hits as per LouieÕs commands, and remaining almost perfectly untraceable as he communicates by carrier pigeons, which he breeds. His eyelids droop over eyes that are hopelessly Òsanpaku,Ó or with pupils raised so one can see the white beneath them - the Japanese believe this signifies a potentially self-destructive spiritual imbalance.He finds validity in his way of life through following the Hagakure, or the Way of the Samurai, which he reads passages from throughout the film, excerpts which are given as intertitles between scenes. This spiritually rich philosophy, which has many points of intersection with Existentialism, contrasts well with the relative hollowness of Ghost DogÕs life.One day, he completes a hit in the presence of Louise, the pampered daughter of a stone-faced mob boss Vargo (Henry Silva). Even though he let Louise live, his employers, who up till then have remained anonymous to him, turn against him and seek to rub him out.His only ÒfriendÓ is Raymond, a lively Haitian ice cream man who speaks and understands only French, played by Isaach de BankolZ, who played the Paris taxi driver in JarmuschÕs NIGHT ON EARTH. Ghost Dog starts to form a new friendship with Pearline (Camille Winbush), a curious little girl who approaches him in the park. They talk about books, and he gives her a copy of ÒRashomon,Ó which he took from Louise. Their rapport, and especially PearlineÕs behavior at the end of the film recall Luc BessonÕs THE PROFESSIONAL a.k.a. LEON. Indeed, there are quite a few film quotes, but then being an avid movie buff is a Jarmusch trademark.As with JarmuschÕs previous feature DEAD MAN, there is some oblique social commentary on race relations in GHOST DOG, and indeed Jarmusch takes to demolishing a couple of racial stereotypes, but this takes a back seat to the character study and the moments of truly hilarious off-beat black humor which pepper the film.  The stylistic elements are sound the somber cinematography is by master cameraman Robby MYller and the refreshingly low-key, understated hip-hop score is by RZA, one of the members of Wu-Tang Clan.The humor is the filmÕs most valuable commodity, and apart from the its transcendence of the gangster genre, is the best reason to go and see it. It enriches the film and makes it entirely satisfying by providing a counterpoint to its darker concerns. "}{"Title":"what a cool film","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie about a week ago and it is now my all time favorite indie film.  It was great.  It has this awesome story and it is possibly the best directed indie film i have ever seen.  Whitaker is awesome in this film.  It is such a novel idea, but it makes perfect sense at the same time.  It's not one of those films that strives too hard to be original and ends up just confusing and retarded.I loved it, but you should form your own opinion. "},{"Title":"Ancient Samurai ethics in a modern world.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the movie about 2 weeks ago, and still marvel at the experience.  The cinematography, Soundtrack, story and, (dare I say it), the symbolism of some scenes still haunt me.  It's not a movie for everyone.  Within the movie is the assumption that the viewer understands a little of Japanese culture and Jarmusches style of storytelling.  If you are a fan of either, you will feel your money was well spent to watch this film.  If a fan of both Japanese culture and Jarmusche films, you will wonder why the theater did not charge more.   "},{"Title":"I just love it!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie! The way Jarmush plays with genres is just SO fun to watch. Who cares if it don't make sense!!! I have to say that I didn't expect much of this movie. Crossing samurai with mafia just didn't sound right to me. They both have different rules and codes and all that.... but hey, let that just be what the movie is kinda about. I liked how Jarmush tries to let the audience see this by using the book 'Rashomon' (everybody sees things his own way).There were 2 surprises for me. I thought it was going to be an ode to the Japanese samurai movies but instead Jarmush used a lot of the Japanese gangstermovies. In particularly from director Susuki Seijun. He even remade a scene from one of Seijun's movies 'Branded to Kill'. I LOVED IT! The other surprise was the rap soundtrack by RZA which you think would be out of place but it's not. It actually adds to the fun of this movie.The movie doesn't stop with the Japanese and Italian mob influences; it also has one little kung-fu scene and a little western scene at the end. So if you want to see a genre-cocktail than don't hesitate and see 'Ghost Dog'. Funny as hell!!!     "},{"Title":"What's the point?","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I tried hard to enjoy this movie. In many, many different ways. I tried to appreciate its humour and, yes, there were funny moments, about every ten minutes or so. I tried to watch it as a thriller but it's pretty much obvious how each scene will turn out, and the ending is completely predetermined, so I never felt the thrill of suspense. I tried to get swept away by the filmography, which was nice, but incredibly repetitive. I tried to ponder its philosophical implications, but I saw nothing deep, just eccentric isolated people making brief connections. And appreciating each other's uniqueness, which is nice. I tried to be moved by the implications that I was seeing the fall of two once-glorious cultures, but I wasn't there was no hint that the mafiosos had ever been anything but a bunch of old-age pensioners with guns, and the samurai culture doesn't seem to die out at all.What was I supposed to be appreciating?  "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog loses his way.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog tries very hard to be an artsy action movie with a compelling soundtrack.  Sadly, it meanders through too long with little point, and subjects filmgoers to at least 4 gruelling musical driving scenes where the main character steals a car and wanders the town to hip-hop music. There isn't a lot here other than fluff, and in the scenes where the director tries to get artsy with the camera work (a samuari sword sequence on top of a building comes to mind) it just falls flat and looks silly.This is not an awful movie, but unless you really have a strong reason to see it, I'd suggest staying away. "},{"Title":"Comedy? Philosophy? Gangster Trip?","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Forest Whitaker gives an almost effortless performance here, as he seems to do quite often, embodying Ghost Dog -- the inner-city samurai -- with such resolve and matter-of-factness that the film, which could easily have been taken as a parody otherwise, considering the numerous outstanding comedic situations that occur in this otherwise dramatic film, allows you to believe its scenario from the get-go. I found myself given over to Ghost Dog's world from the opening scenes, and although Jarmusch never lets us know too much about our protagonist, I got the feeling I learned all I needed to know about him, all the important parts. The film dips from reality to comedy to flat-out surreality at points, but despite the bizarre changes in tone, the simple and effective plot propel us through scene after simple scene -- some oddly honest, some outright psychotic, but none of them ever overwhelming or unreal. For some reason, this is a film that never asks you to believe that it's in any way real, and so we never think to question it. Simple, effective storytelling from a man who knows his subjects well enough to make us think we do, too. "},{"Title":"Another great film from Jarmusch...","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've only seen two Jim Jarmusch films, previously Dead Man, and now Ghost Dog. It's a fairly slow paced film, but nice and easy to watch. The best part of it are the characters, all of whom are strange but believable. Everyone connects together, + there are fun parts throughtout which will amuse- Italian mobster singing along to Public Enemy; Ghost Dog's best friend speaks only French, he only speaks English, etc. The combination of Samuri values with loner hitman is an interesting one, and the soundtrack by RZA adds to this. Well worth a look.   "},{"Title":"More style than content.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a big Jim Jarmusch fan I am quite sad to say, that Ghost Dog is the worst Jarmusch movie since his debut, Permanent Vacation (which, out of all his movies, pays most resemblance to Ghost Dog). Stylistically there's nothing wrong with the film; the cinematography is beautiful and The RZA's hip hop score fits the movie perfectly. The usual Jarmusch themes of alienation and chance encounters are explored, although in somewhat flat and uninspired way. But even that does not fully explain, why I have such mixed feelings towards the film.       Although the characters portrayed in Jarmusch's films are usually more than a little eccentric, there still is certain universality to them, making the viewer able to relate with these strange people. This is not the case with Ghost Dog. Ghost Dog, the main character, is so far off this plane, that his actions and words left me cold, and I didn't care what happened to him (as I cared about the main characters of Down By Law and Dead Man, for example). This is by no means Forest Whitaker's fault; he carries out his role perfectly, but this role was written so that there's no way to relate to his character (the only exceptions are his scenes with the French-speaking ice-cream salesman). One can argue that this is a deliberate choice made by Jarmusch, but that doesn't make the film any better. Jarmusch's goal seems to have been to make a stylish crossbreed of a samurai film and a gangster film. In this he succeeds perfectly, but by making the protagonist a stone-cold hitman who follows the samurai ethos, he makes it impossible to understand him or to have any sympathy for him (unless the viewer himself is a samurai hitman). So in the end of the film I was left feeling just as uncaring as the character of Ghost Dog felt.Perhaps one of the reasons for my disappointment is that I'm beginning to grow tired of these lonely outsiders Jarmusch constantly displays (although he's great at doing it). I think his next film shouldn't be less like Ghost Dog and Permanent Vacation, and more like Down by Law and Night on Earth. In those two films he explored the full scale of emotions, from alienation and loneliness to friendship and love. In Ghost Dog we have only the former two.        "},{"Title":"COOL PIGEONS","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I finally caught up with a Jarmusch film, and it was worth the wait. Yes the film is a little too cool for it's own good, and there are knowing references to many previous films. However, this is a laid-back delight, with Whittaker perfect in the anchor role. "},{"Title":"No dog this one...","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The way of the Samurai is one of immediacyApart from having read the brief synopsis, I walked into this film not really knowing what to expect . Neither had I seen any of Jarmusch's other quite prominent films - Down by Law, Mystery Train, Night on Earth and Dead Man. And yet I left feeling I had witnessed a film which had found a rare blend between action, comedy, drama and the provocation of some deep philosophical stirrings about life and how to live it nobly.Through the great camera work of Robbie Muller, we are introduced to a bleak urban landscape that could be anywhere (but which turns out to be New York), and the even bleaker folk who inhabit it. Making his way through this is Ghost Dog (Whitaker), a modern Samurai, living by the ancient ways in a world that has forgotten such. Working as a 'casual' hitman for Louie (Tormey), he suddenly finds himself at the other end of twisted mafia logic and honour when he rubs out one of the small town mafiosa (at the request of other members of 'la famiglia') and thus must be similarly rubbed out. As they systematically attempt to destroy his code of life, he reacts strictly in accordance with Hagakure, or The Way of the Samurai.Whitaker is a strong presence in the film as the dark knight and street wise hitman and yet somehow ancient avenger. The dexterity with which he performs various samurai action and technique is excellent and it is refreshing to have a 'non-action hero' actor playing this role as he also brings depth and humanity to the character. Gorman and Tormey are both convincing as the 'old school' mafiosa who are clinging to the vestiges of what they perceive their own code to be, in an environment where their kind are on the verge of extinction. De Bankole as the french speaking illegal immigrant (and Ghost Dog's best friend), Raymond, is fun and the youngest of the cast, Camille Winbush also does well in the role of Pearline, the potential 'young apprentice' for Ghost Dog.Jarmusch has done a smooth job with the writing. His use of two other languages (and the accompanying subtitles) is an interesting device to highlight the nature of communication across worlds, the chunks of text taken from The Way of the Samurai and reference to cartoons such as 'Felix the Cat' and 'Betty Boop' act as nice sign posts for the forthcoming sequences of action, and the humour that ocassionally bubbles up in certain scenes offsets the easy violence that permeates others.Probably the only real hole in the movie is the lack of explanation as to how Ghost Dog became the modern urban samurai that he is...although maybe it is better left as a mystery?All in all, a film that most should find interesting, amusing and with a nice twist of samurai philosophy by which to live life. "}{"Title":"In a single word, pretentious.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a film that takes itself far too seriously. While I am sure some critics will rave about the artistic merits of this film it was very difficult to sit through the entire thing. If you like extensive monologues of Japanese philosophy, excruciatingly long shots of pigeons in flight with hip hop background music or even more excruciatingly long shots of Forrest Whitaker's face then this is the movie for you. This movie is in love with it's own heavy handed symbolism while there are holes in the plot big enough to drive a truck through. In one scene we have Ghost Dog using a laser sighted pistol to shoot up from the basement through a bathroom sink drain to do in his victim. Whoever wrote this has never looked under a sink. In another scene we have a female Highway Patrol trooper walking around to the passenger's window of a car and standing face on in the window as if posing for a mug shot and then getting blown away by the passenger. That one will have law enforcement officers everywhere laughing at the writer's lack of knowledge of common police procedures. This is an action movie with no action. Please save your money on this one. "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog!!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the better movies I've seen in a long time. Combining beautiful action sequences, (Specifically Ghost Dog practising his art) odd but believable relationships, and brilliant humor (Check the mafioso scene where they discuss the meaning of the name Ghost Dog) are blended together with Japanese Mysticism and a hardcore soundtrack.One of the Wu-Tang clan even cameos. Ghost Dog is incredible! "},{"Title":"Stylized Vacuity","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Too much plot for a Jarmusch film, too little for a Mafioso comedy, in other words, a commercial compromise (in other words, the theme of the Nineties and, so far, of the New Millennium) .With Jarmusch it's not where you're going, but the getting there. He is a stylist. His is an infinite patience, the enjoyment of nothing happening, the cosmic wait for the axe to drop. At least the samurai Zen orientalism here is somewhat in keeping with his own idiosyncratic trademark underbelly underdog perspective (which seems to have been fully exhausted by Mystery Train). I defer to fans of the Asian genre, to which this is supposedly an homage. (The only Samurai I'm familiar with are Kurosawa's.)The film relies entirely too much on text, is broken into chapters by didactic quotes from some kind of samurai manual, in fact ending up hardly more than a fleshing out of that text's comic-book superhero ethos of iron-willed discipline, Spartan self-denial, fearlessness, detachment, and acceptance of fate/death, you know, a sort of How to Win Friends and Influence People for impotent outcasts with warrior fantasies.And that's not the only embellishment peripheral to the film. As in Run Lola Run, cartoons on various TV's parallel and comment on the action of the film. These kind of cute self-referential quotations are becoming all too common in product aimed at the twenty-nothing crowd, apparently substituting pop for a real cultural frame of reference, everything cutesy-wutesy tongue-in-cheek, too clever by far (nudge nudge wink wink).The Italian hoods themselves are cartoons, merely cookie-cutter movie fluff. Even Ghost Dog, as gentle giant and rooftop pigeon fancier, is too much like Brando in On the Waterfront. To top it off, rap lyrics garnish the garnish. (Is there really anything here but garnish?)The plot devolves to the most routine hackneyed one-against-all revenge formula; but our melancholy warrior, an emotional Johnny One-Note, vanquishes his enemies with almost a third of the film left to go. It runs out of gas long before it ends.All that's left to enjoy are the sideline incidentals scattered along the way Jarmusch's offbeat sense of timing, still somewhat intact, if battered, from which spring little moments, small details, which are the film's only charm. Without the ice cream vendor, the little girl, the bored sad-eyed vamp, the Cadillac too big for its garage, etc. there would be nothing, absolutely nothing. "},{"Title":"Old Dog and New Tricks","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch's films such as Night on Earth and Stranger Than Paradise are pondering and reflective.  Given a chance to do a film that smells with non-stop action, Ghost Dog, The Way of the Samurai, what would Jarmusch do? Why, make a film that is pondering and reflective.  For it seems the story is not as important as the technique of presenting it and the quirky humor that runs throughout.  In Ghost Dog, there are repetitious references (flying pigeons, the Japanese book, 'Rashomon'), phase in and out camera work (especially the car theft scene or when Ghost Dog is performing his sword ritual), and a central focus on philosophy rather than characters (having a samurai manual read out loud at different times in the film).  The humor is distinctly sly and out-of-place that makes you laugh, but not out loud - a young girl has four books in her lunch box, three respectful and one titled 'Night Nurse' that she keeps only because of the salacious cover, a redneck hunter with a camouflage face shows a recently killed bear to Ghost Dog and says he doesn't favor 'colored people', a racist mobster sings rap music, and Ghost Dog's best friend speaks only French and yet their dialogue mirrors exactly what the other has just said. But the success of this film lies in the perfectly clear analogy between the self-sacrifice one gives to a mob family and the self-sacrifice one gives to a samurai oath.  Simply the loyalty to duty that both demand.  It is not by accident that 'Ghost Dog' remarks to his retainer/nemesis, Louie that they are both of an extinct breed.   Forest Whitaker's portrayal of Ghost Dog fits perfectly with what Jarmusch had in mind - a talented unemotional loner who sees a complicated world as purely black and white.  Add Ghost Dog to Jim Jarmusch's noted repertoire of films making sense from seemingly nonsense.  "},{"Title":"Something about human inside","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm happy, because ghost dog maked me think about me; not too many films make you think about you, ghost dog does it! The black man lives all inside himself, and the samurai is the coat for a deeper spiritual body, where no one can go, the spirit. I've followed the ghost dog spiritual research throughout all the film, and at the end, when he finds the death, I've found something more about myself, viva Jarmusch! "},{"Title":"best modern movie i have seen in my entire life","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  yall need to check out this amazing, well acted, well written and well directed movie. you know that a movie is special when it fills you with such emotion and makes you truly care about its characters and thats what Ghost Dog does. it is a true masterpiece and im glad the critics are at least sort of seeing it that way. RZA's soundtrack fits the movie perfectly, and sets the mood in some of the films most crucial scenes perfectly. i would recommend this to anyone but especially those of you who arent afraid to let a movie do what its made to do make you feel.Ghost Dog gets full marks / 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Slow but fun","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch's sense of humor is both wicked and gentle. He is also slippery. Just when you think he is going in an implausible direction, it is more likely to turn out that he is not. For example, is that an out of character anti-gun message at the end? No, just a friend making sure his friend doesn't get killed. (Ghost Dog always knows what's about to happen; we don't.) This movie is more deadly serious than Jarmusch's others, but it is still funny in places. Forest Whitaker, in the title role, is excellent as usual. (See him also in 'The Crying Game' and 'Bird'.) His character here is deliberately cipher-ish, but Whitaker is watch-able whatever he does. "},{"Title":"Forest Whitaker Rules!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A rare movie. While not filled with action as most would expect, what it is filled with are poignant, subtle moments as this ethereal warrior observes the world around him. It's laced with humor throughout, and gives the film a very tragi-comedy tone. Not for everyone, but it will probably become a cult classic. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, as the best thought provoking stories should be.","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jarmusch continues to shine. Whitaker is splendid. The rest of the ensemble create a believable pastiche of society. Script, photography, music and editing combine with the acting to make this one of the best films that I've seen in quite a while.A mystic warrior wrapped in the enigma of his own ethos. Ghost Dog is an intelligent and introspective man in a profession (hitman) outside the norms of society.  Ghost Dog's acceptance as master of a minor player in a dysfunctional organized crime family has defined his adult life which is a tragic reflection of today's out of control brutality. His loyalty to his master is the result of an accidental situation that changes his life. Clearly a better human being than the dregs of organized crime by whom he is employed he rationalizes his convoluted ethical sense with the code of Bushido (Samurai) as documented by the Hagakure (200+ year old written explanation of Bushido). His relationships outside of his profession are limited to a flock of pigeons, a prepubescent girl with whom he shares reading material and a Haitian mobile ice cream vendor with whom he has no shared language, these are true hearts bound to each other by a shimmering spirit created by the actors and Jarmusch.Ghost Dog controls his destiny and lives by his code up to his ultimate fate, a disturbing but believable finish. This film will stay with me for a long time.  "},{"Title":"Very Good, but not Jarmusch's best","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is a very well-made film. For most directors, it would be their best work, but given Jarmusch's past endeavors, this one falls a bit short- the movie as a whole drags on a bit too long, many scenes are predictable, and he probably could have picked better passages from the Teachings of the Samurai to correlate to the story. Overall, though, it is definitely worth checking out! "}{"Title":"Jarmusch does it again, with a profound debt to Whitaker.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This would have been a perfect 10 for me had not so much (one-fourth to one-third?) of the otherwise very contemporary, very appropriate score been so rattled with vocal rap (non-)music.  Whitaker is outstanding as the retainer killer who has integrity and lives by a code of honor.  He reminded me a little bit of Nick Nolte as a similar protagonist in Who Will Stop the Rain?  The supporting cast is excellent, especially Cliff Gorman, Ray the ice cream man, and the little girl.  The photography bristles throughout, and particularly when Whitaker practices samurai moves on the roof, at once and back and forth weaponless, armed with the longsword, and then another instrument.   One can ask in every film whether Jarmusch is successful, but he is always interesting.  He is both here. "},{"Title":"Any fan of Jim Jarmusch will love this movie.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a hard-core fan of Jim Jarmusch, I was excited to see Ghost Dog. My anticipation payed off for me, even though the eight bucks was highway robbery. Ghost Dog is an urban thriller crossed with dark comedy. If you are not familiar with Jarmusch's work, you might find this movie slow paced. When in reality I found it to be his quickest film yet. His writing stays the same though. Forest Whitaker plays the hero. His character is a cross between New Jersey Drive and Ran. He can steal cars and juggle a sword. What makes this movie, like all of Jarmusch's movies, is the writing. Perfect characters, and perfect dialog, make this movie a must see. "},{"Title":"Jim Jarmusch's Postmodern Professional","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't think Ghost Dog could succeed as a studio movie, because you're not really going to LOVE it right after it's over unless you're looking really deeply.  However, it does stay with you long after its closing. What I found most interesting is the pace of the film- we are talking about a well-constructed plot with momentum and suspense, and PLENTY of visceral violence.  However, the pace of the movie is nearly lethargic, with the fade-outs after every scene (Sixth Sense also used this well.) Jarmusch does an incredible job of putting us in the soul of his protagonist without ever knowing (sabiendo) his personal history or motivations (we know him about as well as the other characters can.)Whitaker is a wonder to behold here- he is casually lethal, lighting-quick instincts within a hulking, slow form, in no way seemingly heroic yet all honor.  I hate most hip-hop, but the music of the RZA (pigeons and sword-fighting tunes the best) was perfect for his character. I happened to like Louie's character and the Haitian ice-cream man they respect Ghost Dog for his devotion though their ways differ.It's hard to say I loved this film, because its pace is so slow. Ghost Dog is not a roller-coaster it is a succession of well-crafted moments such as the Latino, the Haitian, and the hitman marveling at the boat on the roof, wonder and admiration filling in for language.  Its ending is very satisfying in bringing the girl into Ghost Dog's ways, while Louie is finally the only one left standing, with nowhere to go but into his hitman's favorite story.I mention the Professional for the parallel of the young girl learning the ways of the reticent hitman, who learns to open himself to her.  I thought about the differences in Jarmusch's and Besson's visions of the city (supposedly NY?) where Besson sees seething corruption, Jarmusch sees random, pathetic violence.  Both see a certain self-destructiveness in the city, but Besson was far too modernist, simplistic, and tragic about it (solution get out to Roosevelt Island and save yourself!).  Jarmusch also sees death in the city, the death of beauty, codes, and honor, as lamented by the RZA in the opening song.  However, he complements this, as only HE does, with a real postmodern joy in the lack of universal/hegemonic truths, codes, and language.  The mishmash of the American city holds as much potential as it does disillusionment.  It is after all the only place where a story of an African-American samurai of the Italian Mafia can find a home. Be like Ghost Dog have patience with this film, reflect, and remember always see everything.  Not a masterpiece, but one for the books. "},{"Title":"Jim Jarmusch inches toward the mainstream","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading reviews of this movie, I expected a really weird movie.  I took my 17 year old son to see it and neither of us thought it was weird. There were some oddities, not the least was Ghost Dog's friendship with the Haitian ice cream salesman, but all-in-all the movie made a whole lot of sense.  It is the best thing that Forest Whitaker has done since The Crying Game and a thoroughly enjoyable and entertaining movie.  Lots of violence but none was inappropriate to the theme of the movie.  It is a shame that this picture has been relegated to the art house circuit. With some high powered studio advertising it should be a success in general release. "},{"Title":"Overlong and unconvincing","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The image of Forest Whitaker as a modern-day samurai warrior made me laugh out loud when I saw the trailer, and the movie itself proved to be just as unintentionally funny.  Granted, the film never really even tries to simulate reality (we're dealing with a world in which license plates say The Industrial State instead of revealing the obvious New York setting, and in which someone can take five bullets in the chest and keep on walking), but seeing that big, sleepy-looking black guy practicing with a katana just totally locked me out of the movie and whatever point it tried to make.  The stereotypical Mafia guys aren't much better either, though it is interesting that they always seem to be watching cartoons.  But the worst thing about Ghost Dog is its length.  The film could very easily have ended with the 'bear hunter' scene, and everyone would have been happy; I'd actually be saying good things about it right now if they had stopped it there.  But Jarmusch stretches it out for about another half hour with a bunch of scenes that either mean nothing at all or unsatisfactorily resolve the many subplots.  Much of the movie is also made up of just long shots of Whitaker walking with his briefcase, driving and looking like he's about to fall asleep at the wheel, or engaging in redundant bilingual conversations with a French-speaking ice cream man (an initially funny comic relief device that REALLY overstays its welcome).  I seemed to be in the minority opinion at that particular screening though; most of the audience laughed at the parts that were meant to be funny, and a burst of clapping erupted as the end credits began to roll.  Maybe if I saw Ghost Dog again I'd come to understand it a bit more, but at this point I really don't want to walk down this particular path a second time. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could be better...","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog was a pretty good movie but moved a little slow.  There were a lot of parts to it that didn't make sense, but it's a movie, so I guess it's not supposed to.  First of all, stealing a car with that little electronic device he had?  Yeah right, whatever.  And why did there just happen to be a top of the line luxury car waiting around deserted whenever he needed one. Also, what was the point of the cartoon watching?  Maybe it was supposed to be symbolic and I'm just too stupid to get it.   "},{"Title":"Haunting, profound, yet amusing","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some might call Ghost Dog slow, but I felt it was perfectly paced given the nature of the character of Ghost Dog. Forest Whitaker did an excellent job portraying a man at peace with his own death - that is, a Samurai. Although on the surface Ghost Dog might be an action movie, every second of the film was suffused with an eerie tranquility that perfectly reflects the personality of the main character. The editing and cinematography are flawless in maintaining this feeling.Ghost Dog takes many movie cliches and intersperses them with interesting and sometimes subtle symbolism. The contrast is both stark and seamless - somehow the fat mobsters and the scenes of flying birds complement each other perfectly. The cliched characters themselves were also very amusing - there was much laughter in the theater, I even missed several lines of dialog because of that.All up, I can't recommend Ghost Dog highly enough for the serious moviegoer. Jim Jarmusch can give this one a prominent place in his filmography. "},{"Title":"A modern day samurai fights to retain his way of life.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films that will restore your faith in film making. Impossible to classify, being too thoughtful for an action movie and too violent for a drama.  A delightful blend of so many genres as to make it a unique experience.  Fans of the cast and director will be rewarded, others used to music video pacing and big loud explosions might be disappointed. Why can't movies like this break box office records? "},{"Title":"Apotheosis of Jarmusch","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  More of its running time is taken up by printed text, and by the handling and discussion of paperback books, than any movie since the Maoist heyday of Jean-Luc Godard; but that's not the only influence present in Jim Jarmusch's multicultural pu-pu platter. As the hiphop samurai hit man Ghost Dog (Forrest Whitaker) makes his way through a New York that's not his own, his handling of his instruments suggests the just-departed shade of Robert Bresson. The dissolves as he walks ghostlike toward the camera hail from Sam Fuller's RUN OF THE ARROW. And when carnage comes, it's both dreamlike and spritzy, as at the climax of TAXI DRIVER.GHOST DOG has an energy and a thinking-three-things-at-once quality that's a refreshment after Jarmusch's parched, stoical, dedicatedly hipsterish last movies, especially the painful DEAD MAN. I enjoyed the way he cast the Italian mobsters--not as Scorsesean or Sopranoish slices of life, but as SUNSET BOULEVARD waxworks. (Cliff Gorman and Henry Silva, two candidates for Howard Stern's Dead or Alive? game, seem to be having the time of their lives.) And unlike DEAD MAN, GHOST DOG seems to finally integrate one of Jarmusch's weirder influences--trippy early-seventies Westerns like Peter Fonda's THE HIRED HAND. (GHOST DOG has the same blurry, melty, time-mooshing dissolves.)Jarmusch has his PC side. You may find yourself sighing when a little girl shows Ghost Dog her copy of DuBois' Souls of Black Folk. And there's a scene where some goons shoot a Native American's pigeon, prompting the line, Friggin' stupid white man! Even Oliver Stone knows better than that. But even if he's way self-conscious about it, Jarmusch achieves some interesting culture-sampling--the movie is like a politically engaged version of Walter Hill's LAST MAN STANDING. (That's meant as a compliment.) And it's certainly the liveliest thing he's put on the screen since MYSTERY TRAIN--and that was a while ago. "},{"Title":"The Poetry of War","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Soft, lyrical and deliberately paced.  Jim Jarmusch does to the action film what he did to the American Western in Dead Man takes it apart and strips it down, leaving only the bare essence.  Ghost Dog is the haiku version of the hard-boiled gangster movie.I have read several reviews that are critical of the fact that the characters are largely stereotypes or stock genre movie icons (the silent soft-spoken hit man, the two-bit hoods, fat Italian mobsters), and that the plot still retains the same generic arc used by everything from Dirty Harry to Death Wish.  But I look at it differently.  Jarmusch has approached the conventions of action movies - both of the Hollywood and foreign variety - in the same manner as the formalist constraints of Japanese Noh theater. In Noh, the plot, character, costumes and music are all rigidly controlled, each and every component rigidly delineated and isolated within its assigned space.  It is job of the Noh artist to discover and convey the greatest meaning with the most minimal of resources.  As a result, even the spaces of time between dialogue and action, when nothing is happening onstage, take on tremendous significance.  An idea echoed in one of the quotes from Hagakure used in Ghost Dog.The film is also a marvelous commentary on the action films produced within the past half-century have reflected the impact of different cultures upon one another.  The film is jammed with referential information - the films of Kurosawa, Melville, John Woo, Sergio Leone, Don Siegel, to name a few. Two scenes are taken directly from the 60s Japanese noir thriller Branded to Kill directed by Seijun Suzuki.The characters in this film are a dying breed - warriors of an old code. The gangsters - old, fat, and decrepit - falling behind on the rent for the hideout and their houses all put up for sale.  Ghost Dog is an anachronism and a cultural anomaly - a black man in a hip-hop gangsta rap world who obeys the way of the Japanese samurai.  They are living, as several charactesr put it, in a world that doesn't make sense anymore.  They have outlived their usefulness.  But, as per the rules, the mafia guys get to go out like real gangsters and even Ghost Dog gets  to have his final showdown in the street (I almost expected a tumbleweed to roll across the screen).Interesting to note that the book Hagakure, was written during the Tokugawa period, when Japan was unified under the power of a single dominant clan. With the need for local garrisons and standing armies giving away to a more regularized police force, the samurai went into decline as a class.  When Hagakure was written, it was an attempt by warriors to make sense of their lot in life, as it was becoming increasingly senseless.  "}{"Title":"Nothing but a dream!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's nothing more to say about Jim Jarmusch's films, they are all excellent, and so it is with Ghost dog. Did you understand this film? It took me some time to get along with it Didn't you ever dream to be a real hero like superman when you were admiring him in cinema or on TV? Didn't you ever want to have his powers to defend yourself against the bad thugs in your school? A maverick guy - he's poor, fat, huge, ugly, black-ghetto-boy (we're no racists, it's just a symbol for a real outsider) - is lonely and  living in a dove-s**t-area, hasn't a lot of friends and ain't loved by nobody. In the loneliness and emptiness of his life, he's reading Hagekure - the way of the samurai. During the reading his childlike fantasy is mixing up the real outside world around him with the interior of the bookworld. So the most part of this film is nothing but a fantastic dream of a little boy. There are a lot of hints for that one time he's killing somebody imaginary in a funny way like he has seen it in a cartoon (the often shown cartoons are a symbol for the childish thoughts inside this man), his sword-exercise which fits rather to Bruce Lee than to this clumsy guy. The weapons, he's using, are changed with those which he knows from the outside world, his log-cabin has a mechanic - fantastic weapon deposit like batman, and even his car-opener is  James-Bondlike. How funny if you think about it! No this book is setting the story of his dream, but the content is influenced by the outside area, in which he's living in. For example the italian mafia-clan stereotype who couldn't even pay the rent! Once he was punched in the ghetto, he wished to be saved but nobody came. Didn't you ever dream of not making that mistake you did long time ago? Or that some situations wold have ended in better way? Even when he reads about the glorious and honorful death of the samurai once he is meeting two huntsmen who killed a big fat black bear. Oh, just remember his own imaginary end when he's lying down in the same way, the black bear he is! Even his name is the name of the dog he knows from the street. The music sounds asian but is made by the afro-american Wu-Tang-clan. The only reality is a boy and a book, a boy who's living inside himself and who is not communicating with anybody but a child, a book-reading girl and a foreign guy who he doesn't understand at all. Other people surely avoid meeting or talking with him. No, it's a sad and empty world we're living in, but Jim Jarmusch tells us to read books to let our fantasy rule and thus striking the emptiness! "},{"Title":"A nearly perfect film","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"    Ghost Dog is one of the most thoughtful, profound, and well-put-together films I've seen.  It combines ideas about the disintegrating nature of the world we live in, death, honor, and fidelity to principles with humor and some of the most beautiful editing and cinematography in recent memory. Forest Whittaker, one of the most underrated actors around, is astounding in the title role of Ghost Dog, a loner who lives by his own anachronistic code of honor . . . which of course isolates him almost completely from the wretched world he finds himself trapped in. There are frequent and fascinating quotations from the book Hagakure, Code of the Samurai (as soon as I exited the theatre, I ordered the book). The Sergio Leone-like technique of lighting the actors' faces to reveal every flaw, wart and sag enhances the somber mood of the film. A feeling of the sadness of the loss of values and meaning in life illuminates every scene, and glows in Whittaker's soulful face. The cinematography manages to make Jersey City look poignantly beautiful, no small feat!   If you like your movies to give you a hell of a lot to think about, and also be flawlessly put together, Ghost Dog is a must. I plan to see it for a second time, very soon, because sadly I doubt if it will find the audience it deserves.  "},{"Title":"More Than Expected","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I did not really expect to like this film.  But I ended up walking out of the theater with a smile creeping across my lips.  This was a funny, violent interpretation of the numerous samurai movies out there, and it came off very well.  And I have to say thank you to Mr. Jarmusch, Mr. Muller, and Mr. Whitaiker for making Jersey City (clearly NOT New York City) look so 'nice' on screen.  Get the ticket, some popcorn, sit back, relax, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Tired of the same old movie?","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again Jim Jarmusch has proved to be one of America's greatest movie makers.  Time and time again his films are extremely watchable and enjoyable.  The characthers are real and alive.  The direction is perceptive and innovative.  In his last two films Dead Man and now Ghost Dog he has turned genre films on their heads and made two excellent films out of doing so.  The soundtrack is excellent.  The acting and writing are first rate.  Forest Whitaker has always been one of my favorites.  A large man who lacks the physical beauty of many leading men, but of course he can act most of them under the table. I would rather watch Forest on screen than Keanu any day of the week.  Go and see this movie.  After you are finished with that go and rent all the rest of his films because you need to know what you are missing so you can demand more out of mainstream hollywood.  How many times can you watch the ticking clock or the buddy cop drama before you vomit?  Before you declare the next Spielburg or Cameron movie to be genius take two steps back and watch a real master make a real movie.  An artist trying to bring something to the screen other than movie goers. "},{"Title":"Strangely brilliant","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know how to approach this film, the only reason I wanted to see it was because i heard the mastermind behind my favorite hip-hop group, The RZA of the Wu-Tang Clan, did the soundtrack.  But when I did finally see Ghost Dog, I absolutely loved it.It's a strange, very dark, lonely film...but great nevertheless.  Forest Whitaker gives a stunning performance as the urban Samurai.  I've watched it about 4 times already, and I would watch it 10 times more.  A wonderful movie, that I hope would get the recognition it deserves. "},{"Title":"A very nice and slow gangster/samurai/afro American movie","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie takes it's time to tell a simple story. But it does so very well. Forest Whitaker is very good as Ghost Dog,  and makes it believable that there lives a black samurai hit man on a roof top in New York. But if he's good, the gangsters and the French ice seller is too funny, in very different way. I laughed a lot several times, especially when Louie tries to explain to Sonny and Vargo, what he knows about Ghost Dog. Also funny is that every time someone watches TV there is a cartoon on.As said the movie takes it's time, and this gives Jim Jarmusch the possibility to create some fantastic images. The  cinematography is very beautiful and imaginative. If you prefer action packed movies, this is not for you, but if you like a  movie that has all the time in the world, then go and enjoy this little piece of art. (9 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Allow great concern towards the trivial things...","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  !Review contains Spoiler!Being a long time Jarmusch fan I went to the theatre with almost complete faith in the quality of this film. Jarmusch is one of the few filmmakers that have a profound creativeness that never lacks originality, freshness, charm, beauty, poetry, skill, talent etc. Having this said, I have nearly revealed what I am about to express about the latest creation of Jim Jarmusch. Ghost Dog The way of the Samurai is a very good and interesting film, very similar to the way Jim chooses to depict pieces of life, so to speak. I found it, however, to be a bit too predictable in the small scenes, the details. (Not the whole plot, as the plot was very obviously never intended to be surprising.) Jim's uniqueness and greatness lies in his vision for the importance of trivial activity, in my opinion, this greatness was present in this dramatisation, far greater than practically all of today's other cherished filmmakers, not, however, as present as I desired, when it comes to Jarmusch. The story, the theme, of this movie was very exciting, I found Ghost Dog's behaviour very mysterious and strange yet very beautiful and understandable. His deep devotion towards the ancient samurai philosophy was extraordinary as it rang very reasonable. How and why we come to submit ourselves to teachings in general was what I found this movie was trying to dig further into, very interesting, very funny indeed, and very beautiful, as always.  "},{"Title":"Visual parable","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From the first moments, the thing that got my attention was the way the camera moved and what it showed. The use of focus is spectacular, and the subject -- New York streets, rooftops and mob hang-outs -- enhances rather than diminishes the feel of the stage. The movie's story is in my opinion not to be taken word-by-word; it's a tragedy where all things balance, and the feeling you get when the lights come up cannot be described otherwise than catharsis.Every scene, every word and gesture has a symbolic meaning. Jim Jarmush has created a very, very good film "},{"Title":"quite atypical Jim Jarmush movie","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having seen several Jim Jarmush filmsover the past dozen of years, I was silghtly ( some more action oriented friends had 'warned' me about it...) surprised by Ghost Dog. It does have many of Jarmush typical bemused observation of the human being but at the same time has a hard-edged, unsentimental and at times ruthless plot, which one does not expect. My kudos with regard to that - for once the viewer's interest in  the movie is not solely reliant on the amusement and thoughtful observation of the next scene or episode ( yes those do appear to - just wait for the icecream-salesman......)The shooting and imagery _is_ very good and atmospheric, especially some motion blurs and perspective tricks used, as is the very deliberately ( IMO ) chosen decor and background. Also some slowly developing setups for scenes are simply priceless, and just seem to creep up into one's memory again and again. This is really on of the movies strengths.....As for the acting, Forest Whittaker excels as the silent, brooding and honourbound (oh, and of course fashionably black-clad, just which killer nowadays isn't ?) protagonist (and nothing less was expected of him ), who seeks his purpose and thereby perfection in his existence through devotion to a possibly outmoded system of belief and ethics, although, as far as I can judge it ( having actually read my share about Bushido and samurai ethics and believes) , his code of bushido is a much mangled, spliced together and edited version of the original. But then, we do have 'literary freedom'( which does permit mangling the facts), and it serves its cinematic purpose, especially through the visible clash between the discipline, softspoken and polite ways of samurai believes and the public image of contemporary Afro-American urban male youths.....The remainder of the cast stay pretty one-dimensional and stereotypical though - especially the mobsters fall into the oft-repeated mold of spaghetti slinging, fat, halfwit and moronic inbreeds. Gosh, what brilliantly new concept - I just don't see it fitting reality, I guess organized crime these days is much smarter, sleeker and far less in love with cartoons ! So even Jarmush is not above using old, tired clichees anymore.......... Sad ! Still, definitely worth seeing, if unbroken, heedless action is not a requirement in a movie about a professional assassin. "},{"Title":"hypnotic Whitaker, slow meditative time","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was immediately cought by this movie's imagery. Whitaker's part-drooping left eyelid (in the first part of the movie), his neutral, attentive, alert, non-aggressive face was masterly and crucial to catching and keeping my attention - together with the  great choice of music, and the elusive, slow pace of the overall action. An elusive pace which sets you going along with it, and takes you where (J.J.) wants you - out and away from the usual speed-speed-speed atmosphere. As in other masterful movies, you are brought to let yourself be involved and absorb a deeper, less conscious communication than the immediate meaning of an image or a fact. Should such meditative, pregnant atmopshere be all, I would be very grateful to J.J. already... Not all, though - however unlikely / unrealistic, I loved the encounters with the Haitian, French-only speaking best friend (so aloof their are apparently, they get no verbal communication working - still they convey the sense of an almost desperately close link to each other), and with the bright, attentive girl... I cannot put it in words what these personages, encounters & atmosphere evoke in me - still they are in my memory to stay.Only shame the movie was dubbed, some of the voices did sound so inappropriate! Why is it that we cannot escape dubbing, in Italy? "}{"Title":"The rap-loving gangster and the heartattacked one touched me deeply...","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A sort of a footnote in J.J's opus, that means it isn't part of the main work. Nevertheless, a good movie! I liked the gangster characters, who were so normal in a half-proletarian-half-philistine way, as if they lived in Berlin's Sonnenallee... Especially it were the rap-loving one and the heartattacked one who touched me deeply... The Samurai phrases were the only thing that made the difference to other Killer Movies like that, and it would have made no difference, if Jarmusch renounced it... The Shoot-out and dying scenes weren't good made. A poor seven. "},{"Title":"Easily Jim Jarmusch's best film.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An original idea, done with humor and style, and punctuated with a very intense performance by the superb Forest Whitaker. I saw it in a packed movie house in Paris, with English subtitles (except for de Bankole's dialogue), and the French audience liked it even more than I did. The mixture of Mafia, gangsta, and samurai (with more than passing mention of Indian warriors) reveals similarities you'd never think of.This one's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Everything good to stand out of the Hollywood c**p","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Really fresh, sometimes hilarious, and critic with many of today's lifestyles. It makes you think about life and death and many things of the things between. Ghost Dog must be lucky for many people because he found a way (yup, we are talking about the samurai way), and he lives with that as a leading flag that brings a reason to live for and to die for, something that many people i know miss every single day. Beautiful colors on screen and good actors makes this picture a must see. "},{"Title":"It IS a masterpiece, but not typically Jarmusch-style","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is ingenious, at every point of view. But, and this is in my opinion the only point to criticize, Jim Jarmusch has gone step too far away from making an independent movie. It's too compatible to the mainstream! "},{"Title":"Great Cars!!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nicely done, esp. the music by RZA (Where is the Soundtrack???) fits the film. I wondered if the caropener is real or fictionous?? Where can i get it?? (the cars are around, just the keys are always missing...) no, really, i liked the film, the actors are great (watch the old mafia-guys philosophy about the strange names and call in the other guys!!)and the french too (in the german sync it stays original, most visitors will understand as much as ghost dog).  "},{"Title":"a man goes his way","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is another masterpiece of Jim Jarmusch. Beginning with 'Down by law' and 'Night on earth', he always has shown people in strange situations, and how they manage it.  Here in 'Ghost Dog' a man already knows, how to go a way till its end. The plot is surprisingly close to 'Dead Man', where Johnny Depp was barging through the Wild West. The music plays again an important part of the fantastically filmed movie. Its a very uncommon movie and that is one reason, I like this movie! Last but not least, there are a lot of scenes full of black humor together with an introduction in philosophy... "},{"Title":"A movie that has something to give","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, maybe it's not better than Dead Man( that magnificent masterpiece) but someone has got a lot to learn from this movie.The Samurais,like soldiers of the ancient Greek Nemesis,behave brave and honest,an attitude that we have forgotten in our days,but we all deep in our hart are jealous.As in Dead Man death is the subject in a way.Even if we believe that when we die everything ends,we all want to die in a good way,for a higher aim.That's the biggest joy,even if it lasts 0,1 sec.I am not a movie expert.Just saying my opinion.Go on Jim, we need you. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm 19 and I'm a very big fan of movies so trust me Ghost Dog is a really good one!!! I love Forest Whitaker,in his role and I like how he moves.I think that everyone who like him must go and see this one.I'm very proud to have this movie in Europe before USA now...Bye and enjoy the movie... "},{"Title":"I'd like to add my comments about the movie -sorry, my english are not so good","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw yesterday the Jarmus film Ghost Dog and i was impressed of the way the director films his story trying to give what he thinks is right no matter how odd it would seem to the mainstream audience. That's why I want from this site to thank him because he insists all these years on a different/ unique film-style   "},{"Title":"A very clever movie","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the surprise of 1999 for me. It's so different from other Jarmusch movies, and yet it's so typical. The idea of a North-American coloured samurai is a hit in itself, and the way his character unfolds before our eyes is masterful. Forest Whitaker is a (probably the) perfect choice for the title role.The film is not without cliches, but they're rearranged in such a funny way they affect you as new. Take the kung-fu expert beggar, for example it's not new, it's not THAT funny either, but it happens so unexpectedly I nearly fell of my seat laughing. Speaking of fun and laughs, this movie's humour is among the bests I've ever seen. There are subtle, unexpected gags, and there are sequences that left me choking for breath (even for the second time).Complete with RZA's atmospheric music, the movie delivers a sense of completeness. It just couldn't have ended any better.Jarmusch has the ability to surprise the viewer anytime. This latest surprise of his is a very pleasant one, up to this moment it's my favourite movie of the past two years.  "}{"Title":"A fine reinterpretation of the Ways","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although not the most graphic of movies about Samuraïs, I think Jarmush has succeeded in what was apparently his goal capturing the spirit of the Samuraï, the real meaning of the word. Transposed in our wold, the ways can be revived by a few details, a few traits. Interpretation is grand, Whittaker being as subtle and poignant an actor as ever, in fact maybe even more than ever! His natural nonchalance here makes for a total control of his world, a total integration of all elements in his grasp of reality. He has reached perfect focus, and just follows the code. The Fx are scarce, all for the best, since the movie gains credibility from it. We have small bulletwounds, muffled gunshots from the silencers, it's a realistic Samuraï movie. Although some might find there are moments of stillness that are not needed, or unwelcome touches of humor (which, unlike many in the hip audience around me, I failed to see, seeing them instead as indications on the thought process of the characters), I think the pace is perfectly in accordance with the topic, and that here form matches essence the rhythm we see is the rhythm he lives by. This is simply a great movie, artistically and philosophically conveying the sense of life for a man who follows the Ways. "},{"Title":"Jarmush at his best","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmush makes a different kind of cinema. It's certainly not mainstream, but it's certainly not the typical art-house movie. In Ghost Dog, like in his previous movies, he borrows the clichés of genre movies (gangsta films, samurai films, mafia films) and put them in a mixer until he obtains something new. At first glance, we've seen all these characters and situations before  the silent professional killer (from Melville, Woo or Seijin Suzuki's movies), the middle-aged tired mobsters (from Scorsese's Casino and Wiseguys), the fast killings ; and yet it's surprising (and fun too), in his cool, jazzy, slow-paced way. Forest Whitaker moves, walks in Ghost Dog like nobody ever walked in a movie before him. His presence is impressive, and makes Ghost Dog not only one of most original characters created recently, but also one who is hard to forget. "},{"Title":"Hit man settles score with Italian mob via Japanese philosophy","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What happened to Jim Jarmusch on this one? Entertaining, yes, but stylistically not in his own element. Down By Law was timeless, Night on Earth poignant; but Ghost Dog is stuck in the present, pigeonholed for 1999; complete with Wu-Tang Clan's RZA providing the trip-hop soundtrack and making a cameo. The camera work and location shooting is fairly conventional, the digital kung fu effects are forgettable. If something more had been going on visually, and if the quotes from the book of the samurai had been pertinent, maybe then the film might have still had an impression to make. For laughs it's a winner, though. I saw this film in the 2500-capacity grand Lumiere theatre in Cannes, and even the French were chuckling at the subtle, understated humor of the situations and dialogue. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic.......way to waste 2 hours of your life","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Excuse my ineptitude, but its taken me a while to work out how to write a review on IMDb. First time you see. Such was my compulsion to comment on this film. Consider this more a rant than a carefully worded critique or review. I make no apologies for this.First things first - this film doesn't really deserve the 3 stars I gave it. It deserves less. But I feared that by putting any less would either have genuine review-shoppers from dismissing this review or making the presumption I only like Hollywood shoot em up's or RomComs with Jennifer Aniston.Quite honestly, either of the aforementioned categories provide a multitude of films that would have been more enjoyable than this. I blame my well-intentioned but clearly mentally challenged French neighbor who roped me into watching this almost unbelievably bad film. Whilst I remain *perplexed* at the number of 8+ star reviews and - having read some of their quite coherent views - I can respect a different opinion. I can also wholeheartedly dismiss them. Guys, I absolutely do not recognise the film those reviews claim to speak about. Whitaker was amazing etc etc - are you kidding me? You know what, i'm not even going to bother - this film has already wasted 2 hours of my evening and then some more in trying to find out how to post a review on IMDb. If you are convinced by the rest, enjoy. I cant fathom how you could, but maybe i'm just weird...All in all - utter pretentious garbage with a poor script, plot and terrible lead actor. I hated it and wish only to save some other naive souls out there who may think its worth a watch. I don't blame the French, but my mate is gonna get it in the ear next time I see him. "},{"Title":"Cool concept, poorly written","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Cool Character, Cool Actor, Cool Concept, but lets be completely honest with ourselves! Did I really like the movie? Did I really get much out of it? My answer is not really! First of all it's about a hit-man who is supposed to be like a samurai, but he's more of a samurai fanatic and a gangster style hit-man. To explain, watch it and tell me how many times he manages to engage the enemy using a sword or his fists, I can't remember any instances. Most of it is just quick draw shooting. Secondly, whats up with the verses of literature that pop up, none of it hardly made any sense! Third, most of the killings seem senseless. They don't offer a good enough reason for targeting each other, there's no depth to the plot. "},{"Title":"It really pains me to give this a 4/10","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I want to start of this review by saying that I am a big samurai/mafia movie guy. I like films like Millers Crossing, Yojimbo, The Godfather, and Seven Samurai. I am a sucker for any samurai film, so I was really excited to see that Jim Jarmusch was directing a crossover film with samurai's and mafia families. I was very disappointed, I mostly think that I didn't like it because of the mood I was in. Also, I wasn't expecting this be an action film of any kind, I really expected it to be a philosophical kind of film. While it was very philosophical at times, most of the film was very boring and very weak at times. I feel so bad for giving this movie a four out of ten, it pains me to write this review. I personally don't think I get it. Maybe I do get it and this is just a bad film. Its not a film Im very angry at, its just a movie I was expecting more out of. What disappoints me the most is that this is directed by Jim Jarmusch. I am glad to see him doing different stuff like this, and he is a great director. Jim Jarmusch is well known for films like Dead Man, Broken Flowers, Down By Law, and a great cameo on The Simpsons. The characters felt weak and I was expecting a little more at the end. Anyways, as much as it pains me to do this&#x85;. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Moody, Surprising Film With Moments of Beauty Mixed In With the Gunplay","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My first reaction to Ghost Dog in 1999 was disappointment. Given the premise of a black samurai hit-man, I was hoping for a bit more martial arts flash and sword play and a more upbeat ending.I liked Whittaker's acting just fine, but the mafia guys were annoying and some of the supporting cast left me cold. I purchased a remaindered DVD copy of it on impulse last week (in 2010) to see if my reactions to it had changed, and this time around I was much more impressed by what I saw. The movie was much quieter than I remembered. There were many moody, somber, lonely moments that somehow added to the impact of the action sequences. The gun-play was well done, and while I still didn't care for the racist guido mafia roles, I saw how they contrasted and off set the lone samurai's devotion to his boss, however banal and small that boss might actually be. (I also came to appreciate the way the actor who played Louis filled out his role this time around.)What stayed with me this time around were two moments in the film where a bird unexpectedly lands on the Ghost Dog character - once when he is lying in ambush with a sniper rifle and once again as he lays dying. Both times, Whittaker shows a brief flash of delight that somehow made up for the grim intensity and somber mood of the rest of the movie. Still not perfect, but really different and very interesting and effective. Jarmusch gets a lot of points for making a film that seems to embody a point of view in a way few mainstream directors could match. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Even if one's head were to be suddenly cut off, he should be able to do one more action with certainty. With martial valor, if one becomes like a revengeful ghost and shows great determination, though his head is cut off, he should not die. This is one of many samurai sayings that are quoted throughout the movie, Ghost Dog - Way of the Samurai. To be honest , although they all sound impressive i cant lie and say i understand them all. Some might agree with the gangster Sonny Valerio and say  What the f**k does that mean!.Never the less despite these ancient teachings this film is the most unusual Samurai based movie i have ever seen and definitely one of the most entertaining.Ghost Dog is a hit man living in an unidentified but run-down city in what license plates call The Industrialized State. Known for his gift of being able to come and go without people noticing him, Ghost Dog is a self-taught samurai who is obsessed with order and his strict personal moral code, drawn from the philosophies of the Japanese warriors. As every samurai needs a leader to whom he swears loyalty, Ghost Dog has devoted himself the service of Louie , a low-level crime boss who once saved his life. When Louie's superiors decide he must be executed, Ghost Dog leaps into action, methodically wiping out his many enemies. Take an African American hit man who loves pigeons , rap music and living the way of the Samurai , a bunch of Ageing Italian gangsters, two females and a french speaking ice cream salesman and you might be forgiven for thinking that this film is a bit muddled or confused but you would be wrong.This is a darkly funny , provocative drama that is about loyalty and living your life the way you feel it should be lived. Forest Whittaker is superb (as always) as Ghost Dog and although not the most naturally shaped Samurai he seems to pull of the role with ease. I adored the Italian gangsters too and they so reminded me of some of the characters in Goodfellas.There is a lot of reference to  Rashomon  a film i reviewed last year and because of that review i was asked to have a look at this. You couldn't get two films more different but in there own unique way they are sending the same message and that is the way of the Samurai warrior or in the words of gang boss Ray Vargo Poetry of war.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Hard to believe film from the master of US independent cinema","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Everyone knows that Jim Jarmusch is a talented director.It is really a matter of mystery that he chose to make a film about ancient Japanese culture.What is of interest is that he has chosen a black actor to play that role. Funny isn't't it ! By showing a lighter side of gangsters'life, Jarmusch wishes to highlight the importance of laughter in our daily lives. I don't know many films where pigeons have played a vital role. In Ghost dog, birds are the real stars. This is something which can put any human being to shame. Music of this film is exceptionally great. This is one of the reasons why this film is like a musical rhapsody. "},{"Title":"live by the code, die by the code","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jim Jarmusch makes some impressive movies, and Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is no exception. Forest Whitaker plays the title character, who follows an ancient code used by Japanese samurai men. He also occasionally works for a mafia syndicate. But when the mafia syndicate betrays him, he has to take action, all the while abiding by the rules laid out in the code.I liked how the movie laid everything out. Never using gratuitous violence, they show how Ghost Dog changes through his experiences, and has to reassess his loyalty. I will admit that some scenes were probably there for comic relief - namely the dialog during the meetings with the Haitian ice cream man - but I liked how the movie contrasted the rules of the samurai code with the violent world of the mafia syndicate. It was sort of like Kill Bill in that regard, but better (Kill Bill - while really good - was more about visuals and revenge).So, this is certainly a movie that I recommend. Once again, Jim Jarmusch shows himself to be a very competent director.Yes, both sides have some funny names. "}{"Title":"A cool and unique movie","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog is very interesting take on what a modern samurai would be like in this modern age where the underground is ruled by the maffia. It's about a samurai influenced hit-man who does hits for the Italian mob, when a mission goes wrong the Italian mob goes after him, but they find Ghost Dog a very difficult target...The acting is very good in this movie, Forrest Whittaker plays the part of Ghost Dog very good, the way he acts it's as if he was a very psychotic man, disturbed but filled with honor at the same time, especially towards his master. The big three mob bosses are kind of...I don't know, wicked, unrealistic. But still good, still cool characters. John Tormey's character Louie was awesome in my opinion, he wasn't good nor was he evil, he was absolutely in that gray area in between, which is very accurate unlike many other deciptions of mobsters in other movies. The plot, although fairly generic is excellent due to the whole samurai twist and a lot other weird stuff like Ghost Dog's strange friendship with another character in the movie. The soundtrack produced by RZA is both hit and miss. It either lifts the unique atmosphere surrounding the movie or just bugs the hell out of you.I first wanted to give this an 8. But there are a lot of weak moments in the movie, especially with the inconsistent music. However this easily deserves a 7.Hate it or love, either way it IS nonetheless a VERY interesting movie "},{"Title":"A profound adventure into the realm of...","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well I've never been to this realm before and I doubt that no one else has either. This movie is smart, funny, deep and thoroughly entertaining. What can you say about a movie that circles around an insane, black, modern day samurai, living in a city, who works as a hit-man for Scorcese style Italian mobsters?... Let me throw in that he receives his marks by way of carrier pigeons. The concept is laughable, and there are a fair share of laughs given off in the movie, but it goes way beyond that. Whitaker is brilliant as Ghost Dog and the mobsters are consciously acting out a b-movie role to a T. Go rent this flick! "},{"Title":"Good original film","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog is the first Jim Jarmusch film for me. After seeing it I went to IMDb to search for some details about him. I am glad to see that he is a good friend of Neil Young (Neil made the soundtrack for Dead Man, and Jarmusch directed Neil's concert film Year of the Horse). From this point, and the film itself, I think maybe he is also a die-hard hippy like Neil Young. It was the beats first found the Eastern philosophy as a lifesaving, isn't it? The most interesting artwork I have seen on that topic is a novel called Buddha's Bums by that beat guy who also wrote the beat classic On the Road. It is the same guy that also said We here talk about Buddha and Tao everyday but those unadulterated Orientals are studying surrealism. Yes, the 20th century is really a messed up time, when people found that something was corrupt from inner, some of them would self-reflects inside out, and some of them would look out for a specific medicine. I think that's why the east suddenly became paradise for those people. I can understand that instant desire and I admire those who always hold the belief that it's more to the picture than meet the eye and it's better to burn out than to fade away. Although I don't think eastern philosophy is a magic sermon. You know, it always tells you the conclusion without illation, that's why it looks so mystic. And I think the magic also largely depends on the language. Like the Book of Changes (Yi Jing), it is totally untranslatable. Maybe that's why Japanese art is more accepted, because it is mainly from China and has already been digested once. I don't know Japan much but I don't like its over-systematized thoughts. Everything normal could be meaningful at their hands. Like making tea is called tea ceremony there. But have they ever contributed great art just like the Germans (who also famous for their seriousness, I think)? I don't think so. The film itself is a great original film maybe especially for the westerns. The opening reminds me Tom Tykwer's Heaven. Although he transformed Kieslowski's script into a common film but what he added to the opening is great a helicopter pilot drived higher and higher and asked how high should I be? "},{"Title":"Not bad ...","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From a recent cheap Amazon DVD purchase, I watched the underrated Forest Whitaker in this movie. The movie is hip and yet fairly dull. It reeks of 'Pulp Fiction' and definitely worth the afternoon spent. The Samurai theme is well explained in poetical verse throughout the movie and the hip hop soundtrack adds the style in many of the action scenes. Don't expect any wired slow motion action here - just the silencers and the fake blood. The ending is rather silly but inevitable. Ever since the Crying Game I have been a fan of Forest Whitaker and his delivery in this movie as a melancholy hit man is first rate. The script is the weak component here and not the acting with some excellent dark humor in certain scenes. "},{"Title":"I see Ghost Dogs...","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Ghost Dog is a good original movie. The film mixes several elements together well to tell an untold tale. The protagonist becomes a samurai and a retainer to a gang boss who saved his life. Some of the good points of the movie are the action scenes, as well as some of the dialogue. The soundtrack to the movie is nice. The Japanese maxims are sometimes good.I liked the scene where Ghost Dog heads straight into the gangsters' lair and kills nearly everyone with two silencers. Another memorable scene (although I hear it's copied off of another movie) is when he shoots the main gangboss through the drain pipe. I liked when Ghost Dog was practicing with a sword on top of his balcony with a rap instrumental playing in the background. The two funny scenes in the movie is when the gangbosses are sitting around, and one of them starts rapping, and the other starts making animal sounds when he is talking about names for Native American chiefs. The other funny scene is when the same gangboss that was rapping is also rapping to Flavor Flav right before he gets killed.Now for the negative comments. Despite these quibbles, I still recommend this movie. The movie was too long (nearly two hours). The story is simple Ghost Dog kills a mafia boss like his boss wants him to, and the mob wants to kill him now. Although the movie was interesting (as a whole), it was not always exciting.I felt some of the scenes were repetitive. Many times in the movie, it seems like Ghost Dog is either riding or walking around in the streets looking melancholy and wise. Whenever he is driving, he is shown putting a cd into the cd player. Is this really necessary? Couldn't the movie have music without showing him putting it on (which they do in some scenes)? I'm actually making two statements in one here. First, the lack of any real action for long periods of time, and second, music at unnecessary times.Another element that was repeated over and over were different Japanese maxims throughout the film. I understand that these maxims will help illuminate the mindset of a samurai, but I don't think the maxims themselves are at all times profound. Too many of them interspersed in the film breaks the flow of action.Three books were showcased in the film Frankenstein, Rashomon, and Hagakure. I find it frustrating to keep showing a book, especially Rashomon, so many times in the movie when the audience is not likely to be familiar with the text. Yes I know Rashomon the movie was directed by Akira Kurosawa. I haven't seen it yet. However, I don't think a movie should rely on a crutch such as a book to be one of the guiding metaphors or symbols. Show us visually the messages from the book, don't give us vague allusions.I think this movie was missing good characters with depth. When I imagine a samurai, I imagine someone who is fit, stealthy, and can physically move quickly. Forest Whitaker is not who I have in mind. However, given that they chose him, I think one good feature about him is his disproportionate eyes and the look on his face. This helps with the mystique surrounding a samurai. When I say this film is lacking characters with depth, I mean the rest of the cast. The ice-cream vendor who speaks only French is unique enough, but necessary? Half of the movie Ghost Dog goes to talk to this man and eats ice-cream. What about the gang bosses? Louie seems like a coward, and the ending doesn't make sense given that Ghost Dog actually helped him get rid of the people who were going to kill him. Although the dialogue was interesting when the mob bosses sit down, the dialogue itself nowhere reaches the levels that Quentin Terrantino or Francis Ford Coppola reaches in their films. The line where one of the gangsters says, Fughett about it reminded me of the same line in Donnie Brasco (this film actually makes a big deal about that line). Anyways, these gangsters seem very low-level if their entire mission is to kill Ghost Dog, after all Ghost Dog isn't really part of the gang. The other thing is Ghost Dog did what he was told, so it's not his fault if anything went wrong. The story seems thin, to me at least.This seemed like a low-budget sleeper, and for that reason, the content that is contained is excellent. If the movie was a bit more polished, and took out some of the repetition, then this movie would be an instant classic. In it's current form, Ghost Dog is a good movie. "},{"Title":"Hidden message - spoiler!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I do not know if anyone else has noticed this, but there seems to be some hidden message in this film. If you watch the film carefully, you will notice that when Ghost Dog recalls the scene where the mobster saves his life, the gangster is pointing his gun at Ghost Dog when the mobster suddenly shoots him. But when the mobster recalls the scene, the gangster turns his gun to the mobster, who then shoots the gangster in self-defence. This gives a whole new twist to the story. It's over two years ago since I watched the film, so I can't remember it so well, but I believe there is some reference to such phenomena in life (i.e. disillusionment) in the book that the chick, who witnesses Ghost Dog on his hit job, is reading.I definitely have to watch this movie again, in order to try to further subtract the not so obvious message, but also just because this movie was simply so good. "},{"Title":"Three genres in one, superbly done","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't trust those who say it is not a good movie. They don't know. I showed this movie to some 20 of my friends. It was a good test because they represent a great variety in style and taste. And what happened? Everyone liked it. This is due to the movie's quality in using elements from different genres.Firstly, it is a killer/gangster story focused on its lonely hero. Secondly, it includes a good parody on mafia flicks/characters. Thirdly, it highlights Ghost Dog's mental attitude towards his job and surroundings with Eastern philosophy. His obligation/detachment to the Samurai codex determines his conscience and his deeds. Referring to the gangster plot, a subtext is revealed behind the surface.Therefore, Ghost Dog works on several levels gangster drama, mafia parody, philosophic essay. Whether you are into fine images, lonely heroes, cool atmosphere, intertextual/film historical references, coolly styled action, Eastern philosophy or narrative structure - you'll find your bit. "},{"Title":"Noble principles mixed with high camp--don't take this one seriously","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Once I realized that this was not a movie to be taken seriously, I found it rather enjoyable. A black rapper, living on a rooftop with his pigeons, who doesn't have a common language to communicate with his only friend, and who lives by the 17th-century Samurai ethics of the Hagakure...doesn't this suffice to clue us in? It's all a joke, right? ...unfortunately, Jarmusch himself doesn't seem to think so.But this shouldn't keep us from viewing it as a cartoon of sorts, much like the cartoons that the mob members seem to prefer. To my mind, this is a camp classic; I particularly liked the way Ghost Dog flourished his guns like swords when drawing them or putting them away. Inspired lunacy. "},{"Title":"Ignore the negative comments","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who says they don't like this film needs to watch it again - and this time with their eyes open. Ghost Dog is one of the most perfect pieces of cinema I have ever seen. The levels of meaning in this film are staggering. I have seen it about ten times now and I notice something different every time.Don't let the negative reviews here stop you from seeing this film. Along with Fight Club, this is the best film I've seen in the last five years.10/10 is not enough. "},{"Title":"New, Original, Unique","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog `Way of the Samurai' is one of the most original urban movie of this past 10 years. Once again Jim Jarmush (Dead Man 1995, Mystery Train 1989) reveals his talent with this powerful and poetic story about a young man who lives the `way' of the ancient Samurai. Ghost Dog (the very charismatic Forest Whitaker) is a hit man, the `retainer' of Louie (the very good John Tormey), a colorful, local mobster. Ghost Dog carries out contract with high precision and speed, making sure his actions are in harmony with his `code'. If the plot which is decently build seems a little bit bizarre, the movie is in fact very rich and blend in a myriad of Japanese cultural references. Very soon the story I believe becomes a pretext for a deeper questioning, and Jim Jarmush takes the opportunity to ask  fundamentals questions What are the basis (moral foundations) of our modern urban lives? What are the values we use to determine how we act? What way do we live, moreover do we live a certain way? Of course `moral foundation' is a subjective notion and the question becomes personal but we know that money for survival is definitely one of the basis. Whether we need $10 or $10,000 a day we are still in our mind `surviving'. We also know that we don't use any value, more exactly we use all of them to determine the way we act. We have became the chameleons of the city changing values as often as we change shirts. It seems that to survive the only rule is there is no rules. As a results we live like opportunistic. Ghost Dog appears then like a model to follow, logic with himself, fare, living according to ONE code. In his controversial environment he appears to manage his life better than we do, giving sense to everything he believes in, to everything he does. When one soul becomes one action we call it will, balance, harmony. I guess we are all looking for that ; Jim Jarmush remind us that balance is about having a code of honor, a way of living. Let's find ours.     "}{"Title":"Part homage to a master, part typical, yet brilliant, Jarmusch film (spoilers)","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch movies are less films than explanatory critical guides, to movies, genres, identities, America.  In this way he is a forebear of the great French maverick, Jean-Pierre Melville, himself obsessed with the by-ways of American culture.  'Ghost Dog' pays explicit homage to Melville's 'Le Samourai', one of cinema's miracles, a crime film used to express fatalistic Oriental philosophy.The plot is virtually identical - a solitary, silent, bird-loving, white glove-sporting assassin, careful with his appearance, fulfils a contract which is unwittingly witnessed by a woman.  His superiors order his execution, but he wipes them out before elaborately planning his own death.The similarities go beyond mere plot.  In the opening sequence of 'le Samourai', Jef Costello lies in his bedroom, the image distorting to visualise the hitman's schizophrenia, as Melville claimed.  Ghost Dog, in the opening sequence, as he walks or drives in solitude, is subjected to cuts, overlaps and dissolves which similarly seem to split or distort his identity.  The Samurai philosophy embodied by Melville's film is specifically alluded to in the excerpts of Code that punctuate the film, like emotional expressions of the central character.Melville's imprisoning style, his use of cramped decor, stairways, corridors etc., his repeating of scenes, motifs and images to create a narrative loop is also used here, from Ghost Dog putting on his car CD, to the running cartoon motif, to the red woodpecker Ghost Dog sees echoed in the Woody Woodpecker cartoon Vargo and his daughter watch, echoed in the cap of the bearpoacher Ghost Dog kills.  Whole sequences are alluded to, for example the invasion of the home space, Costello's bugged by police, Ghost Dog's charred by gangsters; or the metaphor of clothes as armour, signalling power; once removed, the samurai is vulnerable.'Le Samourai' is endlessly rich and enigmatic, but one of Melville's concerns is with genre, which he strips to its barest bones, removing accreted assumptions and tics, leaving an ancient, fundamental story about man preparing for his death, a link with his spiritual kin, Sergio Leone, whose 'Once Upon a Time in the West' is twice alluded to near the end of this film.Jarmusch has this too, but he is not as rigorously abstract as Melville - he starts from a position of formalism, fragmentation, codes, but adds the things Melville ruthlessly excises, humanity, friendship, backstory, motivation.  Whereas Costello is a dead end, Ghost Dog leaves an heir, a trace of his influence, continuity.  Whereas race and gender are transformed into mythical or philosophical abstractions with Melville (e.g. Man, Death etc.), Jarmusch brings them back their BODY, their social context.The film is very much a Jarmusch work in its concern with ethnic relations in a white-dominated America, the survival of alternative means (codes, languages, music etc.) of looking at the world, as well as in his elliptical, episodic, deadpan style, although, in its viewer-friendly technique (editing, brief scenes, much camera movement), certainly less austere than Melville's.Like Melville, Jarmusch is interested in genre, as a way of controlling the chaos of life, imposing rules and order on it, but this imposition, as it is for the heroes of Melville and Leone, is a kind of death, and it is vibrant, ragbag disorder that Jarmusch celebrates.Ghost Dog's code is mirrored in the omerta ethos of the Italians, in the faithfulness of the pigeons and in the dictates of genre, all attempts to contain (imaginative) flight and emotional development, a way of replacing history with  myth.  This is what Jarmusch truly inherits from Melville and Leone, a deconstructive spirit that can see the emptiness behind the glitter, and yet retains rueful affection for it.  One of the films of the year. "},{"Title":"Whitaker´s Sword","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A friend said the movie is for guys. I had to tell her that she is wrong. The movie is for good people. Maybe some people get a little confused by all the surroundings. But basically it is all about one´s own point of view. In spite it has got strong language (a contribution to N.Y.´s mafia genre) and some precise assassinations it does not appear to be confusing because of its baseline and ability to transport a strong  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable installment of the Jarmusch experience","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jarmusch seeks perhaps to clarify our image of him in Ghost Dog, in which Forrest Whitaker plays a mob contract killer living by an ancient samurai code a character both of his violent time and yet far outside it, much as the laconic, cigarette-smoking, Sam-Fuller-loving Jarmusch (regardless that he's so hip and modernly minimalist) might have triumphed in a more classical Hollywood age. The film's reiterations of its theme become a little repetitive, but are varied enough that the time glides by there's a witty portrayal of the semi-pathetic dying-breed Mob-types he works for; a French-Canadian best friend who can't even speak English (which, as Whitaker doesn't speak French, makes for some enjoyably absurd riffing); and recurring quotations from his guiding text - some of which seem like allusive counterpoints and others like editions of Jack Handey's Deep Thoughts. But not knowing how much to laugh has always been central to the wacky Jarmusch experience viewing his movies by now is much like a ritual in itself, and on this occasion a quite soothing one. "},{"Title":"A later Jarmusch film, interesting if you can be detached","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog (1999)Forest Whitaker is so good an actor, he can pull of the laconic, seemingly deep characters (or truly deep) with utter conviction, and a sense of pace that would be slow in someone else's hands. And Jim Jarmusch is such an original director you know this movie will at least be interesting. And it is. At times it hilarious. He plays with stereotypes in a postmodern, winking way--something like the Coen Brothers do without winking, or like Tarantino does with a more heavy handed slam. You have to get into the detachment here, the fable-like style that's almost an illustration of a movie. You can of course watch it and just see what happens, and the plot gradually develops on its own, and the acting and sets are terrific all around.Like Dead Man, there is an overlying profundity that drove me crazy after awhile. If I try to get the message at all (and the message seems force fed with intertitles from a samurai handbook), I want to barf. But then, I'm fifty, not fifteen, and the profound for me doesn't come in maxims about how your worst is your best and your best is your worst and this applies to all things. Or something painful like that.But I actually liked this movie a lot for other reasons. One of them is just the feel it has, the journeying through a kind of funkied up slummy urban America with lots of caricatures of Italian mobsters out of their time zone. It's fun and funny and downright beautiful. There's a lot of gratuitous violence, for sure, even less comic booky than Tarantino (and even colder, if that's possible). In fact, the main character is one very very bad person--he kills on contract, for money, without feeling. I suppose you might say he's set up as a role model--there is no sense that the movie judges him, for sure. But I'm sure Jarmusch is also completely detached from such thoughts--it's just a movie, an entertainment made up of exaggerations of beautiful tropes.So then, on those terms, it is what it is, nothing to write home about, and nothing like his completely mesmerizing early films (Stranger than Paradise). But it's still worth watching, and getting absorbed in. "},{"Title":"Post Modernist work of art.","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Big Bear like Oscar winner Forest Whittaker plays Ghost Dog, a Black American hit-man who by day studies Eastern philosophy and by night moonlights as a contract killer for hire. He deftly performs both crafts in an unnamed American city fabricated like a new world colonial outpost lost in a huge virgin forest, as evidenced by the recurring motifs of bears, the canvass of night and trees and the thematic blur between evolved man and his latent brother the beast (within ?).Ghost Dog lives by a code that is enriched by the samurai teachings of ancient japan, which serves as his back story as well as an indictment of the mafia bosses who employ him and the decadent society they all live in. He maintains a servant like devotion to his retainer Louie, brilliantly played by John Tormey, a mafia captain who saved his life.Things become complicated when the mafia kingpin played by the man with the eyes as cold as steele, Henry Silva, orders the murder of one of his wayward associates for sleeping with his daughter. Ghost Dog effortlessly completes the assassination, but Louise, who has evaded her own retainers, witnesses the murder. In order to prevent losing face with his daughter, Vargo decides to end Ghost Dogs life, the one link of proof tracing him to the hit. However owing to his name, he is part Ghost part Dog, being able to appear and re appear at will, kill with noiseless efficiency and sniff out an ambush like a wily old dog. His traumatic fight for survival is also made more perilous by his deep need to maintain a sense of righteousness and loyalty to Louis, the man who has been ordered to kill him.If this sounds like a run of the mill action gangster piece, not so. Director Jim Jarmusch manages to elevate this movie to intellectual hieghts and cult status by successfully deconstructing myths about modern man, society, honour and betrayal, while cleverly using and subverting standard conventions of the aforementioned genres. The mafia for example cannot pay their rent; they are unorganized, overweight and undermanned. This is a slap of reality in the face of the romanticized luxury laden gangster shown in films like The Godfather (based on a book written by a man who cannot speak Italian) and by De Niro's turn as Capone in The Untouchables. The godfathers in Ghost Dog are gray haired thugs with flabby muscles, who have lost touch with society as shown by their ludicrously ignorant grasp of pop culture, preferring to stay in low rent dives watching cartoons from the 50s. The city they once patrolled with gold encrusted cars and perfumed women is now a decadent postcard to their former glory. A very strong sense of postmodern decadence abounds much like Tarantino's Pulp Fictian Los Angeles.Jarmusch, the consummately consistent filmmaker also reveals the samurai world of Ghost Dog to be equally decadent. The ancient samurai were a social and military elite, dressed in beautifully ornamented knightly armor. In Ghost Dog the lonely samurai dress in the tired hungry clothes of the poor and live in alley ways and abandoned rooftop shacks among other of society's outcasts - a flock of pigeons. No longer commanding legions of warriors, todays samurai work for morally and financially bankrupt gangsters who despise their race. This exists as an indictment of not just white on black and yellow racism but of the class struggle between the uneducated rural gentry and the savage middle class. A big part of Ghost Dogs character being so endearing is that despite all this, he continues to maintain the samurai code and his spiritual bond with his retainer Louie. He achieves this by practicing martial arts and by reading daily the Hagakure (the Book of the Samurai), an 18th century book which was a battle cry for Nipponese cultural survival against the greedy and despised machinations of the West.Quotes from the Hagakure are narrated by Whittaker like chapter headings before every important scene in the film, which helps to define a philosophical yardstick by which to measure Ghost Dog's actions. Unlike western society, Ghost Dog lives in a world where its inhabitants share their passion and sentiment through the exchange of books and ideas and not goods or gold; a self referential pulp fiction necessity, in a world of outlandishly larger than life characters, spirituality bound by the desperate search for the meaning of life and looking to the Hagakure for solace and guidance.Everyone in the movie is bound by that, certainly Ghost Dog is. The random old man who kung fu chops the would be robber, the park bench rappers who are more concerned with the passion and ideas encased within the lines of their rap, than notice the innocent ten year old girl eating ice cream nearby, while the mafia seem mired in a self muted display of indignant lazy righteousness that pervades all they do and affects the little they achieve.Much like all of Jarmusch's films there is the climactic devastating clash of the old and the new, east vs west, European and Indigenous; a battleground where only the wise few who unfalteringly hold to a sense of deep spirituality are able to achieve enlightenment.Fans of rap will also love the soundtrack composed and arranged by RZA of the Wu Tang Clan, who created a fitting tribute both in word, flow and energy to the post modernist work of art that is Ghost Dog. "},{"Title":"Jarmush dreaming. Me sleeping.","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" How come whenever I fall in love with a great new American director I always fall out of my bed ? Recently I've watched many Jarmusch films following my coup de foudre ( love at first sight ) with his Down by Law. With Ghost Dog the Jarmusch touch seems overstretched. He is ambitious alright, he is also multi-cultural and won't make a total lemon soon ( things I'll always cherish best when evaluating a director in the long term ) but watching Ghost Dog can be a hard endeavor. After the neo-psychedelic Dead Man teaching us about the shortcomings of the white men ( still with a few great short scenes the Ghost greatly lack ) here we are with yet another Blue Velvet bad guy, yet an other aging-mafia-guys movie. What's new  Jarmusch's Taxi Driver 's homage because of city horizons and street-wise lingo's... Dead Man was flawed but at least indirectly amiable. Ghost Dog is not so heart warming. I felt, the whole movie, Jarmusch's eagerness to make The Great American Movie maybe he's not supposed to make in the first place. He's much better at home in low-fi...A Clue  Jarmusch's seriousness is equally related to the number of fade-outs he uses. In the Coffee in Cigarettes films he is short and sweet but the two hours sniper rigmarole the Ghost Dog is is way too long even with the Samurai sub-text.In Dead Man and Ghost Dog it's much more about the values of Jarmusch's than about his true vitaly as a filmmaker. I like him being ambitious but there's no excuse for the blandness of the little black girl scenes in Ghost Dog. In Down By Law the sheer quality of his writing was in synch with his newly found director skills and par with the excellence of Robby Mueller's cinematography. With the Ghost, Robby's still there in great industrial colors; the Americana loves multi-cultural is still there but the writing is not&#133; At times it even reminded me of the multi flash yet monochrome flavor Tarantino treats his love affairs with&#133; "},{"Title":"Astounding movie that exceeds expectations","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've liked Forest Whitaker's work for a while, and I'm a kung-fu fan, so when I saw this movie for rent, it sounded like it was worth the $ based on it's title and Forest in the lead role. However, I hadn't heard anything about this movie so didn't feel an urge to watch it, so it sat in my apartment unwatched for a while. One Sunday, with rain pelting down outside and nothing on TV, I decided to put it on.I wasn't sure what the movie was about, I was kind of expecting a dull story peppered with Hong Kong style action scenes, but what I got was a great story beautifully told, superb acting from Forest, a great support cast, bad ass soundtrack, and a little bit of education on life too. I don;t want to give anything away, for this move I think, like me, you should go in blind a free of preconceptions, but just know it's a mixture of genres that works really well, and the insights into the life and thoughts of a Samurai are awe inspiring, the intelligence and clearness of thought, and outlooks on life are amazing.This movie really blew me away, it wasn't what I was expecting at all, I was glued from start to finish, and when it was over, I just sat in silence, mesmerised about what a great movie I'd just had the pleasure to see. I've been telling everyone about it since. It's awesome. "},{"Title":"Original different from DVD??","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I saw the deleted scenes on the DVD I was surprised to see scenes I had already seen . I may be wrong but I think the scene with the accountant was originally in the movie also when mobster is in bathroom singing public enemy I thought it was a Capella (no music) but on the DVD I saw last night there was accompaniment?? Also, the French wasn't translated the first time. Am I crazy?? When I saw the movie again I was surprised to see subtitles I checked the DVD case and I saw no mention of a directors cut or anything . So what gives. I liked this movie a lot ,but I know several people who hated it don't know why so many people seem apathetic or hostile towards it. I found it even better the second time "},{"Title":"Over Rated?  No way, this movie is Excellent","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I actually mean this 10. It's not some uncultured, Citizen Kane sucks cause it's boring opinion. I'm serious to god, this movie deserves a 10 and I think Ebert and many other critics along with almost all viewers completely missed the point of the movie. Ebert himself says the movie is weird, but he never bothers to try to understand the character except to say that he's insane.In my opinion, a movie is excellent if it has depth, substance, and is beautifully composed. Lets go backwards - composition one can't argue with Jarmush's beautiful transitions that flow perfectly with RZA's music. He found the simplicity of the idealized Samurai's way of life in the American City. The other thing that really ties this movie together for a flawless composition is the use of cartoons. Look closer, the cartoons match the movie. Think about that. The scene that Ebert mentions in his review is inexplicable is right in the cartoon. He shoots him through the bottom of the sink because that's how the cartoon character does it. That's not only awesome, it's meaningful, think about it.- substance Although this has another take which I'll discuss below, the substance as relates to The Way of The Samurai quoted in passages throughout the movie is awesome. The passage about the rainfall for example. Or the meditation on death from the beginning. Also, if you understand French, the Haitian ice cream maker... I love that those scenes aren't subtitled by the way.- depth this movie would be good with all of the above mentioned and the wonderful acting performance. However, the depth of this movie is what sets it apart and makes it excellent. I'll spell it out for everyone that missed it (which is almost everyone). This movie is about miscommunication. It's about how everyone has a way and they're so ingrained in it that it almost doesn't matter what other people are saying to them. Ghost Dog himself is not insane, he is just following what gives him peace. He doesn't kill for no reason, he kills for his master to whom he owes his life by his code. Also, notice a very fine but extremely important point here. The flashbacks are different when Ghost Dog thinks about it and when Louie thinks about it. Ghost Dog's version is more serious and makes Louie out to be his savior. Louie's version is one of self defense. In his own personal life, we only see Ghost Dog kill once and it's to take revenge because of the death of a bear. That's just a different set of rules that he lives by, not insanity. The thing that made me understand the idea of miscommunication is his friendship with the Haitian ice cream maker.In this movie, Jarmush is exploring The Way that people live their lives. "},{"Title":"superb - can't praise it enough","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A superb, stylish, original film that doesn't put a foot wrong, not for a moment. There is something fluid and seamless about it. True to Samurai theme the whole film is played with a forceful restraint which raises it well above the level of all those Tarantino wannabees -- never any sense it is straining to pander to our taste for blood or greed for the adrenalin rush (while actually providing large helping of blood and adrenalin!) Here's a neighbourhood Mafia we can really believe in! Full of wit too -- relationship between Ghost Dog and his French-speaking best friend which shows their perfect communication without a common language is so humorous. Forest Whitaker's performance is quite beautiful -- utterly convincing, quietly stunning. Music by The RZA is razor-edge cool, intensely exciting. Film relegates so much of the stuff I watch to just dead wood! "}{"Title":"comparison of three ancient ways","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" excellent movie,most important scene is when forest acknowledges follower of Christianity and Christian acknowledges samurai code,both respect the others commitment to following ways that place honor and love as the most important qualities to follow .the mob way of life is exposed as a transient,unethical,ignorant way to follow.i enjoyed the sayings from the hagakuri as i like eastern philosophy as a way to live ones life.forest did an excellent job of portraying a follower of the code of the samurai as the actors playing the mob coming on hard times and laughable in there ignorance of the importence of how one lives ones life. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you only like Hollywood blockbusters, then don't see this movie. Because you'll think it's too slow, boring, and unspectacular. If you enjoy films that require some thought, and are patient enough to appreciate a slow pace, then you'll probably love Ghost Dog. Well written and direction - a nice juxtaposition of several different mythos at once. I've got to provide ten lines for my comment? Not only is IMDb charging the user for services that were previously free, but now it's my copy editor as well? Ghost Dog is good. See it. "},{"Title":"Masterful urban fairy tale","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch has undoubtedly written and directed one of the biggest landmarks of his career. Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is unquestionable masterpiece, perfect in it's own genre and alongside with brilliant Fight club it's one of those last truly big movies of the past millennium.Forest Whitaker is extremely impressive in the leading role - this conquers even his finest role so far in the fantastic little classic Smoke. He plays the mysterious Ghost Dog - big, black and lonely, dangerous yet sympathetic man. His only friends are pigeons, little girl who borrows books from him and a fellow who sells ice cream and speaks only French.The story of an assassin who's life is based on a Samurai-lessons and who ends up in a war with the dying mob is one of the most distinctive tales of the '90s. This is the very first movie I ever saw in which the whole Mafia culture is suddenly old-fashioned and vanishing. Golden days as seen in the movies like The Godfather or in Goodfellas are history. Gangsters are unexpectedly old and ridiculous men with a cartoon obsession.They are forced to argue with landlords. One of them listens rap music, another one gets a heart attack when pointed with gun. Still, Ghost Dog is part of a dying species too. He might just be the last (?) Samurai and that creates the suspense of the movie.Film is an enjoyment to the very end. Actors are awesome, script is clever and wild. Ancient Oriental wisdoms supports this excellent urban fairy tale. Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is one of a kind. Funny, profound and surprising at the same time. Masterful, stylish and cool - just absolutely outstanding! "},{"Title":"Remake","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Its a remake of Le Samourai An Alain Delon movie directed by Jean Pierre Melville in 1967. And its a bad one.The original is a classic French film 'Noir It didn't need remaking,especially in a society where death is cheap, it just doesn't mean anything.Its a bit like those other pointless remakes of Get Carter, The Italian Job, Wings of Desire.What next, The 'Rock' in a remake of Lawrence of Arabia For gods sake, just leave these classic films alone.I'm sure Jim meant well enough, but saying that he wrote the damn thing is going a bit far. If you are going to shamelessly plagarize, then at least have the decency to admit it ! "},{"Title":"Deep Thought","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When Ghost Dog is leaning against the wall just chillin', a woman walks by, but he doesn't so much as glance at her. You can see the same woman walking in the general area as him when he's going up to the ice cream truck near the end of the movie. He doesn't pay any attention to her, but she's flirting! This has to do with Ghost Dog's code. I read the book (Hagkure), and it talks about not having unhealthy sex urges, and only have sex with a partner if you've known and trusted them for 7 years. This just shows some subtleness concerning socializing. The picture of a woman shown posted up in his room at the beginning of the movie also depicts his devotion and loyalty to her, even after her death.Also, he thinks himself as Loui's retainer. Having read the book, I understand that a retainer can also have his own retainers. I think he thinks himself as the birds' master. They are his retainers.When the Crypts are rhyming in the park, they are rhyming about Ghost Dog!! "},{"Title":"This is not a gangsterflick!","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first review I read on GhostDog was very enthusiastic so when I saw the movie myself, I was a little disappointed. Only afterwards things started to make sense;Ghost Dog might look like a gangbangerflick where Blade meets Belly, however, there is so much more to it than that. There are so many different levels and interpretations you can give this movie that I wouldn't even know where to start.This movie lists a Philosophical Adviser in its ending credits and constantly quotes Hagakure, a Japanese code of conduct written for samurais almost 300 years ago. Add a highly stylish soundtrack, total urban decay and an afroamerican hit-man who lives amongst pigeons and you get a masterpiece.Please do hire this movie, but don't expect a Menace II Society (which, by the way, is an excellent flick in its genre!). Ah yes... and although there is some very amusing stuff going on in the movie, it surely wasn't meant as a funny movie...  "},{"Title":"Horribly Horrific","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What is the worst movie you have ever seen? If you do not have an immediate answer to that question then PLEASE attempt to sit threw this one. I was so irritated by the 7.5 rating, I registered, activated, and am now sharing my opinion for the 1st time on this site. This movie should have the word, Samurai, removed from its title out of respect for Japan. HE FLIPS A CD BEFORE PUTTING IT IN THE STEREO!!! HE SPINS HIS GUN AROUND LIKE A SWORD BEFORE HOLSTERING IT!!!(at one point even missing the holster) His movements are so slow, sound FX had to be added in an attempt to trick the viewer into thinking he moves at even a normal pace. I am by no means a Samurai expert however, I am certain the daily life did not include twirling CDs, driving around aimlessly, playing with pigeons, and eating ice cream all day. Damn this movie sucked. "},{"Title":"a generous 5 out of 10","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" nd by hated i mean bored to death by it. the action was lame, the characters were cardboard cutouts and none of them were likable. i tried liking ghost dog but after he entices the white hunters into a confrontation to shoot them it was next to impossible. more over the things ghost dog does, (not believes) are ridiculous like shooting someone with his offhand weapon and that stupid samurai twirl. the driving parts and the parts where he trains are exceedingly dragged out and pointless. the only saving parts of this movie was the scene where the mob bosses were surmising what ghost dog's name was similar to....rappers or indians. but the movie went downhill from there. "},{"Title":"Cool Cat","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** One strange dude this Ghost Dog, Forest Whitaker, a local boy from the hood who became infatuated with the Code of the Samurai. Throughout the movie, between episodes and shootouts, we see and hear Ghost Dog read to us experts from the book Hagakure about the mysteries of life and those who live it. As well as how to live it to the fullest as a Samurai Warrior. Having been saved from having his brains bashed out, as a teenager, by a gang of white hoodlums by local Mafiso Louie, John Tormey, Ghost Dog, a name he took up later in life,came out of nowhere to contact him four years later. The Ghost Dog wants to be a retainer for Louie in the service as him being a hit-man for the mob. Deadly accurate and mysterious Ghost Dog did a dozen hit jobs for Louie, and the mob, over the next few years. Now he was assigned to do in mobster Handsom Frank, Richard Porthnow, for fooling around with the local mob boss Ray Vargo, Henry Silva, nutty daughter Louise, Tricia Vessey. Catching Handsom Frank with his pants down, watching the cartoons on TV in his bedroom, Ghost Dog blasts him away but to the hit-man's surprise Louise, who was supposed to be on a bus and out of town, was there with him. Ray finding out that his daughter was in the same room where Handsom Frank was hit, and thus traumatized by the shooting, now want's the hit-man, Ghost Dog, iced for doing it. This puts Louie on the spot for sending Ghost Dog out to do the hit, which Ray told him to, in the first place. Louie not wanting his friend to be killed but at the same time not wanting to be killed himself for having him knock off a member of the family is forced to tell Ray that the killer of Handsom Frank is a local Guy from the Hood. Farther more the mysterious hit-man lives in a shack on a roof with a pigeon coop as his only company. The mob guys go from roof to roof knocking off anyone who lives there with a pigeon coop that fits the hit mans description; a big black guy who likes birds. Ghost Dog coming home one evening finds his pad ripped to shreds, and all his precious birds killed by the mob, and it's then and there when he decides to teach the mob a lesson in the Code of the Samuria. The lesson he's to teach hem is how you don't mess with a Samurai Warrior and live long enough to brag about it. Surrilistic movie about ancient ethics in the modern world with Forest Whitaker as the Man as hard and tough as Samurai Steel the mystical Ghost Dog. John Tormey is Louie his savior and master Louie who in the end has to shoot it out, like in an old western movie, with Ghost Dog to make amends for both theirs mistakes and wrong doings in life. A bit deep in some places but still interesting movie with Ghost Dog using his brains brawn's and belief in the Code of the Samurai to do in the entire Vergo Mob. These two-bit hoodlum foolishly thought that he was an easy mark and that they would have no trouble at all to put him away, how wrong they were. "},{"Title":"one of the worst","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the worst movies I have ever seen, with exception to the Avengers.  Filled with unnecessary and lengthy scenes that distracted from the story not to mention subpar action scenes and ridiculously unbelievable scenarios.  (shooting someone through the sink drain?).  If watched in fast forward, the movie actually seems to move at a normal pace. Don't waste your time or money on this movie. "}{"Title":"Proof that you should always seek out a negative review of films everyone raves about.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All I can say is thank goodness I didn't pay full price for the big screen. If you want a gangster movie, watch a gangster movie. Likewise for samurai and hip hop films. Forest Whitaker (Battlefield Earth notwithstanding) can do almost no wrong, but this one borders on a waste of his talent. Demerits too for the friendship with the schoolgirl which added a tasteless and unbelievable element to the film.  This film tries to do too much with too many genres and ends up looking as if it doesn't know what it's talking about. "},{"Title":"Let Down","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man this movie got a 7.8 what the heck is that. I just sat through the whole 2 hours and the whole  plot is a joke the acting is horrible and the story is just silly. 30 minutes of forrest driving could of easily been cut from the movie. Sooo slow. 1/10 "},{"Title":"ghost what?","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm a so called fan of jarmuschs movies, but the recent one 'ghost dog' is disturbingly stupid, nonsense and kitsch. However is this comedy or is it a serious piece of celluloid? The good guy fighting with the help of some trashy far-east samurai ideology against a bunch of tex avery like mafiosi. (So if there was no forest withaker the movie could have been a good comedy) "},{"Title":"stoning","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe the comments i have read here! The movie is absolutely stoning in the way is dealing with the communication problems. Because this is what is about this movie. Not about samurai, not about mob or any of these problems. It is about the way the world around us is constructed and about what do we have to do in order to understand each other. It's about what should we be doing when we meet somebody that we don't understand not to kill but try...try to understand what makes him diffrent...and try not to see in him an enemy. The movie is not at all overrated is more like underrated and the people should not forgot that this is Independent movie category, that means that there are movies that have something to say...ar at least try to say something not like the other movies. "},{"Title":"2 Hours of Nonsense","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe this movie is currently at a 7.8 rating, because it was truly awful and a waste of my time.  The plot was vague, the acting was horrible, (those gangsters were pathetic,) and the Way of the Samurai spoken interludes were utterly silly.  The only redeeming value this movie has is the Wu-Tang Clan soundtrack, but that's far from enough to save this movie from its worthlessness.  I'm glad I rented it for free or there'd be a charred video cassette in the video return bin.  What I recommend, as the character in the movie would do, is read a good book for 2 hours instead of watching this slush. "},{"Title":"The Simple Samurai","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The best formula for making a movie is K.I.S.S. (keep it simple stupid).This movie keeps it simple and doesn't have a lot of complicated plot twists. It is straight forward and goes from point A to point B with out much problem.There are a couple of scenes which I believe could have been dropped, such as the black bear hunters and the woman highway patrol. I really don't know why they left them in the movie. They really weren't needed and I think they bring the movie down a couple of notches.There were several other scenes which I think were just filler and thankfully I could fast forward through them. All of these filler scenes are the long drawn out driving in the car with the radio on. Really? Was the script that short?There are extremely minimal special effects used. There is a lot of shooting (chest, legs, arms) but you don't see a ton of blood. The violence is very mild.There are some minor factual errors in the movie, which have already been stated on this website. There are others, but they aren't important enough to post.Acting 1 Directing .5 Plot 1 Action .5 Continuity 0 Factuality 03 of 6 "},{"Title":"The Dog and his Birds...","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai is the second Jim Jarmusch film I have seen and it didn't disappoint. While Mystery Train joined my list of favorite films (which is reserved for select few), the Ghost Dog didn't speak to me as well but I still loved it. I love when directors and writers mix genres, like in this case - samurai film with urban gangster film. So we have this interesting film where Eastern philosophy shares the same film with rap soundtrack, violent shootouts, Italian mobsters and cartoons. And strangely enough, it works perfectly without any real hiccups what so ever. The titular character is played by Forest Whitaker who manages to play the mysterious, mythical loner character really well. The rest of the cast is strange, goofy and very entertaining to watch. Ghost Dog is not really a performance film, as it is more the character, the world he lives in and the philosophy he believes in. And the end result is a slow moving, well shot, well acted, featuring a stellar score and offering plenty of material to think about while giving us action and goofy scenes of gangsters watching Itchy and Scratchy. If you are interested in a film that defies the usual conventions set by a certain genre and want to see an interesting take on them, this is the film you must see. Ghost Dog is cool, moody and thoroughly entertaining. "},{"Title":"It's aiiiiiiiiiiiiiit.","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Actually, it's more than that. It's arguably Jim Jarmusch's best film in his first thirty years of making features.Coming in the middle of his oddly experimental stage of making films with actual plots, this one appears between similarly story-oriented pictures Dead Man and Broken Flowers (as well as the more typically plot less Coffee and Cigarettes) as one that's narrative driven.Jarmusch's feature debut, Permanent Vacation, contained the line What's a story anyway, except one of those connect-the-dots drawing things? It's a philosophy the gifted director seemed to take on board for the majority of his works, giving us a series of variable but nearly always entertaining movies, most of them without anything you could regard as a traditional narrative.Ghost Dog is one of the few that bucks this trend, with an alien beginning-middle-end set up. Although often referenced as a homage to the excellent 1967 movie Le Samouraï, the connection between the two isn't as pronounced as you might think. And, being a Jarmusch film, it's not without his own quirky brand of humour, from Italian American gangsters who listen to Flava Flav and watch 1940s cartoons, to a hit-man who communicates with pigeons and has a best friend who is a French ice cream vendor.A talented man with a fairly unique take on movie making, his works are always worth seeking out, whether they contain rigid story lines or not. Ghost Dog may be his best to date, but his other works are often just as entertaining. "},{"Title":"This dog will kick your a**","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Whitaker is an African American hit man who follows the way of the Samurai. There are different philosophies and he keeps on articulating them throughout the length of the movie. He has been hired to kill a guy. However, there is some misunderstanding and now the whole gang is out to kill him. The story is clichéd but the treatment is startling and original. This is not a violence filled movie but when it happens it satisfies you. The character of Ghost Dog, the hit man, who lives alone and contacts people through pigeons, is drawn richly. This is not a conventional gangster movie and enlightens you with its aphorisms along with delighting you by its oddball humor and unexpected kills.My first Jarmusch. 3.5 out of 5 for Ghost Dog. "},{"Title":"A Classic Western/Samurai/Gangster film","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Continuing my ever-expanding journey, in my Adam, late to the game series, I finally watched Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai. Yes I know it came out 13 years ago, and no I do not know why I never saw it previously. Thankfully, I caught this streaming on Netflix and felt inspired to write-up a review.Ghost Dog (Whitaker) is a hit man in New Jersey. He conducts hits for the for his mafia boss, in a freelance capacity. Ghost Dog is portrayed as a competent professional in these opening scenes. The shots, sort of called to mind the opening of the Michael Mann film Thief. Well that is if you added an amazing hip-hop sound track by RZA from Wu-Tang Clan.This is a highly stylized film from writer/director Jarmusch. The samurai gun play alone will have you on the edge of your seat. While the pacing of the film is a bit slow, there are scenes of quick intense action, sprinkled throughout. In addition, just below the surface, there is a strong undercurrent of dark, dark humor in this character driven tale. Jarmusch also jams this film to the brim with philosophy, thoughts on the clashing of cultures, the role of honor in society, and many other things, that I am sure I missed on the first viewing.Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the film is Ghost Dog's embracing of Hagakure The Way of the Samurai, in his daily life and in his work. As Ghost Dog reads and quotes from the code, the viewer learns about both the code and its applications to modern-day living. The concept of men living by an ancient code, despite the modern world rushing around them, filled with unhonorable individuals, is fascinating to watch. In this way its easy to compare this film to some classic westerns.Forrest Whitaker gives a very impressive performance as Ghost Dog. He manages to play an Anti-hero, that you can't resist rooting for, despite his violent and illegal occupation. He accomplishes this with a subdued and subtle performance, as he interprets and practices the Hagakure. Whitaker is an example of perfect casting, and really nailed this role as a giant, hip-hop listening, pigeon loving, samurai code living, hit man warrior.If you are a fan of movies, filled with a cast of quirky and unique characters, then you should watch this film. If you enjoy films with a philosophical message, that at the same time present the world, as a dark comedy, then you should watch this film. If you like classic westerns, samurai, or gangster movies you should watch this film. If you are a fan of arty independent films then you should watch this film.As you can probably tell from my suggestions above, of people who would enjoy watching Ghost Dog Way of the Samurai, I really enjoyed this movie. It certainly left me with the film spinning around in my dome, and wanting to discuss the picture after watching it. I realize, I probably missed about half of what was going on in this film, and will certainly need to re watch it to catch things I may have missed. For instance what is going on with all the mafia guys watching cartoons? You could probably write-up a whole post on that subject alone. Ghost Dog The way of the Samuari is that kind of movie, one of my favorite kinds, one that makes you think.Like what you read, then check out our film blog at 3guys1movie.com "}{"Title":"It shouldn't work, but Oh how it does.","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is one scene, a really short one, perhaps 40 seconds, in Ghost Dog that stands out from the rest. It just seems shoe-horned in, inappropriate.Wrong.The rest, thankfully, is brilliant, but that one scene lingers.It's hard to explain but Ghost Dog is easier to watch than to read about, as it sounds pretty boring. (But maybe that's my writing.) As the crappy lawyer in The Castle said It's the vibe. And it must be the vibe, because nothing else adds up.Forest Whittaker should be the last guy cast to play a highly trained, nimble, almost invisible assassin. His selection should be seen as an insult to hundreds of other younger, fitter (OK Asian) actors, until they see the movie that is.Many years ago a mobster named Louie saved a young black kid from death at the hands of muggers, the kid later showed up and swore an oath of loyalty to Louie (who by the way is a dead ringer for Fat Tony from The Simpsons), before disappearing, only to correspond by carrier pigeon.Louie and the guy known only as Ghost Dog came to an agreement where Ghost Dog would be his personal assassin, untraceable and 100% efficient. Ghost Dog lived by the Code of the Samurai, and called himself Louie's retainer, which is basically his hit-man.Unfortunately on the latest job Ghost Dog's work was witnessed by the daughter of a Mafia Don, who is none too pleased at his widdle girl's distwess and he orders GD killed.D.E.D.D.Unfortunately as the mob have grown disgracefully and they are now all old, fat Italian guys who wheeze and grunt opening jam jars, they take some short cuts in finding Ghost Dog and instead butcher his pet birds.Now, it's personal. (But isn't it always?) That's it basically, the strength of the film is Whittaker's titular character. Even though he is obviously a big husky black guy Ghost Dog moves with grace and ease, you can really see how he could remain largely unnoticed as he seems to be for most of the film.There are long sequences in the film where only background noise and music is heard, in fact were it not for Ghost Dog's only friend, a French speaking ice cream man, and a young girl who he swaps books and compares reviews with, Forest could get through 90% of the film with no dialogue. And you only think I'm making those two characters up.Ghost Dog himself lives on a rooftop, alone aside from his pigeon buddies, he drives only the best (stolen) cars and carries with him his own personal soundtrack&#x85; I empathise there, I hate putting up with bad radio, why wade through hundreds of sh*tty songs to get to the couple of good ones they play each day? Unless you are easily pleased. I find it more efficient to put good songs personally selected on some sort of information disc and carry them with me.Ghost Dog's only rule in life is to live by the code, something that he reiterates through brief spoken passages from his personal lifestyle guide. There are no catch phrases spouted, no fancy or flashy moves and no breathtaking stunts. Also, given this is a samurai film, Ghost Dog amazingly doesn't use a one inch punch or karate kick for the entire flick.He doesn't need to, Ghost Dog adheres only to his own standards and plays by his own adopted set of rules. So does this film, and it should be better known than it is&#x85; Oh, and the crappy scene? The RZA (world-class producer, founding member of the Wu-Tang Clan, over-rated MC) does the music for the film, well by the way, but in one scene he walks up to Ghost Dog, spits out some crappy line and moves on. It makes no sense aside from getting RZA a cameo in this film. I hated that bit.Final Rating &#x96; 9 / 10. Whatever the vibe is, it's one I unabashedly support. This is a brilliant example of a simple story well told.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Jim Jarmusch gives us the first Zen crime drama","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog, the story of an inner city dweller who lives by the way of the samurai soaks up its premise not in blood splatter but in level-headed absurdity and complexity, a focus that takes much more time to absorb. It's dialogue-heavy and meditative, taking time to observe and explain character motivations.Still, the movie is fun in ways that you wouldn't expect - the antagonists are comprised of the worst mob probably ever caught on film they are regularly shown whacking the wrong people, watching cartoons (the movies sly way of equating mob violence to cartoon violence) or falling behind on their rent. Ghost Dog, played by Forest Whitaker, is quite a character himself, trying to make sense of the world through Zen judgment and ancient ways by frequently quoting relevant passages from Hagakure, the book of the Samurai. Furthermore his 'best friend' is an ice cream truck man who can only speak French. This combined with the fact that the movie isn't afraid to address questions of morality and racism make the movie even more of a head-scratcher but nevertheless entertaining.To top it all off, RZA's soundtrack is one of the highlights of the film, layering it with great old-style Wu-Tang hip-hop that is enough to make the movie worth watching itself. "},{"Title":"Unusual, deadpan classic from Jarmusch","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The instructively titled Ghost Dog - The Way of the Samurai is a frankly magnificent film; it is immensely satisfying with its winningly subtle humour and is ultimately profound. This is the third and definitely the best Jarmusch picture I have seen. I did appreciate Stranger than Paradise and enjoyed Night on Earth up to a point, but this goes way beyond what those films managed, in my opinion.RZA's score is superb, appropriately meditative, ghostly and haunting. The whole thing seems a remarkable coming together of talents Whitaker, Jarmusch and Wu-Tang pooling their resources to produce an odd, requiem-like crime film, which articulates a Zen outlook. The locations - mainly Jersey City, NJ - are well selected and the supporting cast deftly underplays in a way you so rarely see in today's films. And then there is this pivotal bit of dialogue towards the end that I instantly recognised as being sampled (*very* appropriately) in Burial's dubstep elegy 'Gutted' (2006)Me and him we're from different ancient tribes Now we're both almost ancient Sometimes, you've got to stick with the ancient ways The old-school ways Do you understand me? Watch this film with an open mind; you will be immersed. "},{"Title":"I Liked it....despite some glaring contradictions......","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One reviewer referred to Ghost Dog as an art-house film. If so, I had an easier time understanding most of it than I did with other films of that vintage. I loved the film because of the moral under-current...being true to one's code and what not. But it seemed to me that there are some contradictions that were not settled to my satisfaction. While killing one's opponent can be part of that code...does it conform with the theft of cars? Or with robbing people of their clothes or other personal belongings? A code is a measure of nobility, a watermark beneath which no one who adheres to that code must fall. I can see that when Ghost Dog is directly threatened, he must resort to defensive measures to preserve his own life. I cannot reconcile that with murder for hire...but, a Samurai warrior is a soldier...a trained killer. Ghost Dog is a tragic figure, a loner, and it is easy for one to empathize--if not sympathize--with him because he appears to want to adhere to a do-right lifestyle. His life was saved by a mobster, and the life debt leads him into the murder for hire business...and it all goes well ....until one day there was an un-expected witness to a hit he did on a made-man in the mob. That witness...the mob boss' daughter, who was supposed to be out of town...but wasn't. This unfortunate quirk of fate leads to the tragedy that Ghost Dog, as a film, becomes. It is something out of classic literature. But it has a watchability to it, and will keep the viewer interested. One other contradiction...all of the gangsters are old guys...over the hill. One of them even digs 'Flava Flav' and his song Cold Lampin' . It does not strike me as credible...but I suppose it could happen, as some old men tune in to the younger generation at times...mainly in a futile attempt to re-capture their own youth. There are no real winners here...and the lesson we are left with is  this is the consequence of being true to one's code. But then again, that is not such a bad thing either, and it rings of nobility, if not of morality. This would be a rewarding watch for those who care to view it...and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"East meets West. Gangsta meets Gangster.","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I almost hated this movie. At first I didn't understand the too-cool-for-school attitudes mixed with ridiculous situations. But then, as a fan of Jarmusch films, I realized that Jarmusch is never to be taken 100% seriously. Films like Dead Man, Down By Law and especially Coffee and Cigarettes should teach us that JJ is a master of deadpan comedy.Of all the Jarmusch films I've seen, Ghost Dog is the deadest of the deadpan, meaning it's done with such a straight face you might misconstrue the jokes as flaws. Little things like the way the hero holsters his gun (by whipping it around like a sword) or the mafia's obsession with cartoons, or the outrageous ways the hero manages things (the plumbing scene is an absolute RIOT!)--these are all part of Jarmusch's peculiar humour.Once you grasp that, you can move on to the poetry behind it all. In a nutshell, this film is about discontinuity. A gangsta from the 'hood listens to rap while studying 18th century samurai philosophy. Meanwhile, the most powerful mafia family in the city can't pay the rent (and the most feared boss in town is nutty as an acorn). Meanwhile, there's a French guy in the park who can't speak a word of English but can understand our hero perfectly. If you watch this movie, stay on the lookout for this kind of stuff peppered throughout.There are periodic vignettes of Eastern philosophy which may confuse, confound or plain irritate you. I found it helped to pause the film each time so I could read & digest them fully. Be aware, some of it is intended to be a bit silly (like the one about samurai makeup tips. Yes, the book Hagakure talks about eeeeverything).And a final key to enjoying this film is to understand the reference to Rashomon which appears several times. The story they reference (also the film by Kurosawa) is all about subjective perception and distortions of truth. In keeping with that, Jarmusch takes a somewhat expressionistic approach to his camera work, often making you feel as if you're in a dream. Recurring symbolism fits in perfectly.I have some minor criticisms of this film but nothing that should make you want to avoid seeing it, so I'll keep that to myself. Overall, this was both entertaining and philosophical. Heavily weighted on the philosophy. "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It was at the Santa Barbara Film Festival, seeing Forest Whitaker on stage, that I saw a clip of this from from director Jim Jarmusch (Broken Flowers), so I was very interested in seeing it in full. Basically, in Jersey City is African American hit-man calling himself Ghost Dog (Whitaker), who lives alone with a company of homing pigeons, which he uses to communicate, and he follows Hagakure The Way of the Samurai. His master Louie (John Tormey), who saved his life eight years ago, is part of the mob, and unfortunately when the boss' daughter, Louise Vargo (Tricia Vessey) witnesses a hit, the mob are now after him. First to die are the pigeons, and in response, Ghost Dog plans to kill all the mob, except of course Louie and Louise. On occasion, he talks to best friend, the ice cream selling Frech-speaking Hiatian who understands no word of, and the African American child girl who he discusses books with (this was the scene I saw). It is just a question of whether he will stick to all the rules of his Samurai ways, and whether the mob will find and kill him before he kills them. Also starring Cliff Gorman as Sonny Valerio, Henry Silva as Ray Vargo and Isaach De Bankolé as Raymond. Whitaker manages to make a very calm character very cool, and even with the tiny moments of violence, he doesn't spoil the story too much, a good crime drama. Good! "},{"Title":"different perspective","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is a very unique film like the other Jarmusch film. A lot of characterization of film make it unique and special like Whitaker acting. The charisma in the character pictured by him perfectly.Film runs in the philosophy of samurai and one man believe completely that concept. Because of dedication Whitaker did his attempt. The mob does not understand why this man act like that and they think he is a weired guy. A lot of perspective could be found in the film like Louie^s perspective, mobs perspective and Whitaker^s perspective everyone interpret the situation different like ghost dog believe and respect his master and he is ready to die for him and he thinks that mob did mistake to him. Louie thought only survive he knows that ghost dog did not mistake but he accept sacrifying ghost dog, mob things that Whitaker must be dead because of mistake the girl who is daughter of Vargo thought that the whole events meaningless. The book Rashamon that belong to Vargo^s daughter was about crime and the people in that crime. All people in the event tell different story about crime which story assist that he was innocent. The book rashamon uses in the film brilliant.The way of acceptance of death in mob and Whitaker shows the missing of the old days in the gangster life the man who kill the police says that like the man killed us like old days or something.Also the conversation in the car about killing a lady policeman is brilliant.Pearline and the ice cream guy give another dimension to the film they proof the ghost dog is real man and the girl idealized the student of ghost dog.In conclusion this film was very good Jarmusch did his job well and he explained story and the way of samurai is well so we can accept the death of Whitaker and love the dramatic final of the film "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I believe the insightful parts of the film are the passages after the scene has finished. I think Jim Jarmusch caught the essence of what a samurai should be. The Rza contrabution as far as the soundtrack goes, was impeccable especially the track Flying birds which is shown when he lets the birds out the cage and he begins to wave a flag of sort.Thee Mobster characters porvided the comedy, they really broung out satire in the film. There wasn't one scene of where I didn't laugh or chuckle that involved the mobsters. Sonny Valerio was the funniest he really contributed.overall the film was great ( The end is important in all things) Classic! "},{"Title":"best samurai film I've seen","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a real jewel of film, the best samurai film I have ever seen and the best of Jarmusch to date. It is the story of a lonely killer to hire living his life in the urban jungle of an American city and living his life according to a code that does not belong to this universe.Kurosawa and Terentino are the two obvious influences for Jarmusch in this film. The quality of the story and of the approach transcends these influences though. Forest Whitaker's samurai is also a human trying to communicate with the people around, but he is missing education and opportunities for communication. His two friends are a girl kid with whom he is exchanging pulp fiction and a Haitian ice-cream street seller who is speaking French and understands no English, but communication is a human level that transcends the language.Jarmusch's skill in telling a story is brilliant here. The premises of the story are unbelievable, but his art of directing the actors and the fantastic performance that they give together with the sincerity of the style make the whole film credible and moving. "},{"Title":"Overrated formula film","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This formula may sound appealing to many of the following -hiphop tunes (soundtrack by RZA himself); -ancient Japanese little philosophies of the Samurai ways; -gangsters vs lone black hit-man; -slow paced, off key, indie style of filming.But there is not much happening in this film. Gangsters are being depicted as total losers, watching cartoons and not even being able to pay the rent. Ghost Dog is a lonely hit-man that is professional and methodical and lives by a Samurai code ever since he was saved by one of the gangsters, to be his retainer. For some reason the gangsters want to kill him after a job he did (first he was ordered to kill a gangster but now they're angry about the killing...it didn't make sense to me). From then on, he decides to get rid of the gangsters, however he can't kill his former savior because of the loyalty demanded by the samurai code. This may seem like an interesting story with plenty of conflict but it was rather boring. There was a total lack of suspense. The film just showed him at work like it was your ordinary boring day at the office. The ending didn't immediately make sense but the clash between conflicting codes eplains a bit.What is likable is how Ghost Dog connects with the little girl and the ice cream vendor (who doesn't know a word of English), but these are not the main elements of the film. The quotes used from the samurai code seem at times to be inserted merely for their coolness factor rather than always adding something, but there are occasions where they fit very well. I would have liked the film more if the gangsters had been more real and more frightening. Also Ghost Dog should have been a little bit less invincible. Heavyweight Forest Whitaker walks around shooting guns like it's a day at the park.Overall this is an overrated, formulaic Indie film. Not too terrible but not great. "}{"Title":"Nothing seems to make sense anymore.","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It has been said that you learn to appreciate Scotch. It is not something you like on your first try. I feel that is also true of Jim Jarmusch.It took more than one viewing before I appreciated Broken Flowers, and I imagine it will take several viewings before I appreciate all that this film has to offer. That's OK, as Jarmusch himself said of his films, It's great that the audience have their own different takes on what they have just seen, and don't know all the answers. Often, I don't know all the answers either. A warrior that lives by a code thousands of years old comes in contact with warriors who also live by a code that is dying. They are relics of the past that have not come to grips with the present. They have morphed into characters that reflect the cartoons they constantly watch. Henry Silva is fascinating as an aging Don after so many films in which he plays the sadistic killer.But, Oscar winner Forest Whitaker (Last King of Scotland) is brilliant as Ghost Dog, the killer who lives by the Samurai code, even to the point of accepting the time and circumstances of his death.The most fascinating aspect of the film, however, is the communication that went on between Ghost Dog and a Haitain ice-cream vendor that only spoke French, and a little girl that read prolifically. A whole book could be written about this, but I leave it to the viewer to study on his/her own.It was a good film, but like Scotch, Jarmusch is an acquired taste, and must be viewed repeatedly to appreciate. "},{"Title":"Brilliant parody of the Mafiosi as a contrast to the ancient samurai code of conduct and combat&#133;","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me be blunt, up front this is not Jarmusch's best movie to date. From my perspective, Dead Man (1995) still holds that honour.But, it is very good, reducing the menace of the mafia to a group of aging and doddering half-wits whose only real claim to intelligence is the ability to turn on or off the TV. To push the point even further, Jarmusch has them watching cartoons from the 1930s and 1940s, most of the time, and even in their autos. If only that were absolutely true, hmmm? Life on earth would then be a lot better&#133;and simpler, too.The basic story is not special it's just another crack at the hit-man scenario, as Ghost Dog (Whittaker) must eliminate a mafia gang hell-bent on whacking him; and he has to do all that before they eliminate him. Ghost Dog is special because he lives by the Samurai code, in direct contrast to the code of the Cosa Nostra &#150; which, as I indicated above, is very much mangled by Jarmusch by accentuating its absurdities and idiosyncrasies.And that all makes for some typically Jarmuschian comedy over-the-top accents and mannerisms, sight gags in abundance (just note the nose of Sonny Valerio's Cadillac sticking out from his garage, too small to accommodate such a large auto implication &#150; he's too cheap to buy a bigger house!), and the limits and irony of language (Ghost Dog's best friend can speak French only).As a hit-man, Whittaker played a better role in Diary of a Hit-man (1991); see that one if you can because it's a better story and it's no comedy. As Ghost Dog, however, he's shown to be as equally ruthless as any mafia assassin when necessary, but differs from them fundamentally by reason of his rigid adherence to his code, something they cannot understand. As a contrast to the ineptitude of the mafia, it works well; as a philosophy of life &#150; or death, if you will &#150; it leaves much to be desired, of course. But then, this is just a movie...Fans of Jarmusch will recognize other traits of this great director off-the-wall music sound track, continuous scenes of city streets with the camera looking out from the inside of autos, oddball characters (the man building a boat on top of a roof; the two bear hunters; the attempted mugging that Ghost Dog simply watches; the samurai (RZA) in battle fatigues he meets, greets and then passes by) appearing at seemingly random moments, and the Ice Cream vendor &#150; all of which testify to Jarmusch's fascination with cities and how people live their ordinary &#150; or not so ordinary &#150; lives, on a daily basis.Yet, it is in the ordinary that Jarmusch sees the extra-ordinary the little girl Pearline (Camille Winbush) who befriends Ghost Dog and who exchanges ideas about books with him; the Ice Cream vendor, Raymond (Isaach de Bankole) who is happy simply to sell ice cream; the boat builder on top of the apartment block... All beautifully done, with a special mention for Camille Winbush, who exhibits great acting talent.I could go on more about the quality of the cast and the many scenes that are so typically Jarmuschian, but there is a word limit here and I don't want to bore you. Suffice to say that the stand-out performance, for my money, goes to Cliff Gorman as Sonny Valerio as a parody of gangsterism, the man's a sheer genius and it's worth seeing this movie just to let him show you how good he is.Highly recommended for all gangster film enthusiasts &#150; and, of course, fans of Jarmusch. "},{"Title":"Whittaker's best!","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is Forest Whittaker's best sleeper independent movie. I picked it up from the video store on a fluke. Saw it, and bought it the next day. I would suggest reading the books that are spoken of in the movie. It will give you a better understanding of the film. The mix of mafioso and pre tokugawa period values make for a contant action drama experience. The parts played by the usual mafia gangster actors were predictable. But the film will make you want to research Japanese history. The ending is sad as with some movies. Kurasawa himself would have been proud of this film. It is on par with Yojimbo and Sanjuro with a hip-hop twist. The cameos of some rap artist could have been left out. But none the less doesn't detract from the high qualit of the film. "},{"Title":"It's a bad movie, but not the worse one.","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Indeed this movie has a lot of funny action, bizarre elements & some existentialism in it's pseudo-philosophy. The thing is that this movie mixes that Japanese things, like samurai & Hagakure, whit a contemporary problematic, like gangs or even a Mafia (that of course remit us to Roma times and that stuff). The principal character is something most like a Rounin and, by his similarity whit an adorable pigeon, the movie most be entitled Shadow pigeon. Thus, this movie entertained me more than that crap named STAR WARS, which also have a samurai thematic, because the well managed contrast between hilarant moments and violent stages. In one word like Sartre's speech, that is bad things tolled in an existentialism way Nauseabund. "},{"Title":"Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Many characters in Ghost Dog are typical Mafiosi, the way we've seen them in films of Francis Ford Coppola or Martin Scorsese. They are killing one of their best friends and then offer their condolences to the family of the victim. And the family accepts it. But at the same time director Jim Jarmusch shows us real loyalty in shape of Ghost Dog, very well played by Forest Whitaker. It's touching how he's straightened out with himself, how he treats birds and dogs with respect. He is a lonesome guy that hangs on to an ancient philosophy, that still has much truth in it, but isn't appropriate for modern times. The Way of the Samurai is found in death is one of the first lines in the movie and Ghost Dog is 100% on this way. It also features some quite funny scenes, mostly involving the curious Mafiosi, and it features an amazing soundtrack by RZA. "},{"Title":"Excellent film, you must watch!","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I didn't know what to expect when I first heard of this film, the whole idea of way of the samurai and hit men didn't quite sound right in my head. How wrong i was. The two concepts are brought together beautifully. The acting and general feel of the film was superb. The character driven plot was a nice change from most story driven films. I have read the (small amount) of bad reviews about this film and have to tell you all that they are truly mistaken. People have been saying there is not enough action and there is too much film that could be cut out etc. Each one of these parts adds huge character to each role in the film. The only bad thing about the film is that storyline can be slightly confusing and blurred and a bit of a marmite ending (either going to love it or hate it) A must see film, absolutely fantastic! "},{"Title":"Intriguing Modern-Day Assassin With Old-World Philosophy Art-House Thriller","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ghost Dog is a reclusive hit-man who follows an ancient samurai code of ethics. When he falls foul of some mafia hoodlums he has been working for, he must fight for his survival without betraying either his master - who is one of the gangsters - or his honour.This is a great patchwork movie of different influences and styles. It's more commercial than most of Jarmusch's abstract character-based films, with an almost-conventional thriller plot, but it's still pretty spaced-out, thought-provoking and languorously-paced, in his best traditions. Is it an indie art-movie set in a big bad ghetto (it was filmed on great locations in Jersey City), is it a badass gangsta flick full of high-powered guns, gadgets and machismo, or is it a Kurosawa-style character study of morality and belief ? It's all of these and extremely entertaining too, with very unusual but enjoyable performances. Whitaker is the business as Ghost Dog and gives a compelling physical performance; despite his size he moves like a dancer through the film, communing with his pigeons, constantly reading, and watching the world pass slowly by from rooftops and through car windscreens. He is ably supported by Tormey as his nervous turncoat of a master, DeBankole as the cheerful ice-cream man who speaks only French, Silva as the blank-faced head-honcho obsessed with old Walter Lantz cartoons, and many others. For a moviehound like me though the real charm of this picture is the style; Jarmusch constantly employees simple yet beautiful techniques (long dolly shots, basic mattes, medium closeups held for two or three more beats than is comfortable, slowed-down-but-not-slow motion) with manifold elegant touches (the bird landing on Ghost Dog's rifle, the weird four-eyed guy played by Rigano who suddenly cops a heart-attack, the mugger who foolishly picks on a karate expert, etc). Featuring a great wailing rap/jazz score by The Wu-Tang Clan's RZA (who has a cameo near the end), this is a great semi-religious gangster flick to be recommended, as are all the books Ghost Dog endorses ! "},{"Title":"A film of complex duality","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jim Jarmusch is, in my eyes, a contemporary genius of cinema. His movies never fail to bowl me over, drawing me into stories that are both entertaining and complex. Ghost Dog Way of the Samurai is no different.The film follows the journey of a young hit-man, Ghost Dog, brilliantly played by Forest Whitaker, who is betrayed by a dysfunctional Mafia family after a bungled hit. Although it sounds pretty generic, the film is filled with thought-provoking questions. We begin to analyse our own moral and philosophical beliefs as Ghost Dog analyses his. If this description sounds fairly pretentious, that's probably because it is. When a film is trying to be this philosophical there are going to be some rather conceited moments. That said however, these are few and far between. For the most part, the film is emotional, powerful and intelligent.But the really great part about Ghost Dog, is the fact that it never takes a clear path. Jarmusch explores an interesting duality when dealing with his protagonist's unswerving loyalty. On the one hand, Ghost Dog's obsession with tradition leads to his own personal downfall. However, on the flip-side of the coin, it is this loyalty that sets him apart from the rest of us. Sure he suffers as a result, but in the end isn't Ghost Dog a better man than most of us?Even the film's tag-line exemplifies this duality live by the code, die by the code. Aren't they both as important as each other?Now I've rambled for a bit, I implore you to go see this movie. It might change the way you think about Jim Jarmusch&#133;but it might not. Either way, see what you think. Give Ghost Dog a try. "},{"Title":"Not a classic, not an epic... but holy crap is it good.","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Don't watch Ghost Dog expecting a deep epic thriller. Watch Ghost Dog expecting nothing. This movie wasn't made to be a classic, it was made to be an amazing story about heroism, revenge, cruelty, loss, and style.It's a movie about a man who is in debt to a mobster, who's a part of a low-class family of gangsters trying to stay afoot even though their business is clearly dieing. This man takes up the code of the Samurai, builds a house on the roof of a building, trains and befriends a flock of pigeons, and begins killing people for the mobster who saved his life. Unfortunately, one of the hits goes wrong when the lead mobsters daughter is present during a hit, and the entire mob family (except for the guy who saved Ghost Dog) go after him. The movie climaxes about two thirds of the way in and doesn't disappoint.This is a moving emotionally packed movie featuring one of my favorite hits I've seen in a movie. Not only that, but Forest does an amazing job at his character.But seriously... who would have though a movie about a gangster-samurai seeking revenge on the mafia would actually be a good movie? I regret not paying any interest to this movie before.K.T. "},{"Title":"Samuari Code or Asmimov Robot Law","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a well mounted and excellent action film. But as to being all about the Samurai I would question the Director's understanding of Samurai as understood and interpreted in the films of Akira Kurosawa.WARNING SOME MAY INTREPRET THE FOLLOWING AS A SPOILER The code involved here seems to be that a Samurai can not harm his benefactor. However, when a Samurai's life is threatened as it is in all the Kurasawa films he defends it. At no time does a Kurosawa Samurai allow his life to be taken except in defense of another human life. Other than that it is wasteful. He may walk away as in SWORD OF DOOM (which is not by Kurosawa) or he may die protecting a child as in SAMURAI REBELLION.Now, getting beyond that it is a masterful film, well made, photographed and acted especially by Forest Whitaker. However some of the casting looks like Mob rejects. I have seen all these mob faces in other badly done mob films; except for Henry Silva who has been around for some 50 years. But even Henry doesn't seem to know what this film is about. He looks like he's going to fall down and die any minute and simply doesn't have the fear factor in his crooked smile that once existed.My favorite character is the ice cream man wonderfully played by Isaac de Bankole a Hatian who doesn't speak a word of English but is charming in his confusion of American life. (he carries a gun in his ice cream truck) As good as it is the movie begins with a really hard logic to swallow.Because Ghost Dog has carried out an execution with an eye witness (in this case Henry Silva's daughter)the mob decides they have to go after him. Huh??? Since she's the mob boss's why does this matter? She's not going to talk. So I don't really understand why they went after Ghost Dog. Seems contrived but without this device there's no plot.And then the other thing.....the Samurai code which seems to me to be the Asimov robot rule (you can't hurt your master).However, it was a thoroughly entertaining film with a great performance by Forest Whitaker. "}{"Title":"Powdered Rouge ?!?","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a brooding, atmospheric film focusing on ancient cultures striving to survive in the modern world. Forest Whitaker is Ghost Dog, an unlikely, 'big-boned' African-American man who follows the ancient Japanese code of the Samurai ... Rescued as a young man from a beating and possible death by an old Mafia guy, Louie, Ghost Dog carries out contract hits for Louie (and by extension the Mafia) in his role as Louie's 'Retainer'.Whitaker is exceptional as Ghost Dog, his bulky frame carried stealthily throughout, the serious spirituality of his character worn sublimely ...When one of Ghost Dog's hits is inadvertently blown, things become complicated, and the aging, almost comical branch of the Mafia that Louie runs with decide to whack Ghost Dog ...This is a beautiful film that examines culture, friendship and understanding - loner Ghost Dog's best friend is an Ice Cream salesman who only speaks French, Ghost Dog speaks only English - yet through subtitles the audience finds that they are remarkably on the same wavelength and are often talking about the same thing - also, Ghost Dog develops a friendship with serious young reader Pearline, which hints at the possibility of her following his Samurai ways in the future ...The clash of the coarse, cartoonish Mafioso culture with Ghost Dog's way of the Samurai is the key to the movie, but it really has a lot to say with little dialogue uttered ... the soundtrack, provided by Wu-Tang clans' RZA, is unbelievable, he later went on to do the Kill Bill soundtracks - the stuff in Ghost Dog is more minimalistic, yet no less arresting, and compliments the visuals brilliantly ...A very philosophical movie, if you look at the cover and think you're in for a chop sockey shoot 'em up you'll be very disappointed, whilst there is some violence it is generally a very sombre, thoughtful film .... some nice touches Ghost Dog appears to be 'invisible' when he wears his hood, although it is only subtley suggestedLouie and Ghost Dog have differing memories of the day Louie rescued Ghost Dog, Ghost Dog remembers a man pulling a gun on him, Louie recalls the gun being pointed at himthe Mafia are always seen to be watching old cartoons aging gangster Sonny Valerio's rendition of Public Enemy's tongue-twisting rap 'Cold Lampin with Flavour' is a fricken classic "},{"Title":"Absolutely stunning","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1999, I didn't know a jar from a Jarmusch so when released, Ghostdog meant didly. I am now a Jarmuschaholic, having seen at least a half dozen of his minimalist masterpieces. Point by point this is a mob movie. So are thousands of others almost all of which are empty clichés. However, Jarmusch's cast of a thousand thugs was fresh and original especially the blind guy with cane and exclamation marks in voice, the brilliant limping cigar smoker and Tony's eyes. I need qualify the next statement. Despite how it may sound, it is an extraordinary compliment. Please do not take out of context. As Ghostdog, Forrest Whitaker is a creep. Our best actors become so&#150;-think DeNiro as Jake La Motta--because they creep into the skin and bones of a character so convincingly, we think that that is not an actor but a reality. I kept flashing to the gay character Whitaker portrayed in Pret a Petit (sp?), the Altman flick about the fashion industry. In that role Whitaker was all effeminate smile and tushy swagger. In GHOSTDOG, more than dialog, he reads Samurai scripture superimposed. His inflection is phenomenal. I am a second generation Italian American and if I dind't know better I woulda bet the house, that was an Italian voice behind the text. There was also something he did with his shoulder, subtly. I cannot watch the Academy Awards for reasons as simple as this Forrest Whitaker did not win one for Ghost Dog. Two characters are counterweights, with Ghostdog as fulcrum and the mob at the other end. The French ice cream guy (wow!) and the girl with books in her lunchbox. She was of another world and I wanna go there. This is the only Jarmusch movie that isn't necessary to brief non-Jarmuschians to appreciate. The score in and of itself is reason to see it. I want to go on public record to THANK the Harrisonburg (Virginia) library for giving me in 2006 (not lending--giving me to keep for myself!!!) the videocassette version of GHOSTDOG. Further gratitude goes to Mr. Jarmusch. I want to eat the crumbs off his plate. "},{"Title":"artistic, highly intellectual","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Ghost Dog' is the story of a man who lives in a world of his own but who is entitled to work as a hit-man/gangster. This film looks at his story. It's a highly artistic and intellectual film. It's minimal in what it shows and what it does not show, so that any element that is shown is regarded as highly important for an understanding of the story and, in particular, the samurai. It's also a very religious film, in a sense. It's the sort of film that I would expect would be greatly enjoyed and appreciated by some but disregarded by others. This film will make you think, and it may even make you think about your life too. Hopefully you'll enjoy it too. "},{"Title":"Polished surface, but deeper than the average gangster/assassin film","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story behind this film is perhaps a little far-fetched and may seem a very vivid, fantastical display of imagination, but the polished movement and flow of it, more often identified with plot-based action movies, hides a very subtle, deep exploration of the central character's nature. The narration read from the book, brief excerpts from a text describing the ways of Samurai, provokes many questions over loyalty and friendship, resolve and courage - all the expected topics, but given a new light we don't often see in western cinema that makes them fresh and not clichéd.Of particular mention should be the soundtrack. While it won't be to everyone's taste, I felt that it was, at times, superbly evocative and perfectly blended with the film. The free-jazz saxophone playing as the storm gathers was an especially good choice; I always felt that the sound and the scene complemented each other, as they should for any film. Oh, and Sonny Valerio's attachment to rap was something I found highly amusing.When I think of this film, the first image I see is that of a pigeon sailing across a clear sky. Few films are able to leave me with such a permanent association, only those that have made a firm impression on me. I heartily recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Don't expect Tarantino","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It seems to me that most people who disrespect this movie have a problem with what it isn't (i.e., Tarantino, or yet another noir update) more than what it is. It is not a movie that is meant to actively engage the viewer either emotionally or intellectually . . . a sort of minimalist cinema, I guess. In that respect, Ghost Dog is a lot like 2001 A Space Odyssey. Like 2001, it is considered slow, numbing, and overly stylistic. And, like 2001, I watch this movie over and over again. It has an almost narcotic effect.To those who complain that the movie is all style and no substance, I would point out that the style *is* the substance, in much the same way that it is in Stranger Than Paradise, another (early) Jarmusch film. Here, the dialogue is superb (Tarantino, as good as he is, could learn a little about economy from Jarmusch) but holds the viewer at a distance. The acting is, from top to bottom, as good as any movie ensemble I can remember. RZA's soundtrack stands as a minor classic, right up there with Ry Cooder's Paris Texas soundtrack. The movie is beautifully shot. But . . . this is not a movie which strives to be a classic in any traditional sense.Don't watch this expecting profound philosophical insight the Eastern philosophies are stage props only, and don't stand up to scrutiny. Don't watch this movie for the action while the action scenes are very good, they tend to get swallowed up in the ambiance of the movie. And, while the movie is hilarious at points, it definitely isn't a comedy. Above all, don't watch this movie if you want spectacle, because that is exactly what it is not. To enjoy this movie, you need to be able to get lost in it the same way you can get lost looking at a painting, or a photograph, or a landscape (uh, if you haven't guessed by now, it's an art flick . . . if you have no tolerance for art flicks, run away screaming).If Jim Jarmusch has made a great movie, I haven't seen it. This is a very good one. "},{"Title":"This is a very good movie.","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Obviously. All the negative comments seem to come from people with the attention spans of goldfish. This is the only explanation possible for the puerile suggestion that Tarantino could have done something better with the material. This is not a flash-bang-wallop piece of superficial style-driven boy-movie trailer trash; it's a sophisticated film for grownups about duty, self-discipline and the contradictions inherent in modern and ancient mythologies. It's a beautiful film that deserves several viewings and gets better every time. Jarmusch is an artist, which makes him tougher to watch than an entertainer like your beloved Quentin, but ultimately it also means he's way more satisfying and potent. Don't expect Hollywood conventions, and don't assume the reason this movie isn't shot or edited like every Hollywood genre trip is that JJ can't cut it. Any halfwit can follow the continuity system - a genius might choose not to. Please can we have only intelligent commentary on this film from now on? "},{"Title":"Samurai meaning To serve, unique, cool and good soundtrack","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog is performed by the excellent Forrest Whitaker, whom I regard very highly as an actor (Platoon). This film has been aimed at varied groups of society and I believe that it does impress in that aspect. The soundtrack boasts Wu - Tang at their best, although you must be an admirer of then to appreciate. Regarding the actual film 'Ghost Dog' is very different to what you may expect, smarter and more intimate than what you first thought. Such is the touching connection between 'Ghost Dog' and his French counterpart; although they both speak different languages together they seem to have a sense of understanding and remarkably hold down a genuine conversation. The film itself is very original with the settings giving a very surreal atmosphere to the film. The rooftop in which 'Ghost Dog' is situated gives his character a very personal edge, the birds that are his friends are somewhat unique and in all his dedication to them and the way of the Samurai gives us the viewer the ability to be at his level and understand him. A Samurai lives to serve their code and for 'Ghost Dog' his conflict with the local Mafia allows him to fulfil his beliefs; the showdown between 'Ghost Dog' and a Mafia hit-man brings about the sad demise of our main character but as it works with the Samurai it is a great honour to die in 'battle'. A fresh film, which although is quite surreal still gives good viewing with a good script and original characters.  "},{"Title":"Amazing Flick, One of My Favorites","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, Ghost Dog is an unbilled remake of Le Samourai. Sort of. The plot and style is very different, clearly, and Jarmusch's simple and apathetic direction is still very aparrent. Hell, like Fistfull of Dollars to Yojimbo, this is a different movie. This is not a remake like Dirty Dancing Havana nights. Ghost Dog stands on its own, quite easily. Forrest Whitaker and Issach De Bankole give great, stirring performances. The music is moody and great(RZA became a musical influence of mine this way). The cinematography by Robby Mueller is simple and still stylish. I can't find much flaw here... except maybe the script isn't perfect the whole way through. Still, it's a strange story played out perfectly. This film could have totally failed as art, but it's really awesome. My favorite Jim Jarmusch movie!Ghost Dog The Way of the Samurai Final Cut A----------- Direction A- Script B Style A+ Acting A Music A+Highly recommended! Go see it. "},{"Title":"A bit much but worth going there","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A little too self-consciously witty at points, but an overall entertaining film. Whitaker is a mysterious hit-man who lives by the code of the samurai. His retainer is a mobster who hires him to rub out another member of the gang. Due to inner politics, the mob decides it needs to take revenge on Whitaker.Jarmusch goes to lengths to drench the film with irony. Sometimes the film suffers for this. In one scene, the mobsters have a Pulp Fiction style romance about niggers and indians having weird nick names. One of them even starts rapping, which simply isn't buyable, and a real stretch for a laugh.Of course the entire scene it set up to pay off when they use their own nicknames (like Jimmy the Snake) in the very next discussion. It's a bit too obvious.Another plot hole that bugged me. The mobsters are dead set on killing Ghost Dog. When the actually find his pad, they kill his birds and wreck it, rather than waiting and killing him. Of course this just angers him more...  "},{"Title":"Mystique - POSSIBLE SPOILER","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one I most humbly like to categorize as being, you might say, out of this world. Though the basic story itself is, as the word already says, basic, it's all the little things in this movie that make it to be so original. Although, since particularly the Wu-Tang clan has established itself in the hiphop scene, the phenomenon of a big black guy, looking like a bad hiphop mammajamma, from whom you might expect nothing but rage, violence and raw toughness being reflected into the world, instead having a mental interior of a calm and wise orientally oriented person, like a buddhist or a certain kind of martial artist would have, is nothing new anymore, this phenomenon itself is pretty original, and Forest Whitaker does a good job representing it. Then there is this thing of the Haitian ice cream venter, who is the closest thing to a friend Ghost Dog has, and who speaks only French, which Ghost Dog cannot understand at all, and who cannot understand himself a word of the English Ghost Dog speaks. Still he and Ghost Dog seem to have a certain kind of understanding, which especially is brought forward by them saying exactly the same things to each other, the one in French and the other in English. Then the ice cream man takes Ghost Dog to see a man working on a boat on a certain rooftop, and on trying to communicate, this boat builder turns out to speak Spanish. Funny, but with a certain mystique and underlying message, that makes it special. Then the conversation of the three gangsters about hiphop people giving themselves special names, and that this is similar to the indians. They conclude with an Aaahh well, they're all the same, and right after it turns out that the gangsters have special names themselves. Again funny, but special. Then the phenomenon of the ghetto hermits, that seem to live on the rooftops of high buildings, with pigeons as their pets (Ghost Dog himself, the Cayuga, the short black man). The use of the pigeons as carrier pigeons by Ghost Dog. And the appearance of groups in red and in blue, not portrayed as we usually see them like violent rap gangsters, crips and bloods, but in a more passive and abstract way, emphasizing towards the more observant viewer their seemingly being part of a certain ghetto system, based on colors, which in fact this gang system is. And the blue group rapping in the park, thus bringing the latest news to the streets, in this case the recent hit by Ghost Dog. What to say of the heart attack the consiglieri of Mr. Vargo suffers upon seeing Ghost Dog with a gun in his hand. I mean, a high up gangster of that age, supposedly meaning that amount of experience, getting this exited about a man with a gun? Ask yourself. Then the cartoons Mr. Vargo watches. The trading of books going on between Ghost Dog, the little girl Pearline and Mr. Vargo's daughter. The killing of the bear hunters. The total dedication of Ghost Dog to his retainer. Imagine the difference between Better me than you, and Better you than me. Hard to find in a hired killer, I guess. The overall dialogue between all the characters in the movie, that seem to reflect various kinds of wisdom, and the inserted silences in scenes. The dog looking at Ghost Dog at certain points in the movie. And last but not least, the junkie like mugger trying to rob the nerdy looking oriental man, and being scared off by two very quickly and very well placed martial arts kicks. All these little things in this movie make it to be a very special, and very original one. I really have to say Sublime!  "}{"Title":"Realistic, But!, Who trained Ghost Dog?","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So he got saved by the low Italian operater a few years ago, but how did my main man get so good at double and triple tapping, radio freq. car-theft, etc., and how did he get those weapons. You can't just wake up one morning and have all that knowledge and capability. Did he like, join the Army, and then get accepted to Selection Phase and go thru all the SFOD-D training or something? I thought the movie was worth 4 stars for entertainment value. The passenger pigeon thing was most excellent. I can see that the guy loves birds. One can say that, well, the guy was a Samurai Warrior, but that does'nt explain how he learned everything. The thing about being an avid book reader was very excellent. Just a bit too much fantasy, but still very entertaining. #18 on my own top 25 movies(dynamic list) of all time. "},{"Title":"Oh I get it, you're a quirky director!","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved Mystery Train and Stranger Than Paradise. These were great studies in relationships. I also love Jarmusch's style of sparse dialog and slowly developing scenes.Ghost Dog was certainly ambitious. I think sometimes directors start to coast, and make a movie that is about being a (insert directors name) film. Lynch's Wild At Heart, or Royal Tenenbaums come to mind. This is Jarmusch's Jarmusch Film. It's like me doing an impression of you doing an impression of me.This film really feels like someone started running up against a deadline, got lazy, and became more blatantly manipulative to force the audience onto a path that just wasn't happening naturally. The bad guys aren't bad enough. Have them use racial slurs. Ghost Dog isn't sympathetic. Throw a black child into the story so he can have her read a book. The characters are flat and uninteresting. Have them watch cartoons to make them quirky and ironic.I came away from this film feeling completely unfulfilled. It was heavy-handed and I didn't sense any logical payoff. I'm not asking for there to be quality kills, well defined good and evil characters, and a happy ending. After all, I must have seen Eraserhead 10 times in my life.Playing director, I would have tossed the whole ice cream vendor sub-plot. It's non-essential and chews up gobs of time. Consolidate the driving scenes which are boring music videos. Close the circle between Ghost Dog and the Don's daughter sooner and more deliberately.If this film is about Louie, who is the only animated and real character in the movie, then his transformation at the end should be a little more telegraphed and guided. Louie changed, somehow, and realized the need to off G.D. We don't know why. Where is he heading that he has to make that choice?  He winds up exhausted, confused, and has not grown, changed, come to any spiritual resolution.Ghost Dog expressed, naively, that Louie can now run the mob. Louie replies, exasperated, that it's not that easy. Why not explore that window? If G.D. is so freaking cosmic, why doesn't he know that it isn't so easy? I think it's too easy to excuse poor film-making as being creative, symbolic, or over your head.The Good? Entertaining soundtrack. Louie is a compelling character. The scene where the Italian boy is throwing his toys out the window at the mafia guys is hilarious, and almost makes the film worth renting.Almost. "},{"Title":"Quirky code of honor a la Jarmusch","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  GHOST DOG - THE WAY OF THE SAMURAI (2000) ***1/2 Forest Whitaker, John Tormey, Cliff Gorman, Henry Silva, Isaach De Bankole, Frank Minucci, Victor Argo, Camille Winbush, Tricia Vessey, Gene Ruffini, Richard Portnow, Gary Farmer. (Dir Jim Jarmusch)   Indie filmmaking maverick Jarmusch delivers a quirky and spiritual hybrid of revenge and redemption via the samurai code and the contradiction of the cosa nostra.  Whitaker, in one of his finest performances, is the eponymous mysterious assassin for hire who is the envoy to his mentor (and master) Tormey, a two-bit hood, and finds himself on the other end of a contract killing.  Fine mixture of unexpected humor, taut tension and smart camerawork with sharply executed editing and a hip hop mix by RZA of Wu-Tang Clan acclaim adds a special flavor to this unique spin on all so familiar genre storyline.   "},{"Title":"Big Disappointment from Jarmusch","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i have to say, after seeing Mystery Train, Down by Law, Dead Man and Stranger than Paradise, i had very high expectations when seeing Ghost Dog for the first (and only) time.  Forest Whitaker is a great actor and Jarmusch is a great director/writer/etc.the long and short of it is this  i hated it.  you might say he sold out with his first widely distributed picture?  who knows what he was thinking when he shot this pile of crap.  don't get me wrong  i love Forest Whitaker.  he's an outstanding actor.  but with this film, Jarmusch shows even his most loyal followers (not me, the REAL followers) that he is capable of making a big budget flop.Jarmusch is not a comedy director and he shouldn't try to be one.  while this movie wasn't a full on comedy, there were some attempts at humour and they failed.there's more, but i don't wanna get going off on a rant.  i'm limited to 1,000 words, you know. "},{"Title":"I never get tired of this movie","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is not my usual movie genre, so I was caught very much by surprise when I fell in love with it. After seeing it, I instantly made everyone I know see it, and many of them have done the same with their friends. Even now, every time I go to the video store I want to rent it again.My personal favorite thing in movies is cinematography - I'll watch a movie with a horrid plot as long as it has good lighting -) Ghost Dog has amazing cinematography, but so much more as well! It has great action sequences, character development, and plot. Everything about this movie is great! "},{"Title":"original, pretentious, engrossing, irritating","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jim Jarmusch's films have always been an acquired taste &#150; and `Ghost Dog' is, assuredly, no exception.   Not content to spin out straightforward narratives, nor to adhere to the standard strictures of any particular genre, Jarmusch at least deserves credit for his originality, iconoclasm and daring.  But such an approach to filmmaking comes with some built-in pitfalls and risks, and, in Jarmusch's case, the quality of his films has often been much less than the sum of their impressive parts.  Furthermore, a filmmaker who so deliberately taxes the patience of his audience may find more people leaving the theatre than coming in.In both plot and style, `Ghost Dog' is a bizarre hybrid - made up of equal parts samurai adventure tale (though there is no sword fighting), urban street crime drama and Italian mafia gangster film.  Forrest Whitaker plays the mysterious Ghost Dog, a black man steeped in the ways of the ancient Samurai Code.   Having been saved from death eight years earlier by an Italian mobster, Ghost Dog now dedicates himself, according to the samurai oath of loyalty, to fulfilling the needs and desires of his new `master.'  Thus, Ghost Dog spends his time gunning down `contracts' as per his leader's request.  But with his latest `hit,' Ghost Dog has struck too close to the mafia boss himself &#150; and now the hunter has become the hunted.The plotting, which is convoluted and inscrutable much of the time, is obviously not the area in which Jarmusch's heart &#150; as both writer and director - truly lies.  Style has always been this filmmaker's main preoccupation, and `Ghost Dog' does manage to combine just enough `slightly off' elements effectively to create a world rich in mysticism and exoticism.  The mere concept of an urban black gangster adhering to an ancient Japanese code - involved with a group of Italian gangsters adhering to their own similar ancient code - somehow lends itself to the exotic.  Moreover, Jarmusch's methodical and deliberate pacing, his use of a slowly gliding camera, his reliance on a haunting urban soundtrack all contribute to establishing and effectively maintaining the air of surrealism found in the concept itself.Yet, for all its undeniable virtues, `Ghost Dog' is, ultimately, not a very compelling film.  Part of the problem rests in the fact that, for all its originality of vision, the film emerges, finally, as a bit too pretentious, smug and self-satisfied.  We are supposed to see Ghost Dog as somehow nobler than his mafia counterparts because he seems motivated by a higher cause &#150; the ancient samurai code.  Snippets of the code are read to us and flashed on the screen during scene fade-outs to make us appreciate the `beauty' and `wisdom' of this classic belief system.  Yet any way you cut it or gussy it up, Ghost Dog is STILL nothing more than a cold-blooded killer &#150; love pigeons, dogs, cutesy ice cream vendors and adorable little girls though he may.  Just because the samurai code has the concept of `tradition' behind it doesn't make it necessarily worthy of respect or admiration.  And just because Ghost Dog is so dedicated to the rule of `loyalty' that he will mow down dozens of men because his `master' asks him to doesn't make him any more heroic than the mafia leaders who - not being as poetic by nature I guess - have the sad misfortune of couching their oaths of loyalty in much less self-congratulatory terms.  `Tradition,' as Tevye was forced to learn, is not, in and of itself, inherently superior to more enlightened thinking simply because it has managed to survive many centuries or even millennia intact.  The theme of the film then simply becomes offensive when it is obviously intended to be deep and meaningful.  Given that situation, we find ourselves less inclined to go along with the director's patience-demanding glacial pacing.Thus, `Ghost Dog,' unless you are a diehard Jarmusch devotee, will probably end for you long before the closing credits roll by.  "},{"Title":"Ice cream loving killer keeps pigeons and studies Japanese classics.  You couldn't make it up!","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now I like a good pretentious movie.  I also like a good gangster movie, (reviews passim), possibly because of the inherent arrogance of the protagonists.  Mix the two and there is the chance of style overload.  Take Ghost Dog.  Take Forest Whittaker - a man so enigmatic even his guns have silencers.  What does it all mean?  Should we even attempt to communicate with Haitian ice cream sellers?  What's the secret of homing pigeons that operate in two directions?  Are they the result of broken homes?Ron "},{"Title":"What a bummer! Total disappointment!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to say I really have found good luck with reviewer ratings within IMDB, but I was hugely disappointed as I noted a couple others felt also. Being a film junkie, I checked this out after renting Snatch because I didn't know when it would be on the cable again.  I soon found it was probably a mistake.  I mean, I get the message and I really do understand that not all movies need huge amounts of flash to cause enthusiasm.  I love a film which is character driven, but I just have to say this is the highest rating for the dullest flick I've seen in a long time.  I thought it was slow (and yes, I sat through the torture two hours), dull, and what is with the gangsters and their tv lives?  I cannot believe their lives are such of dullards and long, drawn out depressing doldrums.  Forest Whitaker is a fine actor, but rent or see Bird if you want to sample his talent.  Jeez, I think I liked him more in the science fantasy Battlefield Earth.  I'm sorry, but I think this should have stayed in the can.  I think I even liked Battlefield Earth more, and just take a look at its rating.  This rating blew me away. 4/10. I can't even justify typing this much so I'll not even try to explain.  Okay, 5/10, but that's for charity 'cause my initial response is due to feeling mislead by the audience. Note this movie has a higher rating than a recent favorite, Before Night Falls directed by Julian Schnabel.  Take a look all reviewers over the age of fourteen and rate this again.  "},{"Title":"Cool - but not as deep as it thinks it is","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented Ghost Dog on a Saturday night because I heard good reviews and I've liked other Jim Jarmusch films (Mystery Train, Dead Man) and I convinced my friends that we should get it over the usual action films or lame comedies. I wasn't disappointed - unfortunately my friends were! And that's the crux of the film's problem - it isn't everyone's taste.  It is very slow - even if you love it you've got to admit that....the narrative is wandering and long scenes are spent with Whitaker driving around the city.However for me Whitaker was excellent and carried a story that mainly involves silence and facial expressions.  De Bankole as his best friend (neither speak the same language) brings comic relief but also some beautiful things (the boat on a roof!) while the outstanding performance is Camille Winbush as the child who befriends Ghost Dog.  This trio are excellent - even the gangster supporting cast is good. What really saves the film is that it is so damn cool!! The RZA's soundtrack is great and fills the driving scenes well (even his little cameo is cool).  All the samurai stuff makes the film feel deeper than it is and the code of honour is Ghost Dog's live is something we all admire in hitmen. Yes, it's slow and can be boring if you expect a Leon/Goodfellas/Meance II Society mix. But it does take you along with it, no matter how slow.  It's a bit heavy on the mysticism and thin on actual linear plot but that's not always a bad thing. One word of warning - you may want to watch it by yourself as if your mates feel you made them watch a boring 2 hour movie they will not let you forget it the next time you suggest a film to rent.  Trust me - I  know. "},{"Title":"Avoid this unless you're an addicted Jarmusch fan","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why do they keep replaying these tired romantic cliches? Forrest Whittaker plays a character whom we are supposed to identify with precisely because he gives us so little to identify with. And the depiction of the gangsters is coy & unconvincing. "}{"Title":"How has this such a high rating?","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have never really rated Forest Whitaker as an actor. And this is his best role, because he mainly keeps his mouth shut! The setting is gloomy and almost as if all the characters operate within a half mile radius. The gangsters are about as scary as Mary Poppins, and there's mirth injected for some odd reason - which is internal or not, I don't know.Forest plays a successful bird-fancying (of the feather variety) hit-man who does a hit, which upsets some other gangsters, and basically he becomes the hit. The film is very slow, highlighted only very scarcely with shoot-outs.It looks as if it was made for TV, or straight to video. I neither found it compelling or remotely watchable, but when I start with a film, I have to finish it.And the end? Boy, was this tough going. Only 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"underwhelming nonevent","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, well that was completely unexciting. Almost as unexciting as the nonexistent soundtrack. How is this movie even rated so high on IMDb, I just don't see how anyone can think this movie is above average. Just because it's about a black dude who's a samurai in an urban environment is not a reason to rate this movie high, which is what I suspect a few people did so as to not appear shallow or simplistic for not getting it. How do you tell a story about a modern day samurai that wields guns and not come out with at least an interesting movie? This is definitely not an action movie, but I didn't feel like I was watching a drama or thriller either because it had such a poor narrative. It was almost like watching nothing, and the invisible soundtrack helped accentuate this feeling. You feel inclined to finish watching it though, in the same way you have to finish watching someone complete something they started. For example, if you're witnessing someone throw away a balled up piece of paper, and this person decides to try to toss it into the trash can from a distance, out of curiosity, you definitely will not look away until that piece of paper has completed its flight path. Not unlike observing this, I was left with the same type of empty soulless feeling after watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Sweet!","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hi, this movie is all about REAL SAMURAI. This site is awesome. My name is Robert and I can't stop thinking about.  These guys are cool; and by cool, I mean totally sweet.Facts 1. Samurai are mammals. 2. Samurai fight ALL the time. 3. The purpose of the samurai is to flip out and kill people.Samurai can kill anyone they want! Samurai cut off heads ALL the time and don't even think twice about it. These guys are so crazy and awesome that they flip out ALL the time. I heard that there was this samurai who was eating at a diner. And when some dude dropped a spoon the samurai killed the whole town. My friend Mark said that he saw a samurai totally uppercut some kid just because the kid opened a window.And that's what I call REAL Ultimate Power!!!!!!!!!If you don't believe that samurai have REAL Ultimate Power you better get a life right now or they will chop your head off!!! It's an easy choice, if you ask me.Samurai are sooooooooooo sweet that I want to crap my pants. I can't believe it sometimes, but I feel it inside my heart. These guys are totally awesome and that's a fact. Samurai are fast, smooth, cool, strong, powerful, and sweet. I can't wait to start yoga next year. I love samurai with all of my body (including my pee pee).  "},{"Title":"This has got to be.....","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The most ridiculous film I have seen in my life. I will venture a guess as to say my pet dog is more a Samurai then Forest here. Let us analyze his life, he does nothing all day but lay around on rooftops and hang out with pigeons praying to a pair of oranges. He takes out old mobsters who can barely move to start out with and watch cartoons and make ungodly dumb jokes and he gets taken out by his master who doesn't know the first thing about being a samurai like Forest and Forest can't do anything about it? My friend and I laughed constantly throughout this movie and wondering why it was made. What is the deal with the dog thats following him, is Forest supposed to morph into a dog and thats why hes there to help the plot along? I suppose the company ran out of money on the unreal special effects to pull that off. The only way hes a samurai is the quotes he gives from actual samurais, he never uses a sword except to practice, he uses a gun which any hitman in the world can do. What is funny what he does after he kills someone, the way he puts the gun back in his holster, is that supposed to wow us or something? Hell I have seen pet rocks with more creativity.This movie is horrible, dont waste your time in seeing it, dont ever recommend it to your friends or you won't have those friends for much longer. I can't even imagine how this film got a 7.7 here, this is the epitomy of bad. My friend and I have made a pact, if we see anyone in our presence or knowledge that is going to see this film, we will do whatever it takes to prevent that atrocity.  "},{"Title":"pretentious and slow","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Typical of artsy movies from indy filimmakers, this is an example of how substituting  mood-piece scenes and lengthy broodings during car drives, overlain by dull rap music, is supposed to be thoughtful and insightful when it's notthing like that at all. It's just dull.Forest Whittaker is a fine actor who's completely wasted in this silly film.  We've seen enough of pseudointellectual musings on oriental ways and culture from Americans who understand nothing of it, and we could have done without this slow and boring film, full of cliches and uninvolving non-action scenes.   "},{"Title":"The movie tried hard to leave pearls of wisdom but left only sand","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I did not have high expectations for this movie, but I did have some, which went unfulfilled by the end. The writers try to portray Ghost Dog as a modern day Samurai who is wise, intelligent, and honorable but the way they do it is laughable. Throughout the entire movie, Forest Whitaker's rendition of a Samurai is way overdone, and it's apparent he's trying too hard. For one thing, the way he holsters his gun is hilarious. Also, the mafia in the movie is a joke from their acting to their role in the storyline. My other big gripe with the movie is the dumbing down of the storyline with flashbacks which try and add meaning to the movie, and filler scenes which try and add drama kind of like a Dragon Ball Z cartoon. Overall, I give the movie some credit for trying to create a modern day Samurai, but it falls way short of anything special. Check out Zatochi, The Blind Swordsman for an interesting Samurai film. "},{"Title":"A pseudo-movie","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie expecting nothing, and left feeling nothing. The movie is supposed to be about some guy who took up the Samurai way, but if there is ever a movie that belittles violence and glamorizes it, this is the one.(Discussion of the plot follows here.) Just because someone saved his life, this main character goes around and kills people for him, and gets paid for the gangland murders. He meets a girl who he introduces to the way of the samurai. What's the point? There is no moral, and for those who say they don't care, I say what is art? If just filming the (fictional though realistic) killing of lots of people is art, then I want none of it. What is the difference between liking a movie with lots of senseless murders, and liking some historical figures who did the same? "},{"Title":"Pretentious gangster-samurai movie","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Pretentious gangster-samurai movie. Had heaps of potential but the plot easily lost focus and drifted for large parts. Heaps of scenes that were just padding. Pretty much anything involving the French guy or the little girl was just there to make up the time. If Jim Jarmusch's idea was to do a Tarantino-meets-Kurosawa movie, he missed on both parts. His attempts at digression to lighten the mood (Tarantino-style) are dull. His plot doesn't have Kurasawa's focus nor pacing.Not all bad. Strip away the pretense and padding and the plot is decent. Action is good. Good performance by Forest Whitaker in the lead role. Supporting cast are weak though. Isaach De Bankolé is irritating as the French guy, especially as his part was totally unnecessary and contributed much to the pretentiousness of the movie. "},{"Title":"The Yawn of the Samurai","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Definitely not my favorite Jarmusch movie but certainly worth a watch. It has its moments. I like the pace, the photography and maybe the odd joke here and there. I like the scene of that guy building his boat on his rooftop. I like the honest to life Tom Waits type thing about Jarmusch's work. But this film at the end of the day had nothing for me, really. We have seen it all before. Its Leon all over again. The majority of people will love it though, for sure. You know its popcorn kind of cool....a la Kill Bill. Its true Forest Whitaker does look like a bear. My favorite Jarmusch movies would be NIGHT ON EARTH, DOWN BY LAW, MYSTERY TRAIN, even BROKEN FLOWERS IS GREAT and COFFEE AND CIGARETTES. These were all better than this one, I don't recall what else hes done. "},{"Title":"awful, awful tripe","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i'm speaking from a foggy memory, i remember watching this movie with my aunt, after a recommendation from my teacher, who said it was awesome. how he could have thought such is mind-boggling. my aunt did not like it either. so what is wrong with this movie? well, i suppose you've heard it all before. the only interesting part of the movie, is during Whitaker's drive. a guy gets mugged, and then ends up ninja-kicking the mugger. that was cool. anyways, i don't think Whitaker himself enjoyed the concept, because clearly, he doesn't give a half-daft sith about acting out ghost dog. all he does is sit around, mumble some bushido stuff, and do everyday stuff. then comes the action sequence which is downright dumb. you have these guys acting like cardboard targets on a gunnery range, popping up, and getting shot. if you want to see Whitaker at his high, go watch the last king of Scotland "}{"Title":"Strange Jarmursch","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I rented ghost dog hoping that it would be very interesting and compelling. It sounded like a cool idea A blend of hip-hop gangster genre with that of the samurai but after finishing it I saw that the idea had fallen through. Forest Whitaker is wooden and excruciatingly boring to watch (I had heard great things about his acting ability and was expecting a much higher-caliber performance) as the title, gun-toting character, who lives with his pigeons on a roof somewhere in suburban New York and practices the code of the samurai. The action, while intense when it came, was fleeting and came out of nowhere. When Ghost Dog killed people, sometimes I was wondering who he was killing; I didn't recognize them for an instant and then they were dead. When a character is killed at the beginning of the film, which sets off the whole movie, I had no real idea what he had done or who the girl with him was. While I won't ruin the end, I had no clue why what happened did; i was completely left in the dark along with every other viewer to see this incoherent film. The mafia characters were complete Italian stereotypes and used the f-word as many times as possible to create an in your face effect. They were completely unsubtle and pretty goofy. I was laughing at them, and I was asking myself the whole times if this was a comedy or an action or both or what? At the beginning of the film I was pretty weirded out, at the middle I liked it somewhat, but then it dragged on for what seemed like forever and I grew bored. This was a very uneven film, and I would only recommend it if you are a devoted fan of Jarmursch. Otherwise, pick out another, more decent movie from Hollywood next Friday night. "},{"Title":"Samurai Monkey (Spoilers)","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me explain to you people why a fat African American playing an assassin who flourishes his gun like a katana doesn't make for a good movie. The first thing most people will say in the movie's defense, is that the idea of a man living by a code of honor while all those around him have no such code is an apt commentary on modern social values and I agree. However that doesn't mean that the movie will be good. For example the fact that the little girl who witnessed Ghost dog's work first hand on 2 occasions turned out to be the crime boss who ordered him killed is just plain stupid. Second, the dialogue was pointless. Third, the rough assassin making friends with a young child has been done many time before(and for anyone who has seen Leon or the American version The Professional its been done a lot better). The addition of Bushido proverbs in between scenes was terrible. They had no real bearing on the scenes that they connected(or separated)and some of them don't even sound authentic.(For better use of such proverbs see Kill Bill Vol.1). In conclusion, How can you people think that this movie should be used for anything other than kindling. It is a reeking boiling cauldron of liquid sh*t and should be treated as such.P.S. The soundtrack kicked ass---- Wu Tang!! "},{"Title":"Interesting concept that needed far better direction, script and tempo.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A modern-day Mafia hit-man lives by the code of the ancient Chinese Samurai at whatever personal cost this may involve.Strange to see the New Line Cinema logo on the credits because every frame shouts independent cinema and - to be frank - student film making. While it keeps you watching, it has the one paced plod-plod-plod that marks the limits of a beginner.The first puzzle is what genre this belongs in. While involving a lot of gangsters it is not really a gangster pic. While it has its comedic moments, it is not a comedy. And despite the number of shootings and deaths it is not really a action film. I guess it has its own genre!Lead Whitaker has something that actors need. He may be fat and pop-eyed, but he also has a bit of screen magic and we need it because he needs to carry a lot of poe faced nonsense that could only exist in fantasy A killer who only wants to be paid once a year, practise marshal arts on a roof (where did he learn this?) and communicate through pigeons! Who is this weirdo and what does he want?I can't say I know too much about the works of Hakagure (quoted long and often) other than he often spoke truths that apply just as much to today as when he wrote them way-back-when. A lot of it is common-sense when you think twice about it though. The modern Mafia are so exposed on television and in cinema that you are yawning just as soon as they appear on screen. What is there to learn about them? They are millionaires (or the bosses are anyway) but still dress in cheap track suits, shoot people on a whim (this may be a comedy) and wisecrack at those private member clubs that they always hang around in. Here they also watch cartoons a lot - why I don't know!This features an interesting soundtrack and a lot of brooding, but the central idea only takes us half way through the film. Killer Whitaker hasn't got a lot to do other than kill and brood and the cartoon gangsters for whom he works are about as interesting as drying paint. I can see why the movie gets the ranking is does, it appeals to manic depressives (a bit like the far superior Taxi Driver) in that death is close, life is desperate, life is dark and joyless and full of introspection. If you like that kind of thing I guess this movie will please, but there is not enough plot to keep it going and it comes down to a finale that is plain silly. Despite the many negatives this really isn't that bad as a piece of entertainment, although it isn't worth paying to see. In lots of ways it is a shame that someone like Quentin Tarantino couldn't have got his hands on the project because he could have made something pretty good with it. "},{"Title":"Overweight, goofy looking killer imagines he's a deep thinking warrior","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Interesting serious comedy dealing with a loner with ambitions to knock off a gang of hoods while spouting thought provoking Zen quotes from a book he's reading. This leads to lots of gunplay along with some of the goofiest dialog and one liners I've heard in a long time. The interplay between the assassin and a French speaking Haitian was subtly humorous.  "},{"Title":"Phony and contrived waste of time. All style and no substance.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I haven't like all that much of what Jim Jarmusch has done since the 1980s, but I went to see 'Ghost Dog' when it was first released, hoping for the best. I hated it. I recently watched it again for a second time on DVD in case I'd been wrong. I wasn't. This is a phony and contrived waste of time that self-consciously mixes Japanese philosophy, hip-hop culture and funny Mafia caricatures and ends up with a shallow and unsatisfying end product that is all style and no substance. I just didn't believe a moment of this movie, thought the samurai angle was a bore, and the Mafia scenes stupid and a waste of talented actors, especially the legendary Henry Silva ('The Manchurian Candidate') and the underrated Victor Argo ('Taxi Driver', 'The King Of New York'). Jarmusch can do a lot better than this! Just rent 'Mystery Train' or 'Down By Law' for proof. I also suggest people check out Seijin Suzuki's astonishing 'Branded To Kill', an amazingly original movie which inspired much of 'Ghost Dog' but which is oh, at least twenty times better! 'Ghost Dog' - a lifeless mongrel. "},{"Title":"Great story, bad acting.","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was a great story, however, Mr. Whitaker made me chuckle. His use of a gun as a sword was a little melodramatic.  I appreciated the references to the ancient philosophy of the Samurai, however, I just didn't necessarily think Forest Whitaker was the right man for the job.  "},{"Title":"The title of this film should be Corn Dog The Way of the Ham on Rye...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...because Forest Whitaker is a mite hefty for the role he plays.The character of Ghost Dog talks a lot about samurai philosophy, but he must have picked it up off a menu in a Japanese restaurant. The word discipline just does not come to mind when you see this guy.I believed Ghost Dog as a Samurai about as much as I believed those Teenaged Turtles were Mutant Ninjas. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Forrest Whitaker is a samurai-inspired hit-man. The Samurai angle of the movie is highly vulgarized and reduced into random one-liners that appear on the screen between every dozen gunshots or so. When Whitaker's employers run out of cash, they place a hit on him. However, since Whitaker is not an ordinary hit-man, but a Samurai-enabled one, it turns out to be A Mistake (tm). Whitaker delivers a high-quality performance, but sadly, the plot and drama around him don't merit it. The Samurai aspect of the movie could have been made interesting if it had been more substantial, and been brought out in greater detail. At the moment, all we see is a few one-liners supposed to describe the 'Samurai way', and Whitaker's dark and obscure character, which has imbibed it. The makers of the film would like the abstractness and detached nature of Whitaker's character to be due to his association with The Samurai. However, it is exploring this link, in the context of the crime story that could've made the film truly interesting. Sadly, almost nothing is done in this respect, and we're left with the decision of either accepting the way of The Samurai in the way that it's NOT described in the film, or, to give up on it. I picked the latter. "},{"Title":"Dull, plodding, boring","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I try to see at least some good in most films, but would be hard pressed to say much positive about Ghost Dog. It was dull, plodding and when you've finished watching it you realise not a lot happened.Most of the film is just Forest Whittaker as Ghost Dog walking about, making a gun, driving, or watching people. Often there's some rap music to make it sound hip or whatever, but I find these moments just dull. What entertainment is there in some one just doing nothing? The film had brief glimpses of something interesting. For example some of the mafia family are amusing, adding a welcome dash of humour. And the element of conflicting ideals is also good, but never really realised until the end when the film is just about over.This emptiness of the film is filled out with just rather unfathomable stuff, almost to look arty and to create the illusion that the world in the film is fleshed out. Like an ice cream seller who only speaks French and is interested in someone making a boat. And a kid that is provided so that Ghost Dog can talk about books but very little else. Oh, and for some reason most cast members only watch cartoon violence throughout the film. Again, that just struck me as trying to be arty for the sake of it.All in all, I say avoid it. I don't think it offers any deep insight into anything or anyone, it's not that interesting, and apart from a few scenes of interest it really was just 100 minutes of Forest Whittaker looking vague. Film Four has been involved with better films that give insight into different cultures, Brother being one of them. "},{"Title":"Boooooooorinnngggg","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Talk about a long-winded piece of dung.  I haven't seen anything so overlong since Wagnerian opera.  There were plot points (Ghost Dog goes to kill this guy) that a good director could have taken in maybe five minutes, a genius in one, but inexplicably took twenty here.  It was like I was watching this whole movie in slow motion, for I have never seen a movie with such a high body count bore me so thoroughly.  And maybe it's just that the vast majority of people don't understand the Eastern philosophy behind those samurai quotes, but the general reaction at my place was Huh? Nobody got them, and the quotes were sufficiently opaque that they may as well have been in Waterworld as this cinematic turd.   And what was up with that Caribbean ice-cream vendor?  Talk about an unnecessary subplot.  And why were the mobsters always watching cartoons?  Nobody knows.  And how could the movie destroy such an interesting premise?  For the same reason so many of us dislike opera  It bores us to death in a medium we don't understand.   "}{"Title":"This isn't really any good, is it?","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There might be a lot of philosophy. There might be a lot of hard-core action. There might be a cool cold super-killer.But it isn't really interesting, is it? There might be cool gangsters-rap-hip-hop music. There might be birds and secret codes. There might avenge and honour.But it isn't really any fun, is it?To put it short This film just doesn't do anything for me.  "},{"Title":"Adaptation of Le Samourai","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost Dog The way of the samurai is an adaptation of Jean-Pierre Melville's Le Samouraï(1967). The movie is modernized set in New York and has not much more than a late 90's rap video has to offer. The movie is best viewed as a documentary on what was trendy in 1999, but on the other hand it would not hurt to miss this movie entirely. "},{"Title":"Boring and pretentious - a waste of two hours.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A boring two hour film with bad acting and a stupid story.Also very pretentious - this film tries to make you believe it is Deep and Meaningful.Take my word for it, it's not.I generously gave this one a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Good for laughs!","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"       This should be in a comedy section. It played like sarcastic SNL skit. I thought the way he twirled his gun was very funny. The college movie style direction was good for some laughs too. The italian mob was yet another laugh and a half. I would have written a story like this when i was 13. That is about how realistsic this movie is. For any future film makers out there. See this so you know what NOT to do. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly one of the worst movies of all time.","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are lots of things I love in this movie. I love gangster flicks. I love samurais. I love Forrest Whittaker. I love the Wu-Tang Clan. An amalgam of all these things should be a wonderful thing. Except its not. The plot is paper thin and full of holes. The parts that were supposed to be deep and philosophical totally missed the mark. The narration was weak. The fact that Forest Whittaker is a 250+ pound man who plays an assassin who lives in a shack and practices martial arts (if those moves we saw him do can even be called that) every day was only the tip of the iceberg for ridiculousness. He'd be down to a buck-75 just on starvation alone. The only halfway entertaining parts where the interactions between Ghost Dog and his best friend. Unless you like watching movies that make you want to tear your hair out, avoid this at all costs. I actually had to apologize to my wife for making us watch this. Plain terrible. "},{"Title":"Piece of crap!","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the worse movies I've seen in a long time -- no plot, no clever gimmicks, no impressive martial arts moves, nothing. I was flabbergasted when I saw the 8/10 rating this piece of c**p got! 8/100 would be more accurate. "},{"Title":"Everyone should know better...","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Everyone should know better than to praise, or even endure this abysmal, pretentious film. Appropriately titled, the film is certainly a dog, and a vacuous ghost as well.Famous for his avoidance of storyline, Jim Jarmusch takes it to the extreme here, with Forest Whitaker sleepwalking through takes, with a 'wake me when it's over' expression on his face. Miserably grim yet unemotional, Ghost Dog looks to be inspired by too much TV and way too much beer. One might think a random series of takes would prove more effective. I cannot fathom what the people who funded this film were thinking...a big stinking pile of pretentious nothing. "},{"Title":"Love Jarmusch, But This Disappoints","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand why this movie is so critically popular. It seemed more than a bit contrived to me. I don't buy the concept that a black guy from the hood would religiously follow the Samurai code of slavish devotion to his liege, a white Mafiosi, while it is not reciprocated. Sure, the Mafiosi saved his life, but wouldn't a thank you suffice? Instead, he becomes Ghost Dog, the Samurai hit man. This didn't wash with me. Some of the minor touches Jarmusch dreams up were also off-putting. Such as conducting Mafia business via carrier pigeon? No, sorry this movie didn't nearly life up to the high expectations I had for it.  "},{"Title":"A plodding, somber, well made dud.","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A mildly entertaining dark comedy-drama, Ghost Dog is an undercooked jambalaya of wise guy caricatures seasoned with tongue-in-cheek subtleties. The curious title character, played by Whittaker, is a supposed modern Samurai/hitman who is forced to turn his professional expertise against the mob. The film has an interesting premise followed up with a story lacking in strength and purpose.  "},{"Title":"The Way of the Cartoon. (contains spoilers)","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The annoying thing about 'Hit man' films is that the hit men seem to live in a world totally devoid of happenstance, chance and chaos. This guy pulls up and exchanges number plates from his car to another with the owner and his children 25feet away. The kids are facing the two cars. The is no obstruction to view. There is no one else near. This act is not impossible. The hit man gets within 400 yards of the house of a top Mafioso boss. He shoots 7 mobsters without getting hit himself. His sole friend is a man who speaks a language he does not understand. He has a gadget that opens and starts cars and opens security gates. Need I go on? Oh, and the mobsters seem to watch cartoons. Well, they should watch this film, it is one long cartoon. But, what is worse, we are supposed to accept the 'deep' motivation of this stupid character is evidenced by a book called the 'Way of the Samuri' Why do people think a book because it was written hundreds of years ago it therefore follows it is full of wisdom? 'Emptiness is Form' What rubbish! Anyone who things this film is 'deep' is shallow. "}{"Title":"The Next Karate Kid beats Ghost Dog, hands down.","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't understand why everyone raves about this movie. People keep saying that the movie isn't plot-driven, it's character-driven, and that's what makes it so great. The movie is character-driven because the plot SUCKS. S**t, I forgot...the character sucks too. Whittaker's character drives Ghost Dog about as well as Stevie Wonder drives a stick.Forrest Whittaker's brilliant depiction of an extremely out of shape Samurai who practices his martial arts on a roof with pigeons left me craving more realistic and believable ninja portrayals, so I rented Three Ninjas Kick Back. The live action Ninja Turtles moved more fluidly and gracefully than Whittaker did, and they wore GIANT FOAM RUBBER SHELLS on their backs. At least teach the guy some moves for God's sake, or give him some better direction.Here's my impression of Jim Jarmusch during filming...Okay, now Forrest, for this scene...act really tired. Yeah, perfect, just look sleepy all the time. Cut and print!Samurai were noble warriors and sworn defenders of their emperor, so I guess being a hired assassin for the mob and eating ice cream all day while talking to little girls in the park is kinda the same.You know, this movie actually made me want to be a Samurai just so I could commit Seppuku.Maybe I'm missing something, but I don't care. If you want a good movie, rent Last Action Hero. "},{"Title":"Don't make the mistake I made","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is honestly the worst movie I have ever seen.  I came home with it from the video store and I thought it could have been cool.  The plot is horrible and overall the movie stinks.  I've been straining to find a single thing positive to say about it.  Basically the only good thing about the movie is that it is now over.  This is the kind of movie that you wish that the movie was just some kind of sick joke and it was a comedy. "},{"Title":"Didn't get it at all.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in early 2000, mainly because I was forced to (it was for school). That's probably why I didn't get it at all, because I was just too angry that I had to see this. From all of the other comments that people have left, they've said it was good. From my point of view, this movie was just different. It may not have made sense to me, but it seems that this movie is genius to the latter. And whatever the heck this movie was about...someone let me know.The only thing I did like about this movie was the man in the ice cream truck. Also when they featured cartoons. That's about it.If you want to see this movie...be my guest. Just be prepared for, I guess, thought provoking cinema. "},{"Title":"bad.  just simply bad.  not even worth a bigger adjective.","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i really do feel bad for forrest whittaker. he's not that bad of an actor. i don't know how they forced him into saying all that crap about how honored he was to have worked on this project. (referring to the extras on the DVD) the only reason i even saw this entire movie was because it is by far the best worst movie i've ever seen. you know what i'm talking about? where you just sit and watch it, and laugh at all the unintentionally funny parts. me and my friend shed more than a few tears from laughing so hard. black elk........MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMUUUUUUHH. if you have a cynical sense of humor, go rent this, you'll love hating it. "},{"Title":"This movie sucks!!!!","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As you see I didn't like this movie as much as the others who commented it. In my opinion it is neither funny nor anything else. It is a slow movie, nothing happens at all, the story can be told in less than three setences. Black guy (Forrest Whittaker) believes to be a Samurai. He kills an Italian guy and is hunted and killed by the Italians who gave him the order to kill the guy, so that they can blame someone for the death. Yes this sounds weird. Even though this movie is not much longer than 100 minutes, probably even shorter, it seemed to me that it lasted for more than 3 hours. All this Japanese mytholigy stuff or however you want to call it seems to be pretty foolish and stupid, perhaps that is also Mr. Whittaker's fault. I can't see how anyone was impressed by his acting abilities in this movie. OK it is pretty hard to look indifferent throughout a whole movie. So don't go and watch it, it is boring has no action and some samurai stuff that only seemed to be added to give an intellectual impression.If you like the music (Wu Tang) buy the CD instead, eventhough I think they were also quiet weak. I was completely disappointed by this movie, I don't want to blame anyone for that but how could someone give this movie more than 3 points, I gave 1 !!! In my opinion it was one of the 3 worst movies I ever saw in a theater (the other two were 187 and Burn Hollywood burn). So if you liked them perhaps you also like this one. To all the others DON'T WATCH IT!!!Or perhaps I am just not intellectual enough. "},{"Title":"If you liked The Magnificent Seven, you'll probably hate this movie!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For those who don't remember, The Magnificent Seven is a 1960 western that was based upon Kurosawa's Seven Samouraï. I bring it up because this action-packed movie proved that you could very successfully transpose that theme of the Samouraï code of honor in a very different setting. Jarmusch tried to do the same with this Lone Gansta VS the semi-retired second-class Mob story, but in my humble opinion, he stretches the ropes so far that they break!While Forrest Whittaker plays and odd but very plausible character, I would rather see his enemies in an episode of The Job facing Denis Leary  than confronting that cool, dangerous and efficient hitman. Although Ghost Dog has other weaknesses, the fact that the mobsters are not credible at all makes the plot - which is already  very thin - absolutely pointless.You know in advance that Ghost Dog will easily get rid of this low grade aging mafia gang who can't even afford their rent (even their Latino lanlord doesn't seem to be intimidated by them). I think that even the pregnant sheriff from Fargo could probably handle them, alone, on her way to the delivery room!I am sure that the intent was to make these characters colourful and tongue-in-the-cheek funny, but to me, they end up as grotesque caricatures. One comment claimed that with Ghost Dog Jarmusch had surpassed Terentino but the bad guys in Pulp Fiction were cetrtainly ten times more credible and certainly just as funny.I could go on with many more things that bothered me, but I am sure that by now, you get the general idea. A good idea turned bad.Not that I would have wanted this film to be a brainless shoot-em-up flick... It would have been possible to combine the samouraï philosophy, humour and action, but Jarmush  simply missed the boat.  I wish I could have seen the same movie made by Tarentino, Spike Lee or Luc Besson, for instance... "},{"Title":"Why did I watch this...","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe this movie is so overrated. I'm doing my part to lower the overall rating to about a 3 or so which it SHOULD be at by giving this movie a 1/10.To begin with, the music alone makes the movie painful to watch. Not to mention the fact that it is as slowly paced as another terrible movie, Unbreakable, and more boring than a reading of the Scarlet Letter.The reason the movie even deserves a single point is for a 5 minute action scene that is surprisingly entertaing and should have been central to this movie. If you make a movie with a hitman, at least have 3 scenes with action other than having him drive around listening to P.O.S. music for 45 min.Anyways, I haven't seen this movie for quite some time so I can't remember any other scenes that made my blood boil, so I'll leave my comment as it is. Don't watch the movie, just give it a 1/10 and watch something entertaining like Army of Darkness. "},{"Title":"The United States as seen through the eyes of an afro American samurai.","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"16 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jarmusch up to par with his best works. Always inspired and humorously aware of good sides and social contradictions in his country Jim shows us how a blend of races, creeds and traditions can come to a successful end. His irony on all aspects of interpersonal connections lightens the films spirit, without diminishing the spiritual impact of the samurai philosophy. Actors are at their best with a special mention for the mega-talented Whitaker who is once again a surprisingly versatile performer. "},{"Title":"a very good film but not for everyone","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My assumption is that this film, though well-made, would not be liked by many people--particularly many women and those who aren't into action or gangster-type films. Plus, if you hate hip-hop music, you might be put off as well. These really are NOT complaints--just stating that the movie isn't for everyone. Plus, due to the language and some of the violence, it certainly isn't for kids--which is no surprise since it is rated R. My own tolerance for these type films is not especially high, though a friend recommended it to me because of its Japanese theme (and I love Japanese films). I found it to be interesting but not so much that I would rush to see it. Plus, although the film was supposed to be about an American guy who emulated the samurai, at times it seemed a bit dull--though the action scenes certainly did deliver. "},{"Title":"The Ghost of Jim Jarmusch","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who cares about the way movies are made, what it takes to make the magic happen, has to admire writer/director Jim Jarmusch.  A pioneer and one of the driving forces within the new wave of independent filmmakers since the early &#145;80s, he's an artist who is not afraid to take a chance and is constantly exploring new terrain.  When it comes to the arts, however, that adventurous spirit can also be a double-edged sword, and as another great artist, writer Ray Bradbury, will tell you, not every idea works; occasionally, what is created in the mind simply does not translate to the written page, nor to film, and for any number of reasons.  Which is seemingly the case with `Ghost Dog  The Way of the Samurai,' written and directed by Jarmusch, the premise of which is powerful and engaging, but which simply does not materialize on the screen.Ghost Dog (Forest Whitaker) is a hit man for the mob, loyal to and working directly for a man named Louie (John Tormey), who had befriended him some years earlier at a critical juncture in Ghost Dog's life.  Now, however, circumstances have changed, and the mob bosses want Ghost Dog removed.  Permanently.  They are about to discover, though, that getting rid of Ghost Dog will be no easy task, as he lives a reclusive existence and follows the code of the ancient Samurai warriors.  And one of the tenets of that code prescribes viewing life as a dream, which is exactly the way Ghost Dog lives his life.  And this is `his' dream; and to effect their goal, the mob will have to negotiate Ghost Dog's terrain on his terms.  He may be only one man, but as they are about to learn, this one man is a formidable opponent.Jarmusch has crafted and delivered a film that is part philosophical character study, part action/drama, that comes across much as if Ingmar Bergman had directed `Goodfellas.'  And actually, the philosophical ruminations and Ghost Dog's meditations work fairly well, presented as they are in ethereal terms that tend to be wistful and transporting in themselves.  In retrospect, what really does in Jarmusch and his efforts here is very simply a case of-- except for Whitaker-- extraordinarily bad acting.  The members of his `mob' are incredibly ineffective and unconvincing; what Jarmusch badly needed was a Pesci, a Joe Viterelli or even a Mike Starr to give some substance to his gang.  Unfortunately, he was stuck with the `B' team, and not even the brief presence of Henry Silva (as Ray Vargo) is enough to salvage much good from the results.  And it's a shame, because Jarmusch does have his moments here, and there is a powerful film hidden within, desperately attempting to break through.  But in the end, it never does, and the promise Jarmusch tenders remains uncharacteristically unfulfilled.The saving grace of the project is the performance by Forest Whitaker, who successfully immerses himself in the role of Ghost Dog and creates a believable, convincing character.  With an introspective approach, he credibly attains that level of detachment that defines the code by which Ghost Dog lives, that sense of living life as if it's a dream, which ultimately enables him to play it all out as a character of his own design and within the parameters of his own reality, which is far removed from that of the rest of the world and those who dwell within it.  Purely as a character study, in fact, this film is riveting at times, and can be thoroughly intriguing.  And for that, Jarmusch, of course, deserves credit; it's Whitaker's work, however, that brings it to fruition.The only other performance of note is turned in by Isaach De Bankole as Ghost Dog's friend, Raymond.  The fact that Raymond speaks and understands only French makes for some of the most engaging moments in the film, in fact, since Ghost Dog neither speaks nor understands French, but only English.  It's a novel touch that is so Jarmusch; and it's an indication of what this film could have been had Jarmusch moved more in that direction rather than toward the more questionable path upon which he ended up.The supporting cast includes Camille Winbush (Pearline), Cliff Gorman (Sonny), Frank Minucci (Big Angie), Richard Portnow (Handsome Frank) and Tricia Vessey (Louise).  In any given medium, the true artist dances to his own drum, and that defines Jim Jarmusch.  Independent film, especially, and the cinema in general, owes a debt of gratitude to his inventiveness and creative vision, to that kind of spirit of which he is imbued, that has taken film to a higher level.  `Ghost Dog  Way of the Samurai' may not be his most memorable film, and is far from his greatest accomplishment, but it does demonstrate that Jim Jarmusch is alive and well as he continues to seek out new cinematic territory.  And even in this film there can be found a magic that is all it's own; and in the final analysis, it's all a part of what makes up the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 5/10.             "}{"Title":"Bad bad bad","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unbelievable how this movie received a 7.5/10. This is a really, really bad movie. A samurai practicing with a sword all the time, but kills with a gun only. I guess there was no budget to teach Forest some sword fighting skills. There's also lots of walking/driving to nowhere whilst failing to stare dangerously. I like bad movies, but this was too much. I watched it right after watching '7 golden vampires' which was way more exciting and interesting. There are also a plenty of story lines going nowhere or popping up out of nowhere. What I did like where the 3 mafia bosses, the smile on Forest's face showing he clearly enjoyed waving his sword and probably thinking 'what the heck am I doing now' and the slapstick interaction between the French speaking ice cream guy and Forest. "},{"Title":"Maybe I missed the point, but who cares?","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was pure torture!  Where do I begin?  Well, let's see.  The plot was okay, but it was way too long for the amount of story being told.  And what was with that scene of Forest Whittaker driving with the music playing for like 15 minutes!?  What was the point?  We were subjected to that dull pointless scene not once, but twice!  Wow.And why was the Mafia portrayed as a bunch of senior citizens in sweatsuits? Sure, there's probably a lot of old guys like that in the mob, but every single one of these guys qualified for the Grand Slam discount at Denny's. Where are all the aspiring young wise guys?Here's one to think about the Mafia is going after Ghost Dog, and they know he's a black samurai who lives on the roof of a building and hangs out with trained pigeons.  They go after him and kill the wrong guy!  How many black samurais living on roofs with trained pigeons are there?But, oh man, the best part is the fact that Ghost Dog, the samurai, never even kills anyone with his sword!  He just shoots them!  But the little move he pulls with his gun everytime... man, that's gut-busting hilarious. It's worth the price of the rental just to see that guy swing his gun around everytime he shoots it.  What a riot.I think Ghost Dog is supposed to be an artsy kind of movie.  Maybe I just didn't get it because I was too tired when I watched it.  But I sure got a kick out of it.  It was pretty awful, and because of that, I think it's worth watching.  Sometimes, you just need a really good bad movie to watch with your friends. "},{"Title":"Almost as exciting as watching paint dry","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I registered here just so I could review this one movie. It was without a doubt the absolute worst movie I have ever seen, and those I saw it with disliked it possibly even more. I cannot believe that anyone could even stand it... there is something wrong with you people! It was of horrible quality, with no storyline, no theme, and no good messages. The character was boring, careless, and unintelligent. There was nothing good in this movie except for the occasional cartoon. It was SO LONG, and SO BORING. Seriously, worthless. We wanted to leave so badly.. not sure why we stuck it out. It was SO BAD, I can't stress this enough. I think these good reviews must just be a horrible prank to make people go out and see this unbelievably bad movie.  "},{"Title":"leaden stinker, totally contrived","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is beyond me how this affected dimwit keeps getting film projects. Not one drop of this waste of attention feels the slightest bit authentic. Every edit lags, every shot looks like a movie, not a glimpse into an actual event. I found nothing the slightest bit compelling about the lead actor's performance, or anything convincing about anything that happens anywhere, ever, period. No actor ever seems engaged in the scene; it always feels like acting. There's a scene where there's a bird inside an apartment, and I swear even the bird's actions feel contrived. How does he do that?Jarmusch wants more than anything for people to think of him as some deep underground cool guy, and judging by the other 10-star comments, I'd say lots of people seem to fall for it. Not me. Watch him in an interview sometime, he gives off an IQ of maybe 85, totally dull. The soundtrack that everyone is gushing over is wholly unremarkable, kindergarten-rhyming singsong generica, loops that repeat and never develop. same old same old. Technical slop abounds shiny drool at the corner of Whitaker's mouth, jerky focus pulls, lumpy panning, wobbly shots that should be locked, and lighting that is almost the very same crisp cold white in every single scene. I won't even bother addressing the topheavy samurai crap except to say it's a load, like a ninja sticker on a kid's lunchbox.I hope this extremely overrated hipster stops making movies. I only watched this because a dear friend recommended it to me. It takes a lot for me to give one star; this one was looking like a sure thing for that rating in the first few minutes, and never rose above it. Go ahead and ignore the negative comments like many have suggested, but if your crap detector starts going off, well, i did my best to told-you-so. "}]