[{"Title":"Like the TV show, only dumber.","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Somebody could probably make a great documentary about the Jerry Springer Show, but this fictionalized version merely succeeds in draining anything authentic and interesting out of the trash-TV phenomenon. There are dozens of famously bad movies (e.g. Manos The Hands of Fate) that show more creativity and spirit than this dreary, witless waste of film.Seriously, why not a documentary about the Jerry Springer Show, that would begin to answer some of the real questions like Who are these people? What happens to their lives after they appear on this show? How did the mayor of Cincinatti find himself here?One good line During an orientation session for guests People, I can't emphasize this enough NO WEAPONS! "},{"Title":"Even if you're a Springer fan, skip this boring, lifeless piece of crap","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a regular viewer of Springer's, but I do watch his show in glimpses and I think the show is a fine guilty pleasure and a good way to kill some time.  So naturally, I'm going to watch this movie expecting to see Jerry Springer Uncensored.  First of all, Jerry appears in approximately twenty minutes of the film's running time.  The other hour and twenty minutes is spent building up this pseudo-farce about trailer-trash, jealousy, incest and deception.  Jaime Pressley (who looks hot as HELLLL) is a trailer-trash slut who sleeps with her stepfather (a very unusual-looking, chain-smoking, drunken Michael Dudikoff who finally strays from his action hero persona).  The mom finds out about the affair, they get into a fight, they want to take it to the Jerry show (that's right, no Springer).  And then we have a parallel story with an African-American couple.  They take it to the Jerry show.  The characters collide.  Blah, blah, freakin' blah!  Trash has rarely been this BORRRINGG!!!!  I was wondering why the hell Springer has millions of fans, yet none of them checked out his movie.  Well, now it's TOTALLY obvious!!  Whether you love him or hate him, you will hate this movie!  How can I explain?  It's a total mess of a motion picture (if that's what you call it).  It's so badly edited, with scenes that just don't connect, and after a period of time the plot virtually disappears and it's simply all over the map!  Just imagine a predictable soap opera transformed into a comic farce.  With seldom laughs.  My only positive note is a hot girl-girl scene.  That's as risque as it gets.  Don't get me wrong, the scene's pretty risque, but if you look at the overall film comparing it to the material on Springer's program--this disastrous farce seems extremely sanitized.My score  3 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Not horrible, but certainly not good","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This wasn't the major disaster that I was expecting, but that is about as positive as I can be in my description of the movie.  I'm not sure what was meant to be funny about this movie, but I suppose it's all a matter of taste.  Personally, I don't find it funny to watch morons living their idiotic lives or making fools of themselves on television, but then again, I'm not a fan of Jerry Springer's pathetic daytime talk show.  I didn't get too bored watching this, but I was definitely never enjoying it, either. If you're in the mood to see a bad movie, but one that isn't too painful to sit through, this is a good choice. "},{"Title":"Nauseating","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only thing that kept me from vomiting after seeing this movie was the fact that these are just actors and not the freak show that usually appears on the TV show.  This is also the main reason that fans of the TV show won't like the movie, but not the only reason.  This movie has about as much entertainment value as getting a root canal.  It approaches the abyssmal depths of bad movie making, and then gets even worse.  I won't waste your time describing this movie in further detail; suffice it to say that I pity the poor camera people who had to suffer through watching this c**p the first time. "},{"Title":"Inane Dribble","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ringmaster, Jerry Springer's pathetic excuse for wasting film that should be recycled as toilet paper recently destroyed my confidence in the art of film.  First of all, it was made.  Second of all, people went to see it. Third, some people voted it the best movie they have ever seen.  If a monkey could make a movie, i'm 100 percent sure that it would be 1 billion times as good.  Most crappy movies have their moments,  (even Godzilla had a few cool special effects) this film's moment was when I left the theater nauseated. The only thing that possibly could've made this movie any worse would be if Jerry Springer was the star.  If I want to stare at crap for an hour and a half, i'll take a dump in a can.  If anyone didn't utterly despise this movie, I pity you, and your children, and your children's children's children; however, contrary to Springer's beliefs, I clearly don't condone children having sex. "},{"Title":"Justification of trash culture, the odd laugh, a few interesting moments and a load of titillation does not a film make","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jerry Farrelly runs a successful television chat show that revels in unusual relationships &#150; but even he is left flabbergasted by some of the issues that come onto his show. While he tries to explain the popularity of his show, several groups of guest arrive for his newest show. Angel lives in a trailer with her mother and stepfather &#150; but is sleeping with him! When her mother Connie finds out she gives Angel's boyfriend a blowjob in revenge. Meanwhile Starletta catches boyfriend Demond sleeping with both Vonda and Leshawnetta. The natural step for both groups is to appear on Jerry's show &#150; even if it makes the conflict greater.I started watching this film once but didn't review it because I gave it up as a bad job once it turned into nudity for nudity's sake, however I decided that I'd give it another try despite my better judgment. Of course, it is not any good but this is not to say that it was one of the worst films ever made because it wasn't. The plot focuses around two sets of trash that emulate the guests on Jerry's real show and this is part of the problem. The characters here seem to revel in ignorance and trashiness and it makes it hard to really care about any of them. This isn't helped by the fact that they have no real story to speak of &#150; their bits are set up and then they all flirt/fight in the hotel on their way to the recording of the show.Not enough happens to justify a 'story' so called so it resorts to 'sexy' clinches, fighting and vulgarity.It is a shame because the film does have a few interesting moments &#150; although you wouldn't think it from the reviewers on this site. One interesting point is the character of Connie; she is damaged and hurt and wants more than the vulgarity she has &#150; but when the fighting and swearing happens, this interesting part of the character is forgotten aside from a few all too rare sensitive moments. The film has a few interesting lines about the show but it doesn't throw itself open enough, instead it uses its platform to defend itself and attack its critics; I don't mind it doing this but there was no balanced view to be had here &#150; although it is hard to disagree with Jerry's speech near the end that defends the fact that people are like this&#133;even if we don't like it. Parts of it are a little funny but this, and some other qualities are just lost in a plotless film that is vulgar rather than interesting and noisy rather than really funny.The cast are average as you would expect from the material they are given. Hagan manages to create a few good moments but she is betrayed by the film for her good work. Pressly is very sexy &#150; even as white trailer trash! She doesn't have much to do apart from be sexy, so it is just as well that she does it well. Robinson, Ambrose and Micheaux have all done some good jobs in other films/shows but here they are loud, brash black stereotypes and they embarrass themselves. Why action star White bothered to do this is beyond me, he has nothing to do apart from flirt around and get to kiss a couple of girls. McNamara is pretty good and sends himself and the show up equally well. Springer is so-so and he overdoes the 'world-weary' thing and never lets interesting moments, where he seems bothered, go anywhere of value. Like the material itself, the cast throw up some OK moments but these are lost in a sea of bad stuff.Overall this is a bad film although it has moments that show it could have been more interesting (if not actually good per se). However, without a decent plot the interesting ideas/moments only occasionally float to the top by chance but the dominant qualities are ones of vulgarity, cheap titillation, fighting and ignorance &#150; none of which are reason enough to watch it.  "},{"Title":"The Depravity of Modern Man","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To preface this review, I must say that I was, I suppose, a little curious about this movie.. However, I probably would not have seen it had I not had my arm slightly twisted.In my opinion, this movie shows just how depraved man can be.  In my eyes, the worst thing about this whole Springer phenomenon is not that type of people on the Jerry Springer Show act as they do (which in itself is eminently reproachable), but that many people are so curious and excited to watch them and hear about their lives (yes, I suppose that includes me.. to whatever extent it is true).  If not glorifying that kind of behavior (as some might say) at the very least we may be subtly corrupting our minds and/or desenstizing ourselves to this type of behavior.But enough soapbox (sort of). Here's the skinny the movie has an R rating, and while it may deserve only that (I did look away at some scenes, so I'm not completely sure), I feel that an NC-17 (tip of the hat to the other reviewer) might be a little more appropriate for the immense sexual content (a cynic might comment that the movie was just one big excuse to show sex on the big screen).  The plot is very bizarre, tying together the stories of an absolutely dysfunctional family and a group of stereotypical blacks upset who will appear on different Springer shows.  At the end, the movie leaves one with some resolvement- and Springer rhetoric about the need for us to see the real world (evidently as seen through his show).  I agree with him there- it is important to know how the world really is so that we can seek to effect positive change.  Having said that, let me just tell you- the world's pretty bad- glance in a newpaper or the news to see that, but let's not shell out good money to support the kind of sensationalistic and perhaps formulaic titallition that Springer seeks to give us.  "},{"Title":"I've seen better film on teeth.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't quite say that Jerry SpringerRingmaster is the worst film I have ever seen.  The film would be better off if it were, because at least the worst film I've ever seen, (Prom Night II) interested me enough for me to hate it. My only reaction after leaving the theatre happened when I looked up at the clock and discovered that only 90 minutes had passed. It had seemed much more like years.  It is an endless repetition of poor people, (or what Jerry Springer seems to believe poor people are), screwing each other, hitting each other, insulting each other, and then repeating the process with the same attention to duty the rest of us use when shampooing. The plot, which covers how a group of stupid people mangle their lives badly enough to provide grist for the Jerry Springer mill, advances solely because of the idiocy of the characters.  This makes it impossible to care what happens to them. It never mattered to me whether they got on the show, or what they said, or who slept with whom. Maybe I'm not supposed to care about them.  Maybe I'm supposed to look at them as some kind of comic type-- to see their outrageous behavior as inherently funny.  Too bad it isn't.  The humor is not outrageous.  It's innocuous.  It's predictable. Humor has to have something behind it, some kind of painful irony or life experience, in order to function.  Scatology is not wit.  An example.  A mother catches her daughter and her husband in bed.  To take revenge she marches across the trailer park and gives oral sex to her daughter's boyfriend.  Since I was over the shock of Jerry Springer's show a long time ago, I had the same reaction I had to Andrew Dice Clay's obscene nursery rhymes; not laughter, just yawning. Lastly, I found Springer's pose as a populist tiresome and unconvincing. If he really were an advocate of the poor, he would bring on a single mom from Bed-Sty to talk about trying to raise her kids in New York City on $12,000 a year.  Or, failing that, he would at least give the participants of his shows a cut of his profits.  Jerry Springer gets millions for his shows, his movie, his book and videos.  His guests just get round trip air fare, hotel accommodations, and a chance to humiliate themselves.  If he liked poor people so much, he'd give them at least some of the money they earn for him.  It appears that Springer wanted to make this movie to grab some legitimacy for himself. Jeez, with all his fine work, you'd think he'd have earned our respect already. Anyway, the film is weak and boring. It doesn't even succeed at being offensive. If you want to have a better evening, videotape a bug zapper for a night and then watch that.   "},{"Title":"Determined To Hate It, But Couldn't","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It would seem that all those people who are bashing this film so gleefully are being less than honest, as it is in fact capably made, generally well acted (Springer himself wisely opts for a mild, secondary role) and at times achieves a surprising poignancy. Based on the few clips I've seen over the years, I have nothing but contempt for the infamous talk show itself, but it is clear that the folks behind this project had a threefold objective 1. to defend and explain the show's appeal 2. to probe the mentality and motivations of a typical guest and 3. to still deliver the kind of sleaze and silliness the show's fans have come to expect. Amazingly enough, the movie basically connects on all three levels. What is most surprising about Ringmaster is the amount of compassion it has for its (at heart) extremely sad, lonely characters - where a guest spot on Springer's show will be, for most of them, the absolute pinnacle of their abysmal lives. The movie also argues that, whatever else you might think of them, these people have guts, they're fighters - they won't be doormats for anyone. The best performances are given by Jaime Pressly and Wendy Robinson, both of whom throw themselves into their roles with complete and often hilarious abandon. Their profanity-laced tirades are, frankly, very funny and very um, vivid. (Especially Robinson's Linda Blair comment.) Sleazy and trashy, to be sure, but smarter than you'd think and maintains a narrative drive all the way through - unlike so many other TV shows turned into films. With the show's popularity on the wane by now, this represents a more lasting monument, if defaced and defiled, of the whole Springer sensation.   "},{"Title":"I can't believe I paid for this...","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, let me say that I didn't expect a film starring Jerry Springer to be cinematic gold, all I asked for was it to be cinematic...and it wasn't even that.  It looked like someone's  bad home movies.  Poorly acted, scripted, and filled to the brim with nudity of the most unnattractive people I've ever seen.The film's plot focuses on a low-class family who decide to go on the Jerry Farrelly Show to discuss multiple affairs between a mother, daughter, stepfather and the daughter's fiancee.  From there, the movie fizzles and develops into a unique experience white-trash pornography. There's redneck sex, interacial sex, even sex between Jerry and his wife? (Yuk!) This film encouraged me to want to run out of the theater and get a second circumcision.  At least it was mercifully short.  Disgusting and degrading.  African-Americans and working class America should be offended. (Howard Stern should be pleased however, he didn't squander his attempt for film stardom.  His was smart, funny and entertaining)MY GRADE F+ (the daughter was hot) "}{"Title":"A *BLEEPING* load of *BLEEP*!!!!!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh Dear, Jerry may be the undisputed king of talkshow but the movies are a whole different ball game, and he's way out of his league. The script for this film is so poor it has to be seen to be believed and its sad to see such vaguely familiar actors as Michael Dudikoff (80's action &#145;B'movie king), Michael Jai White (Last seen in the Sci Fi flop &#145;Spawn') as well as Surviving the Games' William MacNamara (who is involved in the only half funny situation in the whole film!) stoop this low for employment. If you are a fan of Jerry then stick to his TV show as this is a total waste of and hour and a half. After I had finished sitting through this I managed to catch the last half an hour of Rocky 5 on TV, which looked like a cinematic masterpiece in comparison, I think that says more than enough!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome show!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This show is awesome! and I've seen it about 6 times.Granted it may be lacking in educational content as some people like those sort of movies, but I think it's great, very funny and excellently written! "},{"Title":"White Trash America, Here is Your Citizen Kane","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think that, deep down in the darkest, slimiest part of their heart, everyone likes Jerry Springer just a little bit. While his show is undeniably offensive and stupid, it also gives us a chance to see that, relatively speaking, most of us have it real good. When you look at the trailer park livin', dollar whiskey drinkin', incest lovin' people on the Springer show, it makes even your worst day seem like a walk in the park. Jerry is performing a public service, and we should be grateful. He ditched a political career to host the show, just for us.What we should not be grateful for in any way is the piece of garbage movie Ringmaster. Ringmaster shows what life is like for people who wind up being guests on the show, or so they would like us to think. The movie follows the pre-requisite Springer story line Love triangles. One triangle involves Connie, her daughter Angel, and her husband Rusty. The other involves Starletta, Vonda, and Demond. When the two hapless groups meet up in LA, their lives intertwine and collide head-on, all culminating in an explosive episode of the Springer show. It's like what Short Cuts would be if Robert Altman had had a severe crack habit.Ringmaster is true to the show, as it is stupid and offensive from start to finish. It also makes me very glad that I don't live in the squalor it's characters do. But the movie has a problem. It's billed as a comedy, but it just isn't very funny. What laughs there are to be had are few and far between. Maybe some people watch this and laugh non-stop. If you think blow jobs and rape are funny, well then I guess you're one of those folks. Personally, I laughed two or three times and spent the rest of the movie in utter awe of the agonizing horrors of white-trash life.The Jerry Springer Show just isn't meant to make the leap from TV to the silver screen. What's funny in an hour long show (less, when you count commercials) isn't necessarily going to be funny in a ninety minute movie. Movies have to tell a story, and that's something else Ringmaster has trouble with. The story is threadbare. There are so many plot holes and continuity errors that any attempt at telling a cohesive narrative is quickly put asunder. And even if there weren't such problems, how much fun can you pull out of a story of stereotypical people in a stereotypical story? Even the Hollywood formula couldn't make this better. Ringmaster is so bad, it even screws up the best part of the Springer show the Final Thought. Somehow, even the smartest and simplest aspect of the show wound up blowing harder than the slutty women the film is built around.The worst offender in all of this is Springer himself. He's such a bad actor that he can't even play himself convincingly. Watching Springer play Springer is sad. It's like he was going for a 'What if Woody Allen played Jerry Springer' vibe, and he failed. Miserably. He went to the trouble of producing this disaster, the least he could do is try to make it just that much better.Not that I'm saying everyone else in this movie put in an award worthy performance. Just the opposite. They all suck. Not so surprisingly, no one in this movie went on to greatness. The best any of them was did was Molly Hagan landing a job on a Nickelodeon sitcom. Apparently, Nickelodeon has no problem with hiring a woman who starred in the most vile film of the '90's to star in a children's program. It makes you wonder what kind of things the other adults on that channel have done in their pasts.Here are my Final Thoughts What we have here is a group of people with no self respect and a man with money to burn, who have met and put their resources together to produce a film that shows how much they hate themselves and how little they think of the intelligence of their viewing audience. Should we accept people who make movies that treat us like severely brain-damaged lumps of goo? I say no. Somewhere out there, in this crazy, mixed up world, there is a perfect movie for each of us. We just have to keep looking for it. Until next time, take care of yourselves and your loved ones. And don't ever watch Ringmaster. "},{"Title":"A Bigger Mess Than the Show.","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Ringmaster (1998) Dir Neil Abramson / Cast Jerry Springer, Molly Hagan, Jaime Pressly, Michael Jai White, William McNamara Idiotic comedy about Jerry Springer's dysfunctional talk show and totally insincere at that. The title places him as a go-between within the depraved. At one point he defends his guests comparing their lives to that of the rich and famous. It is as if an applause is required. Among his guests are a mother and daughter combo played by Molly Hagan and Jaime Pressly. Apparently the Pressly character slept with her stepfather and became pregnant. Her mother then gives her daughter's boyfriend a blowjob. In fact, everyone seems to be sleeping with everybody in this film. One idiot even goes so far to tell his girlfriend that he slipped off to attend a Bible study in the area. Horrible directing by Neil Abramson with a screenplay that plays like a soap opera. We are given some insight into Springer's disposition as he prepares this event but he also seems to be promoting himself, especially with his pathetic and phoney concluding statement. Hagan and Pressly exploit society's nightmares through applauded vulgarity. Some of their actions are amusing but the resolution is phoney. Michael Jai White makes a wasted appearance as another cheater. Advertises Springer's career with sloppy filmmaking, bad acting and one big ugly orgy. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Flawed but innovative and interesting","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented the film (I don't think it got a theatrical release here) out expecting the worse.  The previews made the film look awful.  I was in fact very surprised, it was well worth watching; it was loosely scripted, almost like an ensemble piece of film.  It had some very funny moments in it and although flawed is an effective satire on the show and the people on the show without being too scathing.  It is flawed, mainly by the awful soundtrack of bludgeoning 'comedy' effects but on the whole it comes across as honest and generally true to form of the show in an altmanesque or Larry Sanders way.At the moment it is the fashion to be critical of Jerry Springer, he is also an easy target.  Springer could have made Citizen Kane and it would be proclaimed 'the worst film ever made'.  I recommend this film for anybody interested in the show.  A flawed but innovative and interesting piece of film.   "},{"Title":"Ringmaster = lots of laughs","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Personally, I disdain The Jerry Springer Show, however, I found Ringmaster to be the funniest movie I've seen this year.  The never-ending satire of Jerry Springer guests starting in the opening scene keeps you laughing throughout the movie.  Despite a brief scene in which Jerry Springer makes a feeble attempt at justifying his existence, I definitely recommend this movie for sheer entertainment value.  "},{"Title":"Worth it only for Michael Jai White...","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yeah, the movie's bad.  But I, for one, found it worth the price of admission just to see the sexy, exquisitely sculpted Michael Jai White, who appears in various states of undress throughout the film (his first scene--wow).  Run, don't walk, to see him in all his fine glory on the big screen. "},{"Title":"It was tremendously funny!","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went and saw the movie and it was just as I expected, maybe even a little more than I really expected. This movie was a very good re-enactment of what we see taking place on the television. In fact it made me see these people in a different light and I thought that was very interesting. Maybe the movie was motivated by sex, but then again that is what made the show a television hit! "},{"Title":"Terrible, and Offensive, But........","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I saw the movie. Too curious yellow?!? And Yes it wasin very bad taste. However, after I finished seeing it, I pondered about it and thought, Is this really that much different than whathappened in the White House while the wife was in the same house?' Mr. Springer put it very well at the end when he described this type of shenanigans that goes on whether you are white trashor a Beverly Hills snob. The latter is simply too wealthy to allow their intimate problems to air on TV.  "},{"Title":"Kind of funny- but don't go expecting a plot!","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just saw the movie, and the scary thing was, the people talking during the movie sounded just like the actors. The movie had its moments, but also lagged and was rather sick. It was all meant to be a farce, but once you see the pathetic lives of the people in the movie, you think to yourself People like this are all around us All attempts at getting the audience's sympathy are dashed as the actors do one stupid thing after another. On the plus side, there are some great (and funny) insults. I think I would wait for video- but it was a good laugh. WARNING- Jerry takes his shirt off during the movie!! (not a pretty sight!) "}{"Title":"If you like the show, you'll like most of the movie.","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Main theme of the movie seems to be Jerry validating his purpose for producing his show. All the language and nudity cut out of his broadcast are in full force, but Ringmaster attempts to show its guests as human. Transitions to warm fuzzy moments are clumsy at best, makes you feel bad for the actors more than the characters. About as bad as you would expect from the previews. If you like the show, you'll like most of the movie. "},{"Title":"If you like the show, you'll like most of the movie.","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Main theme of the movie seems to be Jerry validating his purpose for producing his show. All the language and nudity cut out of his broadcast are in full force, but Ringmaster attempts to show its guests as human. Transitions to warm fuzzy moments are clumsy at best, makes you feel bad for the actors more than the characters. About as bad as you would expect from the previews. If you like the show, you'll like most of the movie. "},{"Title":"Exciting, must-see entertainment.","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great entertainment from America's middle class. "},{"Title":"From a filmmaker/producer point of view","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The film started off with good energy.  The exuberant amount of sex and nudity was amusing and will be a selling point, however the story falls short in the middle and slowly makes its way to the end.  Liked some of the girls, some of the performances and some of the jokes, but the production value and the directing was very poor.  Jerry Springer was too sorrowful, and attempting to be funny brought the film's speed down in prolonged scenes.  The film was close to a Farelly Bros. movie, but it didn't get that far. Unfortunately it was the only way to go, because it wasn't a very deep film, we'll see if sex will sell...There's plenty of it. "},{"Title":"Worst film of the year, a total waste of film stock","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie would have gone straight to video had it not been for the success of The Jerry Springer show. Instead of making a film like Private Parts, Ringmaster just panders to the Springer audience. It's a series of behind the scenes fights, arguments, and sex scenes with no real plot. The film follows a few people who are going to appear on the show and if this is what Springer thinks of the people who appear on the show he deserves a drop in the ratings to say the least. Worst of all, the film tries to get serious towards the end and Springer himself gives one of his ridiculous speeches, as he tries to convince us that he's letting the poor people have a voice. He should be totally ashamed of himself, but no more so than Artisan films, the distributor of this trash. "},{"Title":"The Jerry Springer Show The Movie!","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We couch potatoes love the television. We may hate all of these reality shows on TV like Survivor, Big Brother, The Amazing Race and The Bachelor, but the most realistic of television is none other than The Jerry Springer Show. Yes, I love how it starts out with small talk, and suddenly Chairs are thrown and broken into pieces! We see backyard wrestling-like fighting! We hear cuss words being bleeped out like crazy! No other TV show on the airwaves is like that! This stuff keeps us hooked, baby! Hooked! And if y'all think the TV version is very interesting, try watching this movie version! Seeing as how this is rated R and that this was shown in the movie theater, we can probably see (and hear) what we couldn't see on the TV version because of the endless FCC rules! So think of it as an extended, unrated episode of The Jerry Springer Show! And man, I wouldn't want to be in Mr. Springer's shoes right now! "},{"Title":"Jaime Pressly makes Ringmaster worth seeing","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Jaime Pressly as a horny trailer park girl? Great! I saw Ringmaster in the theater. I was all alone. The theater was completely empty. No one else dared.  I had seen commercials for the movie and was attracted to the blond girl in the movie, (Jaime Pressly). I had a movie pass at the time which let me get into movies for free. A love connection was made and the movie pass took me to see Ringmaster.First off, let me say that I am not a big fan of Jerry Springer. In fact, I have never seen a single show. Honest! I only know of him through pop culture osmosis. I knew his show was trashy and the trailers for the flick looked trashy. Trashy I like. So I had to see it.The movie focuses on the guests of his show and why they would humiliate themselves on TV. Jerry's defense is that the poor people of America deserve a spot on TV too. He's the facilitator. He lets the poor speak out and be stupid. The working class has a hero and it's Jerry Springer. He is the Ringmaster.So to give some background to all these human freak shows that run across the TV screen, we get to see the guest's life stories. Here is where the movie gets a little interesting. Jaime Pressly is the hot babe in the trailer park who sleeps with her step dad and a lot of other people.Jaime Pressly is the living embodiment of sex. Other females look away in shame. It's no wonder her step dad wants her. Her nakedness is what propels this movie into more than just a flick about guests on a trashy talk show. OK. OK. It's not much more than that but Jaime Pressly is still volcano-level hot.  If you like seeing Jaime Pressly getting it on, (and what sane man doesn't?), check out this flick.  "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I haven't laughed that much in a long time - although the movie has some sad moments too, especially when it changes from hyper-funny to honest and serious. The characters are very realistic most of the times, sappy sometimes, but quite believable. I am not a fan of the Jerry Springer show - I feel sorry for the participating people. This film instead is a satire, and it is doing great.Too bad that all expletives were *beeped* out while this movie aired on public tv, that takes a lot of fun out of it. I will go rent this movie to fully enjoy it. "},{"Title":"i've got an idea!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lets make a movie about a talk show that already exists and basically have everything that happens on the show! Well if that idea doesn't intrigue you, which it shouldn't, stay away from ringmaster. I had the displeasure of seeing this in the theater and actually being able to sit through this mess of a movie. I guess jerry springer doesn't play himself as it shows from the cheap props for his show (yes it looks even cheaper than the real jerry springer show) and he is only known as jerry in the film. The plot (if you can call it that) is about a daughter while living with her mother decides to start sleeping with the mother's live in boyfriend. So the mother's brilliant idea is to call the jerry springer show as well as getting it on with her daughter's boyfriend. (Is it any coincidence they live in a trailer park). Meanwhile somewhere else in america a woman finds her cheatin' man with her friend in bed together. So of course call america's therapist Jerry springer! I'd talk about the rest of the film but even thinking about the film now is giving me a headache. Jamie Pressly who plays the daughter looks totally unattractive in the movie. And remember Michael Dudikoff the kick ass karate master from the american ninja series? Well take a look at him now as a white trash drunk. The thing is he really looks too horrible and out of shape to call it getting in touch with his charecter. But if your idea of fun is seeing Jerry Springer sing a country song about his own show or guys hooking up with transvestites...well...JUST WATCH THE SHOW INSTEAD! ... at least steve was smart enough to stay out of this flick. "},{"Title":"So get out there and rent it, baby!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are lots of people who hate the Jerry Springer show, and even more people probably hate this movie, for whatever reason. But all of these people are obviously white middle-upper class bigots who don't want to be reminded that the sort of people shown in this film exist.They also say that every part of this movie was complete filth. Well, I beg to disagree. Ringmaster actually has some pretty satirical and witty moments. For example, there's the scene when the enraged audience member, obviously representing all the Jerry haters, goes on and on about how these people are garbage, they should be ashamed of themselves, they are what's wrong with America, etc. And then Jerry has that long monologue. I think I can remember most of it...Hey buddy, all your celebrities and sports stars go on TV, and say who they're sleeping with, what drugs they take, and people like you can't get enough of it. And then poor lower class people come on TV and say the exact same things, so now they're the scum of the earth? Just because they don't drink the same fine wines, and go to the same country clubs as you do? This is a slice of real American life, buddy. And we love it. And if you can't deal with that, we all have a message for you. Eat sh*t.Or there's the instance where the news lady from a major LA news show, a satire of most news ladies, such as the ones on Entertainment Tonight, talks to Jerry's PR director, and they have a pretty interesting conversation...PR Director Hey, it's really great that the media has taken such an interest in our show. News Lady You know, I've only been able to watch Jerry for about 4 or 5 seconds at a time before changing the channel. PR Director Oh? Why's that? News Lady Well, quite frankly, it's because I find the people on your show to be bleak and depressing. Don't you think they're bleak and depressing? PR Director Actually, I've met most of the people on the show, and they're usually poor. It sounds to me like you think poverty is bleak and depressing, and you just don't want to be reminded of it.But these aren't the only good parts. It also has the world's perfect woman Jaime Pressly. I suppose the only reason it didn't show her bare chested was the fact that she was the main character. Well, that didn't stop what's-her-name from doing it in Showgirls!I just hope that more people who see it aren't as ignorant and close-minded as the majority of the people who saw it. Plus, if you're a Springer fan, you'll find it absolutely hilarious. There are lots of people who hate the Jerry Springer show, and even more people probably hate this movie, for whatever reason. But all of these people are obviously white middle-upper class bigots who don't want to be reminded that the sort of people shown in this film exist.They also say that every part of this movie was complete filth. Well, I beg to disagree. Ringmaster actually has some pretty satirical and witty moments. For example, there's the scene when the enraged audience member, obviously representing all the Jerry haters, goes on and on about how these people are garbage, they should be ashamed of themselves, they are what's wrong with America, etc. And then Jerry has that long monologue. I think I can remember most of it...Hey buddy, all your celebrities and sports stars go on TV, and say who they're sleeping with, what drugs they take, and people like you can't get enough of it. And then poor lower class people come on TV and say the exact same things, so now they're the scum of the earth? Just because they don't drink the same fine wines, and go to the same country clubs as you do? This is a slice of real American life, buddy. And we love it. And if you can't deal with that, we all have a message for you. Eat sh*t.Or there's the instance where the news lady from a major LA news show, a satire of most news ladies, such as the ones on Entertainment Tonight, talks to Jerry's PR director, and they have a pretty interesting conversation...PR Director Hey, it's really great that the media has taken such an interest in our show. News Lady You know, I've only been able to watch Jerry for about 4 or 5 seconds at a time before changing the channel. PR Director Oh? Why's that? News Lady Well, quite frankly, it's because I find the people on your show to be bleak and depressing. Don't you think they're bleak and depressing? PR Director Actually, I've met most of the people on the show, and they're usually poor. It sounds to me like you think poverty is bleak and depressing, and you just don't want to be reminded of it.But these aren't the only good parts. It also has the world's perfect woman Jaime Pressly. I suppose the only reason it didn't show her bare chested was the fact that she was the main character. Well, that didn't stop what's-her-name from doing it in Showgirls!I just hope that more people who see it aren't as ignorant and close-minded as the majority of the people who saw it. Plus, if you're a Springer fan, you'll find it absolutely hilarious. So get out there and rent it, baby! "}{"Title":"A cheap and disgusting romp","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie Ringmaster, starring Jerry Springer, pretty much as himself (except he has a last name different from his) is a movie that seemed like it tried as hard as it could to expose the complete trailer trash cheap STD filled lesbian midget dominatrix transfestite gay brother type episodes. Though Jerry Springer was funny as himself, the movie was an extreme and not something the director should be proud of. I mean, how much of this trailer trash sex do you want in a movie? For example, there is a scene from an episode where a woman just decides to flash and shake her breasts in front of the audience, and her boyfriend lets her do it. SHe says, He let's me have a girlfriend too and a girl comes out and drops her clothing and they kiss and rub their breasts on his face. And  I stopped and asked myself...why? Why is this necessary in this movie. In fact, why is this movie necessary? It isn't. Don't see it. "},{"Title":"Failed attempt at trash","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Let me start off by saying that I am fan of trashy movies.    All the way from Bette Davis - Joan Crawford bitch-fests to John Waters to Showgirls. I love it all. So when I heard that Jerry Springer was coming out with a movie I thought it might be worth checking out.    In the quest for trash you have to claw through a lot of mud before you find a diamond. This was mere mud. A failed attempt at being trashy. All the stereotypes are here and gleefully shown. It is clear from this movie that Jerry doesn't have much respect for his guests or his audience. You get the distinct impression that he laughs at them behind their back and this movie lets us in on that. There is much here that attempts to shock but sort of falls flat. I guess it might be hard to shock a jaded Springer Show audience. I am not a fan of the show but found the attempts to shock as a little silly.    Oh well, the movie was very obviously made on a quicky budget and timetable and I hope it suceeded at it's goal making someone a LOT of quick money.    A better movie, if you can find it, is The Gong Show Movie, sort of the same plot, a TV show behind the scenes, but much better done.  "},{"Title":"I loved It!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked the movie Ringmaster. I felt it was an honest view of what Springer deals with on a daily business day. I did not feel the characters were anything more than the real, YES REAL PEOPLE, these character were based on. It was not supposed to be funny, It is like Everyman in its moral questioning of what happens in this real world. Just because a character doesn't make you love them or care about them doesn't mean you should turn it off. These characters were not missing a thing from reality, yes people show Springer their assets, yes he is human and yes it is a great film. Hurray for being truthful enough to show America what you see in the mirror.  "},{"Title":"Proof God Doesn't Exist","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meaning  if this movie got pitched, scripted, made, released, promoted as something halfway respectable given the constraints (yeah, I know, Springer, sex, violence), where is He?Reminded me of porn movies I saw in college, plot and dialogue wise.... shoulda just done something for the scurrilous porno market, showed penetration and be done with it-- would have made more money, the ultimate point of this exercise.... "},{"Title":"GO JERRY","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought the movie was extremely funny and actually very interesting. It was raw and honest and felt as if I was really watching the real people not actors. It's great entertainment, it also painted the people as human on our level not below us. It is a very good film.  "},{"Title":"An enormous steaming turd that should be avoided at all costs.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love watching Jerry as much as the rest of the world, but this poor excuse for a soft-core porno flick is needlessly offensive, lacks anything resembling wit, and serves merely as a vehicle of self-promotion for Springer. Even though it runs a quick 90 minutes, the film drags hideously, and I should have had the common sense to walk out. Simply atrocious. "},{"Title":"No, really it's a good movie.","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The film maybe goes a little far, but if you love the show it's what you expect.  It's not a bad movie; it's actually pretty good.  If you don't like the show, don't see the movie.  It starts off a little slow maybe, but then picks up and turns out to be pretty funny.  There are even a few heart-wrenching scenes toward the end.  After all the protagonists have gone through these scences do get to you.  Also Jerry throws in his opinion why his show upsets people and justifies his show's existience.  He's got a pretty good point.  We care so much about the private details of celebrities lives, so why is it wrong that these people tell their private lives on national TV, too.  If they were celebrities we wouldn't mind at all, we'd eat it up.  Do we not like his guest doing this just because they're poor white trash and it reminds us that there really is poverty in this world and not just rich glamous movie stars living in a Leave it to Beaver world? "},{"Title":"Trashy comedy knocks itself out of the ring","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You don't need to write a script for this trashed outrage! You just sit back and watch a pair of moonshine women and guests duke each other out before a riotous audience exposure at The Jerry Show! Violent and obnoxious, this cash-in on the real Jerry Springer program reveals everything that the over-rated hyped talk show doesn't show to you on the air - - unless you have a collection of uncensored videos made by the producers of Cops. Even the outside world of Springerland reveals the most amateurish acting of the decade! This goes to show you that THE GONG SHOW MOVIE had a central character in a motion picture turkey. Change the channel! REJECTED "},{"Title":"excellent depiction of the TV show","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've seen the real TV show a few times, so i knew what it was about, before i watched it. I wasn't to interested in seeing it, because of that reason. The movie is great, because of the acting, Springer was the worst actor in the movie. For me it was hard to believe the actors weren't real. It felt like a reality program, i guess. I had to reminded myself that's it's only a movie, a few times. Jaime Pressly was really good at playing the character she had, kinda like the same character, on my name is Earl. The rest of the cast is good too. Molly Hagan plays Jamie's mother in the movie, she was a stand out also. I loved the movie, but not the TV show, weird. "},{"Title":"And I thought I had problems...","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An old saying goes If you think you have problems, visit a hospital. That has been updated in recent years to If you think you have problems, watch a TV talk show...especially Jerry Springer's! This movie is one of those that is so bad, it's good! That's why I gave it a seven-it's all right, but not great. It's a great way to waste 95 minutes, just as the daily talk show is advertised as an hour of your life you'll never get back! All the familiar themes are here...unfaithful husbands/boyfriends, the wildest audience on television, women flashing Jerry, etc. The shocker was watching Molly Hagan, who normally plays sweet characters (Seinfeld and Herman's Head) playing a trailer-trash mom and Jaime Pressly (My Name Is Earl) as her equally trashy daughter, performing sexual favors for virtually every man with whom they came in contact. The men (including the staff producer) were presented as quintessential lunkheads who deserved what they got. I don't want to spoil or reveal everything but the movie plays like the daily show. Here in Phoenix, it's shown back-to-back for two hours every morning and, after that, everything else seems to pale. Again, I give this movie a seven...it's good but not great. Jerry Springer is best taken in small one hour doses. "}{"Title":"Jerry's Best or Worst","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I will admit that I have seen maybe five minutes of Jerry Springer. I don't consider myself a snob, but I really think that I am above watching what's on his show. You should try to elevate yourself above that too.I saw this movie as part of a social studies event I was conducting. I was told that this movie really had little to do with Springer himself, rather it centered on the lives of those who would appear on Springer. Handled better, this movie might have actually been a fascinating look at how pathetic these people's lives actually are. I will admit, I felt a twinge of empathy for Connie (Molly Hagan). This is all she has in life. How sad that she feels she must go on Jerry's show in order to resolve this.I really feel sorry for Molly Hagan appearing in this. Have you noticed that after this movie, she has mainly been relegated to B roles on TV? I will say this about Hagan. She is an extremely beautiful and intelligent woman. I have no doubt that she is very earnest in her acting and she tries to play her roles with a lot of empathy. The problem is that Hagan can't carry a scene on her own. She just doesn't have what it takes to do a lead role. Her best work will always be Angel on Herman's Head (a show that was not great, but its heart was in the right place) and when she guested on Seinfeld as Sister Roberta. "},{"Title":"A Manipulative Lie and a Sad Statement on Our Society...but also kind of funny...","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" RINGMASTER is a crude and raunchy fictionalized behind the scenes look at the production of an episode of THE JERRY SPRINGER SHOW, the daytime talk show that makes stars out of ordinary white bread trailer trash who love to come on the show and air their dirty laundry in front of a national television audience. If you can accept the completely fabricated premise in which this story is presented, you might find some laughs here. This film shamelessly perpetrates the myth that Jerry and his staff recruit the guests for the show and do nothing else. It seems to claim that Jerry and his staff have nothing to do with the outrageous on stage shenanigans and that it is all spontaneous and unplanned, which we know for a fact is not true. If you can accept that the entire premise of this film is based on this huge lie, then it is easy to go along with the story of two separate groups of trailer trash being booked on the show. Jerry plays himself with as much sincerity as the plastic screenplay allows. Emmy winner Jaime Pressley (MY NAME IS EARL)and Wendy Raquel Robinson (THE GAME)offer energetic lead performances as the two protagonists in the separate stories being booked on the show. As stupid as this movie is, I still found myself laughing. There are laughs throughout and I have a feeling this film is going to be added to my guilty pleasure list because I found myself laughing despite the fact that I felt like I shouldn't be. "},{"Title":"Strange movie but well-acted","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fictional movie about some people who are going to appear on the Jerry Springer show. Trailer trash Connie (Molly Hagan) is married to good for nothing Rusty (Michael Dudikoff). He's sleeping with her and her daughter Angel (Jaime Pressly) who is his step daughter. Also Angel is dating Willie who Connie seduces! Another story involves Demond (Michael Jai White) who's sleeping with someone and her best friend. They all get on the show and things go out of control.I'm no fan of Jerry Springer's show. I find it sickening--these poor people and their problems are paraded in front of an audience who judges them. I find the scenes where the audience cheers and applauds when people are physically fighting very disturbing. I saw this movie out of pure curiosity. In some ways I found it terrible--in others, quite interesting.The characters and situations here are fictional and that makes it easier to take. Also the acting here is actually pretty good--even Dudikoff (who I never liked) gives a good performance. Only White is bad. His character is a complete jerk but he plays it so badly I didn't know how to take it. However he's a very attractive man with a great body and is introduced almost completely nude! I THINK this was supposed to be a comedy but I found the final confrontation on the show more harrowing than funny. The nonstop swearing and fighting was just hard to watch. As for Springer--he's hardly in it. That's a good thing because I hated him. They show him hosting the show and, after the people are attacking each other and swearing, he stands there with a sad look on his face and nodding his head. On one hand he's saying isn't this sad--on the other he's rubbing our face in it. I just find that kind of behavior revolting. So--as a drama this movie works. It's pretty well written with good acting. As a comedy it's just too sick to be funny. It's not the disaster I was expecting. I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"Not so bad..","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen this movie and I don't understand why everyone spends 3 paragraphs talking about how horrible it is. This movie was clearly never intended to Win best picture- And I am sure the Producers and Directors were aware of that while filming. The intent of the movie is to make fun of people and the way some people live.I actually thought the movie covered every base, everything from the magazines lying around their house, to the food they eat, to hanging out at the laundromat! Obviously nothing you can take too seriously, but I got a kick out of it.6/10 "},{"Title":"Finally, I get to see where these people come from...","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most people do not get this movie. If you read the typical reviews of this movie, you'll see the same phrases repeated over and over again--trashy, nauseating, crap, etc. And if you watch this movie in the frame of mind with which you watch 'good' movies, you will be sorely disappointed and tend to agree with the typical comments you'll find on IMDb.com.The problem with this approach, though, is that this is not supposed to be a 'good' movie. It is not supposed to be an epic, a great romance, an action-drama, or even a true comedy. This movie will not make you cry or question your existence or find any new deep thoughts.Ringmaster is for anyone who has ever watched trash TV talk shows and wondered, 'where in the hell do they dig these characters up?' Here, I must confess that I have asked that question several times before (who hasn't?). So when I watched this film, I was pleased to have such questions answered. You get to see a 'typical' breeding ground for the types of people who get invited to the Springer Show. And though everyone who has ever watched the Jerry Springer show knows that on a certain level, the show is bleak and depressing, this film does a very good job of illustrating just how bleak and depressing the real stories behind the show are. 'Ringmaster' presents the people on the Jerry Springer Show as more than just caricatures and archetype puppets on display for our freakshow entertainment. It tells the story behind the bleeped-out arguments and exaggerated fight scenes you see on weekdays at 900 a.m. For anyone who has ever been curious about the sad reality behind trash TV, this film is worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Crap, but funny!","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Was this movie stupid? Yup. Did this movie depth? Nope. Character development? Nope. Plot twists? Nope. This was simply a movie about a highly-fictionalized Springer show. It shows the lengths that some people will go to get their mugs on TV. Molly Hagan did a great job as Jaime Pressly's mom. Jaime is....well...GORGEOUS! This flick wasn't so much made to be a breakthrough movie, rather, it was intended to life in a trailer park (I live in a trailer park and ours is nothing like the one in this movie) where everyone sleeps with everyone else, all the girls get pregnant by different guys, and all the guys drive rusted-out '66 Ford pickups (exaggeration, of course, but that's the picture everyone sees when you mention trailer park). Some people over-analyze movies (case-in-point Star Trek freaks). I watch movies purely for the entertainment value; not to point out that the girl is wearing a different shirt in a different scene (read the Goofs bit about Connie's shirt. Could it have been better? Sure. But it was funny as hell. "},{"Title":"Horrible but hilarious...","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, people, honestly... this gotta be one of the worst movies about show biz that's ever been made, but I've been laughing myself silly (which may be why I enjoyed it). Basically, it's all about sex, sex and a way to get your own personal 15 minutes of fame. Did I mention that sex was a major issue in this movie? If you have a thing going for bizzzzare characters and easy entertainment, watch this movie when you get the chance (and don't have something better to do). ***Attention spoilers!!!*** The funniest thing on the movie was the guy who asked Jerry whether he could marry his goat (!) on the show and flashing his wallet with his love's pictures. A triple A for bad taste and fun! "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jerry Springer stars as more or less himself in this abysmal comedy about the guests appearing on a talk show.The real show, with its tacky themes, insensitive and uncouth guests, and constantly cheering studio audience is bad enough. But there is only one word for this mess dreadful.A sad commentary on the American public's obsession with their 15 minutes. "},{"Title":"hmmmmmmmm","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  On first reflection, I was more than happy to slam this movie, just because I don't like Jerry Springer. Okay, so maybe I'm a lone figure in California and may quite possibly find myself being villified as a casuist by Jerry's fans.Providing that Jerry's fans can find someone who can read a dictionary to tell 'em what casuistry actually is.I'm probably goin' off at a tangent here, but didn't a lot of the extras on this movie appear on TV saying how great Titanic was?Call me cynical if you will, but wasn't Titanic rated Best Movie Ever by Double-Wide Owner's Monthly ??Back to Jerry.This movie was hilariously funny in parts, and deeply saddening in others.Unfortunately, I suspect that the parts that were hilarious were supposed to be sad .... and vice versa.Not a bad movie if your doctor has prescribed strong meds, or if you're in Recovery from the abuse of horse-tranquilizers.Otherwise go have root-canal without anaesthetic .... it's probably going to be less painful. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Good","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The thing about this is, I am not a huge fan of the television talk show, Jerry Springer. I rented this film to watch the beautiful Jaime Pressly act, and I was happily surprised to realize that this was a hilarious film!If you dont like sophmoric material, then mind your own business and dont rent this film. Although, you might be surprised at how well this is acted. Several of the young stars, including Jaime, and Wendy Robinson should definately be getting attention for their talent.  The smart comebacks, and one-liners had me in stitches, and even the storyline was semi-believable. If you like Jerry, or even the cast, then you won't be disappointed. It was literally hilarious. "}{"Title":"What a hoot!!","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you take this movie seriously, go see other movies, this is clearly a satire.Instead of just seeing the guests, we get to see the events that brought them to the show.  I agree there is too much nudity and sexual situations for anything by NC-17.Not only do you get the see glimpses of Jerry Springer just being Jerry, but you see the past and future of typical guests that appear on the show, portraying them as people and not freaks.As Jerry says at the end, this is the true America.  And when you watch the next show, remember that the truth is stranger than fiction. "},{"Title":"I'm ashamed to say that I liked it.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Over here in Australia, Jerry Springer was not a popular show. I was screened for about a month, before being dropped. This is a film where Australian distributors Columbia Tristar(!!) wisely decided to have no theatrical release whatsoever. This really isn't a movie for the big screen. Few would enjoy it because of Springer's lack of popularity down under. But, I must say I enjoyed it, not because of Springer (who was acting badly by the way) but because of the two sets of people it was focusing on. By the end, where they're all on the show (it takes a looooooong time to get there) things get crazy and all hell breaks loose. It isn't a bad film, it's just that there is a lot in there that is boring. I would have liked to see more of the confrontation on Jerry's show, which is of course, why all the viewers in real life watch it.AUSTRALIAN CLASSIFICATIONMA15+ Adult themes, Medium Level Sex Scenes, Medium Level Course Language.I don't have a clue why some say it should have been given an NC-17 in the U.S. Over here you only have to be 15 and the only troubling thing about it is the oral sex scene which is a bit excessive. "},{"Title":"What Were You Expecting?","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I find it hard to believe that Ringmaster was the lowest rated feature of 1998 among imdb voters. While it's not the greatest comedy I've ever seen, I found much of it very funny. I'm not a fan of the Springer TV show, and probably would never have wanted to see this if I didn't work at a video store and get free rentals. I was pleasantly surprised by the movie, and found several very funny scenes. Anyone who was expecting a hardhitting, smart satire on TV talk shows deserves to be disappointed. I will be looking forward to the next comedy from this director. He shows real promise. The entire cast was impressive, particularly Molly Hagan and Cannon Films action legend Michael Dudikoff. The only parts of the film that lagged were the scenes dealing with Mr. Springer himself. "},{"Title":"Here's some adjectives for you.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Vile. Reprehensible. Disgusting.  Unfunny. Depressing.  Tedious.  Awful. --I checked out the user comments to see if ANYONE could actually like something about this trash, and there were.  Well, to each his own, but I can't understand it.  This movie has no plot, no laughs, the worst acting and editing I've seen in years, and the tacked-on, phony moralizing Jerry puts on is a travesty.  If he at least had the guts to say something like Hey.  I make trash for people to watch, and they seem to enjoy it, so sue me.  at least people would respect his honesty.  Instead, this freakshow manager tries to put on airs as a voice of the average man or woman. Speaking on behalf of the average man, thanks for NOTHING, Jerry.  Not just poor, amateurish filmmaking, but an absolute insult.P.S.. Yes, Jamie Presley is an absolute beauty, and I pray she will survive this to be seen again soon.  (She DESERVES to be seen, if you get me.) And tell Molly Hagen that she's actually a good actress and it's a shame she's in this filth. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs!","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I consider myself somewhat of a Jerry Springer fan.  I am drawn to his show like one is drawn to a car wreck, you don't want to look at it, but you can't help but watch.  I have waited several months for Ringmaster to finally come out on video since it never made it to the theater here in my hometown.  After watching it last night I now know why it didn't make it here.  It's terrible, awful, horrible, enter your adjective of choice here. The plot is nonexistent, I didn't care about the characters and the language makes a Quentin Tarantino film look like a Disney film-and that's one of the classic ones like Snow White or Sleeping Beauty.  If any aliens in outer space happen to run across Ringmaster in watching our world, we need never worry about them ever making contact with us.  Take my advice  rent Pulp Fiction instead! "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not good 'Ringmaster'","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jerry Springer transforms his hit talk show into an instant box office loser.  Springer gets very little screen time in his movie.  A white trash family gets more scenes than the black characters.  Why is that?  On a sleazy level, it does not work.  However, it is good for a few laughs.  If you're a true Springer fan, you may enjoy the fights and offbeat trash talking.  My evaluation ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"I would pay a buck to see Springer shot.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The things people would do just to get on America's biggest trash talk show - The Jerry Farrelly Show hosted by Jerry Farrelly (Springer of course). After poor white trash mother finds her daughter in bed with the girl's stepfather, the mom has sex with the daughter's fiance and both women becomes excited when they're appearing on Jerry. Along for the ride is a black woman having fun with her best friends who slept with her boyfriend that ended up tagging along to appear on the show. Jerry is given less screen time than the latter in this sometimes funny, utterly morbid, and an unusual statement is given on the things that people do to get on this show. But nevertheless, this film is crude, trashy and pointless. Close to the end where Springer lectures that people want to see real people and their dirty little lives then get beat up is very unconvincing - Jerry Springer Show is 100 percent SUCKSVILLE. But some people find this crap entertaining, then let them have their fun - even though there aren't many of them (proves the 9 million dollar gross this film made - what a big bomb). No this film is not graphic enough to be NC-17, then shut up ya cry-babies. I have a handgun ready in my hand so I can shoot myself when I hear any mention of a sequel. "},{"Title":"Jamie Pressly is gorgeous","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure the movie is a major piece of crapola.  What did you expect from the king of trash, Jerry Springer?  Look, for what it is, it's a fun movie.  You don't have to think too hard to figure out what's happening.Jamie Pressly, the female lead, makes for lovely scenery.  I don't know if that's her real accent, but it sounds great.  And her acting ability is not too shabby either.The female soul sisters make for some great comic relief.  They are hilarious together.In short, if you're with some friends, just hanging out all casual;  rent the the thing and pop it in the VCR. "},{"Title":"THE WORST MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Please avoid this movie at all costs.  This is without a doubt, the worst movie I've ever seen.  Most movies have at least one redeeming value.  This has none.  Totally horrible! "},{"Title":"That Jerry Springer movie BLOWS!!!","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie Ringmaster based on the book which was written by the man himself wasn't as good as I wanted or expected but the fights were good!!! wow?!? The movie was too busy focusing on the dysfunctional mother and daughter Connie and Angel who were in love with one man who she is to marry!!   I fought the movie would be focusing more on Jerry Springer and his wildest adventures on the show and off BUT! they were too busy focusing on the guest on his show!!! When I first saw Ringmaster in Louisana for a Thanksgiving vacation with my family, the beginning was good and it started to be very stupid! I'm a Jerry Springer fan a die-hard one watch him every time and see a scorned woman attacking her lover's husband, dysfunctional families, food fights,etc. Anyway,don't waste a dime on this movie!!! unfortunately that movie was a box-office bomb,BOOOOOOOOOOOM!!! anyway stick with his show and the uncesonsored videos of Springer..........Anyway         JERRY SPRINGER ROCKS!!!!! "}{"Title":"Welcome America !","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't agree with any of the comments. First time I saw the film on a UK TV channel, it was presented as an indie film and if you take the film under this angle I think it's an all different matter. I couldn't believe what I was seeing and got hooked instantly. The plot may be as bad as a JS's show (ie there is no plot) but the acting is wicked, it's hilarious and it's all in all an incredible trash movie. It says as much about America than a Bully or a Ken Park without the drama perspective but it gives a glimpse on the US society, and more precisely on what afternoon TV viewers in America (and I believe there are plenty of them !) are interested in. After all it's the neighbours we're talking about, don't we ?100% fun ! "},{"Title":"There are consequences to appearing on these shows","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's highly stylized, but this movie shows that real people appear on these shows and what seems like good fun and a chance to appear on television can have serious consequences.Yes, i's mostly comedy, but there are some sad moments. "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie recently on Comedy Central. I didn't think the movie was very good, and the plot seemed like it was written by 5 year olds with very dirty minds. So the movie starts with this white trailer trash family who lives in South Florida, Jaime Pressly works at a hotel but she's a nymphomaniac, the first guy she runs into when she's house keeping, sleeps with him. Then she goes onto sleep with her stepfather, and he gets her pregnant, then here mother gets back at Pressly by sleeping with Pressly's fianc.In this movie, Jerry Springer doesn't have a last name, he's just Jerry around his fans he seems like a good guy but behind their back he really doesn't like them (the movie lets you in on that) So Jaime Pressly (her movie name is Angel Zorzak) and her step dad and fianc fly to LA to be on Jerrys show. She runs into a group of people who are supposed to be on the day after them, and sleeps with this other guy and her fianc catches her. Her mother tries to do the same but fails, he and Connie just hang out. The only part I thought was funny was when one of Jerrys staff members sleeps with the transvestite. Other then that this movie sucked "},{"Title":"Fans of Scary Movie would probably like it, too...","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start by saying it's not THAT bad.  It's in no way Oscar material of course, but it is not horrible.  It's the type of stupid comedy that makes you roll your eyes and laugh at the same time.  I'm a huge fan of the Scary Movie series, although I and no doubt everyone else who has seen those movies will agree they are inherently stupid.  This movie is pretty much the same thing, except based on the Jerry Springer show.  What separates this movie from the show is the behind-the-scenes look at a group of people slated to appear on the show, including white trash duo and mother and daughter Connie (Molly Hagan) and Angel (Jaime Pressly), Detroit sistas Starletta (Wendy Robinson), Vonda (Tangie Ambrose) and Leshawnette (Nicki Micheaux) and Startletta's unfaithful boyfriend Demond (Michael Jai White). Several points in the movie make (or attempt to make) you feel pity for these characters, but not in the way it was intended, I don't think. Towards the end of the movie, Jerry has this big long monologue about how people eat up the troubles of celebrities but when it comes to poor people, they can't digest it as well.  I was more compelled to feel sorry for these characters for their great unwashed status rather than the problems they faced themselves.  So, overall, I thought the movie was quite entertaining (although stupid), but fans of the actual show (which I am not) might not find it as satisfying, because the movie contains several moments that are serious and try to teach a deeper lesson that may seem out of place with the usual hijinks. "},{"Title":"There is only ONE Reason....","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is only one reason to watch this pathetic piece of trash and that's......Jaime Pressly!!  Oh my god this woman is beautiful, sexy, hot, breathtaking, gorgeous, etc.  This was the first movie I saw her in and as soon as it was done I ran out and bought Poison Ivy 3.Jaime's pressence alone is deserving of one star.    Aside from the hottest woman in Hollywood there isn't one other aspect of the movie even worth mentioning.  Run away....far away......aaaaaahhhhhrrrrrggg!!!!! "},{"Title":"Uggghh! (","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All that I can say is that the movie just sucked.  It surprises me that people would actually take the time to make crap like that. The only people that would find this movie remotely enjoyable are people that meet the following requirementsa) You have an i.q below 60b) You have nothing else better to do. "},{"Title":"Spoof","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jerry Springer might have parodied his hit talk show on screen, and all of the elements that are common to the REAL show are referenced (e.g. foul language, cuss words, women flashing their boobs, and fighting).  When Jerry first had his talk show, none of the trashy elements were present, and after the Richard Bey Show was taken off the air, Jerry decided to continue the trend.   Rent one of his home videos instead, since this film would make anyone change the channel, or watch and laugh.  Even my former college professor wouldn't watch Jerry Springer anymore, since he has become the worst role model for anyone to look up to.   "},{"Title":"Leshawnette - Come on folks!","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Jerry Springer show is a guilty pleasure to watch. It's one of those programs you watch to say, thank goodness that's not me! You're not sure whether people truly exist in the world like this (and if they do, its sad!) or whether this is all staged. Regardless, the Jerry Springer Show captured attention. This film was horrid.It's not as though the Jerry Springer Show doesn't capitalize on every stereotype there is, but in this movie it was just blatantly obvious and at times mean spirited. As if someone who had hatred for everyone got backing to do a movie and let out all of that hatred on film AND got away with it under the name and theme of the Jerry Springer Show.Horrid. "},{"Title":"#34 On The Worst Movies Of All Times List?","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes! This movie was crazy and offended many people! Yes! Super annoying Jerry Springer stars in this movie. But any movie with the beautiful, great actress Wendy Raquel Robinson is a great movie! This movie was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"What did you expect? It's Jerry Springer!","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For the life of me, I cannot get why they would want to make a movie about the Jerry Springer Show. It's so incrediably trashy. Some ways, sadly it's a guilty pleasure. We all have to admit that we've seen at least one episode. It's part of our pop culture. I saw this on USA recently. It's pretty bad. I will admit that. Jerry does a horrible job of what I think he meant as acting. Or something like it. Jamie Pressley is in it. She's playing herself basically. All she needed was her lover boy, Kid Rock. It would've been perfect then. So, I would recommend skipping Ringmaster. Just watch the Jerry Springer Show. It's more enjoyable than this.2/10  "}{"Title":"Makes the TV Show Look Like the Work of Welles","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ringmaster (1998) * (out of 4)Horrid movie about a bunch of trash going onto a television show hosted by Jerry Springer in order to air their dirty laundry. The main guests are a mother (Molly Hagan) who learns that her daughter (Jaime Pressley) is sleeping with her husband (daughter's stepdad). I'm sure there are many people who hate the original Springer show so they'd actually sit through this movie just so they could tell everyone how bad it was. That's not me because I'll admit that I used to get a kick out of watching the show when I was a teenager but having not seen an episode in ages and then revisited it via this movie, I do wonder what I was thinking. However, I'm really not going to hold this movie against the show but I think it proves that the trash on it can be tolerated in 10-minute segments but whenever you try to stretch those stories into a full feature the results can be disastrous. What really killed this movie isn't that it's trash but it's the fact that nothing fun ever happens. The entire group of characters are just boring stereotypes who do just about everything you'd expect them to do. The white trash come to L.A. to get on the show and then the mom and daughter start trying to sleep with a black man from Detroit who is on the show because he cheated on his girlfriend. His other girlfriend and lover then get mad at the white girls and so goes even more fighting. I will admit that a couple of the one-liners are good but as a whole this is just a really poor movie. The performances by Pressly and Hagan are actually good and they do bring some life to the characters but there's simply nothing there. RINGMASTER is a perfect example of a major screw-up. "},{"Title":"Trailer Trash TV","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I absolutely cannot believe that i sat down and watched this garbage. I guess I wanted to se4e Jaime Pressly (Angel) from My Name is Earl, even though I don't watch the show. Along with Presley was William McNamara, with a long history of movies I have never seen, who played the stepfather who was boning her; TV star Molly Hagen, who played the mom who boned Angel's boyfriend after she caught her with her husband; Michael Jai White who boned both of them; and lots more TV personalities that made for more trash. I cannot imagine how Angel had energy for her step-daddy after she was earning all that extra money in the motel where she worked as a maid. Well, you get the picture. Florida trailer trash at it's best. "},{"Title":"A Courageous and Lighthearted Romp","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a delight to witness this honesty on film about the trials of people who have nothing for support but family and friends. A mother-daughter bond that survives all possible pressures, and a group of friends that will always be there for each other -these are the characters that converge in this raw tale of the human condition. Watch it again and again, preferably at Christmas-time, to re-affirm your faith in humanity to rise above hate and selfishness. Like the character Man During Day...Woman At Night, we can choose to really be the best in ourselves.  "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THE RINGMASTER stars Jerry Springer as a TV talkshow host called Jerry , but it`s not THE JERRY SPRINGER SHOW , his guests are trailer trash , but not the trailer trash you get on THE JERRY SPRINGER SHOW, they attack one another , but not like on.....What is the point of making a movie about THE JERRY SPRINGER show and pretending it`s not THE JERRY SPRINGER SHOW ? And on top of that this is a very boring film  "}]