[{"Title":"standard but moving story","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I must confess that I approached `Music of the Heart' with a great deal of fear and trepidation.  I really had no desire to subject myself to what I envisioned to be a 124-minute barrage of inspirational life messages and feel-good sentimentality.  What a pleasant surprise then to discover this to be a genuinely moving and heartwarming true-life tale of an extraordinary teacher, Roberta Gaspari, and her equally extraordinary students. In plot, `Music of the Heart' doesn't deviate much from the standard formula common to such films.  We have, first, the neophyte white middle class  schoolteacher, plunged into the heart of a problem-ridden inner city Harlem school, filled with burnt-out teachers who have learned to expect little (and thereby garner little) from the youngsters placed in their charge and children themselves whose troubled home lives provide little in the way of a nurturing environment for academic achievement.  We encounter the predictable first-day stumbles of this headstrong, idealistic newcomer as the students challenge her authority and the relevance of her violin class in no uncertain terms; we see how, through discipline and the sheer force of her own determination, she eventually connects them to the music they are learning to play, building their self-confidence and slowly winning the respect of their often skeptical, and, occasionally, downright hostile parents in the process.  Then comes the great challenge, as the school board, after ten successful years in which the program has earned a sizable reputation and even been featured in magazine articles, pulls the plug on the funding.  Thanks to the sheer determination of Gaspari, the parents whose children's lives have been forever altered, a magazine writer and the voluntary participation of a number of the world's premiere violinists (a large number of whom appear as themselves in the film), the group stages an amazing fundraising concert at Carnegie Hall, the proceeds from which save the program and help ensure its survival for the next several years.One of the chief reasons that `Music of the Heart' does not dissolve (as it so easily might have) into a puddle of goopy tears lies in the matter-of-fact interpretation of the main character that both writer, Pamela Gray, and actress, Meryl Streep, bring to bear on the role.  At no time is Roberta ever portrayed as a saintly figure.  In fact, she is a woman filled with all sorts of insecurities and vulnerabilities, exacerbated by the devastating sense of bewilderment and loss caused by the unexpected termination of her marriage and her seeming need to be dependent on a man for comfort, support and a sense of purpose.  She is often overbearing, pushy and pigheaded and not just in the classroom where it counts, but also in her personal life where it often alienates her from the ones she loves most.  Yet, somehow out of this mass of self-doubts and personal missteps, she finds the inner strength and emotional wherewithal to work miracles.  Streep throws herself so completely into the role that we cannot take our eyes off her for a single one of the film's 120 enthralling minutes (and I doubt that she is ever off screen for more than a few seconds in the entire film).  It is a truly glowing performance.Equally impressive, director Wes Craven is to be highly commended for drawing such an impressive array of credible, down-to-earth performances from a large cast of outstanding preteen actors.  Thanks to them and an air of naturalism in the dialogue, the scenes between the youngsters and their teacher always ring true and believable.I defy anyone - even the most tone deaf, musically disinterested member of the audience  - not to be deeply touched by the final scenes of this film.  Craven, from all his years doing those slasher films I suppose, really knows how to generate a sense of suspense as we follow the pre-show behind-the-scenes preparations of the nail-biting participants.  The recreated concert itself, with a number of the real life participants brought back to play for the occasion, is utterly engrossing and leaves the audience both rheumy-eyed and covered with goose bumps.  Well, maybe Music of the Heart is, after all, filled with the `inspirational life messages' and `feel-good sentimentality' I so dreaded at the outset of the film.  That being the case, I guess that isn't such a bad thing after all!  "},{"Title":"Inspiring, Heart-warming Film Thanks To Meryl Streep","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Meryl Streep was made for the part of Roberta Guaspari, a woman who is convinced she can teach ghetto chidren to play the violin, one of the most difficult of all instruments to learn. Against all odds, she perseveres to convince the parents of the valuable lessons that can be learned through music. If you liked Mr. Holland's Opus, chances are that you will love Music of the Heart. Meryl Streep makes this movie work although she gets some acting help from Aidan Quinn, Angela Bassett and Cloris Leachman. Even though it is a little overly dramatic at times, it still touches you with its message and its spirit.   "},{"Title":"A wonderful, wonderful movie for any music-lover, one of the very few I rate 10!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Even though I had been wanting to see Music of the Heart for a while now, and I expected to like it, I didn't expect it to be one of my favorites of all time. Which it now is. Meryl Streep, in the lead role, is nothing short of fantastic. She studied violin virtually every day, for 2 to 4 hours a day, for 3 months because she insisted on doing all her on-screen playing. She was so good that duing warm-up for the Carnegie Hall scene, famous violinists Issac Stern and Jascha Heifitz stood in amazement at how good she was. Watching the movie, I honestly became unaware that she was an actress in a movie, and that seldom happens with me.The most enjoyable scenes were those showing young children make music. And the Carnegie Hall performance, with all those real-world virtuoso violinists, is one of the most moving scenes imaginable, when you consider what had transpired leading up to it.This movie is based on the real story of a real music teacher in Harlem. It is a wonderful story of how one person through love and persistence can affect so many in such a positive way. This movie, unlike most, will stay with me for a long, long time. "},{"Title":"Outstanding biopic about one of the bravest teachers of all time","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" MUSIC OF THE HEART, in my opinion, is an outstanding biopic about one of the bravest teachers of all time. The performances were smashing, the soundtrack was great, and the casting was just right. Anyway, if you ask me, it was brave of Roberta (Meryl Streep) to take a stand to keep the music program in all Harlem schools. I would probably take a stand myself if I were in her shoes. In conclusion, if you are a die-hard fan of Meryl Streep, Gloria Estefan, or Angela Bassett, I heartily recommend this outstanding biopic about one of the bravest teachers of all time. You're in for a real treat and a good time, so don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"an inspirational film that will touch everyone","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Music Of The Heart is an awe-inspiring film that contains outstanding performances from every single actor and actress in the film. From Meryl Streep to Angela Bassett and Aidan Quinn to Gloria Estefan as well as the extras, the actors made Music Of The Heart a wonderful film.Meryl Streep is exceptional in the role of the true life violin teacher who deserves most of the credit for this superbly performed film. The way that Along with Angela Bassett, Gloria Estefan and Aidan Quinn, Music Of The Heart is a success.I particularly enjoyed the scene in which her former students came into the classroom to inspire her current students to doing their best in their concert. However, the best part of the whole film was at Carnegie Hall when the children performed in front of their parents and alongside world renownd violinists such as Itzhak Perlman. Finally, Hollywood has recognized an excellent true story and brought it to the silver screen. I cannot begin to tell everyone what a movie this was to watch. I can't begin to tell everyone that the performances brought out every positive emotion. Along the same lines as Mr Holland's Opus, Music Of The Heart follows the life of violin teacher, Roberta Gaspiaurdi from the inception of the music program she created.Music Of The Heart is a film that touched my heart and inspired me into really looking inside myself and want to do charity for others. I highly recommend this movie to everyone because it will move, touch, and inspire.  "},{"Title":"A truly amazing movie that is actually Wes Craven's best film.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Can you picture this odd couple Meryl Streep stars in a Wes Craven movie? Seems like a joke at first, but it really isn't. Music of the Heart is the second film that horror director Wes Craven has made and surpasses his first non-horror film, Vampire in Brooklyn.It based on the life of Roberta Guaspari (Streep), a violin teacher who moves to East Harlem with her two sons after her husband left her for another woman. Roberta starts a program of her own, teaching young kids how to play the violin. One mother of one of her students describes it as dead white man music, but Roberta uses the late Arthur Ashe, who was black and a great tennis player as a great example. In another scene, the mother tells Roberta that she was right.Ten years later, Roberta has taught over a thousand children how to play the violin and some of her former students have either gone onto college or become violinists. A problem surfaces, the superintendent and board of education have made budget cuts. Roberta is told by Janet Williams (Angela Bassett), the princpal that the music program has been cut.So Roberta vows to keep the program alive and gets the idea of having a benefit concert. She gets help from some of her friends and some parents to help promote the concert and the place where it'll be held. Bad news, the first place where the concert is going to be held in has a flood. The only other place that is mentioned is Carnegie Hall in Philadelphia.The concert scene is one of the best scenes in the movie. Some of Roberta's first students come back to join some of current her pupils. Also, some of the best-known violinists in the world have come as well, Issac Stern, Mark O'Connor, Arnold Steinhardt, and Itzhak Perlman are among them. Watching O'Connor play was fun to see. I admit that is the concert is memorable and great to watch as the one put up in The Blues Brothers.The emotional energy in this film never lets down at one moment. Bassett, Quinn, and Jay O. Sanders are good in their supporting roles. The movie is great and it stays with the story. Wes Craven deserved an Oscar nomination for Best Director and Streep is great. "},{"Title":"Unabashedly Feel Good -- But What's Wrong with That?","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Wes Craven (yes, THAT Wes Craven) directed this inspirational biopic about Roberta Guaspari (Meryl Streep), who started a music program in an impoverished inner city middle school that eventually went on to win national attention and acclaim.This film treads awfully close to made-for-T.V. territory, but Streep is such a good actress that she keeps a tight grip on the runaway sentimentality that's always present in the screenplay. But in any case, who cares? This IS a feel good story, and it's a good enough movie that you can simply give in to letting it make you feel good without also making you feel guilty by being suckered.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of all time","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I happened to be clicking through the channels & this was on. I was instantly hooked mainly because of Meryl (I had heard so much about her). She's so great in this movie. I cried when she cried & I actually felt myself drawn in. Incredible. I could watch this a million times & never tire of it. It is an absolute gem! so you know, Meryl Streep is one of my favourites now!(I can't believe she didn't win!!) The music was great to listen to (The real life musicians were a real bonus)& now I wish I could play the violin! This movie has had a powerful impact on me mainly because I knew it was a true story. If you are looking for a movie about real-life issues you can watch with all your family or alone this is highly recommended. If only Hollywood made more movies like this one. "},{"Title":"Only for Meryl Streep...","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" ... is this film worth anything.  Ms Streep's understated performance, of course, is brilliant.  The rest of the film is a waste of time.  The story of a suburban, ex-navy wife putting together a violin chorus because she needs a job is hard to believe.  I know, I know, this is based on a true story but it rambles on like predictable, made-for-tv schlock.  Certainly the real story has to be more compelling than this film.The only reason to see this movie is, of course, Meryl Streep!  "},{"Title":"My clothes are soaking in sappiness","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The acting jobs are good. But how Streep got an Oscar nod for this, I will never know. I've seen this movie before. It's been done many times. I never knew how many cliches can be in one film until I saw this. And since I really didn't like Streep's role, it is kind of hard to get into the movie. And it clearly copied from a better film called, Mr. Holland's Opus. Wes Craven although not a bad horror film director, should never be allowed to direct or have anything to do with a real dramatic film. Music of the Heart also seems to drag about 40 minutes too long. It is a heart warming, everything is okay movie. You know everything will work out, because you saw this this movie before only under a different name. 5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Not her best film","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  First, I want to say, that Meryl Streep really is the best actress I know. But 'Music of the heart' was surly not as good as 'Sophies choice' or 'The bridges of Madison County'. Of course the film was nice, but the story was not very surprising and I hate this touch of Hollywood, which this film has. All in all he was quite nice.  "},{"Title":"An adequate feel-good movie.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is based on the true story of Roberta Guaspari, a music teacher in New York.  When the movie opens, she has recently moved herself and her two sons in with her mother, after her marriage fails. Roberta (Meryl Streep) takes her limited teaching experience and pitches a violin class to a skeptical principal (Angela Bassett).  After proving how well she's taught her young sons the instrument, Roberta is given a chance.  It is slow going at first, as Roberta has to deal with inattentive students, and disapproving parents and fellow teachers.  One African-American parent snaps that her son has better things to do than learn dead white men's music, even though her son lights up while he's taking his music lessons. The violin program grows so much in popularity that kids have to enter a lottery to get a chance to get into it.  When the program is cut due to the insensitive school system, Roberta fights back.  Film hits the message home that music education is important, but it keeps repeating it over and over.  The audience got the point, already!  Streep does portray a likeable underdog, though, and the love she has for the students is always apparent, even when she's snapping at them.  The kids are adorable.  Don't be fooled, however, by how the trailers build up Gloria Estefan's participation in the movie.  She's okay, but her role is very small.  Angela Bassett is effective, as usual. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven? Are you kidding me?","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I really liked this movie. It's constantly on TV, and I don't get tired of it. Meryl Streep should have won the Academy Award, and I was mad she didn't. She did a fantastic job for the role she was given. Not only did I find her great, but I was very pleasantly surprised to find out it was her playing the violin! The entire cast plays their own violins! That is so cool! It's so surprising as well. What else is surprising is that Wes Craven did this movie. Wes Craven, the director of such crappy movies as Cursed and Dracula 2001. Amazing, Wes Craven can actually do good movies unlike the crappy horror movies that you go to the ticket booths for your money back afterwards. Bravo! "},{"Title":"I love Streep but oh, this movie is a disappointment!","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Music of my Heart reminds me of the old Judy Garland - Mickey Rooney films -  Let's Put On a Show!  I would watch Streep in anything,  but that doesn't mean she always shows good sense in her selection of films.  In particular, this one was a dud -  a manipulative, predictable, with-almost-no-redeeming-factor-dud! "},{"Title":"It's just sentimental","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie does not possess a single original moment. It boldly goes where everyone has been before. The acting is truly a disaster, and I am baffled that Meryl Streep received an Oscar nomination for this. A performance like this is Razzy material. Music of the Heart is also overly sentimental. I can't help thinking of The Straight Story, an excellent example of a gripping and emotional story, that does not become a cheap tearjerker. Movies like Music of the Heart can spoil an evening. "},{"Title":"Who'd have thought to find such a soaring feel good movie in the filmography of Wes Craven?","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" In honour of the passing of Wes Craven, I wanted to seek out a film of his. Of course, as the go-to-guy for horror movies, my least favourite genre, I had to scan through his filmography to find the bizarrely out-of-character film Music of the Heart. As the only non-horror film on the list, it won the honour fairly easily.It surprises me to no end that a horror film maestro could create what is probably one of the best feel-good movies I have ever seen. I can pick a passion project when I see it, and I am positive that Craven was passionate about this story and to telling it right. When I was growing up, music lessons were everything to me. You could escape into a whole other world when you practised, and the instrument became a friend when none other might be. This film captured that more than any other I've seen. For a character who looks and sounds like Meryl Streep, it is amazing how much Meryl Streep vanishes into Roberta. She captures with full conviction the passion she has for her music, whilst also layering her character with personality quirks that inform us why her marriage has broken down. Streep layers that with bursts of anger, sadness and even humour that never feel out of place because they feel like Roberta's real emotions. She could have walked into my high school's music department and wouldn't have felt even a little bit out of place. This is probably my favourite ever Meryl Streep performance. From an unknown supporting cast, Angela Basset is stunningly effective as Janet, a Harlem principal holding a school together with her bare hands.The film essentially splits into two halves, with a ten year break in between. The first is Roberta's struggle to deal with the breakdown of her marriage and her desire to make the program work not to help the kids, but to make ends meet. But as the first act goes on, interactions with the kids show her how much the program means to them - even the troublemakers who give her flack but show up week after week in spite of everything. In the second half, ten years later than the first, Roberta's program is in jeopardy and she must fight to maintain it, because she has seen now how much good it can do. The relationship between Roberta and the kids - especially Jade Yorker's DeSean and Victoria Gomez's Lucy - is beautiful and believable, even as she occasionally hits stumbling blocks associated with kids in Harlem - incidental murders, domestic violence and hostility from black parents. Screenwriter Pamela Gray does a terrific job avoiding the trappings of White Saviour but focusing more on how music helps children, regardless of who their teacher is. Sometimes I felt that there were a few unnecessary subplots, such as Roberta's love life - both of her love interests fizzle out without much impact on the story. Other times, serious moments are swept over quickly, like when a father and daughter turn up to the concert announcing they took the car and violin, which is quickly ignored. But I watched this film with a smile on my face the whole way through - just as the proud parents beamed at their underprivileged children performing beautiful music on stage. I would never have though to find such a feel-good movie in the filmography of a great horror director, but it just goes to show that just like music in the hearts of Harlem, you should never judge a book by its cover. "},{"Title":"Touching and Tender Story","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Music of the Heart (1999)*** 1/2 (out of 4) Incredibly entertaining and heart-warming story of Roberta Guaspari (Meryl Streep), a woman who finds herself raising her two sons alone when her husband leaves her for another woman. Although Roberta sees her life falling apart, with a little help she manages to get a job in an inner city school teaching violin. Soon this small class begins to help the people in the community as well as Roberta being able to see the power of music.MUSIC OF THE HEART was pretty much overlooked by fans of Wes Craven when it was released and, to be honest, the fans haven't bothered with it to this day, which is really too bad. I'm ashamed to admit that it took me this long to actually watch the movie because it's certainly one of the best films that Craven ever did and it's obvious just by watching it that the material was very close to his heart. Craven at one time was a teacher so it's clear that he had a passion for this material and it easily comes through his very sentimental direction.Of course, it's certainly doesn't hurt when you've got someone like Meryl Streep delivering one of her grand performances that only she can. It's really amazing watching this actress because she makes it seem so easy yet when you really look at this character it's easy to see the challenged. This character really is all over the place throughout the movie in regards to the emotions that she displays yet Street touches on all of them. It's really amazing to see how much passion she brings to the role and you can't help but see a real violin teacher. The supporting cast features fine performances by all of the children as well as the likes of Angela Bassett, Aidan Quinn and Cloris Leachman.The violin music itself is also extremely good and the technical side of the film is all very good. Craven certainly manages to keep the film moving at a very good pace and there's no question that there's a lot of heart in the picture and this comes through whenever a dramatic moment comes up. I'm certainly not going to spoil some of the twists that happen but they're all handled in a very tender way proving that the director was certainly able to deliver more than just horror. MUSIC OF THE HEART features a terrific performance from Streep and fine direction by Craven and it deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"Madonna would have been a joke!","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Loved the film, so inspiring. Glad they picked Meryl, she really made the film. Well of course the kids did too. I'm glad to know the real kids were involved. What a great program for a lot of troubled kids. It takes a lot of courage to create a program like this, I'm sure the real teacher had her work cut out for her. God bless all of the teachers who are as devoted to helping kids as she was. It's a lesson for everyone how we can change people lives of other around us. I wasn't really expecting to like the film when it started. But it did take me long to go get my mom and share it with her. Kids, if directed can do amazing things! Sometime you have to give up (such as a romance) to get the job done. I recommend it highly! "},{"Title":"For an investment in 50 Violins","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Music Of The Heart was a pleasant and interesting throwback to old Hollywood when they had no fear in making films about classical music and those who play it. Meryl Streep received one of her innumerable Best Actress Oscar nominations for playing Roberta Guaspari who creates and heads a program for inner city youth. It's not that Streep has the most impressive of resumes when she applies for the job with Principal Angela Bassett. But music is not a big priority in school funding. But she happens to have purchased 50 violins from abroad for another of her projects. That kind of donation no principal can pass up so Streep gets the job.The film divides neatly in half showing first Streep's early days in creating her violin class and then secondly trying to keep it alive during one of those perennial financial crisis that public education always seems to be having. In the tradition of Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney, what do we do but put on a show.The film this really reminds of is a Samuel Goldwyn Production from the late Thirties titled They Shall Have Music. Gene Reynolds plays an inner city kid who also learns the violin and gets to appear with none other than Jascha Heifetz in a show.Music Of The Heart sees your Heifetz with an Isaac Stern and raises with among others Itzhak Perlman and a number of classical artists who make guest appearances and support Streep and her program. The result, as this is a throwback film to old Hollywood need I tell you?Streep has her personal problems as well, she was a Navy wife who has split from her husband and has two sons, both of whom she has raised to appreciate classical music. She gives all to her kids and her program and loses a few men who'd like to get something going with her, among them Aidan Quinn. She also moves into the East Harlem area where she teaches and truly enters the fabric of her pupil's lives.She gets good support from a nicely chosen ensemble cast, but this film is truly the personal property of Meryl Streep and is joyously recommended to one and all who like classical music. "},{"Title":"A solid, well-directed old school musical drama with magnificent Meryl Streep, great music, and good message","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Music of the Heart is based on a true story of Roberta Guaspari &#x96; a gifted violin teacher and a passionate founder of Opus 118 Harlem School of Music private non-profit organization. Opus 118 was initially created to save the famous violin program created and led by Guaspari from the looming government budget cuts but later expanded its vision to serve public school students of low income by engaging them in the field of musical education. As you might guess, despite of or, perhaps, thanks to being based on a true story, the movie is quite inspirational, very stereotypical, and thus predictable &#x96; a gifted, passionate, innovative teacher, struggling in personal life, a wise school principle deciding to give her a chance, skeptical colleagues, difficult at first kids from low-income families, challenges to overcome, and, of course, traditional Hollywood happy end &#x96; this time in the form of a triumphant all-star concert at Carnegie Hall. And yet there is something in Music of the Heart that elevates it from the comfortable, formulaic, cookie-cutter industrial mediocrity to the noble and mysterious realm of art. And moreover, there is also something that transforms a seemingly undistinguished happy ending story from the closing decade of the last century into a bitter tale, quite relevant more than 20 years after it first appeared on big screen.From the art perspective, one cannot help but notice something obvious &#x96; the great Meryl Streep in her nuanced Oscar- nominated performance as Roberta Guaspari. If I were a cinema scholar, I could have covered many pages with a lengthy dissertation on the ultimate professional heights that Meryl Streep so naturally reaches when portraying her characters. But since I am not a scholar, all I could say is this &#x96; you must see this acting magic with your own eyes; very few actors have ever been able to even approach that level of mastery.The distant second but still very important factor that compensates for the deficiencies of the story is the direction of Wes Craven, a classic music lover and a former English professor, who, however, is mostly famous for his influential horror movies (A Nightmare on Elm Street, Scream). The impressive work on Music of the Heart proved that the directing talent of Wes Craven is far more versatile than the one required from a typical horror movie director. My personal opinion is that Wes Craven continuing to explore movie genres other than horror is something that would benefit both the director and cinema in general. I should also mention the solid supporting performances of Angela Bassett as the school principal Janet Williams, Aidan Quinn as Roberta's classmate and romantic interest Brian Turner, and Cloris Leachman as Roberta's mother Assunta Guaspari. I also cannot but mention the wonderful music component of the movie that includes some great pieces written for violin (e.g. Bach's concerto in D minor for Two Violins), the impressive original music score by Mason Daring with its crown jewel - an Oscar-nominated song Music of the Heart and last, but not least - the famous concert scene at Carnegie Hall with the legendary violinists Mark O'Connor, Issac Stern, and Itzhak Perlman joining the movie crew.Besides the Meryl Streep s staggering performance, solid directing, and great music, there is something else that makes the movie from the late 1990s relevant today. I do not think, however, that it was intentional on the part of the movie creators; it looks more like an unintended consequence of their attempt to add traditional family values to the movie mix.One of these values is commitment &#x96; commitment to spouse, commitment to children, commitment to students, friends, coworkers, and finally &#x96; commitment to your higher calling to help those that need you. Being committed? It is so nineties (if not fifties). Nowadays we are so self-absorbed, so preoccupied with self-fulfillment (quickly morphing into self-indulgence), self-actualization and other self- words, that being committed to something or somebody other than oneself or making sacrifices for somebody else's benefit seems to be quickly becoming a rarity, an exception from the common rule.I do not think that it is important whether the commitment theme in the movie was intentional or not. For me it is enough that it reflects a timeless truth, the truth that appears to have been mostly condemned to oblivion these days, when everything seems to be relative, subjective, and conditional even such naturally unconditional thing as commitment.Moreover, nowadays it looks like it is almost fashionable to be uncommitted to anything &#x96; to explore things, to try things, to selfishly jump from one thing to another, to avoid attachments that slow you down on your chosen path and hurt your self-fulfillment perspectives.Those who fall victim of that trend I could only refer to the famous saying of the French icon Jean Cocteau Art produces ugly things which frequently become more beautiful with time. Fashion, on the other hand, produces beautiful things that always become ugly with time. The power of his saying lies in the fact that it applies to life just as it applies to art taking life lightly and following fashion in its important matters equals flirting with disaster.Perhaps, the main lesson of the movie is that becoming a great musician or a famous music teacher, acquiring major titles or achieving professional goals, in other words - investing exclusively into your precious self is not something that would fill your heart with music, your life with harmony, and your existence with higher purpose.The path to the true music of the heart leads in the opposite direction &#x96; to investing in others, cultivating awareness, empathy and compassion, and being committed, faithful, and unselfish in your relationships, both professional and personal.www.knowyourmovie.com "}{"Title":"If you like music AND acting, you'll love this movie","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" First of all, Streep practiced the violin for 6 hours a day in preparation for this role. And of course, it shows. I've studied piano for 10 years and so much of the music and musical places featured in this film were so fun to watch. The final scene in Carnegie Hall was super, plus a couple of THE violinists. Wow.All in all, I just love this movie. All of the cast was good and the scope of the material covered was also fleshed out. You don't need to play the violin to appreciate it, but it does help if you SOMETHING about music and the drive to succeed in the field.Just watch it, rent it, and learn something about music and the drive the fuels people to succeed at it. And learn something about the notable violists that appear in the film. They are considered some of the best. And if you listen to their recordings, you can see why! "},{"Title":"crap, pure crap","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Saw this movie on an airplane, it actually made the flight seem LONGER. Good story, lousy script, lousy direction, and horrid acting.  Meryl Streep, as one other respondent mentioned, did not even seem to like the children. She was shrill and harsh.  I think the goal was to be tough, as with Edward James Olmos in a marvelous movie, Stand and Deliver.  Rather, she just appeared mean and ill at ease with children, including her own.  The only redeeming feature was the concert at the end.  That, and it was interesting seeing some of the real students.  Even when her older students came back to support her in the end, she had nothing nice to say to or about them.  I believe that the real Roberta is probably an amazing lady, and this movie has done her a terrible disservice.  For much better movies on similar topics (teachers both tough and loving, creating a love of learning and/or music in the most unlikely of students), see Stand and Deliver, Conroy (both based on true stories), or Mr. Holland's Opus.  In each case, the writing, acting and direction are far superior. "},{"Title":"a disenchanted viewer","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Looked forward to seeing this after reading a story on the real-life teacher that this movie is based on but the people responsible for this seem to have lost several individual pages of the script but went ahead and made the movie anyway with what they had left -- and does it show! Shame on them - a wonderful story and cast should have made a great movie "},{"Title":"Warning! I didn't quite like it....","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie last Monday in a sneak preview. Although i was somewhat surprised by the combination of the director (Wes Craven) and the cast (Streep, Estefan, Basset), i liked the beginning of it. But at the time the two boys helped 'mum' through her audition, the one after the other film-cliche got launched(which caused hilarious scenes in the theater i was in). Woman loses husband, woman meets another man (okay it didn't quite work out for her...). A little sideline Mother of a little afro-american kid doesn't trust her boy's white teacher but changes her mind. Boys start worrying, mother holds her head up high and succeeds. It was mainly the way the story was told, that bothered me. The acting was overall good, but the actors were caught in a very limited screenplay. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep does it again!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I liked this movie very much, it reminded me of one of my very favorite movies, Mr. Holland's Opus. Meryl Streep is excellent, again, as is Aidan Quinn and the actors playing her sons. Too bad Angela Bassett and Gloria Estefan didn't have more to do in the movie. I enjoyed the story very much and I would not be surprised to see Ms. Streep rack up another Oscar nomination. "},{"Title":"How could this be rated so low.  It should be a 10.  Excellent movie!!","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is supposed to be based on reality. If so, I feel so bad for the teacher and so great for the teacher.This was so perfectly acted by adults and children alike. I don't know if the kids were playing or the music was dubbed in but it is great stuff. When she stands in Carnegie Hall and hears the reverberation, it was so great. To stand on that great stage and even play one note.I had dripping eyes for longer than any other movie, ever. Smiling and crying at the same time. This one is an emotional tour-de-force.My S.O. went to sleep during it, as usual, and missed something special. How could this be rated less than 10??? And only 6.7??? Something is wrong here. This is a must see. All the way to the end. Special stuff well acted. Spellbinding all the way. A MUST SEE!!! "},{"Title":"A very good and talent film","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Omg wow is all I can say, Meryll Streep was excellent at playing the violin and took up a role as a musical teacher. I say, she probably was flat out every time she came to rehearsal's to get the notes and tunes right. I have seen her in Mamma Mia but I swear, this probably made her film career go to to the roof! She just can do anything!I loved how we also get to see the little kids playing as well, its just so adorable and rewarding to watch them playing the violin probably! I honestly wouldn't even pick up the violin like these kids could, I would probably miss a lot of notes, never mind teaching me haha!If the internet was working, I would miss watching this movie on television. This probably is the most underrated Oscar Nominated film thats out there! I really enjoyed it, I felt like I was in a musical world that I would never have! Good film! "},{"Title":"Music From the Unknown","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I feel robbed by the director, Wes Craven, that I was unable to give a rating of 8 to this movie, instead of a 7. This movie had everything; good acting, name-brand main actors and actresses, a compelling story, social pertinence and a theme of victory over adversity. All the things that I admire and enjoy in a film. The reasons I was only prepared to give what I deem a passing grade to Music of the Heart are these; 1.) What did Mrs. Guaspari do to motivate and engage these students? Bark out orders? 2.) Why, in the absence of Mrs. Guaspari's inspiration, did the students (individually or collectively) want to take up the violin? (We never really get to meet any of the students, nor find out what is important (or at least intriguing) to them. 3.) Why does Mrs. Guaspari not play something impressive for the students, to show what they can accomplish, and how wonderful the violin can sound? ( Initially, to wow the students, 20 seconds of Shostakovich or D'Vorak would have been sufficient, but the film should have been replete with pertinent and brilliant, even if abbreviated, violin music, played by Mrs. Guaspari). 4.) What inspired Mrs. Guaspari to take up the violin, and why does she play? What is her relationship to music?This last point is the most glaring omission in Music of the Heart.It was heart-breaking to see Tanisha informing her teacher that she was moving away and had to quit the classes. Could not have Mrs. Guaspari said, at least, I will call you, if you want. I will continue to help you with your violin.?I appreciated Music of the Heart. I love all movies that have to do with music (especially learning it). The Guaspari family went through a great deal of duress as they tried to make ends meet. In the process, they changed some lives. I just would have liked to have gotten to know the characters more; their inner motivation and dreams. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep holds it all together","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Roberta Guaspari (Meryl Streep) and her two kids move back home with her mom Assunta (Cloris Leachman) after her husband run off with her friend. She never made it as a concert violinist and teach sparingly as she is pulled around the world by her navy husband. An old friend Brian Turner (Aidan Quinn) directs her to Principal Janet Williams (Angela Bassett) who reluctantly hires her as a substitute music teacher in the East Harlem inner city school. All the teachers hate her except Isabel Vasquez (Gloria Estefan).It's a pretty traditional biopic by director Wes Craven who usually does horror. It's not a particularly original true story but it's an effective one. The most impressive thing in this is Meryl Streep. She holds the movie together. There are all the classic hurdles like the intransigent teachers, poverty, angry parents, violent neighborhood, and tough luck kids. Through it all, Streep works her butt off pulling the right heartstrings. "},{"Title":"The Violin","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The story of a schoolteacher (Meryl Streep)'s struggle to teach violin to inner-city Harlem kids.Now reportedly, Wes Craven got this directing job by saying he would not do Scream 3 without doing this first. What does this say about Craven? Besides horror, thriller and adult films, he has a passion for something more. Of course, you know, he does hold a masters degree in English and philosophy.Angela Bassett is back in a big way. Those who had only seen Bassett in Craven's Vampire in Brooklyn may not expect much from her, but here she is among her strongest. With Streep getting an Oscar nomination, maybe Bassett deserved one, too.Roger Ebert gave the film three stars out of four and wrote that Meryl Streep is known for her mastery of accents; she may be the most versatile speaker in the movies. Here you might think she has no accent, unless you've heard her real speaking voice; then you realize that Guaspari's speaking style is no less a particular achievement than Streep's other accents. This is not Streep's voice, but someone else's - with a certain flat quality, as if later education and refinement came after a somewhat unsophisticated childhood. The other music teacher seems a bit one-noted, not believing in the kids. Whether this is supposed to be racism, a commentary on the inner city, or just a dislike of children is unclear. How easily Demetras is able to get their attention seems a bit strange, although she does tend to lose them as time goes on.Where does the reality meet the fiction, or vice versa? "}{"Title":"They Shall Have Music!","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" You want to play the violin, one of the hardest instruments to master? Well, playing the violin costs, and right here is where you start paying, in practice and in sweat! Paraphrasing Debbie Allen's dance teacher from Fame seems so appropriate in describing Meryl Streep in Music From the Heart. Her performance as the real-life violin teacher, Roberta Guaspari, is so filled with the love of music that Debbie Allen's Lydia had for dance in the movie and TV series of Fame. Here, the pupils are not students at New York's school of the performing arts, but second graders in East Harlem. At first, they seem to have more important things to do than be disciplined to play an instrument. But as they gain the discipline and love for what they are being taught, their lives change, their parents change, and so does teacher Streep. Even more changing is the East Harlem neighborhood where Streep teaches and lives, and I should know---I live right down the street from where Guaspari lived (at least in this movie).Supporting Streep magnificently is the wonderful Angela Bassett as the good hearted principal who senses Streep's devotion is needed to help give hope to the children who might otherwise be lost in the tough neighborhood they live in. The dozens of children who supply the music also provide the heart, and it is a joy to watch the lights in their eyes go on as they realize the impact of what they are doing.In smaller roles, Aidan Quinn and Cloris Leachman are very good. Leachman has some nice quick moments as Streep's brittle but loving mother. I really wanted to see more of Gloria Estefan as another teacher who befriends Streep while the other teachers spurn her. A scene which stood out in my mind as being emotionally satisfying is the black mother who earlier had pulled her son out of the class, only to ask Streep to take him back when her cynical eyes open to the magic of what Streep has accomplished. The stony glare and coldness of the scared woman magically disappears once she realizes the impact the violin has had on her son. That's what music is all about.They Shall Have Music, a 1939 movie with a Dead End kids theme is very similar in its narrative about how music can change lives. It featured Javier Havitz, who is mentioned in a tender scene here in Music of the Heart featuring the legendary Isaac Stern. What is amazing for this incredible movie is the direction by none other than horror movie icon Wes Craven.The message of this film is that the only thing every person in this crazy world shares is music, and no matter what language we speak, music will never disappear, and is the one thing that unites us beyond all other barriers. "},{"Title":"Little Addendum","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" It truly is inspiring to see such a movie, where the power of music comes to life not only can you evidently see it in the children and of the character Roberta in the movie, but it touches you as well. A little music goes a long way in life - just ask those students of the past of Roberta!While I love this movie, I just have to laugh a little bit at the user comment of this movie's page on IMDb. Yes, Meryl Streep did well as to learn the violin parts necessary for this movie. But she was not praised by world-class violinists as posted.. Jascha Heifetz died in '87. How on earth would he manage to give her praise like so? Haha. "},{"Title":"I Love This Little Film!!!","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Every time this little film is on Encore, I inevitably watch. Tonight I even skipped a party to view this remarkable film. I have avoided Wes Craven films because of their creepiness and gore -- his usual subject matter is just not my favorite genre. But this 'small film' is such a compelling story about real people, real situations, and real heroism, courage, and just plain old chutzpah, that I am drawn very deeply to its story. There's also the quality of impeccable and subtly layered performances by so many amazingly talented actors turning in their finest work for scale, with words and cinematography of the same power and muster, to tell this wonderful tome of inner city challenges and a crazy gritty teacher who rises to the occasion, as well as depicting the lives of those who face such challenges daily. For me, the most moving part of this film is when the late violinist Isaac Stern appears on stage at Carnegie Hall, addressing in an amazingly warm telling of Carnegie's history, a number of the prior performers who've graced that magnificent stage. Though I wish the final performances of Bach could have been longer, it is absolutely thrilling to see the mentoring of this group of accomplished and noted musicians to the many young children and budding talents that performed with them. Every time I watch this, I weep for joy. Thank you to all who made this very beautiful film, and to Roberta Guaspari, who lived this story. "},{"Title":"Very good, heartfelt movie!","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Meryl Streep was excellent as usual and the true story in which this is based on is truly heartfelt. It tells the story of a woman called Roberta (streep) who needs a job and finds one as a violin teacher. Very soon she inspires all her students to play and enjoy themselves. All support cast including the children were very good. The music pieces were also very good and when the movie was over I was left with a smile on my face long afterwards. I truly did enjoy this movie and would recommend it to anyone. All the themes are perfect so an entire family can easily enjoy it. I suggest to anyone who is reading this review. GO OUT AND SEE THIS MOVIE! You will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Believe in your passions......and you shall accomplish your mission","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" A feel-good,inspiring movie that will surely entertain in a gentle and non-intrusive way. Watching Meryl Streep perform is always a pleasure. To see a mid-life actress given an intelligent role (this is one of a number of enjoyable Streep films out in the last few years) is quite encouraging since so many of the stars (female) I grew up with (70's & 80's)have disappeared into obscurity. This movie appealed to my sensibilities I am becoming a bit of a cynic as I grow older and this movie is a solid reminder that there are caring, loving souls that populate our great planet who are willing to put their heart and soul into following and accomplishing their passions while leaving their indelible mark along the way!! The film inspired me enough to further my knowledge of the teacher the story is based on--- PS If you have a surround sound theater set-up at home it will add a rich dimension to the experience; you will certainly appreciate the music/soundtrack in the film. "},{"Title":"a forceful movie with a wonderful message","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I am a jazz pianist who also bought a trumpet from a wonderful little man, Bert Holtz from Austria, who owns a wonderful little music store, Norden's,here in Jacksonville FL on Atlantic Blvd. The last time I visited Mr Holtz, about 2 weeks ago only, he showed me newspaper clippings about the local school board's actions, and discussed with me the local school board's decision to cut their music program in all schools to the bone. The cuts were devastating and certain to drive many of the music stores here in Jacksonville FL out of business. Mr Holtz and other music stores are presently on the block because of the school board's decisions to cut out their music program. Phadellius "},{"Title":"Won't somebody please think of the children?!","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Wes Craven's Music of the Heart (1999) is a break from the director's earlier work, which includes the first and last installments in the Nightmare on Elm Street series, the Scream movies, and his sexually graphic directorial debut, The Last House on the Left (1972). In Music of the Heart, Craven demonstrates his skill with dramatic films and forges a place for himself in the world of non-horror film-making.After suffering an emotionally debilitating break with her husband, Roberta Guaspari gives up on life, packs her kids up, and moves to her mother's house. Her mother (Cloris Leachman) forces Roberta to pick up the pieces of her life and get a job. Coincidentally, Roberta runs into her old friend Brian Turner (Aidan Quinn), who gets her a job as a violin teacher and lets her stay in his apartment until she gets back on her feet. They become sexually involved, and Roberta's kids like Turner. Her students are succeeding at the violin, and everything seems to be picking up for her.In the midst of building a new house, things get rocky for Roberta. She fires her builders and breaks up with Turner. Despite this, she continues to live happily. Years pass, and Roberta's violin program grows into an inner city phenomenon. She teaches students from three different schools in addition to giving private lessons. She remains unattached, but raises her two sons successfully while maintaining her heavy workload. But Roberta's life is thrown into upheaval when the music budget in her district is cut, and she no longer has a program. She puts up a fight that leads her, her best students, and some of the country's finest string musicians to Carnegie Hall.This film has a few strengths that give it an edge above other films in the classroom drama genre. Meryl Streep is an excellent choice for Roberta Guaspari. Her performance is that of an actress at the height of her talent. She is as powerful here as she has been throughout her career, and this film is a mile marker worthy of Kramer vs. Kramer (1979) and Out of Africa (1985). Streep is a broken woman in the first five minutes of Music of the Heart, and her progression from that to a person who is capable of enjoying life on her own terms is understated and believable. Streep demonstrates the range of her talent beautifully. Roberta is both a devastated and a powerful woman, and Streep plays her with passion and grace.We get a good balance of home and school life in this film and this is a credit to the screen writing. Roberta has believable and multi-dimensional relationships with her principal at school (Angela Bassett), her many classes of students, and her children. She goes through a romantic relationship, and both the beginning and the end of that are true to life. The writing here is just consistently good. The film gets a little unbelievable near the end as the Carnegie hall gig approaches, but the problem here may be that this film is based on a real story. The writer, Pamela Gray, had a lot of freedom in character development, and she excelled in this area. But she probably had to stick to a specific set of plot points that forced her to the Hollywood whitewashed conclusion.Craven's directing is good, though at parts it's obvious this is his first successful dramatic film. The only other attempt he made was in 1988 with The Serpent and the Rainbow, a film that examines the Haitian origins of the zombie myth. Though The Serpent and the Rainbow is worth a look as a serious piece, it's still got one foot in the graveyard. For the director's first real drama, Music of the Heart is a pleasant surprise.  "},{"Title":"sound of music, part 2","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  this is indeed one of the best movies about music i have ever seen. Meryl Streep had done one of her best movies and showed her experience in this movies. A bit boring at the beginning but the music of the violin will leave an effect on feelings after the end of the movie. The kids were not bad and the story is a lesson to us that music is so important in our lifes. With respect to the differences in the plot, and the charming voice of Julie Andrews, i consider this movie as part 2 of the 60's musical legend The Sound of Music! "},{"Title":"Music Lover's Movie","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie for any musician.  I loved Meryl Streep in this movie.  I found her to be a very believable music teacher.  She reminds me of a HS Choir Director I had.  She's tough, yet lovable.  There is so much to enjoy about this movie.  I highly recommend any music student or child considering playing a musical instrument to watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"Remember...Who's That Girl?..Was Supposed to Star In This..","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  And that would be none other than Madonna! Imagine what it could have been with Madonna in the Meryl Streep role? I remember the controversy that swirled around this when Madonna bowed out. I think she had even started filming as well. So think about what it is and then think about what it could have been!  "}{"Title":"Pssssssst! Looking for a good double feature??","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" .  .  . then pair Music of the Heart with From Mao to Mozart, both of which feature everyone's favourite, Isaac Stern. In a sense, both movies are from the heart.Make sure you buy or rent the DVD edition of From Mao to Mozart, which includes Stern's reprise visit to China in 2000. "},{"Title":"A well done film.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  When I first heard about this film it sounded interesting but possibly not that good of a film. I saw it anyway and it was a very good film. I'd reccomend this film to anyone. An all star class of musicians makes this film even more entertaining along with some very talented actors and actresses. "},{"Title":"Touching movie","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie, Music of the Heart is a movie about not giving up, and following your dreams. Personally, I loved it. I play the violin, so I connected to many parts. One being the difficulty of playing, and another being the precision needed. I give this movie a rate of 10.  "},{"Title":"Sterling Streep performance","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Once again, this movie has convinced me that there is not one living actress that can come close to Streep in the art of acting. If you have seen her other movies, you will know how versatile she is in the roles she has played. The theme of this movie is not unique and has been revisited....a well meaning teacher trying to make a difference in the lives of inner city Harlem kids in the face of great odds. But it is Streep's performance that has made this movie another enthralling story telling experience for me. I give Meryl a standing ovation.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  At first I thought I wouldn't like this movie but I was wrong - I really enjoyed it. Meryl Streep is great in the role of Roberta Guaspari and the story makes you feel tottaly involved. I also congratulate Angela Basset and Aidan Quinn for the acting. "},{"Title":"great story!","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Many critics complained that this movie was too predictable; and it is true that this movie contained elements common in uplifting, inspirational stories. I don't believe that it detracted from the film, however. The story of how the violin program was saved is well-known, and I think the film did a good job in exploring Roberta's character. There aren't many movies, unfortunately, that have strong characters for women over 35. This is unbelievable to me, since women are much more interesting after they learn a little about life. I loved the love story between Streep's and Quinn's characters, complete with the old baggage and the complexities. I also liked the interaction between the characters. Steep, of course, did a superb job. I would watch her in anything. I hope that there are more movies about strong, interesting women. Just think of the great actresses out there who are over forty--Lange, Sarandon, Bassett, Field, and so many more. Their talents are still emerging, and I don't want to see them shunted aside. I am tired of seeing love stories on screen between twenty-five-year-old women and fifty-year-old men. Ok, enough ranting. I loved the movie. Rent it!  "},{"Title":"Performance From The Heart By Streep","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**		Many of the true heroes of our times go largely unknown, ignored, or unsung, but they are among us; and because of them we are blessed as a society.  `Music of the Heart,' directed by Wes Craven, is the story of one of these heroes, Roberta Guaspari, played here by the incomparable Meryl Streep.  Faced with a divorce and raising two sons on her own, Roberta, with the help of a friend, writer Brian Sinclair (Aidan Quinn), finds a job in an East Harlem school teaching violin.  Hired initially as a substitute for two days a week, she struggles to make her program work, competing with a tenured music teacher and less than cooperative students.  A violin program seems out of place in Harlem, and there are some very real racial barriers she must overcome, as well.  That she succeeds at all is due to nothing less than strong-willed determination and tenacity; a former Navy wife who was constantly on the move, she buys her first home, a fixer-upper in Harlem she must renovate to make livable, acting as her own contractor, which adds even more stress to an already overwhelming situation  A single mom living in Harlem, trying to make a life for herself and her boys, while giving selflessly to her students, many of whom soon look to her as their ray of hope in an otherwise seemingly futile environment.  There is triumph and tragedy to her story, but the fact that she was able to help so many young people, and raise the self-esteem of so many individuals as well as that of an entire community, illustrates the difference one person can truly make in our society. 	Streep delivers an Oscar-worthy performance (she was nominated), and as usual, disappears completely into her character.  Indisputably the greatest actress of our times, it never ceases to amaze the way she can take any role and not just play, but become, that person; she is truly a chameleon at her craft, and a joy to watch.  After watching her, you feel as if you really know Roberta; and the fact that she enables you empathize with her so readily heightens the already emotional impact of her story.  It is a touching portrayal that avoids any sentimentality or pretentiousness. 	The supporting cast includes Cloris Leachman (Assunta Guaspari), Angela Bassett (Janet Williams), Jay O. Sanders (Dan), Michael Angarano (Nick, age 7), and features cameos by Isaac Stern, Itzhak Perlman, Sandra Park and Karen Briggs, among others.  Craven has ably delivered a solid and moving film; he keeps everything to scale, keeps it real, never allowing the story to become larger-than-life, one of the pitfalls of many a movie biography, which can so easily diminish the quality of the final product.  Happily, he never allows that to come close to happening in `Music of the Heart.'  This is an unforgettable film, with a memorable performance by Meryl Streep; but in the end, what you'll really remember is Roberta Guaspari.  She is a true, contemporary hero whose song, thankfully, has been sung.  I rate this one 10/10.               "},{"Title":"You can tell its a true story.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I really loved this movie.  Why?  Because, it takes a really good movie like Mr.Holland's Opus, strips away all likeable characters, makes the main character a total rhymes-with-ditch, and put her in totally predictable situations.  I love that in a movie!  And then it also adds a really good actress like Gloria Estefan (hey, wooden acting is actually briliant if you look at it the right way), allows them to be in 3 scenes, and then hypes the heck out of the fact that they're in the movie!  Exceptional!  I also want to tell you about a really clever thing that I saw in the movie  at first the main character is met with resistance from the administrator and the school's actual music teacher.  Of course, the kind principal gives the protagonist her chance, and her new violin program's a hit!  It's so popular that the students even tell their new violin teacher they don't mind it when she verbally abuses them!  Wow, wish I had a teacher like that! Flash-forward ten years the program is still a hit, and the original music teacher's trying to take credit for it!  Didn't see that coming!  Because it is set in the inner city, we get such original characters such as the black mom who doesn't want her son studying the white man's music, and at least one kid dies a young, tragic, violent death.  *SPOILER WARNING* The movie concludes with a race to find new backing for the violin program when the EVIL school district cuts off funding!  Oh no!  Heck, since this is a movie about music, let's throw a benefit concert to raise money and save the orphanage...er, I mean, the music program!  This plot is so original you can really tell it's a true story. "},{"Title":"Another Vividly Real Performance by Meryl","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Based on a true story about a newly-single mother who talks her way into a job teaching violin to grade schoolers in a tough Harlem neighborhood.  Doesn't exactly cover new ground, but Meryl Streep is extremely likeable in the lead role and it's always entertaining. "},{"Title":"A worthwhile movie","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  What a delightful movie!  This is truly a movie full of heart.  The main character is an inspiring person and the movie was well directed and acted.  If only all schools had teachers like he main character in this movie, we would have excellent schools all over the country.  What was good about the direction, was that story told was not overly sweet, it was just right. "}{"Title":"Meryl Streep in her best role after Out of Africa!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Meryl Streep in her best role after Out of Africa! And the school children were all great too (made me think back on the times I was learning to play the piano). Should be an obligatory film for all the teachers who are continuously complaining about lack of money to finance school activities.I just loved it!!! "},{"Title":"Music and movie that makes you cry your heart out!!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Having read some of the previous reviews I notice this is a film which one either loves or hates and the Dutch arereally heartless creeps. One little horrible moviemagazine here rated this movie as the only one that can be missed. It makes you cry even more than the movie itself. No, this movie made me cry more than any before (exceptThe bridges of Madison County and Sophies choice, but these are not surprisingly also with Meryl Streep). The climax of the movie is a real tearjerker, but what's wrong with that? If movies are an indicator for the heartlessness in our present society (I think they are) then it is only VERY GOOD that these kind of movies are still being made.I cried my heart out and had the greatest time in a month or so. The story itself looks quite unbelievable.I myself would never have believed that this was a true story, if it weren't really true (a few years ago already a documentary was made about this, but this movie is better). This movie is a really redeeming one for music-lovers (REAL music, not popmusic) but also for people interested in racial matters. It's quite rare in movies to see black people being portrayed as really nice people (Grand Canyon is another such wonderful film in that respect). Meryl Streep should have won the Oscar again.Makes you realize once more what a totally overrated movie American beauty is. A really great but very surprising delight (I knew nothing about the story) was to see some of the greatest violinists of our time in this movie (Perlman and several others,see cast) playing as themselves. If ever there was a movie that makes you wish it lasted 5 hours it must be this one (but then there's always still the book). I cannot recommend any other movie more than this one!!  "},{"Title":"Craven trades monsters for music","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  To be honest I was not as surprised as others were by the quality of this film.  Wes Craven's better horror movies have always featured believable and strong protagonists.  For example, Sydney from the Scream series and Nancy from the Elm Street films.Streep's character is just another protagonist along the same lines.  The fact that she is battling personal hardship and the socio-economic factors that her students must contend with instead of a scary monster is very refreshing.  Craven proves with Music of the Heart that he is up to the challenge of directing a non-horror film.  The movie is engaging and very entertaining. "},{"Title":"makes you want to round up the neighbourhood kids & plant a garden or something...","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  So it's totally American shmultz - I don't mind a bit of that every now & then, even if it's intellectually uncool to say so! The fact that this is based on a true story means you can indulge the shmultz just that little bit more, should the mood strike. The kids are gorgeous and given a decent amount of screen time. Meryl wears such marginal outfits & has such an idiosyncratic speech pattern that I can only assume she spent at lot of time with the real Roberta Guaspari. She's quite convincing as the stroppy violin teacher & apparently spent weeks (!) training on violin in order to appear so.This is triumphalism movie-style & if you're in the mood to see one of those embarrassingly heart-warming stories where they give you exactly what you paid your $12.50 to see, it's not a bad watch. "},{"Title":"Music of the Heart and Meryl Streep are a perfect 10","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I had a very bad day.But after watching Meryl Streep in Music of the Heart on DVD, I can go to sleep tonight with a smile on my face. Tomorrow when I return the rental, I'll return home with my own copy of a wonderful feel good Movie. I voted this one a perfect 10.       "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Orgasm","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  WTG Wes Craven who has finally showed you can break...ehh...Type directing? =)The beginning credits are a wonderful prelude and are symbolic You see the pictures of a happy family and as they pass by they fade into the darkness, forgotten --- which is obviously what Roberta's husband does to her --- forgets her and moves on. What a jerk...We follow Roberta to Harlem where she begins a teaching career in violins --- her greatest love in life. I wondered how she could fit all fifty violins into that one eeny teeny apartment...Oh well =)The movie overall shows that with determination, dedication, and desire you can beat the system. It also shows it's also who you know =) My heart rose when she got the unfocused children to play, and my heart sank when one of them...ehh...you all know =) My heart lept out when her chiild rebelled against her and threw down his violin what a brat.The movie was phenemonal. Period. Merly Streep played her role well --- at first a very timid and shy woman desperate to get her life in order --- to a strict teacher who DOES love students --- to an angered human who will do anything to get what they've lost back. It's simply great. I loved Wes Craven's choice of having the scene between her moth and son shown from the outside view of the window --- It's a motif that there's something between them that's not quite tangible.It was a fantastic experince, and I left the theater with an uplifted heart --- I guess because in my high school they wanted to cut the Theater and Music Programs and the students....eh...let's say we, fought back =) "},{"Title":"Meryl without an accent?  Shocking!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Good, heartwarming movie with fine performances from all involved (even Gloria Estefan!!!).  Watching Streep and Bassett--two of the finest actresses of our time--is a joy to watch.  Streep in particular is in fine form--she manages to make her character's setbacks believable without slipping over the line into tragic heroine.  The script has more than its share of genuinely funny moments, moments where you look at the characters on the screen and say, Oh, that is SO my mother! or If my kids pulled that.....Go, go, go see this movie! "},{"Title":"I Loved It It Was Great 10 Stars!!! )","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Im 14 Years Old And I Went To See Music Of The Heart It Was Great One Of The Best Drama's I Have Ever Seen And The End Song Music Of My Heart I Loved It Two! This Movie Is About A Violin Teacher Who Teaches Kids How To Play It! Very Good 10 Stars Wes Craven (A Nightmare On Elm Street) Directed This Movie! Very Good Hearted Movie! Loved Every Bit From Begening To End! -Jeremy Big Fan (14 Years Old) "},{"Title":"WOW! What a beautiful film!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Music of the Heart is a wonderful film. You will experience emotional rushes and tears of joy. Undoubtedly, the best movie that I have seen this year. It should definitely be an award winner. I will not spoil the experience by revealing the plot. Don't miss it! It's a 10+, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Can I give it 11 stars?!?!?!?!?!???!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Merlyl Streep is Phenomenal!!!!!  The movie is wonderful!!!  Angela Basset is amazing and Meryl deserves and Oscar.  The script is astounding and the actors light up the screen.  The supporting characters are also great and the movie is a WOW.  Who'd a thought a movie about Violins would be so great!!!!!!!!!!!!   "}{"Title":"Decent people triumph against the odds","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  After so much fictional drivel in 1999, I saw TWO fact-based films on the same weekend. Both Music of the Heart and The Insider raised the question of why producers choose to finance appalling nonsense such as Double Jeopardy and incoherent fantasies such as The Matrix when far superior material lies all around them in real life. An extraordinary fact about Music is that almost every single character is likeable and that the vast majority are actually admirable. The only exceptions are Roberta's cheating husband (only an off-screen presence), the sour and incompetent permanent music teacher (who has good reason to be jealous of his inspirational, but untenured colleague) and Aidan Quinn's appealing but fickle lover. At least the latter bubbles over with irresistible Irish charm and blarney. Some real life musicians appear as themselves, most memorably Isaac Stern whose love, decency and lifelong joy in music shines out from the screen during the brief episode when he describes the famous musical ghosts haunting Carnegie Hall. The whole story is such a glorious relief after a procession of films stuffed with people who are as repulsive as the plots are preposterous.The real difficulties of the Harlem children are portrayed; physical disabilities, crime, single parents, poverty, domestic violence. Meryl Streep's Roberta has her share of shortcomings and problems, as is shown when she struggles with the incompetent contractors she hired to fix up her home or tries to get the charming Aiden to commit to a longer term relationship. But her burning love of music and initially desperate tenacity in teaching these strange inner city kids gradually triumph over all, even mean minded financial cuts. Although it is not mentioned in the film, musical education has enormous benefits in other academic areas, as well as boosting the children's self-esteem and concentration - a fact invisible to the bean counters.Bravo to all concerned, especially to Wes Craven for a project so utterly different from anything he has created before, and to Meryl Streep for another compelling performance. "},{"Title":"Loved Cloris Leachman's lines!","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  You know the story... this was a movie I was proud to take my 16 y.o. daughter to, (plus her friends) and not be afraid of the content. She/they loved it also, which speaks for the ability of a well-crafted product to transcend age differences. I particularly was struck by Cloris Leachman-- she wasn't overly made-up, and seemed to wear the deep lines of her face proudly, as she should. One more vote for honesty in the cinema! "},{"Title":"It is more than just feel good.","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This saga of turning lemons into lemonade is uplifting and heart rending at the same time.  Roberta's, Meryl Streep, life is seemingly a series of bad accidents and inconsequential incidents that turn out benefiting hundreds of kids in what we now term an under-resourced school districts.  Roberta turns her own tragedy into a wonderful benefit for her newly adopted community while giving her own life purpose.  Her dedication to teaching children the violin in a Harlem school district, gives her pupils not only an appreciation for music, but a wealth of self confidence and an appreciation for discipline and sacrifice. The temptation might be to focus on the editorial glitches and the choppy presentation of Roberta's personal life,  However, I think the power of this story rises above those details.  And then there is the opportunity to watch Meryl act.  Reason enough to see this film. "},{"Title":"From a music educator's perspective, I liked it.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" ...and from a movie aficionado's perspective, it was O.K. I thought this was a pretty good film. I agree with the IMDb's take on it. I thought Meryl Streep was very believable as Roberta Guaspari, contrary to what I expected. The character of the principal was also very believable. Presenting some of the tragedies that children go through in life in the inner-city was accurate. (I teach in an inner-city school.) Even though I liked Mr. Holland's Opus, it still had some clichd schlock in it. Music of the Heart really didn't, to my pleasant surprise.The best scene, though, was the one where Isaac Stern shared the screen with Meryl Streep. To me it was magical. You could tell that Maestro Stern was not an actor--his words, expressions, and actions were totally sincere. Stern's presence actually overshadowed Streep's. It was magical.  "},{"Title":"a very good movie","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Meryl Streep is truly amazing in this movie directed by horror master Wes Craven. She is powerful and resourceful, which is necessary since she is a single mother of two and a teacher whose program is hanging on a thread. She would do anything for the kids willing to learn violin. The rest of the cast is uneven. Angela Bassett is OK, Aidan Quinn is fine, but Gloria Estefan is useless. Anyone could have played that part. She has no energy whatsoever. The Carnegie Hall ending is superb.  "},{"Title":"F-A-N-T-A-S-T-I-C, and then some....","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  It has been years since I heard a movie audience clap and cheer like they did throughout this movie!  And it is a true story!  So much the better. This movie will lift your spirits from here to Sunday and then some.  All of the characters are so real, so lovable (or despicable in one case), and you just wish you were there to know them all.  Do yourself a favor and feel good about the world again - go enjoy this one, please. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie that sometimes just tries too hard to bring you to tears...","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  As the son of a music teacher, Music of the Heart presented a story that had some very personal connections to my own life.  It's definitely a four hankie; unfortunately, it tries too hard to get to that point.  To many points in the movie seemed to scream out We are going to MAKE you cry this time!The only technical flaw in this movie was the directing style.  It appears that Wes Craven had a difficult time moving from the quick cut horror style he has done for years.  To many cuts had discrepancies between them (people standing in places they weren't in a split second before, stuff moving around, facial expressions drastically different).  Wes' horror style also managed to squeeze its way in; to many scenes used techniques often used to imply impending doom in horror films.With that said, I still give this movie a 7 out of 10, and would highly recommend it.  Bring some kleenex... "},{"Title":"Good cinema experience - a little unfair to to School Districts","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Nice to see someone succeed against the prevailing budget cuts in the arts. Thought the movie was one-dimensional in its depiction of the school district, which obviously had difficult budget cut decisions to make.Nevertheless, creativity over confrontation won out in this situation.Meryl Streep obviously had little time to prepare for this role, as her usual nuances of character were missing.Still, fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Great, Streep is SPECTACULAR, oscars galore","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought that this was a great movie, beter Mr. Holland's Opus and Dangerous Minds combined.  Meryl Streep took this role to a different level. Wes Craven has shown us now exellence in filmmaking not only in the horror drama.  The kids in the movie are great including Ian Quinlan, Jean-Luke Figureu and Christopher Katrandjian in a diminished role.  Go see this movie.  Bring anyone, they'll love it! Comedy, Romance, Drama, and Suspence, all included.**** Stars (out of four) "},{"Title":"i was surprised","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  even though i had read good reviews of this movie, i had second thoughts about going to see it.  yet as i watched this movie i left with some hope in my heart, that one person can make a difference in another`s life and make them a better person.  such as this movie is, based on the life of a woman teaching children from east harlem the violin. "}{"Title":"Exceptional, inspiring, and not-to-be-missed","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  At last - a movie to be seen, to be proud to say you've seen, to be proud that the movie industry can make, to be proud of America.  It's a pathetic testimonial to the tastes prevailing in America today that American Beauty will probably make more money than Music from the Heart.  That's illustrative of many of our problems.  Beauty presents what is and shouldn't be, Music from the Heart presents what is and should be.  Absolutely one of the best, with a magnificent performance by Meryl Streep.  The only mystery is why Gloria Estefan took the minor role she did.  But, that does nothing to take away from a wonderful and inspiring story told in a stunning way.  DON'T MISS. "},{"Title":"Truly an example of music moving the soul","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this film last night and was deeply touched by both the story and the acting.  I am no fan of Meryl Streep but this time she turns in a performance that I believed in from start to finish.  The children who play the violinists over the years are charming and not the usual precocious brats one tends to see portrayed in films.  The reality of the lives of these children comes across loud and clear, in particular I loved the little Hispanic boy who was so gifted as a violinist, but was afraid of losing his macho image.  The way the film dealt with the loss of child, and the loss of another child's scholarship was treated with compassion and the reality of life in East Harlem or in any inner city for that matter.  Comparison will no doubt be made to Mr. Holland's Opus, however, Music of the Heart, goes way beyond Opus, perhaps because of the performances, perhaps because of the reality of the story, and perhaps because of the emotional high that comes with viewing Music of the Heart. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Superb !","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Someone call the Oscar people now, this movie is going to be one of the nominees for best picture. As I sat and watched this wonderful movie, my belief that Meryl Streep is one of the greatest actresses of all time was solidified. I absolutely loved this production from start to finish. The emotions of this movie run so very deep, and brought me to smile and shed a tear of joy. Throughout this film I kept putting myself in the place of a parent of one of these special children. This movie will be thought of as a classic, for me it already is. Bravo ! "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep does it again.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I admit I am a sucker for Meryl Streep movies but this one is extraordinary. Not only is the subject matter compelling and worthy of attention, but Meryl is superb in showing the intense love, affection, and passion she has for her students and the music itself.  As with every one of her movies, I can never picture anyone else but her in the role.  Compared to the Richard Dreyfuss film, as much as I enjoyed that at the time, this has a different quality with much more depth of character, with a better development of the relationships for both the teacher and the students.  I highly recommend this film for all ages.  What is it about young people performing that immediately touches something deep inside of me and will always bring me to tears?  This one does it beautifully and willingly. "},{"Title":"Magic Meryl is Great","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Meryl Streep once again proves that she is one of the greatest actresses of our time.  She does not have to play a heroine or someone who is dying to be terrific.  In this role she plays a person like all of us who accomplishes wonderful things.  I am always amazed at her nuances in her acting and this role is no different.  Once again Meryl, Bravo!!!! "},{"Title":"inspiring, better than fantasy","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  There should be a category for decent movies. And this should head the current list. Congratulations to the people who created this positively must-see movie! I strongly recommend this to viewers of all ages. "},{"Title":"The Gift of Music and Self Esteem","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Three years ago, I found myself in a Saturday morning movie at a local arts theater viewing a film I knew nothing about called Small Wonders.  I was enchanted by the story, which is a documentary of the life of Roberta Guaspari. Roberta's courage is inspiring; her positive influence of her teaching -- both music and self esteem -- is awesome.  Woven into her loud and gruff manner is a quiet and loving wisdom.  If Small Wonders is available on video, it is well worth the watch, before or after seeing the current feature film.  Music of the Heart is Roberta's story, this time presented with well-known actors who honor her life and contributions.  I laughed; I cried.  Most of all, I appreciate that Roberta's gift has wider exposure.  Thank you, Meryl Streep, for learning to play the violin and for being so true to the nature of this woman.  This production is a fine tribute to the lives transformed by the music program in East Harlem.  The members of the supporting cast also deserve kudos.      For me, this is a deeply touching film, which I expect will also touch many persons of many different backgrounds.  The audience I shared this experience with appeared to be fully entranced with the unfolding of the film.  The film helps to make this world a better place.  "},{"Title":"Feel good movie of the year...with a touch of quality.","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  There are many films made about teachers helping students but many of them become cliched.  This film is different.  It has a higher quality to it that I cannot explain.  Perhaps it is great direction by Wes Craven (love the long take, Wes!).  Meryl Streep is exceptional and so are the kids.  Gloria Esteffan is great in her first role and it is great that she is not overused.  Angela Basset is always good so there is not much to say about her because it is implied.  I would suggest people see this film because it is so clean and it tells a great story.  It is not only about Meryl Streep's teaching but also problems she has in her own life.  The two hours went by fast for a change and the music is great for anyone who appreciates it. "},{"Title":"A passable little heartwarmer about violins in school.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Based on the true life story of Roberta Guaspari, Music of the Heart is about a woman who bounces back from a divorce by teaching inner city school children how to play the violin.  And that's pretty much the point of this film.  If you think you've seen this story before, you're probably right.Meryl Streep is our title character.  As the film opens, she is living with mom (played by Cloris Leachman) and is still quite shattered by the fact that her husband left her for another woman.  Roberta has two young boys and quite frankly, isn't sure what her next move will be. She meets Aiden Quinn, playing Brian.  Sparks fly, but at the same time he turns her on to a potential job in a Harlem grade school.  She approaches the principal, Angela Basset, for a job.  Of course she is refused at first, but through determination she is able to get her way. There is no point in delving much further into the plot.  You already know that Roberta is going to touch the lives of a few children.  Of course it's obvious that the school board is going to be a challenge to her when they start cutting back their budget.  And don't be too surprised to see her students perform at least one outstanding show, only after several scenes of frustration and hopelessness.I shouldn't be too hard on this film.  While I found it slow and often predictable, there are a few moments worth seeing.  This role is easy stuff for an actress like Streep so naturally she pulls it off.  Bassett is good as the principle, although I hope that her career does not go the way of playing tough black women working in the black community, supporting plucky white women who want to change 'the ghetto.'  She deserves far better than that.  I liked the music in this film and I have to admit that the finale at the end was worth the wait.  Roberta and the kids move into Harlem because Roberta wants to live in the area that she works.  I didn't quite get that, however I suppose I should give her credit.  I just wish the film makers were more honest in their portrayal of life in Harlem. I know that area of Manhatten has a lot of culture and some neat diversity, but I can't believe that the only problems were those pointed out by Angela Bassett's Janet.  I recall she had an exacto knife and a couple of appointments with some kids.  Where were the guns and the drugs we keep reading about?All in all, Music of the Heart is a slow moving, somewhat disappointing film.  We've seen this story before in films like Dangerous Minds and Mr. Holland's Opus.  I'm not too sure why we had to do it again.  I guess I shouldn't totally write off this film.  Anyone with a hunger for sentiment might just find something here.  Anyone looking for another great role from Meryl will just have to wait til next year. "},{"Title":"Music that Heals","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Last night I was literally captivated as I watched an early viewing of Music of the Heart. I left the theatre exhilarated, entertained and uplifted.Thank you to Director Wes Craven for a spectacular movie - the cast worked in concert with each other brillantly, and THANK YOU to Meryl Streep, who again gave an Oscar winning performance.Music of the Heart dealt with so many difficult issues of our American life. And, like mastering the violin, you learned that life also takes practice, good teachers, and a heart that's not afraid to take chances. The movie touches your heart-strings and challenges you to re-discover your own passions. Not to mention the magnificent music - truly healing for your soul. "}{"Title":"A fabulous movie, plus a wonderful concert!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one movie where the audience feels what the characters feel!  From sadness to frustration, anger to awe...Meryl Streep and the rest of the cast portray this true story with conviction.  And as if the story itself wasn't enough, the violin concerts throughout (and especially at the end) are wonderful! "},{"Title":"Best movie ever made!!!","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  There has never been a greater film in the history of Hollywood! I have seen and own just about every movie in the world, but none of them top Music of the Heart. Meryl Streep has always been my favorite actress and Gloria Estefan is my favorite singer, so when I found out many months ago that they were doing a movie together, I was so excited! And it was even better than I imagined. The acting was great and the story made such an impact on me because I love music.  Roberta Guaspari is truly an exceptional woman. If you don't see this movie, you are completely insane. It deserves every Oscar! Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"A very well directed and acted movie","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I usually do not go for these based on a true story tv movie like dramas (i.e. Mr. Holland's Opus) but this one was so full of truth and humor that I found myself completely captivated. It wasn't just a white teacher saves the poor children type story because the teacher herself was messed up and poor herself. And, naturally, Meryl Streep is able to play people who are not perfect better than anyone. I love the scene when she tries to be nicer to the children after a parent complains that she is the hard on her students. Everyone in the movie is fabulous and seeing Streep and Angela Bassett acting together is a definite treat). And it is always good to see Chloris Leachman working. All and all, a very well made film that never goes overboard trying to pull on your heart strings but manages to do so, nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep, Gloria Estefan & Angela Bassett SHINE in Music of the Heart!!!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Wow! Music of the Heart is one of those movies that really gets you. It is beautifully done and once again, Meryl Streep is excellent. Angela Bassett also fabulously plays the principal and superstar Gloria Estefan can now be singer/actress...Gloria's character (while not leading) plays an important part of the story and Gloria proves that she has what it takes to be in more films with such great casts as this one. The story was excellent (based on the real-life events of one NY teacher) and Wes Craven did great on his first non-horror genre film.This film is definately a MUST-SEE!  Go See It! "},{"Title":"Great Feel Good Movie!!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Four of us went to see it and felt it was a great movie.  It is amazing to see what just ONE person can do to change things in life! Very inspirational, great acting, great spirit-lifter.  You're sad when it's over and you want those warm fuzzies to stick around for a long time afterwards!  Go see it! "},{"Title":"A great movie.","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Meryl Streep learned to play violin so well for this movie that Issac Stern, who also appears in the movie, was astonished at the skill level she achieved.  It's a testament to her incomparable ability as a professional actor.  Streep plays Roberta Guaspari, the main character in Music of the Heart.  Her real life accomplishments, as a teacher, leader and mother, are brought to light in a very  entertaining and enjoyable way.I knew beforehand who directed, but it was during the closing credits that it hit me.  This is a Wes Craven movie.  Great job! "},{"Title":"Just Back from the local Premiere","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I can't remember the last time I sat through an entire film and did not hear one curse word, witness one act of violence, been bombarded with loud music and quick MTV-Style editing, until last night!What a wonderful film Wes Craven has decided to direct between Scream, Scream 2 and Scream 3!  Looking at Mr. Craven's filmography, I believe this is his first non slasher/thriller/horror film!  Kudos to Wes Craven! And Kudos to Miramax Films!  Here is a company that is constantly badgered because of their link to Walt Disney and their independence to produce and distribute all types of films!  But, how much Press will Miramax get when they release a fantastic film like this?This film is very good, very heartwarming, and at least a 4-tissue rating! It should be viewed by all educators regardless of their vocations.  It is a film that the entire family can go and see, share and enjoy!Music of the Heart is the true story of Roberta Guaspari (played by Streep), a musician who has a devastating divorce, moves out on her own with her two young sons, and takes a job as a substitute-music teacher in East Harlem, NY.  The film chronicles two major battles, first the acceptance of violin teaching not only by the teaching staff, but also the parents.  And second, the struggle to continue the classes when funding is cut-off.  Yes, there are more struggles as you can imagine a single mother would have being placed into this situation.  "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep is exceptional","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this film at the Toronto Film Festival. I did not choose to see it but it was chosen by someone else for me to see. I am an ambivalent fan of Meryl Streep. In this film she is absolutely exceptional. It chronicles the trials and tribulations of an individual who is faced with an unhappy marriage break-up, the task of raising two boys and trying to survive financially. She is a violin teacher and a male friend suggests she try for a job in a Harlem school. She cleverly auditions her two boys playing violin to show her teaching expertise just to land a substitute teacher position. Anyone who knows anything about education knows that teaching of the arts is extremely important to building up an individual's self-esteem. It has also been proven scientifically to improve and expand one's mind. In short a person's capacity to think is greatly increased over those not exposed to the arts. The kids in the film are delightful and amazing. These kids intuitively know certain truths. This is a 7 hankie movie. It really tugs at the emotions. I love the climax of the movie and it reminds me of the joke about a chap in New York who asks someone for directions How do you get to Carnegie Hall? His answer is Practise, practise, practise. Not what the person expected but exactly what the teaching ethos of Meryl Streep's character emphasizes. The glowing look of pride on Meryl Streep's face indicates how proud she is of her pupils and herself. They have climbed the mountain together and arrived at the top safe and sound and proud as you can possibly be.  "},{"Title":"A very inspirational film","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I,in my opinion,out of all of Meryl Streep's movies,think that this is her best performance ever.Music of the Heart was a movie that took me a long time time to finally watch because I had it in my collection for over 5 years,but when I finally got down to watching it,I was blown away.When I watch this movie,I wonder,if her husband had not left her,Roberta would never have inspired people the way she did and still does today.I think that Meryl's performance truly shows us that,in whatever you do,people are watching,and you can make a difference in someone's life,in whatever profession you are in.It shows in the film how many hours a day Meryl practiced the violin.My favorite scene is the Carnegie Hall event. "},{"Title":"entertaining, inspirational, and musical","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" When I was in second grade, I started to play the violin because I loved the sound. After I started, my mom and dad kept urging me to watch Music of the Heart since it was about violins. I always said that I would watch it sometime, but I never got to it. I could never find the tape in our house, and then one night, it was on TV. I went into our living room to watch it, and then when it went to commercials, my dad gave me the tape and I went to my mom's room to watch it. I was surprised about how entertaining and inspiring it was. After I watched it, I immediately took my violin out and starting practicing. Whenever I watch the movie, I practice my violin afterward because I am so inspired to play my best. And, it isn't only inspiring for violin players; my sister plays the flute, and she is inspired to play her instrument well, too. Music of the Heart is an entertaining, inspirational, and musical movie that I'm sure will please any music lovers. "}{"Title":"Music of the Heart","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The movie Music of the Heart suffers what a lot of similar movies based on fact suffer lack of a smooth flow due to trying to get all the factual information in. It should have remained a book. The boyfriend segment that went nowhere should have been left out altogether, as much as I love looking at Aiden Quinn and watching him act. And the flow was made further awkward because here and there, we are shown the main character as not being sympathetic at all, but having a perfectionistic, difficult personality. So who is the woman who the movie was based on? Certainly not a warm and fuzzy type, and yet she does things that help her under-privileged community and students. But it seems like her virtues stem out of a belief-system that poor public school students should be taught to play the violin and anyone can learn the violin-- not from a fully-formed, sympathetic, from the heart woman. ***POSSIBLE SPOILER**... The direction is amateurish with painful cuts from happy face to happy face from an applauding audience at the finale-- including that of the boyfriend that she had left 10 years before applauding wildly like their ending had gone well, and looking like he looked in the last scene we saw him in. Questions beg to be answered. How did all those poor kids get the money to buy the fancy duds for playing at Carnegie Hall? I believe that movies based on modern, real-life people are difficult to make; this one could have stood a LOT more effort in the making. "},{"Title":"Inspiring tale of music teacher that lifts up Harlem kids","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Like that other masterpiece of its type, Mr. Holland's Opus, this movie is a wonderful story, brilliantly told, and masterfully acted by Meryl Streep. Unlike most folk, I am not generally a huge Streep fan as I find she tends to over act, but she is perfect here. I think it's her best role ever.The film, based on a true story, tells the tale of a woman named Roberta Demetras, who has recently been left by her husband for another woman, and moves with her two young boys back in with her mother. She manages to obtain a position teaching violin in a Harlem school. Her teaching struggles and personal life (including a long term affair) are chronicled over a decade, culminating in the distressing news that the school board has canceled funding for her music program. However, she comes up the brilliant idea to hold a benefit concert in Carnegie Hall to elicit support.Roberta's classroom struggles are well depicted as, for starters, these kids are perceived as underachievers by their teachers, resulting in low expectations. The violin is a difficult instrument and it requires some doing to convince these underprivileged kids that, not only is it relevant to their lives, but yes, of course they can learn it and can meet her standards. Also, these parents, not exactly classical buffs, are skeptical and sometimes downright hostile. Winning their support takes time. Finally, just when the other hurdles are conquered, the Board of Education challenge...Meryl Streep very skillfully portrays all Roberta's professional trials as well as her personal life story, which is interspersed between the classroom scenes. She has her two boys to raise and also her relationship with her live in lover, Brian, who connects well with her kids.Cameo appearances by famous violinists, including Isaac Stern and Itzhak Perlman, add to the drama.It's a wonderful, inspirational story...and true. These music teacher tales always touch me since my own son played in his school band for seven years, and I saw personally the difference made by the music program in his and the other students' lives. Films such as Mr. Holland's Opus and this one are a tribute to these dedicated music teachers, and serve to highlight their generally unheralded efforts. "},{"Title":"an inspirational film that will touch every","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Music Of The Heart is an awe-inspiring film that contains outstanding performances from every single actor and actress in the film. From Meryl Streep to Angela Bassett and Aidan Quinn to Gloria Estefan as well as the extras, the actors made Music Of The Heart a wonderful film.Meryl Streep is exceptional in the role of the true life violin teacher who deserves most of the credit for this superbly performed film. The way that Along with Angela Bassett, Gloria Estefan and Aidan Quinn, Music Of The Heart is a success.I particularly enjoyed the scene in which her former students came into the classroom to inspire her current students to doing their best in their concert. However, the best part of the whole film was at Carnegie Hall when the children performed in front of their parents and alongside world renownd violinists such as Itzhak Perlman. Finally, Hollywood has recognized an excellent true story and brought it to the silver screen. I cannot begin to tell everyone what a movie this was to watch. I can't begin to tell everyone that the performances brought out every positive emotion. Along the same lines as Mr Holland's Opus, Music Of The Heart follows the life of violin teacher, Roberta Gaspiaurdi from the inception of the music program she created.Music Of The Heart is a film that touched my heart and inspired me into really looking inside myself and want to do charity for others. I highly recommend this movie to everyone because it will move, touch, and inspire.  "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  A movie starring Meryl Streep has got to be touching. This is no exception. However, I found this movie to be very predictable. When a mother didn't let her son play violin, I knew she would change her mind later. Whenever things go wrong, it will turn out right. Still, it doesn't change the fact that the film is well acted and touching.There was one thing which I found puzzling. Gloria Estefan had such a minor role in the film. She had something like five lines to speak and there wasn't much acting to do. How come she was nominated at the ALMA Awards for a best supporting actress?!  "},{"Title":"loved it!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I found this movie to be a good one, although it did remind me in a way of Mr. Holland's Opus. The ending was more satisfying, though. Meryl Streep is good as always as a music teacher who inspires her young students to being the best they can be on the violin. When the school threatens to shut down the music program (which includes her classes), she puts up the fight of her life. I enjoyed it, and liked the Carnegie Hall scene the best. Watch for cameos by Yitzach Pearlman and Mark O'Connor.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Inspirational but too honest.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  True story of a newly divorced mother of two boys who seek a new job in a not so nice place in New York. An expert violinist, Roberta goes through all the emotional turmoil of just wanting her husband back. The new job teaching children how to play the violin. The problem the kids are not really interested. The story is very inspirational and feels very true. In a world where everyone is acting all tough and strong, it seems very different for the main character to act so frustrated in front of her students, but breaks down at home. The movie faults right there as well, as it seems a bit too honest in portraying the mother as an actual mother instead of a pro feminist or a practical woman. You make the call yourself, though only a fool would actually see it on the big screen without his or her mother. "},{"Title":"Haven't cried this much since Jack Dawson died","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Gee, this movie was great!  I am so glad I am not so cynical as to be suckered in by a movie like this one.  I could have lost twenty minutes along the way - the Aidan Quinn scenes are unnecessary and some of the scenes with her kids were not what they were supposed to be, but when the story and the kids and the music soared, it was a supernova. I will admit to crying for most of the last 45 minutes, straight through.  I had seen Small Wonders which of course was great, too, and this movie is a fitting tribute to Roberta and the lives she has changed.  The fact that Meryl Streep received another Oscar nomination is also a fitting tribute to the greatest actress of our generation. I also want to mention Angela Bassett and Cloris Leachman, who have small roles but make them count.  "},{"Title":"Inspiring story and bravura performance by Meryl Streep","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a powerful, moving and triumphant true story, which springs from a documentary about a music teacher and her students.  This is the story of Roberta Guaspari-Tzavaras (Meryl Streep), a violin teacher who single-handedly created a program to teach violin to inner city kids in East Harlem, New York.  The film follows her from the dubious inception of the program, which started as a substitute teaching job, through the ensuing 10 years where so many children wanted to be in the program that it had spread to three schools in the district and a lottery had to be held each year to limit the number of students.  The last part of the film is devoted to her fight to continue the program after the board of education killed its funding.  It culminates in a triumphant benefit concert supported by some of the greatest violinists in the world to raise private funds to save the program.This film celebrates the dogged determination and courage of one woman who proved that a single individual can make a difference.  Her life was not a pretty picture.  Her husband left her for one of her friends, turning her into an emotional basket case.  Music was her only solace and teaching was her gift.  Unfortunately, her lack of experience in the education system made her unqualified to get a position.  So on the recommendation of a friend she convinces an East Harlem principal to give her a chance as a substitute violin teacher.  She even supplies the violins.The story from there is an example of life often being more remarkable than fiction.  The results she achieved with these children were astounding.  My only criticism of the story was that it contained a little too much treatment of her personal life.  Almost her entire relationship with Brian (Aiden Quinn) could have been eliminated without hurting the story.  I know that director Wes Craven was trying to give us some character development on how tough her life was and how difficult a person she was, but it was superfluous and the digression only bogged the story down.  The real story here was about her and the kids.  He should have stuck to that.  Otherwise, Craven did a fabulous job of directing, delivering an emotional story with great power and effect.  I was quite impressed, especially given the fact that prior to this film, he was almost exclusively a one genre director (Horror.  Think &#145;Scream'). The acting by Meryl Streep was nothing short of brilliant.  I have read criticism of Streep's performance as too harsh, it seeming as if she didn't really LIKE the children.  In actuality her performance was dead solid perfect.  I was lucky enough to rent the Collector's Series DVD of this film which included a separate disk of the original documentary about the real Roberta Guaspari-Tzavaras and her students, including the actual concert at Carnegie Hall.  If you watch that documentary you will be in awe of how well Streep utterly nails her character.  We get to see the real Roberta teaching her students and she is like a drill sergeant barking orders, throwing kids out of practice for not having their violins, reproaching them angrily about plucking their strings while she is speaking, and generally tolerating no nonsense.  She is impatient with them and completely intolerant of anything but their best.The children who made comments about the real Roberta said things like, &#145;I wouldn't have the discipline I have if it weren't for Roberta.  That discipline not only helps me with the violin, but with everything else.'  Another child said, &#145;I have to pay attention to what I'm doing or Roberta will get mean.  But if I do good, she is pleased and that make me feel good.'  Yet another, &#145;I want to work really hard so Roberta will be proud of me.'  Clearly, these are not the comments of children who were being negatively affected by Roberta's no nonsense style.Streep said in the featurette included in the DVD that it is very difficult playing a real person because there is no leeway for artistic interpretation.  Translation  If she was to play Roberta Guaspari-Tzavaras, she had to become Roberta.  This she accomplished with stunning accuracy.  Streep captures not only Roberta's irascible demeanor, but the essence of her drive and passion for drawing the students very best.  Roberta is a complex and difficult character to play and Streep throws herself into the role, delivering a tour de force performance that very few actors have the range and depth to accomplish.This film is a must see for anyone who loves the arts and anyone who can appreciate a great actress giving a career performance.  I rated it a 9/10, subtracting a point for Craven's unnecessary digression into Roberta's private life.  That is, however, hardly a reason to miss this bravura performance and an inspiring story.  "},{"Title":"Incisively reflects the inner truths of a true story","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Meryl Streep, like a great wine, gets better with age -- a magnificent portrayal.  Great use of the New York locations -- terrific support from the entire cast.  Second excellent portrayal from Kiernan Caulkin (Cider House Rules) this year -- Kiernan has developed into a much more resilient actor than Macauley.  Jay O. Sanders and Aidan Quinn provide nice counterpoints as Meryl's suitors.  Only one thing -- the students and their parents were so good -- I am VERY disappointed the complete cast doesn't see fit to list them especially when some of them had such huge parts, like Nahim (young and old) and his mother (EXCELLENT), Neshaun, Guadaloupe (young and old), and many others; some of the parents managed significant poignancy in short periods of time. If anyone can provide me with a TRULY complete cast list, I would be very, very grateful.  Thank you.  "},{"Title":"An old-time 1940's hero movie","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is like a 1940's hero flick, in the best way. There actually isn't much of a plot-- we see pretty much the whole thing in the previews. But like the old time Hollywood stories about heros from art, music, science, etc., that I used to enjoy so much on television (I wasn't alive when that kind of movie was still being made), there are little moments of drama and tension throughout the story, and of course the big built-towards climax. I may not be describing it right, but that's how it felt to me-- an old hero movie.Meryl Streep is amazing, as always. For example, I really liked how they had the character be a bit of a grouch at the start of the movie, and how even after this became one of the many, small dramas that rose up throughout the movie-- she was still a bit of a grouch at the end of the movie. That felt more real to me than any other possible treatments of her flaw of grouchiness. People don't usually have it in them to make radical personality adjustments anyway. Also, we got to see that the grouchiness was heartfelt, and a perhaps clumsy attempt at expressing her dedication to the children she was responsible for teaching. The character then got a chance to see that some of the evident failings of her students (forgetting a violin, not standing straight, etc.) weren't signs of their ineptitude, laziness, or other negative traits. Rather, we and the teacher got to see that often the kids were actually adapting and coping with some pretty horrible circumstances in their world in the only ways they could, and doing a remarkably good job of it, given the fuller understanding.In that light, her grouchiness did taper off a bit; and as more and more students and parents began to appreciate what she really was striving for, the movie showed how cooperation and other forms of support were more forthcoming-- and thus the occasion for grouchiness was further reduced. But I really did like how Streep was able to show the character's personality was essentially the same, but expressed in a variety of different tenors and tones, perhaps, as we might expect over the course of a difficult but successful decade.This movie was heart warming, and appropriately so. (Many movie critics become crazed with rage at anything with any emotion-- but bleep them!) I don't think there was a hint of fakery or manipulation. The conclusion was reached with just enough miracle and just enough accident and just enough mathematical result of events and the natural course of things-- so that it all felt real.  "}{"Title":"Ugh...","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This kind of inspirational saccharine is enough to make you sick. It telegraphs its sentiments like the biggest semaphore on earth. It removes from the audience its own interpretation and feeling by making the choices for it. The big finish is swimming in weeping orchestration that must supposed to work like jumper cables on a dead car; I guess you'd need such prompting to feel if you're stupid enough to watch a film as simple-minded and sappy as this. Streep glows and you wonder if she really has the depth of feeling on display or if it's just that---a display, switched on and off like a light. Because I can't for the life of me see how she could possibly find life in such a dud of film. Even though it's based on a true story, and an inspirational one at that I'm sure, the set-up, execution and performances play like a third-rate TV movie or half-witted high school drama. "},{"Title":"moving and inspiring","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I have loved music for as long as I can remember. I began piano lessons at a young age and soon started singing. I know that not everyone is as lucky as I was to be able to take lessons. That is why this movie and its message is so important. This movie is one of the things that inspired me to become a music teacher. I am currently at the Crane School of Music studying music education. My only hope is that some day I can change the lives of children through music, just as Roberta did. This moving story of Roberta and what she accomplished is something that I will strive for everyday in my classroom. Thank you for such a beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Give me some lovin'","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Wes Craven wanted to get out of the genre of horror.  He did it with a very good drama that tell us some things   1) The love of the music, the passion shown by everybody.  The teacher's initiative leads to a students passion.  Remember the scene of the boy going to practice the violin instead of playing football. 2) That the system could be fought.  A white teacher in one of toughest neighborhood of N.Y East Harlem trying to integrate everybody.3) Related to this is the prejudice of the people who says No, it's impossible to join people with different skin color. With great performances of Angela Bassett and Meryl Streep, this movie should be seen everywhere and sensible people should cry like I did it when I saw it the first time.  I wasn't so sensible yesterday night. You can criticize that this is a very predictable movie with a happy end.  But this doesn't mean the movie is bad.  Because every blockbuster film has a happy end.  So I rate this movie a 9 out of 10. Andrs. "},{"Title":"Inspiring Story, Great Music, No Surprises","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  One expects a movie with an inspirational message, a cast containing two Academy Award winning actresses (Meryl Streep, Cloris Leachman) and a best actress nominee(Angela Bassett) to be something more than a series of `Hallmarck moments'.  You know you are in trouble when a scene opens with the caption `Ten Years Later' and NONE of the female characters has aged.  I expected some inventiveness from `horror' director Wes Craven; instead, I get `paint by the numbers.'  Craven's only inventiveness occurs in a subplot left on the `cutting room floor' involving Streep recovering her youngest son's bicycle.  At one point in the movie, Aidan Quinn says to Streep, `You know half of all marriages end in misery and divorce.'  `Wrong,' I responded, `Half end in misery, the other half in divorce.'  Was does it say about a movie's dialogue when your own wiseacre adlib is better than anything you heard in the film?See this one for the music and the inspiration.  There's simply not that much else to offer.  "},{"Title":"A pathetic movie poorly directed by Wes Craven","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I had high anticipations about this movie, specially after Meryl Streep's Academy Award nomination. However, Music of the Heart proved to be a movie full of clichs. Wes Craven should be forbidden of directing another genre other than horror, he just does not know how to develop any character. I was surprised to see Angela Basset, a truly gifted actress, in such a pathetic role. Aidan Quin's character disappears all of a sudden and Gloria Stefan has nothing but one or two lines (what was the purpose of her presence in the movie with those lines?). Meryl Streep is just acceptable, never great as in previous movies. She should never have been nominated for an Oscar. To sum it up, the fact is that Wes Craven turned out a story that had everything in its favor into some uninspired TV movie. BEWARE!!! "},{"Title":"Great Solo, Poor Concert","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Meryl is such a locomotive, she can pull any tractor of a film. This film has cute kids, adequate performances, a story with heart -- at least potentially. But the directing is so leaden, and the story so trite that she can't get very far with it.Why does Hollywood have such trouble with films about music and mathematics? They are drawn to these themes because they have such power, and when one individual connects with another, or a group, the results can be life-altering. So when we have a film that goes directly for the life-altering center, we can expect much.Streep could be up to this, if anyone could, at least from the delivery end.But when we end up with a film about mathematics, it completely misunderstands what math is (like `Good Will') or concentrate on arithmetic (as in the juvenile `Pi'). Only Greenaway connects with math, but his connection isn't intimate, blissful, instead abstract and distant.So most films focus on music because at least you have the performance. But then that is all we get, a filmed performance. Can't there ever be any artists involved? Can't they ever connect with the magic? Check out `Jackie and Hillary' for a taste of what I mean. This film is among the least musical of music films -- it is by and for people who know nothing about music. Heck, it could have been a basketball film -- and actually was in former incarnations.A more interesting film would have been how the teacher REALLY got the big names involved. That would have been the beginning of a thread that lead to the making of this film. Somebody knew somebody.It is a real shame that we cannot keep our best actresses busy on deserving projects. "},{"Title":"Turning This Film Off Is Music of the Heart.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Music of the Heart (1999) Dir Wes Craven / Cast Meryl Streep, Aiden Quinn, Gloria Estifan, Angela Bassett, Cloris Leachman Drama that regards the glorious things that can happen when unity plays centre factor. Meryl Streep plays a violin teacher who has just gone through a divorce and receives an offer to teach at an inner city school. She moves out of her mother's house and into a house owned by an old school friend. Recycled and predictable with too many developments that are either unnecessary or left unsolved. It is great to see a filmmaker branch out from his usual fare, but only when it works. Wes Craven lacks the slick appeal of his horror films but nonetheless it is a tremendous turn for him. His talent is much better highlighted in A Nightmare on Elm Street and Scream. Streep is a strong presence but this role has been recycled so many times that all she can do is remind viewers that she is above this trash. Her romance with Aiden Quinn is poorly handled especially since he serves little other purpose to the story. Gloria Estifan has a great singing voice but a lousy part in this film, and Angela Bassett is also featured in another of the many flat roles. Theme hindered by useless formula elements. For a superior film check out Mr. Holland's Opus. It is broader and much more interesting but more importantly it carries better music to the heart. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"This Melody has Some Pauses","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" There is a lot of dramatic credibility attached to this film, which isn't warranted. Yes, Meryl Streep is the lead and she received an Oscar nomination for the role, but this film is less dramatic than much more soapy. This film falls into the sub-genre of white woman saves inner city children which also includes Freedom Writers and Dangerous Minds, and overdone and quite manipulative genre that needs to be done away with. You will either find this true story enlightening and sweet hearted or overly dramatic, based on taste or being able to stomach racially motivated story lines. Though, in general, I find these kinds of films tedious and over the top, the last half hour did make me well up. Real life music teacher Roberta Guaspari is inspirational, and her story is at least treated with respect. It is also interesting to note this is the only film Wes Craven has directed that has nothing to do with horror or sci-fi, and for those unaware of his finesse, this is a great showcase of his talents. This is an entertaining film, if a little overdone in its execution. "},{"Title":"Brings the work of Mrs Guaspari to the level of a soap opera......","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" What could be worse than Meryl Streep with a cute foreign accent condescending to Ghetto Kids and tearing up to Stern and Perlman?No,I can't think of anything either.In a movie to leave the Hollywood Clich devotees dizzy with delight Miss Streep transcends racial and cultural barriers with one bound and turns Harlem in the happy little Rainbow Nation the movies would love it to be.Sorry guys - it just ain't so. Wes Craven - either enormously naive or enormously cynical - has talked up a small but significant victory into a world - class celebratory blubfest with Jew,European and African American all playing - and by extension living - in harmony.Admirable sentiments,laudable intentions?Or downright deception.You be the judge. If closing down music departments in schools means more movies like Music from the heart then for heaven's sake reopen them at once. The really sad thing is that by larding the film down with hyperbole and excessive sentiment,the producers have succeeded in denigrating the brave work of Roberta Guaspari.Assuming this was not their intention,it was at least a bad miscalculation. "},{"Title":"a truly inspiring movie","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Music Of The Heart is an awe-inspiring film that contained performances from every single actor and actress that is worth mention. From Meryl Streep to the extras, Music Of The Heart was truly an inspirational film that will touch every viewer. Meryl Streep is exceptional in the role of the true life violin teacher who deserves most of the credit for this superbly performed film. The way that Along with Angela Bassett, Gloria Estefan and Aidan Quinn, Music Of The Heart is a success.I particularly enjoyed the scene in which her former students came into the classroom to inspire her current students to doing their best in their concert. However, the best part of the whole film was at Carnegie Hall when the children performed in front of their parents and alongside world renownd violinists such as Itzhak Perlman. Finally, Hollywood has recognized an excellent true story and brought it to the silver screen. I cannot begin to tell everyone what a movie this was to watch. I can't begin to tell everyone that the performances brought out every positive emotion. Along the same lines as Mr Holland's Opus, Music Of The Heart follows the life of violin teacher, Roberta Gaspiaurdi from the inception of the music program she created.There are a lot of movies that I like but only four that I really wish I had the opportunity to be at least in an extra in; Frequency, Meet Joe Black, Music Of The Heart and Titanic.     Music Of The Heart is a film that touched my heart and inspired me into really looking inside myself and want to do charity for others.I highly recommend this movie to everyone because it will move touch and inspire. "}{"Title":"positive review","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this movie is very well-acted by everyone, children as well as adults.  It has a wonderful, true story -- a good plot with good development of character (the heroine develops --learns to stand up for herself and others).  It was entertaining and moving.  More films like this should be made. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable!","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Its music and the cast really touches my heart! This shows how great music may influence us, our future, and our inspiration to follow our dreams. How great a mother can be to protect her children and the love showered. Its a movie that also shows that one should never be racist. After all, we are all brothers and sisters. We are all flesh and blood, its only the tone of our skin that make us the unique ones. Love and one shall be loved! "},{"Title":"A movie to enjoy and remember!","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Music of the Heart was the perfect name for this movie because it did touch my heart.  It had a good story, which, from what I understand, is based on a true story, and it had warmth without being too saccharine sweet.  It was inspiring to see how much difference one person can make in a child's life.  It was also refreshing to have a movie tell a story without barraging us with constant foul language.  Meryl Streep, as always, was excellent, but then, so was the entire cast.  It's difficult for me to understand why this movie has gotten so little notice when I think it is much more deserving than so many of the high-profile movies of the year.  I'm recommending it to my friends.   "},{"Title":"This movie really moved me.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Nobody wanted to go with me to see it, so I went and saw it myself and really enjoyed.  Everyone I asked didn't know what they were missing.  I think that everyone should see this movie.  Meryl Streep gave a great performance. And for her first major movie role, Gloria Estefan showed great talent in the area of acting.  I just love true story movies and I feel that this is the best one ever made. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended viewing.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film was a great delight to view. More such films should be made in this format. Lets viewers know that the area is not of the best places to live without going into the visual details. Story has the proper pace with very enjoyable music and humor. I am just disappointed that it is not showing in more theaters. M. S. does an excellent job as usual.  "},{"Title":"A Music Teacher's Delight","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't take in too many movies, but I made a point of seeing this one, and was glad I did.  My 12-year old niece and I thoroughly enjoyed the movie! She had just started taking up flute, and on the way out commented I wish I was taking violin instead!  I enjoyed pointing out the real-life musicians, such as Isaac Stern, and telling her about Carnegie Hall.  We were both thrilled with the outcome of Roberta Guaspari's fight against ever-present budget cuts.  As a music teacher, myself, I am familiar with these problems and can indeed relate.  While teaching in inner-city Hartford, CT I remember the trials of trying to teach over 1,000 students a week because the budget only allowed music once a week (once every three weeks if you were in Kindergarten). Meryl Streep did a wonderful job in the part of Roberta Guaspari (and I'm not a crazed fan of Meryl), and Angela Bassett did a wonderful job as the principal.  My only question is why did Gloria Estefan receive equal billing with these two?  Her part was minimal and added little (if anything) to the movie.  Was it only because of the song? Lastly, the children were absolutely wonderful.  They deserve as much praise, if not more, as anyone else. This was a wonderful, uplifting film, one that goes on my list of all-time greats with October Skies, and Mr Holland's Opus.  "},{"Title":"similar to Mr. Holland's Opus,but not as good","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" this movie based on a true story Stars Meryl Streep as a music teacher who changes the lives of inner city students.it's in the same vein as Mr. Holland's Opus,but nowhere nears as good,in my mind.it lacks the depth and heart of that movie.it's also slow at times and those sweeping orchestral scores get to be too much after awhile. even though Streep is the headliner,i actually really liked Angela Basset.i though she was terrific.Aidan Quinn is also very good,in a small role.though i was disappointed in the movie,it still has it moments of inspiration,and is worth watching.it's just no masterpiece.it's directed by Wes Craven(The Nightmare on Elm Street series).for me,Music of the Heart is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"To Ms., With Love","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Ever since the Russian Sputnik sent shockwaves through the U.S.'s  pride in technological superiority, the public schools curriculum took a nosedive in liberal arts education. In reshaping its priorities to get America back on top as the world's leader in technological achievement, the nation's public schools slashed its arts program unmercifully.Among those subjects getting the ax were art, physical education, and music -- the very subjects, along with math, which comprised the Aristotle model curriculum.  While America improved its world standing in technology, character-building programs in the schools did indeed take a nosedive.Since the long-range value of music is difficult to measure quantitively, boards of education seized upon this void to mindlessly curtail the subject. The result has been a steady decline in performance, appreciation, and availability of art music during the last several decades.Music of the Heart attempts to tell a true-life story of one determined musician's efforts to bring quality musical performance to a school community that initially lacked appreciation for what she had to offer. In time, through her steadfastness, violin teacher Roberta Guaspari succeeded in keeping her program alive through private funding and community support.Meryl Streep portrays the teacher who experiences some wildy fluctuating trials and triumphs, thanks to Pamela Gray's uneven script and Wes Craver's equally uneven directing. While Streep appears genuinely committed to her role and acquits herself beautifully in her work with both the violin and educational presentation, she is only as successful as the setup will allow.We rather know the path this film is trodding; Sidney Poitier, Richard Dreyfuss and others have preceded Streep on this familiar journey.  For those who long for sentimentality and can ignore the cliche-ridden contrivances of the script, they may be assured of some dramatic catharsis by the end.  Others, though, might well beware.When Music of the Heart makes its nobler points, its a pleasure the need for concerted discipline to render achievement; the unique impact goal-attainment can have on people's sensibilities; and the beauty and inspiration that fine music can accomplish in elevating and transforming a community.It is this awareness and message that makes Music of the Heart an often engrossing statement. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie at a 'sneak preview' and i must honestly confess that I do not like films with Meryl Streep that much. This picture was the worst. Half the theatre did not return after the break halfway the film. I couldnt blame them, if this wasn't a true story there had been absolutely no need for the second half of the picture. Just before the film goes forward in time about ten years I myself was expecting the credits to appear. "},{"Title":"The worst collection of cliches I have seen in a long time","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  What a horrible, horrible film. The worst collection of cliches I have seen in a long time. Not that I saw much. I left the theatre screaming after about 40 minutes in search of a stiff drink to soothe my nerves. Meryl Streep was awful as usual. How many hurt and tortured expressions can 1 person have? Aidan Quinn's talents were - as so often - totally wasted. And who told Gloria Estefan she could act? Trying to be polically correct this movie still enforces racial stereotypes. (Brave inexperienced lonely music teacher teaches underprivilegded kids violin in poor neighbourhood school). The kids weren't even cute! Just written in to suit the appalling script. Aaargh! Wes Craven really made me cringe for once. real horror this one! "}{"Title":"Acting from the Heart","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Meryl Streep is to acting what Tiger Woods is to golf....she is so far ahead of any other actor or actress in her ability it is astonishing......this film is about inspiration...and quite apart from the music side of this film...Ms Streep gives a masterclass performance of a woman coping with marriage estrangement and having to look after 2 children..... "},{"Title":"No masterpiece but OK","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Meryl Streep is superb (no surprise there) as a violin teacher trying to teach inner city youths to play the violin.  All the acting is good (even the kids!), the music is beautiful and the story doesn't shy away from the kids painful home life.  One problem--Streep plays the teacher a little too harsh--she never seems to even LIKE the kids, so why is she teaching them? Also the kids are never really shown falling in love with violin playing. I started wondering why they were doing it--cause they were scared of Streep? Still, I enjoyed the movie but director Wes Craven should really stick to horror movies.  He's not too good at this type of movie. "},{"Title":"Mr Holland's Opus is better!","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was a waste of time and was far too full of propaganda. Meryl Streep  is good but I just got too distracted with the movie's message.  This movie also  doesn't depict inner-city schools well.  There are so many better movies outthere which are about touching the hearts of students through music, such asMr Holland's Opus or Sister Act II This movie had potential but ended up to  be way too full of propaganda for me.  The soundtrack is also questionable(NSYNC and Gloria Estefan?!). If you're looking for a movie about high school  music, get the others I reccomended. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Boring Hollywood formula","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  We saw that hundred of times. From Sidney Poitier to Hollan's opus, and Grard Depardieu did one too in France. I think Bette Davis has one in the 1940's. This is a Hollywood forumula movie  no surprise, no creativity. From the start, we know how it will end. Meryl Streep will win in many ways! And the little spark that makes some movies unforgettable? No need for that spark! We had a good star and a lot of cute children (who had problems, of course). I don't mean to say that this is a bad movie, I just mean to say that when I want to see a movie, I want to had real emotions, new ideas. Nothing's like that here. Just for fans of Meryl Streep. She's doing her a job as a pro.  "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  i can't believe the fabulous meryl streep actually agreed to this movie. well maybe the script had more depth than this. kids just don't work like that. throughout the whole movie i didn't understand why on earth the kids actually wanted to come to her class. it's true that you have to be fair and strict and honest. and you have to say when it sucked - but is that the only thing?exactly, it reminded me of mr holland's opus - with the difference that it had all the things that are missing here. "},{"Title":"Not music to my heart","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The only thing that saves this film is the great acting of Meryl Streep. If someone else played the title role I never would have gotten through it. The story is only made interesting by Streep's performance. Streep IS the best actress ever, sorry Katie. She plays every role to perfection. Ever character has a different way of walking, inflection in their voice, movements, etc. You always believe you are watching a REAL person living their life in front of a camera. Sorry, back to the film. Unless you enjoy Ms Streep, steer away from this film.  "},{"Title":"Boring and average...","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  A very boring and surprisingly average, sappy drama about a music teacher (Streep) who taught inner-city-kids the meaning of life through music. Based on a true story but it's been Hollywoodized for sure. Boring, sappy, predictable and almost overbearably corny. Meryl Streep remains an unimpressive actress in my book.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "}]