[{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"46 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An afternoon tea on a warm summer day is still seen by some people as an enjoyable way to rid oneself of the tensions of the day and to allow oneself to slow down and feel at ease. Waking Ned is a sort of afternoon tea for cinemagoers. Nothing really bad happens. There are no really tense moments, or serious threats to life or liberty, for the mostly likeable but roguish characters. That's what makes the film so appealing!!There are maybe two characters that quickly lose the audiences sympathy and both get their comeuppance in different ways. One, a truly nasty piece of work, is reminiscent of the wicked witch from The Wizard of Oz ( the parallel should be readily evident to the viewer). This character meets her demise in the most hilarious manner possible for a likeable film such as this.   On the whole Waking Ned is a refreshing film that is Feel Good all the way through without laying on thick layers of mush. No need for the hankies folks but there's plenty of room to toast the villagers' of Tully Moor!! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable quirky comedy","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A quirky comedy that could just as easily have been a TV hit, and to some extent it has that kind of feel. Some fine performances from the cast especially the late Ian Bannen.Jackie O'Shea lives in a quiet little village, which is beset by the kind of gossip normal in such communities. When he finds that the lottery has been won by someone in the village, Jackie is obsessed by finding who the winner is. After a lengthy process of elimination, Jackie concludes that his friend Ned must be the winner.But noone has seen Ned for days, so Jackie pays him a visit only to find that Ned has died of shock in his armchair in front of the TV when the lottery results were announced.Realising that with no heir, Ned's winnings won't be paid out, Jackie persuades his friend Michael to impersonate Ned in order to claim the winnings, but things soon start to get very complicated as they attempt to keep up the facade.....Not a blockbuster nor a 'split your sides laughing' type comedy (though it has it's moments) but thoroughly enjoyable all the same. "},{"Title":"A Delight of a Comedy","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Only in Ireland! The backdrop of a small village in Ireland sets the stage for an interesting comedy about a winning lottery ticket and the dead guy it belongs to. Waking Ned Devine is about the waking up of a small village that has been fast asleep since the start. The side stories of love, friendship and greed do not fall short. They in fact add to the greatness of this comedy. A delight for the entire family, even the quick scenes of a 70 year old naked man on a motor cycle comes out to be nothing more than good clean fun. An original idea made into a terrific movie. An enjoyable story with wonderful and like-able characters. A hit! "},{"Title":"Offbeat and Hilarious!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite movies, complete with belly-laughs galore!  I've always been a fan of off-beat, less-than-commercial stuff that doesn't rely upon the standard comedy formulas-- there's no run-of-the-mill, cheap stereotype stuff; they don't do repetitive physical humor that gets one laugh for every ten tries; and the shallow, vulgar humor to which so many of us Americans have become accustomed is nowhere to be found. Waking Ned Devine caught me from the get-go, with the opening scene with the lottery and apple tart being my all-time favorite in movie history.  The wry, offbeat, and somewhat dark humor is good stuff in my book, though I guess (from the looks of a previous review) it's not quite for everyone. It's been a while since I last saw the movie, but I still remember the pigs, intestines, the mad dash on the moped, Ned's dentures, mexican crisps, and the sea-bound telephone booth like I watched it yesterday!  Then there's the funeral service, the wake, and the beautiful closing scenes, all of which add some good, clean emotion to the humor.  I think I'll watch it again very soon! "},{"Title":"perfect way to spend time","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waking Ned Devine is a perfect state of mind. The entire movie, which I've watched many, many times is more perfect each time I watch it. Everything about it; the cast, the music, the scenery; all matches perfectly throughout. Anyone who had anything to do with this production should be delighted with the thought that it is perfect!! Well done - Well done - Indeed!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! And, my profound thanks to all for making this production - watching it keeps me feeling good about life.All the best to everyone involved in the making of this feel good production. "},{"Title":"one of the great comedies","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Though no one's at fault, I still feel sorry for those whose 'American ear' causes them to miss so much of these Irish/Scottish/English movies. This movie's on a par with or better than Dirty Rotten Scoundrels and other comedies with English/Irish (or Cockney) accents. Waking Ned Devine is just priceless hardly what our Oklahoma friend thought. The cast is perfect; the plot superb. And yes, it is Ned's baby if you tune your ear to the dialect you'll hear Annie say he always treated her gently and with love. So, those who didn't get it the first time, watch it again. I know you'll THEN watch it again. And again. It's that good! Thanks. "},{"Title":"Unmissable!","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In an Irish village, a National Lottery winner dies of the shock of winning and the villagers launch a scheme to defraud the money by having one of them impersonate the dead man...A charming comedy that is very much in the style of the older British comedies and all the better for it. It is good that the film was made in the 1990's rather than in the 1950's because censorship rules of that time would of meant that they would of had to of been be caught for their crime and that would of marred the film considerably. This was sadly the case in THE LEAGUE OF GENTLEMEN, a comedy heist film about a group of retired army officers pulling off a raid, a lighter ending would of made that film a classic, but in those days, they couldn't make a film about crime that paid.Ian Bannen and David Kelly are superb as the two OAP's who lead the scheme. This is one of my favourite films of 1999 and this had more charm and wit than NOTTING HILL. Unmissable!The film is set in Ireland but was actually shot on the Isle Of Man. "},{"Title":"This is a must see!","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My wife purchased this movie for me, but I let it sit on my DVD library shelf for over a year before I watched it. I felt very sad that I took so long to watch it because it is now on my favorite movie list. I own over 500 DVD's and this is one that is my all time top 25. The acting was well presented to the viewer and very realistic. I agree that this is a sleeper movie that you just do not hear off, but after you watch it you will highly recommend it to others. I believe that we have all felt the emotions that were displayed in Waking Ned Divine. The director has set it up for the movie watcher to meld into the lead character, who hasn't always wanted to win the LOTTO and share it with our friends. I just love how his wife turns out to be his moral subconscious, she brings a smile to my face because it is so truthful. Others have already said it, but this is a feel good movie that brings our everyday dull and grinding lives back into the sunshine. "},{"Title":"A lovely Tale!","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fionnula Flanagan, Ian Bannen and David Kelly, are just a few of an excellent cast in this tale about an Irish Lotto-winner, who is unable to collect.Never have I seen a lovelier yarn, and, I tell ye', I've seen a few! Jackie O'Shea (Ian Bannen) figures out that one of the inhabitants in the local hamlet must have won the latest Lotto draw, and does he best to find out who, by every mean possible, and eventually finds out who.I don't want to spoil it, but it sure is a lovely story! Very close to a masterpiece, and it gets better each time I see it! Yours, Tord "},{"Title":"This is a beautiful little film!","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a beautiful little film, touching on the universal themes of friendship, and the corrupting power of money and greed. It was a sleeper back when it was released, but got very good word of mouth. Sure it's sentimental and plays somewhat on stereotypes (I'm assuming, as I've never actually spent any time in a small Irish village), but the cast includes many great Irish and British character actors (especially the late Ian Bannen), and it's funny, well directed, beautifully shot, joyous and ultimately life-affirming. I've seen it with several friends, and they all dug it. The music is also very enjoyable, especially the last song, The Parting Glass.  "}{"Title":"Watched it 8 Times so Far","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I simply love this movie. Every time we have guests staying overnight or for a few days, I always drag this movie out. It has never hit mainstream America. Too bad! It's funny and it's touching...the two necessary elements to make a memorable movie. You would have to be angry cynic not to love it. The music is superb as well. The character Michael O'Sullivan reminds me of the father of one my best friends growing up. The scene where Michael and Jackie come to prepare Ned Devine is as hilarious as the funeral scene is sweet when Jackie eulogizes his friend Michael O'Sullivan, who is sitting in the front row of the church. Only then do you grasp how these two have been friends since childhood. "},{"Title":"Lucky sods!","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Good British film comedies are rare these days, but every now and then someone manages to come up with a cracker. Ten years ago, 'Waking Ned', written and directed by Kirk Jones, was just such a movie.Set in the town of Tullymore ( population 52 ) on the coast of Ireland, it concerns two old friends, Jackie O'Shea ( Ian Bannen ) and Michael O'Sullivan ( David Kelly ) who, on discovering that a local person has scooped a colossal fortune on the Lottery, set about trying to discover the identity of the winner. Suspicion even falls on Jackie himself at one point.The lucky man is one Ned Devine. Visiting him at his cottage, Jackie finds him dead in front of his television, having succumbed to a heart attack as the result of shock brought on by his win. Ned had written his name on the back of the ticket. Not wishing to see the money go unclaimed ( it was a Rollover week ), Jackie persuades Michael to try and pass himself off as Ned. But will the man from the Lottery be fooled? Its a simple idea, yet written and performed to perfection. The cast are marvellous, particularly the late Scottish actor Ian Bannen as 'Jackie'. He gets the Irish accent to a tee and he and David Kelly make a great comic team. Kelly is probably best remembered for his role ( which never did him justice in my view ) as 'Albert Riddle' in the long-running I.T.V. sitcom 'Robin's Nest'. James Nesbitt crops up as the pig farmer 'Pig Finn', unhappy because the lovely Maggie won't let him near her on account of the fact he stinks of pigs.The humour is natural, not forced as with a lot of other comedies. If the idea of a close-knit community where everyone knows each other's business and gets on well with neighbours seems far-fetched, take it from me - such places exist. I lived in Ireland for a time, and the film's depiction of the country and its people is accurate.There are many moments of laugh-out loud comedy to relish, such as the sight of Michael riding his motorbike in the nude, and Michael finding a chicken leg on Ned's floor and mistaking it for his intestines ( or 'intest-ines' as he calls them ). The ending will warm even the coldest heart. But my favourite bit is Jackie attempting to close the late Ned's mouth and causing his false teeth to fly out! 'Father Ted' was funny, but so is this, and its much nearer to reality. A real treat! "},{"Title":"A truly wonderfully enjoyable movie that everyone will love!*!","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this film as has everyone in my family! Rarely does a film have such charm, humor, sense of place and wonderful ensemble performances. The spirit of Waking Ned Divine is at once uniquely Irish as it is universal. The joy of entering in to a community that is as insular as we imagine a small remote village to be and has the values of trust and loyalty to each other is completely heart-warming, and those one wishes everyone lived. Each character creates a memorable part of a thoroughly satisfying whole. Waking Ned Divine will be playing forever, but the sooner you see it the more enriched the rest of your life will be. My family and I love sharing art at its' highest level with all those who love and appreciate the same. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Film","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. I thought the acting was brilliant and this is probably the first foreign film with good acting. Also this mivie was quite a tear jerker. I don't know if it had that effect on other people. It was like a offbeat less complicated heist movie involving two wiley old irish men. Like a less complicated version of Snatch or Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. I loved David Kelly in this movie. He was the wiliest old koot. He was so goofy and I love those type of characters. Its a perfect film for all audiences alike. Its totally appropriate. It had me laughing and crying. I hope it has the absolute same effect on you. ***** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Simply Fantastic.","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a tremendously funny movie - and it is heartbreaking to realize that Ian Bannen died so soon after it was released. The plot is certainly clever enough, but the performances make the material much better than it is. David Kelly, one of Britain's greatest talents (who is probably the most under-weight actor to ever hit the screen!) is as comically appealing as Don Knotts and the motorcycle sequence is a hoot. This is the most crucial part of the story and he pulls it off magnificently. The music propels the movie to new heights, as does the candid photography. The dramatic final sequence that leads to the demise of Lizzie Quinn (played to perfection by Eileen Dromey) has got to be among the few, if not THE best examples of poetic justice in all of film. I guess if there is any real weakness to the picture as a whole, it would be the possibility that the truth about Ned Devine might eventually come out....but it doesn't take away from an otherwise splendid, and touching, story. The villagers of small-town Tullymore get quite a boost - and they deserved it richly. One keen subplot that keeps things moving is the interaction between the young boy and the visiting priest - some of their exchanges are as comical as the bulk of the movie (Bannen and Kelly). Highly recommended for any viewer of any age. "},{"Title":"Odd, Original, Modern Irish Folk Tale","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Somewhere in the mountains of coastal Ireland is a small rural village which may be transformed over-night. It seems that Ned Devine, one of the town's many seniors, has just won the national lottery, and died. Jackie (Ian Bannen) discovers both facts, as well as the body, and devises a plan to keep the winnings between himself, his wife and his best friend Michael (David Kelly). But things get complicated as a sneezing lottery agent comes to investigate the claim.This 'grey comedy' has an expansive humor and a great big heart despite its apparently morbid themes. And writer director Kirk Jones does a very nice job of creating real and believable characters despite the often preposterous turns of events. There is also a touch of romance, heart-felt friendship and a great deal of goodness examined in this odd little tale. The eulogy scene near the end is the film's climax, and it is as touching as it is perfectly written. Bannen, who delivered the lines that made this scene himself passed on a year after this film was released. R.I.P, Mr. Bannen, and thanks for what you gave us in this film.The acting is excellent all around. Bannen, Kelly, James Nesbitt and Susan Lynch were all stand-outs for me, but the entire cast should be equally commended. The cinematography is fairly standard but doesn't shy away from contributing some magic to this almost magical story. And the landscape in which the film was made is gorgeous and as believable as it gets.Highly recommended for fans of truly independent cinema. "},{"Title":"wonderful tale of a town full of sweet crooks","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a cute slice of life film made about a small poor Irish town (though the movie was actually made on the Island of Man). It seems that one of their residents, Ned Devine, had just won the lottery and everyone was excited about the news. However, when they went to Ned's home to congratulate him, they found the old guy had died. They realize that the money will just go to some other person, but the town's people have already thought of so many possible ways the money could benefit them that they just CAN'T let this happen. So they decide to pretend Ned is alive and then divide up the money amongst themselves once the prize committee gives them the money. So, the film mostly consists of watching these people going to extraordinary lengths to collect the money.The film involves a lot of small-time actors and local color and is crafted so well that you are taken in by its charm. A very similar movie is the French language film SEDUCING DR. LEWIS, about a tiny town in the middle of nowhere trying to convince a young doctor to stay by going to extraordinary and rather larcenous means. WAKING NED was made several years earlier and is the better film, but both would make excellent viewing to anyone looking for excellent writing and a quirky comedy. "},{"Title":"all around 10","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie is one of my favorites because of its subtle Irish humor and great plot. the actors/actresses all did a great job, especially Ian Bannen, David Kelly and Fionnula Flanagan. the plot itself got my attention immediately when I saw the opening scene. That is one of the best parts of the movie. I don't think this movie got the press it deserved, but hopefully more and more people will watch it. i laugh every time i see this movie, and it is definitely not geared toward any age group. i'm only a teenager, but my younger sister loves it, and all of my family does too (everyone from cousins to grandparents). i hope that by word of mouth, this movie will get the attention and number of viewers it should. "},{"Title":"review","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Great film, performed by two great lead characters, considering that Ian Bannen (performing the role of Michael) died the following year. What strikes me as excellent are the little details about the shooting of this film on the Isle of Man (An independent Isle that falls under the governance of the UK). From the HB and Lotto signs in the local shop, to the Irish accents by james nesbitt and Ian Bannen, to the Irish name for phone 'Telefon', really making it seem that it is actually Ireland.Fantastic writing by Kirk Jones, capturing brilliantly the Irish village way of life. And Shawn Davey's music topiing it off.Hats off to a very fine production and very enjoyable tale. "},{"Title":"A good bit of fun","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the small, isolated town of Tullymore on the Irish coast, Ned Devine has just won the a big jackpot of the Irish lottery $12.24 million, in U.S. dollars. Ned can't spend a farthing of it, though, because the excitement of winning the prize was too much for him. Ah well, at least old Ned died smiling.The whole town of 52 knows that the winning number was sold in Tullymore, and finally, Michael O'Shea figures out, by process of elimination (and many chicken dinners at his house) who won it. Upon discovering Ned's sad state, O'Shea decides that if Ned can't enjoy the winnings, then maybe he can. Things get delightfully complicated quickly, and O'Shea has to enlist the rest of Tullymore in his scheme. The whole scam is cheerfully giddy, by turns nerve-wracking, funny, and touching. The acting was nuanced enough, the characters sympathetic enough, and the web of deception spun slowly enough that I never condemned any of the con gang for trying to defraud the government. In fact, it was a lot of fun to see O'Shea and his buddies, simple men all (but not stupid), wrack their brains, then get increasingly (and uncomfortably) duplicitous in pursuit of the treasure. I found myself wondering what I'd do in their shoes. I might have just joined in and kept my $238,000 share. "}{"Title":"Simply Superb!","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waking Ned by Kirk Jones. The film is set in the quite village of Tullymore in Ireland. This charming and refreshing filmgets better after each viewing.The two main roles are played by the superb David Kelly(O' Reilly in Fawlty Towers) and the late Ian Bannen. Both actors played the roles with the unique humour that is only found in Ireland. The film is about an elderly gentleman who dies clutching his winning lottery ticket which he had signed on the reverse as Ned Kelly. This ensures that only Ned Kelly can claim the lottery millions and the whole village consort to deceive the Lottery Panel that Ned Kelly is alive and kicking. The twists and turns of the film are hilarious and the film makes really good family viewing. Shaun Davey provides the foot-tapping soundtrack that works wonderfully with the scenic surroundings (shot in the Isle Of Man). Coming from an irish family I identify with the joyous and comical characters found in the irish community and enjoy the cleverly written script. The film is guaranteed to put a smile on your face and I can assure you that you will enjoy every minute. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Wake Up World","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What can I say about this film. The darkness of its premise, the richness of its characters, the utter beauty of its theme. The cast are incredible, especially Ian Bannen as Jackie, and David Kelly as Michael. Micheal's motorcycle ride to Ned's house has to be one of the funniest bits ever to grace the screen. The premise of found riches and ill gotten gains is a rich reward for all viewers. The countryside of the Isle of Mann, where it was filmed, is not a poor substitute for the Irish coast, but in many ways reminds one of the Galway area or the land around the Ring of Kerry. The Irish sensibility and sense of humor lie, in many stories around death. The funeral speech that Jackie delivers is one of the great scenes of this film. And the clever way of solving the problem of Lizzie Quinn, the ultimate protagonist, makes this one of my favorite all time films. PS, the music is great also. "},{"Title":"Star rating 4 out of 5","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine is one of those charming and funny movies that you just can't help liking.  Surely everyone has pondered on what life would be like if one won the lottery. . . . . . . . . .  In the quaint Irish town of Tullymore, an elderly pair of jokers, Jackie and Michael, discover that one of the villagers has won the National Lottery's First Division.  There's a problem though - the villager in question is dead.  And so Jackie and Michael embark on an increasingly complicated scheme to convince the lottery scrutineers that Ned Devine is in fact still alive and well, and eligible to claim the £7 million winnings.It's a refreshing change to watch a comedy where the protagonists are largely - to put it bluntly - old.  The late Ian Bannen and David Kelly turn in marvelous performances as the irascible duo.  Not only do they manage to create and capture the humour of the film, they also touchingly portray the affection each character has for the other.But it is its own unique brand of humour for which Waking Ned Devine will most likely be remembered.  The motley collection of villagers should raise a few chuckles, and the sight of a naked scrawny old man tearing along the Irish byroads on a motorbike will leave the viewer in stitches.  However, the rather macabre method of dispatch dealt to the story's 'villain', while it is funny at the time, doesn't bear thinking about too closely.Interestingly, the movie was filmed in the Isle of Man, rather than Ireland; nevertheless, the scenery is beautiful, and is complemented by some stirring Irish music (although this is a little loud in comparison with the dialogue).  Overall though, this is a great film to watch to unwind a little.  "},{"Title":"Our favorite movie","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We believe that Waking Ned Devine is the single most under-appreciated movie made in the past decade.  Ned Devine is a superb, feel-good movie that uplifts the spirit.The photography is outstanding and only approached by two other notable film epics  Fiddler on The Roof, and Doctor Zhivago.  Each scene in the film is masterfully composed and deserving of a frame unto itself. The acting by each character is without flaw and the execution and timing is perfect.  The facial expressions presented by each character are completely natural to the setting of each scene.Ned Devine should have been given the Academy Award and it is a travesty that it was not even mentioned.  We suspect that this was due to it's total lack of pyrotechnics, lurid sex scenes and general blood and gore.A Ned Devine fan club should be formed and it deserves a web site of it's own. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had one of the best opening gags I can recall.  The story is entertaining, I giggled quite a bit.  Recommend it to all who love humanity and have a sense of humor. There were a few moments of suspended belief, but then if I want 100% reality, I wouldn't be going to the movies at all! "},{"Title":"Delightful...","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In a word, Waking Ned Devine is delightful. It brings to mind similar small-town comedies like Cold Turkey (1971) The Full Monty (1997) and more recently The Amateurs (2005) only with a decidedly more Irish sense of humor. The film opens with the elderly Jackie (Bannen) and wife Annie (Flanagan) watching the lottery on TV. Jackie has been playing for years and isn't the least bit surprised he's not a winner. The next day there are rumors about town that someone in the village had indeed won big and in an attempt to ferret them out, everyone starts playing nice. Among the suspected winners is Pig Finn (Nesbitt) a poor farmer with a crush on local beauty Maggie (Lynch). After a while Jackie finds out the winner was elderly fisherman Ned Devine (Keogh) who died from the shock of it.From that point on the movie remodels into a bit of a caper in the style of Whisky Galore (1949). Jackie and his friend Michael O'Sullivan (Kelly) decide it's best to claim the money for themselves (it's what Ned would have wanted), and attempt to defraud the lottery to the dismay of the sensible Maggie who just as soon not see her husband in jail. They come up with a plan which all turns in on itself when the Lotto Observer comes to the sleepy town of Tullymore making inquiries.The film's state of mind is one of serene goofiness. We laugh but not in the same way you would an overly broad piece of American slapstick. We're laughing with the eccentric townsfolk not at them. It's a little story about little people doing things of such importance to them, that you as the audience can't help but invest in their happiness. It helps that the entire film takes place in Ireland (though really on The Isle of Man). The stunning greenly beauty of the island helps put these characters into perspective. Every small village home and tiny store seems to melt into the rolling hills, rocky cliffs and leafy wood. There's almost a sense of nobility in how these people live and the relationships that they have formed with one another.Everyone in the community of Tullymore does a fine job as an ensemble though if one were to point at a stand out it would be David Kelly who approaches the entire situation with elderly naivety. Michael's never lied a day in his life, Annie says without intent to compliment. And indeed Kelly doesn't wear dishonesty well. He fidgets under scrutiny and can only be properly convincing as Ned Devine's double after a few drinks. Yet there's a deeper truth to what the character tries to do and when he finally comes to terms with the true meaning of the lottery and how much good the money can do, he goes along with the ruse. Also worth mentioning is Maura O'Malley as the town misanthrope Mrs. Kennedy. She drives her scooter across town with the wicked determinism of Margaret Hamilton on a broom.Waking Ned Devine is a spirited slice-of-life comedy that amuses with the power and quirk of the ensemble. It features some stunning images of Isle of Man which automatically put the small island on my already lengthy must-see list. Finally, it exhibits some excellently sharp directing and screen writing on the part of Kirk Jones. With a deft mix of black comedy and quaint small-town Provincialism, Jones and the entire crew behind this film know a small story can yield big heart and hearty laughs. "},{"Title":"Sly, Comic Tale of Lotto Fraud.","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's Irish blarney but it has a fine bouquet. A delightful fairy tale. It reminded me of one of those Ealing Comedies from the 50s about peasants outwitting the establishment, something along the lines of Whiskey Galore or The Maggie. The establishment here isn't particularly stuffy. It's in far-away Dublin, while this is set in your typical Irish village, full of stone cottages, pig farms, fishermen, and a dark and friendly pub where everyone knows everyone else.Once upon a time there were two old men who hatched an ambitious scheme to defraud the Irish lottery of almost seven million pounds and spread it among the fifty-two families of the village. One of the men is Ian Bannen, who has never given a less than interesting performance. He's the instigator. David Kelly is his partner in crime. He has a skeletal body -- which we see running around naked -- and a face made for the camera.The winning Lotto numbers are announced on TV and after a bit of investigation Bannen discovers that the winner is someone in his own village, Tully More. Bannen and his wife, Fionnula Flanagan, who was a marvelously sexy teen-aged temptress as Nausicaa in Joseph Strick's otherwise dead version of Ulysses, would love to find out who the winner is and brown-nose him a bit, perhaps into giving some of his winnings to friends in need -- like Ian Bannen. The winner has yet to come forward.Bannen takes Kelly into his confidence. They'll throw great parties at the pub and at home, inviting the entire village, hoping that the winner will reveal himself by picking up the tab. No such luck. We're out forty pounds and one meat pie, Flanagan glumly tells her husband.They finally pin the winner down to good old Ned Devine, the old man who lives alone in his cottage and has no living relatives. They burst into his home to shower him with hugs and protestations of undying fellowship but only manage to spill the chicken dinner on him because Ned Devine is sitting in front of the TV -- dead of shock, and holding the winning ticket in his stiff fingers. (I'm almost laughing too hard to write this.) I can't get into any detail because of considerations of space, but it's decided that good old Ned's body will be ignored for the moment and Kelly will assume his guise. Complications arise and it becomes necessary to involve all fifty-two families, the winnings to be shared equally among them.The ending, which I won't describe, involves the intersection in time and space of a young man representing the Lotto authorities, a bitter and greedy old witch from the village, and the priest returning from a journey to Lourdes.I wasn't expecting too much. God knows we've had happy peasants before, most of them given to hearty living and earthy values. Hordes of Zorbas have flourished on the screens. But this one is as successful as any of them, humane, quietly hilarious, with recognizable characters. The music of the ceili band is in itself a slight rush. The tunes themselves are quite complicated, especially for the fiddle. I only know this because it was explained to me by Rabbi Miles Krassen who was at one time probably the most accomplished Irish fiddler in the United States.Anyway, the beginning of this inexpensive comedy is a little slow. The viewer must exercise patience as the characters are established and a little exposition gotten through. And sometimes the dialects have to be closely attended to. But, really, you shouldn't miss it. "},{"Title":"Enchanting, human, touching","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... is this little movie, completely unpretentious and still managing to be very funny and truly melancholic at the same time - a skill which the British are particularly good at. The worth of friendship is pictured and played in a completely authentic and convincing way. Phantastic soundtrack. A little sparkling treasure in the movie world.Old friends Jacky and Michael learn that some of their neighbors in the small village Tullymore must have won the lottery - but they do not know who. The possibilities are indeed restricted, since there are only 52 people living in Tullymore. Jacky and Michael try to find out - and learn that the old Ned Devine lies dead in his house, still smiling at his unexpected luck... "},{"Title":"Sparkling!!","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is simply sparkling! The two main actors (Ian Bannen and David Kelly) are wonderful and humorous through-out. Their interaction is a delight to behold.It concerns a small little town on the Isle of Man where someone has won the lottery, but unfortunately that someone died. The towns-people eventually figure on a way to collect the loot with much hilarity and good gags along the way. The pacing and story-line are perfect with good editing and no needless digressions. The script delivers and we feel ourselves routing for everyone. It's also reassuring to see a film where there are seniors that are the lead actors. Its an endearing film! "},{"Title":"Funny And Beautiful.","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie had me from the beginning, the opening scene with Jack and Annie, the lottery and the apple tart, the opening credits song by the Waterboys. The locale is beautiful, as it is usually with films set in Ireland and Scotland. The movie, as a whole, evokes the forgotten quiet corners of the world, the simple and beautiful lives of those who live there, the deep lifelong friendships formed, the memories of shared lives, literally from birth to death. The speech that Jackie gives at Ned's funeral is very touching. There is also a lot of wisdom in many of the lines spoken by the characters. In the funeral, at the end, Jackie wonders how it would be like to visit one's own funeral and hear what others had to say about oneself. If you appreciate life's simple joys, watch this movie and it will be an enriching experience. "}{"Title":"...Brilliantly done...","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waking Ned is one of those comedies which ought to be in your movie collection,its a wonderful film with such a simple background and story that shows how a film can be funny without those unusual jokes and effects.I totally enjoyed watching it and i am sure everyone will agree with me once they have seen this magnificent film.There is an Indian film which is based upon the very same subject,so i wanted to see Waking Ned very badly because i was sure that the original would be better and i was right..waking Ned is far better than the rest.Its a funny story of a small Irish village where a lottery winner's unexpected death is seen as an opportunity by two men to cash in for themselves which ultimately leads to hilarious events and this is the subject of the film,highly recommended to all. "},{"Title":"A movie to make you smile","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Long-time Irish lottery player Jackie O'Shea (Ian Bannen) discovers that someone in his tiny village has won a huge jackpot. When the lucky winner dies, Jackie and his old pal Michael (David Kelly) come up with a plan to cash in anyway.This simple tale of likable folk who conspire to commit grand larceny is a real feel-good comedy. Bannen and Kelly are irresistible and had me under their spell from the beginning. The charm of the story comes from the close friendship among the villagers and the idyllic setting (filmed on the Isle of Man). If you were captivated by the folksy charm of movies like The Quiet Man, you'll love this movie, too. "},{"Title":"It takes a village","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An entire village works on Waking Ned Devine in this 1998 film starring Ian Bannen, David Kelly, Fionnula Flanagan, Susan Lynch, and James Nesbitt.In a village of 52, one person has the winning lottery ticket. Who is it? After extensive investigation, it's discovered that it belongs to Ned Devine, the only man who didn't show up to the interrogatory chicken dinner that Jackie and his wife (Fionnula Flanagan) held. Jackie heads over to Ned's and finds Ned, with his winning, 6 million pound lottery ticket in his hand, dead. After a dream in which Ned attempts to share his chicken dinner with Jackie, Jackie realizes that Ned wants to share his money. Jackie then tries to figure out how Ned can stay alive in order to collect it. He devises a plan where his best friend, Michael (David Kelly) will pose as Ned. Then they find out that questions will be asked in the village to ascertain that Michael is, indeed, Ned Devine. Jackie faces facts he's got to cut the entire village in for his scheme to work.This is a very funny, warm, sometimes sentimental film with some great performances and truly lovely moments, not to mention glorious Irish scenery.Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Nice & Gentle","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An old fashioned nice and gentle comedy. No sex, no violence, no swearing but lots of laughs. The basic premise is that Ian Bannen & David Kelly's characters know someone in the village has won the lottery jackpot. From the 50 people in the village they weedle out 30 or so who have bought the tickets to discover it's Ned Divine. Unfortunately Ned has died through shock at the exact time of the win but he's written his name on the back of the ticket to identify it as his. The plot to collect the money in Neds name unfolds from here (no more clues to the plot from me). Well acted by Ian Bannen and David Kelly is always a joy to watch. Ably assisted by a good supporting cast. Over ten years since it's initial release I watched this again recently and enjoyed it just as much. Filmed entirely in the Isle of Man, predominantly in Cregneash village - where you are free to walk around & photograph (a modest admission is charged to enter the buildings). Ned's house is one of the main features at Niarbyl, a beauty spot on the west coast 5/6 miles south of Peel. "},{"Title":"This is what making movies is all about","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You can't get a better setting than the Celtic highlands, and likewise, the native actors will make you feel like the characters are real. This is more than just a feel good movie, it is a feast of emotions, dreams and the joy of life. The late Ian Bannon is outstanding as Jackie O'Shea, the leader of a fantasy which he manages to hopefully turn into reality. His friend Ned is in fact the bearer of very positive remarks about a chicken dinner that Jackie has cooked and delivered, and in his praise, Ned takes Jackie into the light. With the help of his lifelong best friend, Michael O'Sullivan, played wonderfully by David Kelly, the adventure from fantasy and a strong desire for hope become a classic story worth adding to anyone's movie collection. "},{"Title":"the good ol' Irish","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Similar to The Full Monty (but never copying it), Waking Ned Devine tells the story of a village in Ireland suddenly upset by some quirky events. When local old timer Ned Devine dies, his friends discover that he has won the lottery, and set about trying to reclaim the cash.I remember that I saw this movie a few months before Ian Bannen died, so I pretty much will always remember him for his great role here as Jackie O'Shea (although I do also remember him from Ghost Dad). David Kelly is equally great as Michael O'Sullivan, collaborating with Jackie to collect the cash. And let me tell you, I didn't see that motorcycle scene coming! Overall, Waking Ned Devine is one of those great little movies about life in general. As I am not Catholic, prior to seeing this movie, I thought wake only meant get someone up from sleeping! But either way, it's a great movie. I will forever remember David Kelly as both Michael O'Sullivan from this movie and as Grandpa Joe in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. "},{"Title":"A small town takes matters into their own hands to split the winnings when a lottery winner dies.","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the best movie ever. Very comedic and fun for the whole family. All are great actors. I think this is a very enjoyable movie that everyone should see. It was filmed on the Isle of Man and did a wonderful job capturing the beauty and essence of this small island. This movie has a great story and plot line. It will make you laugh lots and will leave you feeling happy with seeing a real good/feel good movie like never before. If you only see one movie this year, you must see this movie. I feel a personal link to this movie as my family background is Manx (Isle of Man) and never having been there, was very special for me to see a bit of my family heritage. "},{"Title":"reaction/review","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this was the most superb and funny movie to have come out of Ireland since god knows when - up until know i had only seen dumb asinine movies such as the sun the moon and the stars.........this movie is funny without intending to be and it captures the soul of community and the beauty of Irish humor ! Good job - Great work ! A must see for any one no matter race, color or creed! It is a mystery-cum-comedy-cum-adventure story that shows how a small town cancome together for the common good of its inhabitants - and also that those who oppose the common good always receive their come uppance! It featuresbrilliant actors and actresses that give Ireland a good name and show the true depth and soul of Irish actors! Cead Mile Failte Romhat go dti Waking Ned !  "},{"Title":"Pretty darn good","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not the best movie I've ever seen, but far from being the worst. This movie is funny, entertaining and a bit touching at times. It may not be to everybody's taste, but I liked it well enough. I'd give it *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Little Comedy","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine is one of those life-affirming comedies that the British seem so adept at making these last few years.  It has beautiful scenery, excellent acting, and a wonderful story that will brighten your day.Rent this movie, especially if you need a little cheering up. "}{"Title":"Enjoy the silence","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waking Ned is a film that I have been looking for for years, and last night I finally did. Even thought it's supposed to be passed in Ireland, the story is filled with a lot of British humour, since it has much irony and sarcasm. For that reason, I laughed in several scenes, due to the unscrupulous characters and situations that have been written and portrayed all the way through. David Kelly, in my opinion, is the one who deserves the biggest congratulations; I mean, all the cast is extremely professional, but Kelly has the best performance-- and maybe the best character I have ever seen. In real life, it's evident that those people wouldn't be able to hide the secret forever; occasionally, someone would be just too talkative to keep it to oneself. The biggest moment for me is when the witch is almost succeeding in telling on the village, but a car crash pushes her phone cab into the sea; I guess I've never wanted to see someone dying in a movie. Please don't get me wrong; I'm a honest person in real life and I am NEVER conniving on cheating, but these people are sooo captivating that makes it impossible to not support them. Waking Ned proves to be, all in all, a GREAT comedy that truly entertains any kind of audience, and maybe that's why it has just became one of my favorite movies! "},{"Title":"Ned's Dead.","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waking Ned Devine (1998) Dir Kirk Jones / Cast Ian Bannen, David Kelly, James Nesbitt, Susan Lynch, Fionnula Flanagan Creative and very funny comedy set in a small Irish town. Title symbolizes the awakening of this town while physically it regards the deceased Ned Devine who won the lottery and died of shock. The lottery win is announced and Ian Bannen plays one of the elderly residence who throws a get-together in order to find out who won. He and his wife discover that only Ned Devine failed to show. He and his best friend, played by David Kelly go to Devine's house only to find him dead. To protect the winnings Bannen convinces Kelly to poise as Devine in order to fool those following through on the winnings. They even get the rest of the town in on the charade. We also have a little romance between a pig farmer, played by James Nesbitt, and Susan Lynch as his romantic interest. Fionnula Flanagan plays Bannen's wife. The conclusion is wayward but the humour is genuine particularly during a hilarious sequence where Kelly rides naked on a motorcycle in order to hurry back to the realms of charade. The whole idea of these people getting away with this deceit will be off putting for some viewers. Others will wake to this sort of humour and find great amusement to the events that take place during Ned's deep sleep. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"charming little movie","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In a tiny Irish seaside village Tullymore with only 52 souls, Ned Devine wins the national lottery and dies of shock. Jackie O'Shea (Ian Bannen), his wife Annie (Fionnula Flanagan) and friend Michael O'Sullivan (David Kelly) are trying to pin down who the winner is and being extra nice to everybody. They invite the lottery players to dinner and figures out that Ned Devine is the only one who didn't show up. Jackie convinces Michael to impersonate Ned to collect the winnings with the collusion of the entire town except for the town malcontent Lizzie Quinn.This is a charming little British movie. The laughs aren't big except maybe the naked old guy. Naked old guys are always fun. The locals are various variety of quirky eccentricity. I love the likable scheming trio. There is an undeniable charm about this village and an easy nice feel about this movie. "},{"Title":"Feel Good little Gem!!","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a wonderful movie which captures village life in Ireland brilliantly.The antics of the 2 main characters is hilarious and captured their life long friendship and affection .Love,Greed,Loss and Decency are all covered in a story of village folk trying to hoodwink the Irish Lottery when one of their neighbor's dies of shock when the lottery numbers are announced on TV winning millions,but the prize is destined to go back to the Government as the winner,Ned Devine was a single man with no family to claim the prize.So the race is on to Ressurrect Ned once more!...There are a few familiar faces in the cast and sadly Ian Bannen died in a car accident soon after...Enjoy the movie...you wont be disappointed!! "},{"Title":"Waking Ned is certain to make you laugh.","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When a lottery winner dies of shock, his fellow townsfolk attempt to claim the money. The lucky winner of the national lottery is Ned Devine, so taken by his good fortune that he now can't be waked, because he died from the shock of it! News of the win spread quickly in the scenic little Irish village of Tully More, but not the secret news of Ned's demise. With lottery officials closing in to confirm the prize claimed by the deceased Devine, Ned's closest friends scheme to keep the prize money close to home, in memory of Ned of course! But as the plot twists humorously, they learn it is hard is to keep such a secret in a small town. Roger Ebert wrote Stealing 6.8 million pounds from the lottery is, of course, not too wicked. Like Nigel Hawthorne in The Madness of King George or Simon Callow in Four Weddings and a Funeral, Kelly is one of those seasoned and expert actors who is well known in the U.K. (he was a character on Fawlty Towers), but will be a delightful discovery for North American audiences. There is a scene where he must get back to Ned Devine's cottage at breakneck speed, to beat out the Lotto official from Dublin (Brendan F. Dempsey). Why he must dash down back lanes on a motorcycle while completely naked I will leave it to you to discover; the sight inspires uproarious laughter. That's one of the movie's big laughs. Another involves a telephone booth. Most of the time we're smiling more than laughing; we recognize the human nature involved in Waking Ned Devine, and we like the way Kirk Jones, the writer and director, throws up obstacles just to have fun leaping over them. One reason we like village comedies from Ireland and the U.K. is of course that they're funny. This is a very funny, warm, sometimes sentimental film with some great performances and truly lovely moments. This film is certain to make you laugh. "},{"Title":"A true gem","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the perfect example of how a good story can make a film great, without special effects, violence, sex, celebrities or a huge budget.Shot in a beautiful village, with a hand full of actors and the real villagers as themselves, this is a story of hope. A story that simply says you can't give up on dreaming of a better place under the sun, even when you're facing the sunset.I was especially touched by the scene of the funeral, where Jackie speaks about his friend.Overall however, the movie is funny, touching and somehow liberating.Please, do watch this movie. "},{"Title":"God bless you, Ned. And may we be forever in your debt.","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ireland, as a subject in fiction, lies in the curious hinterlands between fantasy and reality. While the gritty, ugly violence in the North remains a present memory, Éire cannot quite shake off her aura of romance.Waking Ned Devine embraces the magic side of Ireland, perhaps to too great an extent, forgetting to ground itself in a harsher reality. Yet even in its absurdest moments, the talent and charm of the cast anchor the story, lending just a touch of gravitas to what is ultimately the tale of leprechauns stealing gold.Our chief leprechaun is the irrepressible Jackie O'Shea, played with panache and roguish delight by Ian Bannen. His best friend, and every bit his equal, is lanky, timid Michael O'Sullivan (the great David Kelly). They live in Tullymore (Tulaigh Mhór), an idyllic coastal village with 52 inhabitants. When Jackie and Michael deduce that a local has won the lottery, they concoct a string of harebrained devices to identify and ingratiate themselves to the lucky sod. It takes a while to discover that he is, in fact, elderly fisherman Ned Devine, who promptly after realizing his win, died from the shock of it.Jackie and Annie, his rosy-cheeked wife (Fionnula Flanagan), sit quietly in their kitchen and share solemn, small-town generalities about Ned's decency and kindness. It is, of course, a tragedy to die in the face of such a pot of gold; it's worse than ordinary death. Going to bed, they say a simple, rehearsed prayer for the soul of Ned Devine, and go to sleep.In a rather vague dream, Jackie becomes convinced Ned intends him to claim the money. It's such an absurd proposition, such an obvious self- deception, that we laugh along with Jackie, recognizing our own tendencies to lie to ourselves. If the story had tried to justify events following in any sort of believable fashion, I would have instantly lost sympathy with our errant leprechauns, but as it is, we are still in the realm of fantasy. And, as Roger Ebert observed Stealing 6.8 million pounds from the lottery is, of course, not too wicked.So Jackie and Michael set to work, cleaning up the corpse and searching Ned's documents (we're starting to realize this is rather a black comedy). The next morning, they call and make the claim, much to Annie's dismay. There is now no turning back, and with the unexpectedly early arrival of the lotto man, things are off to a break-neck pace. The plot quickly spins into a complex rivalry of cleverness versus an increasingly impossible task. Refusing to resort to quick fixes (except in one sublimely evil deus ex machina), writer/director Kirk Jones seems to delight in throwing up ever higher obstacles for our heroes.In the interim, time rolls on, as we come to know each of the eccentric citizens of Tullymore. Lizzy Quinn, the village witch, rouses everyone's hatred with her mean-hearted greed. Mrs. Kennedy at the Post Office is happily expecting a new grandchild. Giggly old lady Kitty is determined to trap bachelor Michael. An intelligent, precocious child bonds with the insecure, but kind, temporary priest of Tullymore's only church. The local pig farmer (James Nesbitt, of Hobbit fame) romances a darkly beautiful single mother (Susan Lynch, The Secret of Roan Inish), who rejects him on the basis of the smell of pig (another example of how lightly the film takes real relationships.) It takes full advantage of the unearthly beauty of the Isle of Man, soaring green cliffs and rocky shores, misty hollows and vast oceans, haunted by the wail of bagpipes, the beat of bodhran, and the swift thrill of a fiddle. Catholicism forms a stately (if passive) backdrop to the quaint village, and Lux Aeterna is worked into the soundtrack beautifully. Unlike many films, it is often content to let the camera rest on the gentle shadows, to let the seconds tick by as an old man sleeps. There is a beauty, an idyllic goodness to it all that guides me into Faerie.Despite its full acceptance of rather shady moral actions, the film is ultimately about generosity, a spirit of community, and the laughter of friends. Also crime. It has just enough magic to convince us that's a worthy cause. Originally posted at http//www.longview95.blogspot.com/2014/07/waking- ned-devine-movie-review.html "},{"Title":"When Irish Lies Are Smilin'","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waking Ned Devine is a thing of beauty, a simple joy all the way through. Watching it is to feel a little less sorry for the stuff of life and death.Good fortune has come to the small coastal Irish village of Tullymore. One of its residents apparently holds a winning lottery ticket. But who? Jackie O'Shea (Ian Bannen) gives his crafty mind a lot of exercise trying to figure it out. Eventually he does, but his discovery proves to be only the beginning, and it will take all his cleverness to see to it he isn't cheated of what he views as nothing less than his Devine reward.Imagine one of those fine old Ealing comedies, ramped up with scenics and whimsy right out of the more recent Local Hero, and you get a pretty fair idea what to expect here. Director-writer Kirk Jones reveals himself in his first feature film as a worthy successor to Bill Forsyth and the rightly-vaunted British comedy tradition.Yes, it's set in Ireland, but was actually filmed on the Isle of Man, and draws its cast and crew from across the British Isles. It's only fair the film's a bit of a masquerade like that, as it celebrates an approach to life that's anything but on the level but wonderously amiable all the same.Watching Bannen's expressions of surreptitious glee while pushing his oldest, dearest friend Michael O'Sullivan (David Kelly) to commit crime is really too much of a pleasure to explain. You just root for him, and pause only a little to wonder at what else you'd let him get away with.He never told a lie in his life, O'Shea's concerned wife Annie (Fionnula Flannigan) exclaims as she catches him in the act.Well, he's makin' up for it now, so, Jackie coolly replies, one of many big laughs here.Kelly and Flannigan are Irish, so I guess they are more on the level than Bannen, a Scotsman. Together, the three make for a beautiful fulcrum for the film's ever-twisting plot. They are aided by a fine cast of stiffs, harridans, and lovable eccentrics who make up the lucky village of Tullymore.Jones really dresses up this pastoral comedy well, with stunning scenics of shore and sky. The Waterboys, Liam O'Maonlai, Rita Connelly, and assorted musicians provide a rousing score that add to this film's rich, charming quality.Even death itself isn't allowed to intrude upon things too much, though it does come a'calling more than once. A funeral service provides one of Waking Ned Devine's funniest and most affecting scenes as O'Shea eulogies one of the characters with a very witty capper of a line He had his faults!I'm at a loss as to what faults I can call on Waking Ned Devine. Maybe the fate of one unpleasant character seems a bit too left- field on reflection, but I was laughing too hard at the time to notice.The best thing about this movie is how it never lets up that way. It picks you up and never lets you relax even as it engages you. No sooner do you wonder how O'Shea and his co-conspirators will get out of one mess then they are in another, and scrambling as furiously and hilariously as ever. Waking Ned Devine is well named; a sleeper comedy that wakes you right up. "},{"Title":"Great Irish Humor!","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although this film was actually filmed in the UK, it was set to be in Ireland and has maintained the Irish flavor and humor.This film poses the question about What would you do? if you were finding out that one of your best friends had died, after dying from shock that he had just won the Lottery.They go through a series of decision making and antics to pull off what they finally decide to do. Especially for those that enjoy British/Irish humor in other movies, you will definitely be pulling up to the movie with a fresh batch of popcorn for this one. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a great movie for the whole family. Waking Ned is a fun story about a small village in Ireland. This movie shows what the people can do for money, even in the smallest places on the world, everything with a lot of fun. The main story pass around Jack and Michael, two old guys that discovered about a winner in their village. First they try to figure out who won the money, and then they discovered that the winner is dead, Ned Devine. After this they make a plan to receive this money, passing for Ned. The plan start very small but after a little while the whole village is involve. Some great stories happen along the main plan, not making the film around just one fact. Is a good movie and a great opportunity to see with anyone. "}{"Title":"Waking Ned Divine","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waking Ned Divine is an great film in which the story line can be put into any type of culture and scenario. This movie brings a world on a comedy in with the of excitement and drama. The actors in this film really complemented each other. None better than jackie oshea , a fun loving personality that you cant resist his charm.This is movie is based a fun loving little town tuck away from any city life. so people in the town all know each other and its rare that anything really goes on with out someone knowing eachothers business. This movie will make you feel right at home, that comfortable feeling like you know each and every character is very real. you cant help to fall in love in love with this movie. and i am very excited to say this is one of best foreign movies i have seen in while , and highly recommend it to any one looking for a laughable movie with a touch of drama. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie for all ages!","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You will be watching Waking Ned Devine in class for your research paper said our English professor. The idea of watching a 1998 Irish was not very attractive. After finished watching that movie I had a complete different idea. This movie has excellent role characters, such as Ian Bannen who plays as Jackie O'Shea, David Kelly as Michael O'Sullivan and Fionnula Flanagan who is Maggie O'Shea. I enjoyed a lot this movie because the way everything is planned by this Jackie and Michael. I believe this is an excellent taste of humor because in this movie this two characters are really old, in what movie we see that the protagonist who plan everything are really old? Another interesting thing about this movie is Michael because he is the one who has to pretend to be Ned all thru the film knowing that he is a terrible liar.The way the whole town was part of the plan made even more interesting to watch. The town had also very funny characters such as James Nesbitt who plays as Pig Finn. This character made the movie even funnier because he was always let down because no one could tolerate his smell since he worked with pigs. Who could forget the old grumpy lady who is trying to take advantage of the situation? This was a great film to watch because its an old classic movie but funny and has no violence. This film I recommend for all ages and a good film to watch as a family. "},{"Title":"Will definitely induce the fuzzy feelings...","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Waking Ned Devine' is a very pleasant little surprise that I had the good fortune to come across in my local Hollywood Video. A friend recommended it, and I decided to go with it because she's usually trustworthy when it comes to picking good movies.And lo and behold! I was highly amused and very satisfied with my purchase.The story roughly centers around two aging Irishmen (Jackie and Michael) who live in a small, quaint town in Ireland consisting of about 52 people. Being avid lottery players, both soon come to find out that someone in town has won the jackpot. They are then determined to find who the lucky winner is.But when they discover that the winning ticket belongs to Ned Devine (who has died from a heart-attack after discovering he had the winning number), the two men enlist the aid of the townsfolk to claim the prize money.Rarely will you see comedies focused around folks over 60 these days. And even more rarely will you find comedies that are as genuinely pleasant and inoffensive as this one is. (Unless naked old men on motorcycles are offensive to you... hee hee) The casting is fantastic, and the music is superb.You'll definitely be left with soft, warm fuzzy feelings at the end. Recommended to all! "},{"Title":"Fun, well done film","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Originally written7 July 1999; account moved.The togetherness in this town is really something. One man's misfortune assures he will be well remembered for ages.The cast is ideal in this fine offering set in a small Irish village. Inventive and very funny. It's a shame they changed the name from the original. It was Waking Ned Devine. "},{"Title":"A delightful movie!!","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie. The sound track is terrific. I saw this movie right before I went to Ireland on vacation, and after I returned I bought it to show all my friends what the Irish countryside and rural people are like. I know this was filmed on the Isle of Mann and that the actors aren't all Irish, but I really met a lot of people there like these characters. The small town community has a great deal of appeal. Not being one myself to gamble or play the lottery, I was nonetheless locked into the drama, humour and creepiness of the story. I highly recommend this film. I can only warn that some of the dialect is a bit tricky to pick up at times, so turn up the volume and concentrate! There is nothing immoral about the story, except the big lie to get (steal) the money... but hey, lottery money is borne in big risk anyway. I think it is a great family film. "},{"Title":"A Gem!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a thoroughly delightful, charming movie. If you liked The Englishman Who Went Up a Hill and Came Down a Mountain, you'll love this. I can't imagine how anyone could dislike it. The two lead performers were absolutely wonderful, especially the actor playing Mike. A real tour du force.  "},{"Title":"Hysterical, I aim to own this one","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love comic movies and this is one of the best.  Funny through and through. Good script, the best of characters, I can't say enough about how much I enjoyed this one.  If you enjoy laughing, this one is a must.  A definite 10 in my book. "},{"Title":"SPECTACULAR!!!!!!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I guess you all know what the movie is about, but let me brake it down for you  In a small community a man wins the lotto, BUT he dies when he realises, so two local...men, take the opportunity to claim the ticket! (That's about it) The movie has a tendency to get a bit...dull, BUT ONLY FOR A BRIEF TIME!! It's not long before you chuckle like crazy. The entire movie is well written and directed. The end particularly broke me into tears! If you really don't like the movie just wind to the end. But I recommend that you see the whole thing!  "},{"Title":"A winning comedy.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Keeping the faith with other small town comedies, THE LOVE LETTER and THE DISH, this is one of the better sleeper comedies that has ever come along. There isn't much laugh-out-loud humor here, but the movie is funny.WAKING NED DEVINE is a feel-good comedy that gives the image of a town that tries to be like a place where everyone would want to live. The setting is quite good and the performances are very well done. Seeing the old guys naked was something I could have done without, but...The movie is slow, and develops itself and it actually takes a little while to get into the main part of the story. But once the film gets moving, it goes by quite quickly. It is a very breezy hour and a half of movie and you are bound to enjoy yourself here.\All in all, a winning comedy. No majorly huge laughs here, but the film makes you feel good and is also...devine.WAKING NED DEVINE gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"Don't make them like this anymore!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this was a fabulous movie, similar to comedies made in the 1950's. Although there is some slight male nudity, it is played more for comedy than any sexual content and was not offensive in the least.  Other than that, there was no bad language and the characters are very charming and likeable even when they are not engaged in totally ethical behavior. There is a real tenderness to the relationships along with a silly sidebar about a pig farmer trying to attract a woman despite some work-related problems. I love this movie and wish Hollywood would produce and promote movies like this. "}{"Title":"A Feel good movie","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie, I suggest this to anyone who wants to see a good family movie. The plot line is intriguing, and the casting is extremely well done. I think that probably the best thing though, was the chemistry which the townfolk had. it's a shame not every town in movieland has such a great spirit.When seeing this movie, always remember that this is Ireland, and that they are deeply religious.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very funny movie with great characters and a nice storyline. One of my all time favourites. Sadly I think it was overlooked by many even though I thought it was on par with that other very good British comedy The Full Monty. "},{"Title":"somewhat underrated, IMHO","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  charming, beguiling -- just what you want in a little Celtic folderol. The soundtrack is superb.  German pub songs are great, but, let's face it, the Irish and the Scots rank #1 in that department.  I'm referring, in particular, to the long pub scene near the end of the film. "},{"Title":"True cinematic genius!","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot even begin to tell you how hilarious this movie is.  I can't even limit the exorbitantly funny moments to fewer than twenty.  An eighty-something man, lost and naked on a motorbike...a flying telephone booth, with someone inside...and the list keeps going.  I would recommend this movie to everyone.  I laughed so hard and so long...it's the greatest! Definitely one to see over and over. "},{"Title":"Comedy at it's best","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think that this movie should really be more in the 9-10 range. It is thoughtful and exciting and real people and most of all funny!  It is about a small village (population 52) in Ireland that has a chance to make it rich!  The characters are typical of small village life with your excentrics, silly drunks, a nasty witch and good friends. I highly recommend it - I know you will laugh.  Strong Irish accents so bear with it. "},{"Title":"Charmingly eccentric.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Delightful little comedy about the denizens of a small Irish village who conspire to claim an enormous lottery prize when the winner drops dead of shock. Charmingly eccentric characters with endlessly inventive and uproarious situations. Nice to see the Manx village of Cregneish doing service as the village, as well as the beautiful Isle of Man countryside, doubling as Ireland. For this one particular Manxman a nostalgic treat. Terrific fun that reminds one of the heyday of the Ealing comedies. Well recommended. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of 5","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In this touching light hearted comedy two best friends Jackie and Michael will do anything to find out who won the lottery in their small town and try to get a peice of it. There is only one problem, when they finally find out who the winner is he is dead. So they decide to pretend that they are Ned Divine and cash in on the big prize. This coming of age story is guarenteed to put a smile on the face of all as these two friends try to make some money. There are many amusing and heart warming events that lead up to the climax and the acting is so good that your heart will instantly go out to these characters.  "},{"Title":"Nice and fun.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not bad, worth to see. Within 90 minutes they've done well with all of the characters. Each characters have their own role. Especially, the main cast, 2 old men with their great action. Plot is simple but still great. This movie is fit to watch while we need little break.7/10 "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Somewhat funny, very sweet","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waking Ned is a Irish comedy about a remote village of quirky but lovable characters. It's a feel good movie without a sharp edge (Rush Hour) or tremendous wackiness (A Fish Called Wanda), but worthwhile seeing if you don't mind some sentimentality (this is not There's Something About Mary). It's an original story with a few clever twists.It's similar to The Closer You Get and The Englishman Who Went Up a Hill, But Came Down a Mountain, other Irish comedies I recommend.Who should see this film-- Those interested in Ireland-- Comedy lovers who have a sentimental side, and don't needcar chases or witty put-downs to enjoy a filmI'll give Waking Ned a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Characters","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is no action in this film! And if you can past that, then your infor a real treat. This is a wonderful story, with characters you careabout, portrayed by excellent actors. If you haven't seen this film, you have missed out on somethingspecial "}{"Title":"Death, deceit, fraud, this movie has it all!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A delightful film!  Intensely imaginitive and very funny, especially with Michael riding to town naked on a motorcycle!(There wasn't time)  This a great film for Ireland lovers and everyone else, too.  SPOILER I have to admit, though, that the part at the end where Lizzie dies would've been funnier if she'd just been injured a bit; maybe she really would need a wheelchair!  Apart from that, a 4star movie "},{"Title":"A jolly good laugh.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The small village of Tullymore produces a dead lottery winner and everyone gets in on the act to claim the fortune with Jackie and Michael leading the pack to humorous results. A sweet feel-good-movie if you are caught off guard like I was and allowed to be enchanted by the town folks and their harmful scam. The music and photography are a plus.  "},{"Title":"Have not laughed this hard since...","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have not laughed this hard since Young Frankenstein.This is a simple, intelligent, and I thought, hilarious film. Unlike ...Frankenstein, however, there is no slapstick and the comedy is a result of excellent writing and superb acting. Ian Bannen and David Kelly (some might remember him as O'Reilly in Fawlty Towers) are fantastic.Waking Ned Devine is going to become a classic, no doubt. "},{"Title":"The best of 1998.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie made my heart glad. It's one you can watch over and over again. Great story, music, and characters you will fall in love with. And you won't see the unpredictable ending coming a mile away. God bless you writer/director Kirk Jones. May we be forever in your debt.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you read all the gushing in these comments and see it expecting a comedic masterpiece, you may be a bit let down.  I found it a hoot from beginning to end and heartwarming, too.  The performances are wonderful, including the chap who played Ned Devine -- now, that's control!  Here is a tip which may help you enjoy it more if you rent it be sure you pipe the sound through a Dolby surround or 5.1 digital system and turn it up.  The Irish music is delightful.  If parts of the story are a little far-fetched, so what?  A good yarn can stand a little fantasy here and there. "},{"Title":"Almost completely charming","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie almost completely, and I liked how the film made you root for something illegal to happen. The fact that the whole village was trying to defraud the Lottery Board didn't bother me, as it was presented in a very charming fashion. But near the end, when you're supposed to root for something very unpleasant to happen...well, that took me right out of it. I see that some of the other reviewers here loved that part--which says something about them and something about me, I guess. But it left me with a bad taste in my mouth and reduced what until then had been a very pleasurable experience to something less. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Easily one of the best comedies ever made. The movie captures the beauty of rural Ireland better than any movie ever made. It is not often that a movie can be carried off on the shoulders of old men, but the director succeeds in this case. Surprisingly under-rated for a movie this good. Watch it - you will love every minute.  "},{"Title":"A man in Ireland wins the lottery, but dies before he can claim it. Then Jackie comes along.....","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a great film!! Certainly one of the best ones I've seen and will remember for a long time. I strongly recommend everyone sees it as it is a comedy everyone is sure to enjoy. The best characters in the film are Jackie and his wife along with Michael, but all the actors and actresses are great! Lizzie Quinn is one that you will never forget! I gave it 10/10. "},{"Title":"Can we just have some more?","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You don't need to know Ireland to love this film, but once you have seen the film you will certainly want to check out Ireland. The plot is fun, the setting is superb and the characters are brilliant. This is one of those movies that simply make you feel good. Can we just have some more? "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie, especially for those who love Ireland","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of my most favourite movies. Charming protagonists, wonderful setting, great nature, funny plot, great sound-track. I recommend this movie to all those who like Ireland. A great relief from today's Hollywood junk. "}{"Title":"Delicious, I want to eat it.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine is a perfect example of what a feel-good movie should be. It manages to take a slightly morbid plot and turn it into something that you can't help but smile at. And that's the thing that gets you. You don't really laugh out loud, you just smile. You smile a lot. The characters are so lovable and strange and the setting so beautiful and the dialogue so perfect that the film slaps you in the face with an overwhelming sense of contentment. I strongly recommend this to anyone who's had a bad day, or a good one for that matter.  "},{"Title":"Great movie for the whole family.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very nice movie to watch.  Great soundtrack, too.  It gives you the feel of being in Ireland, from the good things I've heard about the country.  I loved Ian Bannen in this and was very sad to hear of his passing.  David Kelly is also great.  Don't miss the scene at Ned Devine's funeral mass.  It brought a tear to my eye.  Hollywood, are you watching? "},{"Title":"Charming Little Film","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For me, it's hard to rate movies with a perfect 10. I don't think there ever was a movie that was 100 percent perfect with no flaws what-so-ever, but few come close and Waking Ned is one of them. It's a change from all the Hollywood Shmollywood c**p out there. You can tell it's no big budget Blockbuster movie with trillions of dollars wasted on special effects. No pointless sex, no DiCaprio-Sarah-Michelle look-a-likes cast for their looks, and not every other word is the F word. It's a sweet charming film which I doubt America could ever make.You can tell you're in for a good movie already from the beginning, which really got me laughing. I'm not going to go on and on about the plot because I'm sure you know it by now. The idea is magnificent, the humour is Irish-British and very funny, a witty script, witty dialogues, witty twists. But most of all- real characters and magnificent acting. Not just the brilliant main characters, the whole lot of Tully Moore It's amazing, it was like watching real people. It was so great that time just flew by and I was so upset that it was going to end. I wanted more. And when I went into Ian Bannen's filmography and saw that he had passed away it got to me a bit.Waking Ned is a touching charming brilliant funny well-written well-acted movie. Worth a rent from the video store and even worth taping if it comes on TV. Movies likes this are hard to come by.  "},{"Title":"A warm, humane Irish comedy.","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The  lush, rolling green fields of Ireland and its lovely villagesprovide the idyllic setting for this warm, humane  little comedy, whichis about what happens when an old man wins nearly eight million poundson the Lottery and then dies from the excitement with the winning ticketstill in his hand.Two old villagers, Jackie O'shea (Ian Bannen) and Michael O'Sullivan(David Keller) learn from the papers that someone in their small villageof only 52 inhabitants has won the Lottery; and their efforts to findthe winner occupies the first part of the film. When they eventually doso and call on Ned and find his dead hand still clutching the winningticket, they have to decided what to do; to be honest and hand theticket back or to take advantage of the situation and pretend one ofthem is Ned. The temptation is irresistible.But, not being selfish, they want the whole village to share in Ned'sgood fortune. And so they hold a village meeting and put forward theirplan; provided that each villager will sign a form committing them tosecrecy, the money will be shared out and each will receive £150,000.But some quick thinking is required and many lies and evasions followwhen a representative of the Lottery comes to the village to verify theclaim and the claimant's identity and arrives in the middle of Ned'sfuneral service and Jackie O'shea's funeral oration. And their plan isunder threat from another quarter; the evil-minded witch of the villagedemands £1000,000 in hush money!There is a nice little love interest in which James Nesbitt as Pig Finnis excellent as as pig-man, too poor and smelling too much of pig to bethought at all desirable by his beloved. £150,000  would see them bothright.But it is Ian Bannen as Jackie O'Shea, still full of his usual energyand Joie de vivre, who is central to the film and raises it so wellabove the average. How sad that he should die so soon after the film'scompletion. At least he went out on a high note and left us with a  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I've seen","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not sure how or why I first saw Waking Ned Devine, but I am really glad I did.  This light hearted comedy, for the most part, creates a joke around the death of a lottery winner without losing the gravity of a human death. It was tastefully done and one of the funniest movies I have seen in a while.  My only problem was a certain death at the very end seemed uncalled for and callous.  It was still a great movie. "},{"Title":"top drawer entertainment","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just thought, seeing as there were no comments from anyone Irish I'd throw my tuppence in on it.I really enjoyed this film. It was simple from the outset so it never raised your expectations higher than they should. So just kick back enjoy the characters and take it for what it is. My friends who I watched it with thought they went a bit over the top with the diddly-di irish music, but i thought that's the way it had to be for a movie like this.Everyone will like this film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A must for visitors to Ireland","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a film you really should see if you have been or are going to Ireland.  Just listening to the characters speak is a treat.  You'll be making travel arrangements to Eire before the closing credits are over. "},{"Title":"Funny and refreshing","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the sort of film you really want to see a rainy day. It's very funny, and the entire setup is refreshing. The greedy but warm-hearted (bar one) inhabitants of this little village are realistic and the film is full of little everyday things that are both sad and hilarious at the same time. Take the poor pigfarming Finn, for example - he wants his woman so badly, and she wants him, but she won't have him because he smells of his pigs...And as for the ending, well... I really wanted it to happen like that! "},{"Title":"Whisky Galore meets Local Hero","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A feelgood classic, like a modern day Ealing comedy, enjoyable on the big screen, as always the impact doesn't hit home as much on a small screen but one of my favourites of recent years.A lottery win, an Irish village, wonderful performances and a soundtrack of the diddly diddly give you a good night in, get a case of the dark stuff and you'll be in for a good time. "},{"Title":"What a sweet movie","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I guess I'm becoming an old sentimental fool - this is a fine movie, which made me burst into laughter and tears. Sure the plot is maybe too simple and too sweet - but watching that little gem, made me feel good. Even though the whole town commits fraud, the evil is dethroned in a very hilarious way. "}{"Title":"Funny. Calm. Funny.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Smart? Maybe. Deep? Don't count on it. Well-directed? The scenery's nice and only Fellini has so many memorable faces in his films. (Well, maybe the Coen brothers too.) Enjoyable? I liked it. Funny? Funny. Definitely funny. Especially when divine intervention sends an old person flying off a cliff. A great movie to see with your more venerable loved ones. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is obviously not a multi-million dollar epic yet it is one of the most stirring films I have seen in a long time! I would recommend you make the effort to see it. You start by what might turn out to be just another 'ordinary low budget film'. Then as the story unfolds you realise you are watching something a bit special. For me, the film builds to a climax in the church where actor Ian Bannen gives a very profound and moving speech; it brought tears to my eyes. What makes the moment so special is the circumstances, the way that the words are spoken and the fact that the story has reached a crossroad where it may take two very opposite paths. The camera work is excellent at this point catching the fleeting and telling expressions that convey so much of what individuals feel inside.I won't spoil it by telling you any more but below is a transcript of what Ian Brannan says in the Church. Whoever wrote these words deserves a gold medalMichael O'Sullivan was my great friend, but I don't remember ever telling him that. The words that are spoken at a funeral, are spoken too late for the man that is dead. What a wonderful thing it would be, to visit your own funeral; to sit at the front and hear what was said. Maybe to say a few things yourself.Michael and I grew old together. But at times, when we laughed, we grew younger. If he was here now; if he could hear what I say, I'd congratulate him on being a great man. And thank him for being a friend. "},{"Title":"One of the all-time best comedies ever","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has it all - humor, warmth, originality, great acting, directing, and writing. As a motorcyclist, the riding bikes alfresco scene had me in tears. And the plot twists had me guessing all the way to the end. Nice to see a movie with seniors as the featured players for a change. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie in quite awhile","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The pure sweetness of comedy in this movie is a dying art. I reminded me of the old comedies of the 40's & 50's. Being a first generation Irish American it was fun to enjoy the dialect of my parents and relatives. I always enjoyed listening to the stories and humor my relatives would tell when they came for a visit. The get togethers would be nothing but fun and laughter. My mother and father being from Ireland lightly critized anything that wasn't exact, but to us Yanks it was a non-stop 90 minutes of fun. I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys looking into someone elses little world. "},{"Title":"One Of The Few British Movies I Actually Enjoyed","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not many British films capture my attention the way this one did. I didn't have as much of a problem following it. And I liked the way the community was able to come together to pull this off.  I'll never look at playing the lottery the same way again after seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"Credit where credit is due.","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Enough has already been written about 'Waking Ned Devine' in this forum, so I wont go over the plot, performances etc again. I'd just like to see credit go to one of the undoubted stars of the movie - the scenery. This film was NOT shot in Ireland, as some previous comments suggest - it was filmed entirely on the Isle of Man. One scene, where the priest is talking to the little boy as he sits on rocks at the seashore - well, I just burst into tears (really!) at the beauty of it. Now that's something I've never done before! And I was only watching it on Video, on my tiny little 18 inch screen. Imagine if I'd been at the theatre.. "},{"Title":"What a pleasure!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is one of those that makes you sit and watch the credits at the end and weep that it is all over.  I was even tempted to watch the film again, immediately.  Once I did watch it for a second time I realized that it was even better the second time!  The wit, and charm of the language is only matched by the wonderful sound-track.I don't use the term brilliant very often, but this is one occasion where it fits.  This movie was BRILLIANT! "},{"Title":"Charming and Original","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Very humorous, very human story of tiny town attempting to cash a deceased man's winning lottery ticket. The winner passed on the night of the drawing, you see. From there, you have the makings of a grand scheme to deceive the government lotto folks into writing out, upon verification, the golden check.    Naturally, this is easier said than done, oft times with hilarious results. There's not a cynical note in this movie, and the characters all, are richly given believable personalities by the actors and actresses involved. The movie had me from start to finish, with its charm, originality and disarming humor. You'll cheer along too, for the villagers of Tully Moor.  "},{"Title":"Joy and Sadness","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never wanted to write a review like this one, but I am compelled to. Waking Ned Devine is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  Now, I have to admit that I am probably NOT the typical American movie-goer.  I don't like the big Hollywood style shoot-em-up movies.  I like movies that are thoughtful, sensitive, and beautiful.  This is definitely one of those.  It is a movie that makes you laugh (a lot) cry (a very little) and that you can walk away from feeling really good.  It has a spectacular soundtrack by Shaun Davey (well worth buying in its own right!)  The acting is supurb. "},{"Title":"Tight little comedy","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The trailer for this movie was a real turn-off - grotesque Irish village idiots grinning (in close-up), well, idiotically, at the camera while mouthing the corniest of lines- but the actual film is a warm hearted, clear-sighted comedy with fine acting and good timing. The writer-director is first-timer Kirk Jones but the plot's been around for a while. Fifty years ago Alexander Mackendrick directed Whisky Galore (Tight Little Island in the US) in which a bunch of Scottish islanders try to beat officialdom to a precious cargo of  wartime whisky wrecked on their shores, while in Bill Forsythe's Local Hero (1983) a slick (sorry) oil company rep from Houston meets his match in the form of the inhabitants of the Scottish village he is trying to buy up for a refinery site. This time the plot revolves around the winning of the big prize in the Irish national lottery in a remote village by an elderly inhabitant (the eponymous Ned) who promptly dies of shock. The village, led by the village fixer (played by Ian Bannen), conspire to fool the lottery organisers from Dublin that another local (played by David Kelly, the incomparable Mr. Riley the builder in Fawlty Towers) is the winner, so the prize can be shared around the village. Unfortunately, there is one hold-out, a witch-like creature who wants more than her share. Of course it all works out well, a fairy tale ending in fact, but it's a fun ride and the people of the village, played by a fine ensemble, are for the most part characters rather than caricatures.A striking feature is the immediacy of the photography. Almost every scene seems to be a close-up yet the lighting and depth of field ensure the often spectacular surrounds are in shot as well. This has a peculiar effect when viewed in a big screen cinema - a sort of intimate vastness. It also has the effect in interior shots of putting you right inside the cottage without the murky claustrophobia often induced. Surprisingly, the spectacular scenery is not that of the wild west coast of Ireland but of the Isle of Man. Until, that is, we learn in the credits that there is an Isle of Man Film Commission and it put money into the production. (This might well account for the detailed knowledge the villagers seemed to have of offshore banking and tax haven practice!) Well, at least most of the actors were Irish. Movies of this sort are not primarily about urban sophisticates being bested at the hands of rude country folk. Rather they deal with true and false values - the moral superiority of human values over materialism, the need for a sense of community and belonging as well as individual success. These are durable issues, hence the durability of the plot. This movie is a fresh updating of an old story, told with panache and affection.   "}{"Title":"great fun","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was refreshingly free of the awful sex/violence, etc. of most movies. Not only that, but the story was excellent and very funny. I love how the main characters are old men (played very well, both of them) and the music (especially at the end, the dance/telephone booth scene) was great. "},{"Title":"If you,  like us, love to cheer for the little guys, this is a movie for you.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ian Bannen (Braveheart) Jackie O'Shea, and his best friend  Michael O'Sullivan, played by David Kelly I  (The Matchmaker) convince the entire town to join then in committing fraud against the lottery. That is, except for one whistle blower.  They implicitly attest that Michael is Ned Devine. They are old and cute so who cares about the fraud. They are adorable going back and forth naked on their motorcycle. Don't worry you never see the naked bodies!  It is just the idea of the movie that makes you keep rooting for the two and then for an entire city throughout the movie. This is a fun movie. I recommend it!  I am going to get the video. Definitely one for your movie library! If you, like us,  love to cheer for the little guys like we do,  this is a movie for you.  Favorite Scenes The bridge of Ned Devine coming out of his mouth, the flying green telephone booth.    "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think I must be to Hollywoodized because as much as I did like this film, I didn't like it to the point where I was nuts over it.  It is cute and it is humorous at times and it is definetly enjoyable, but the way the remarks are flowing from the critics they will have you believe that it is the second coming of Annie Hall ( a film I didn't care for at all).  But Waking Ned Devine is a fun film about a small town in Ireland that has to come together to claim a winning lottery ticket that a friend of theirs won but has now passed on making him unable to claim the ticket.  Some of the best scenes in the film are when the two protagonists are having various get togethers in order to find out who the lucky winner is.  Also sweet is when they are trying to pull a fast one over the lottery guy.  And of course seeing an old man riding on a motorcycle with nothing but his helmet is admittedly quite funny.  There is a certain charm and innocence about this film and I think it is good to see something like this that appeals to an older generation.  Films are for the most part garnered towards the MTV generation and that is fine because that's where the money is, but to see a film where my grandparents and parents can enjoy together, well that is refreshing.  I'm not saying that you can't enjoy this if you are not over 45, but I think you may enjoy it more.  Waking Ned Devine is a charming sweet movie that has its heart in the right place.  And as I said, it is enjoyable but I would rather see a film like Armageddon or Blair Witch any day.  Still it is  a nice diversion.  It is worth a view, you may be surprised. "},{"Title":"Pure Irish whimsey","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pure Irish whimsey, the sort of thing one dreams about hearing over a few pints in the local.  Don't look for any moral in it, except, perhaps, the value of friendship and neighborliness it is a paeon to the parochial; country values are far more than mere city rules.  Note that the only city man we see has practically no accent, unlike the villagers who sometimes verge on the unintelligible.  The city man's not evil, though; just gormless.  The sole wicked witch in this west is the one local who won't wake Ned, divine though he is.  Plenty of subtle puns (the title not least) and dead-pan absurdity; think of James Joyce and Samuel Beckett transposed to a genial key. "},{"Title":"It lets to make you peace with yourself !","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The main characters are extraordinarily likeable and great talented actors. A breathtaking natural scenery ! Who would not like to live there for a while ? Sharp, but flavored with sugar !  "},{"Title":"Simple Pleasures","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine shows that movies do not need to be slick to be good. The movie takes place in a small town called Tully Moor in Ireland. So, the scenery is nice and the accents are cute. The film centers on some basic truths about small towns. While they are loaded with busy bodies, rather than ask a straight personal question, people will go through very elaborate schemes to get information. Second, those who do not make a practice of lying are not very good at it and can be darn foolish when they try. All this put together in a clever way by the film makers creates the basis for a charming comedy. But there is more.The movie's treasure trove of small town insights can have a slightly more serious side. Even under everyone's nose there are secrets and this town has its share. What was very refreshing is that country life is not depicted as sentimentally always wonderful. A clear instance is that raising animals can be a very pungent business. And everyone in the town does not live in bliss and harmony. Even these things are depicted with wit and a bit of wickedness. Waking Ned Devine is simply as enjoyable as a breath of fresh air. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but a nice one.","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a feel-good, warm-fuzzy film.  It doesn't have a great script.  It won't have you sitting on the edge of your chair. It won't strain your intelligence.  And ten years from now, you probably won't remember it very well.  That said, it has some delightful moments.  The motorcycle ride--if you see the film, you'll know the one--is a real giggle.  The aerial shots are lovely.  The community seems wonderfully warm and populated with interesting characters.  The pig farmer love story is a bit contrived but sweet.  And it's good to see some older actors getting such lovely roles.  Overall, I wouldn't go see this film a second time, but I'm glad I saw it once. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly great film!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  On a Virgin Atlantic flight back to Miami from the UK I watched Enemy of the State  while my wife saw this film (the exclusive Virgin-version title was Waking Up Ned.  Her choice was better.  I'm not much on foreign films but after my wife told me the story, I was interested but figured I'd never see it since I was under the impression that it was produced exclusively for Virgin.  Imagine my surprise to find it pop up on cable pay-for-view a couple of weeks ago.  The first time I watched it, I  missed some of the dialog (sometimes it seems that Irish-English and my Southern American English are two separate languages).  The second time I watched with the closed-caption on -- much better.  In light of the violence, filthy language, sex, and techno-supernatural of today's movies, this was a great old-fashion flick the family would enjoy.  There only one or two mild curse words and a distant shot of a couple of nude old men -- both items quite benign.  However, this is NOT American humor!  It's a study in how Europeans, especially  those from small towns in the British Isles see life. If you can follow that, you will thoroughly enjoy this delightful film.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Irish movie","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Warm, wonderful and un-90's movie. Recommended to anyone who's tired of Hollywood comedies. Great cast, the story is funny if somewhat predictable. A feel-good-picture through and through... Go see it, rent it or buy it! "},{"Title":"Indeed, a rarity.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It isn't often that a film comes along that is funny without being crude, heartwarming without being mushy, unpredictable without being too much so, and simple without being bland.  But, bless my soul, Waking Ned Devine is just such a movie.  There are so many unlikely comic scenes in this movie, that it's sort of like witnessing the birth of a whole new genre, I think.This is really a wonderful film to share with friends and family.  It's light, cheerful, feel-good cinema that is still surprisingly intelligent.  Also, everything about the film is good enough to impress even the most die-hard film connoisseurs, from the acting to the writing, camera work to the direction, etc.Hollywood can learn a lot from Waking Ned Devine.  Don't insult us, don't offend us, but give us good wholesome humor, and you've won us over.***1/2 out of ****. "}{"Title":"Amazingly Entertaining","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine is something rarely seen today ... a genuinely funny movie.  But the humor stems not from overly clever screenwriting, comedy cliches or tired pratfalls.  It's the result of an inventive storyline, excellent character development and filmmaking expertise that will make even the most cynical moviegoer laugh out loud.Truly a must-see film!  Hollywood ... eat your heart out!  "},{"Title":"A reminder of what character and friendship look like","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great film with wonderful characters. Two very good friends, who find out how important they are to each other. While what they and the village are doing is less then honest you can't help but cheer for these people. Well written, great cast, very good addition to a movie collection as well.  "},{"Title":"What a delightful surprise!","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having never heard of the movie, we watched it expecting nothing but hoping, perhaps, for some good Irish music and scenery. Well, there was that...and so much more. Charming, funny, and very much in the tradition of gentle feel good movies...and something a whole family can watch without offending anyone. "},{"Title":"As refreshing as the Atlantic seabreeze.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After years of searching under rocks, looking behind trees, and gazing upon long-streches of green land, I have finally found a comedy so refreshing and unique, that it almost makes me cry.Waking Ned Devine is a wonderful comedy that shows a town of 52 growing souls taking a chance at an old mans' dream. It is how Jackie and Maggie (Ian and Fionnula) attempt to find out who the lottery winner is that makes me laugh, but what makes me wimper, just a bit, is the sympathy that everyone in the audience feels for Ned Devine. Also, how Jackie covered for Micheal (David Kelly) in the funeral service was what any best friend would do. That is something I really liked about this movie.All of what I said about, Waking Ned Devine is what comes from inside. It should tell you to respect your friends more and be a better person in life. But what this movie gives that not too many other movies can give, is that it is a comedy that can make you cry in a second.  "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film had everything Poignancy, a hint of black comedy, farce, subtlety, charm, and heart. All set in a small Irish village about a local who gets a fatal heart attack upon finding out that he won the lottery. When the townspeople find out, they scheme to make it look like the character is still alive and try to split the winnings among themselves.Although the ending was a bit abrupt (I won't give it away!) the movie was still very good. Fine family fare as well! "},{"Title":"Pleasant little comedy.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's nothing too offensive about Waking Ned Devine.  It doesn't go for ultra shock humor; instead, it counts on a good plot, a solid cast, and genuinely FUNNY events.Good plot the story is probably no surprise to you, but the whole thing moves along quite nicely.  There are no enormous subplots to take you away from the action, and no one to really lose track of.  It's a small town setting, after all; everyone knows everyone.Solid cast Believable, all around.Funny events Heh, can't spoil them to be sure, but there are many laugh out loud moments.  Plus something about a certain type of soap....All in all, a movie that won't shake the world with its humor but is still quite good.  Well worth the viewing.4.0/5.0 stars. "},{"Title":"wonderful!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An original story with sweet, charming characters set against the gorgeous countryside--does it get better than this? Waking Ned Devine is a light, refreshing film. I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Fun, well done film","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The togetherness in this town is really something. One man's misfortune assures he will be well remembered for ages.The cast is ideal in this fine offering set in a small Irish village. Inventive and very funny. "},{"Title":"A lovely, thoroughly enjoyable film - share it.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a wry, engaging, and thoroughly satisfying film; I heartily recommend it for everyone but those who demand action above all.  Don't believe reviewers who say it is hilarious; it is rather continually amusing in a gentle way, with laugh-out-loud humor occasional at most.  The film deals directly with the characters' struggle to decide what is right and what is wrong behavior in their particular situation, yet the viewer can't help thinking that either solution would be just fine - for them. The film is full of very normal yet wonderful characters, whose flaws are as pleasant as their virtues.  The various subplots all have their place, and do not detract at all from the main story line.  At the end it is not clear whether good triumphs over evil, but quite clear that affection triumphs over meanness.  Reminiscent of Peter Sellers' Heavens Above! or of some of Alec Guinness' early comedies, this is a great movie to share with family and friends.   "},{"Title":"Simple but sweet tale of fun and friendship","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, they don't make many like this anymore. No sex, violence or swearing and only a little (male) nudity. The lead characters really did carry this movie in what was really a classic piece of small-town storytelling. This is a one premise movie but carries it off in a delightfully charming way. Certainly there's no question that Ned Devine left the delightful little town of Ballymoor a wonderful legacy and a fantastic opportunity for the townsfolk to throw Ned the wake of a 'lifetime'. My vote 8/10 "}{"Title":"It's a wonderful comedy. A triumph.","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A triumph. Phrases like that are usually reserved for overpaid film critics with nothing better to do than judge people's visions and call them spellbinding or God only knows what. However, I think that it is very fitting with this film. The characters, first of all, are rich and full of life. Every one of them is unique and very likeable. They remain etched in your memory. This of course, along with an interesting plot, witty writing, and some of the most stunning cinematography I've ever witnessed, makes for a truly wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Version # 732 of UK eccentrics","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A feast day for character actors portraying cute and eccentric locals, but nothing to write home about.  I kept thinking about how good Whiskey Galore was in comparison to this film.  How long is it going to take before audiences get tired of the endless stream of colorful clever ancients with unbreakable spirits, the lyric spirits of the poor but honest young people, and the obligatory pub scenes?  "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Naked old men on motorcycles, a melting corpse, and a witch flying in a phone booth, nothing could be funnier. "},{"Title":"Warm and funny","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Imagine a movie where it all basically turns out OK, and it was really fun along the way.  Great characters and story.  The two main male characters were just terrific.  See it for a really good time. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Divine is a hilarious film that will tickle just about anyone's funny bone.  There are tons of believable characters and a genuinely funny plot.  When Michael and Jackie attempt to claim their dead friend's lotto winnings the plot is set into motion.  It's impossible not to laugh at their exploits and those of the people of Tullymore, the village they live in. This is a Feel Good movie all the way to the end.  "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this one","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This certainly was a very enjoyable little movie. I rented it the other night because frankly there wasn't anything else to rent, and I had remembered that the critics had liked it. I was pleasantly surprised. It really had a very simple plot, and it was about some very simple people who got involved in a bit of an extraordinary circumstance. The heart of the movie is the relationship between Jackie and Michael, and how they deal with this situation. It was hilarious at times, and very touching at others (particularly the funeral scene at the end) and when it was over I wanted to watch it again. I highly recommend Waking Ned Devine to anyone who enjoys a simple, but sweet story. "},{"Title":"Delightful.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine is a delightful little movie set in the Irish country side. I  enjoyed this film a lot and really enjoyed the lead performances. The whole cast however was well cast. This movie has kind of a dark undertone about it, but overall the film makes you feel good. Smaller films like this should be made more often for they give us a look into the human spirit. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Waking Ned Devine","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  They just don't make films like this anymore! A refreshing and heartfelt motion picture that whisks you away to another time and place and makes you believe in luck and dreams. Bannen and Kelly are exceptionally paired as two old aged cronies looking to get rich on lottery winner Ned Devine's earnings. When they learn that Ned has passed on, it becomes their goal to still win the money, only this time both men wish to pass on a bit of that cash to the town where Ned, whom we only meet in one dream sequence, would have wanted it shared. If only the rest of the world were that giving. One for all ages...all times...this is one of those gems you keep coming back to as if it's a celebration every time you see it. It's definitely that. A joy to watch!  "},{"Title":"movie of the year","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm sick and tired of going to movies that have weapons.Sounds wimpy, but truth is movies with guns in them are absolutely ridiculous.  I wonder if the audience knows anything about what a weapon is, or how they really work.Waking Ned Devine should be movie of the year just because a producer / writer thought of something original, and because the final product was a 10.  Enough said.  Go see it. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies in the last 10 years","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kirk Jones and the extraordinary actors assemble gathered for this refreshing comedy, have proved that, in order to make extraordinary films violence, bad language and complicated special effects are not necessary to move an audience. It is a film of universal values. It reaches to everyone who knows what it is to have good friends around. I have seen this remarkable film twice (on the same week), and I cried and laughed harder the second time. It is a short film (for today's Hollywood standards) but it tells a whole story without leaving loose ends.Congratulations to everybody on the film! Keep on with the good work!  "}{"Title":"A film for anyone who's ever played the lottery","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A delightful and wholesome story about a small town in Ireland (despite the fact that it was shot on a Scottish isle) that is brought to a fervor over a large lottery jackpot.The film's humour could probably transcend dialogue easily, I can see this film being an international success, as the actors do a wonderful job in an engaging story that is in its heart, simple and highly relational for all walks of life. So it doesn't matter if you have trouble with Irish accents, you can still enjoy this film and feel you haven't missed too much. Being of Irish heritage, I can say that sometimes I don't even understand some of my own relatives when speaking with them face to face, so I can appreciate the concerns of the average movie-goer.My wife and I saw this film at the Toronto Film Festival, and enjoyed it immensely. Aside from Life Is Beautiful I found it to be one of the easiest to recommend to anyone. It is a tremendously charming film.  "},{"Title":"Great comedy! Money for nothing!","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The most important thing in this film is that it shows the friendship. The real value of the friendship. When the old man, who lives in a small city,  dies without spending the money which he received, he shows to people, who live at the same place, that nothing can detain the death, neither do money! And being alive is important! So people, for almost in the middle of the film, understand the message because after that they simply join their objectives to get the money (of course!), but beyond that, they demonstrate the consideration, the common values, and the big friendship among them. The actors and actresses are very good, their performances are OK...  "},{"Title":"Local Hero meets Ballikissangel","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although the plot of Waking Ned makes it sound as if it will be rather predictable, it always manages to stay the right side of predictability and surprise you just when you think you know what is going to happen next. Featuring plenty of stunning Irish scenery and some rather unusual attire for riding a motorcycle, Waking Ned borrows fairly heavily from the plot of the classic 'Local Hero', namely a village conspiracy to make a lot of money and a potential 'spoiler' in the ranks to be confronted.  However, this charming film has plenty of originality and a 'feelgood' factor that never descends into sentimentality. "},{"Title":"excellent good-humored movie","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A movie made for fans of Irish countryside, music, whiskey and spirit. A small coast town of 52 people gets the chance of a lifetime when a member of the town hits the jackpot in the lottery but dies of joy. How to convince the lottery man that he is actually still well and alive, happy to make the claim? The characters in the movie are excellent, the story great and there are enough (mostly) good-humored jokes in it to make you laugh all the time, combined with breath-taking scenery and Gaelic music that fills your heart with longing and joy. Definitely a must-see. "},{"Title":"Fun film, if a little slushy, with one of the best opening jokes I've ever seen.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I guess you could say this film sits in the tradition of the Ealing Comedies; lighthearted, set in a close community and with a gentle humour.The opening scene was one of the funniest starts to a film I have ever seen, and raised a huge laugh in the cinema. From there on in it isn't a laugh every minute, but the pace generally keeps up. The humour is generally affectionate, there are few characters to dislike, and the scenery is beautiful.If the film has a fault it doesn't quite carry off all its sentimentality. A few of the shots, beautiful though they are, come over as a little too much like adverts from the Irish Tourist Board. If you want an image of contemporary Irish rural life my guess is 'Ballykissangel' would be closer to reality!These aren't major faults however, and the film is genuinely funny and compassionate, one to cheer you up. It certainly gets my vote for world's funniest nude pensioner on a motorbike scene.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful film, terrific score","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Heartwarming, beautifully set and cast film.  The most powerful feature of the movie was the music. Simply the best soundscore for any film released last year.  Congratulations to composer Shaun Davey for such a creative and inspirational work. "},{"Title":"Good Fun But Nothing Brillant","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Light,whimsical movie,semi comic with good character performances all round.Not a terribly original movie with classic plot devices and typical sentimentally which appears in these non-american productions.Good fun but nothing too brilliant. 3/5 "},{"Title":"Very watchable, very heartwarming","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film sums up for me what I find refreshing about the recent spate of non-Hollywood films that have been appearing in recent years. The central characters in the film aren't dashing young rogues with perfect bodies who end the film as model citizens. They are, to cut a long story short, normal people. This film also captures quite well, if a bit too idyllically, the sence of community that comes with rural life.There is all the plot elements you'd expect here; the young would-be lovers, the married couple, the dislikable characters, etc. but first and foremost, this film is a comedy. And quite a funny one too in places.Unfortunately, this film doesn't really deliver the tension you would expect in a movie involving 7-figure sums of money. Normally screen writers have plot lines rebounding all over the place in order to build up an emotional response from the audience but not in this case. This does make it more down to earth and realistic but you do come away feeling as if you have just watched a television show rather than a film for cinema.Apart from that, I would still recommend it to anyone who enjoys laidback feelgood films. Finally, I have to say the epilogue scene is brilliant. Despite the fact I was watching it on a really pokey screen in an Airbus A320 I still found it very moving and heartwarming. Left me all gooey inside. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this movie about a small  town in Ireland had creativity and  humor.And because it takes place in a  small town,everyone knows everything about  everybody!The story line was very well done  and clever! "},{"Title":"amusing in parts but cringingly patronising","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having never heard of the film, I saw it on a plane journey back to England. Whilst the scenery, music etc might appeal to an American audience, the portrayal of the Irish doesn't appeal to an Irishman like myself !!! I can appreciate the light humour in parts but fear that those of you who've never been to Ireland may take away an image that life in Ireland is like this.............perhaps back in the 50's but not in the late 90's !!!!!.....The film is certainly entertaining and will while away a couple of hours but to maintain that this offering is movie of the year is a little bit melodramatic.  "}{"Title":"Even better the second time around...","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In seeing this a second time I enjoyed it even more.The amazing soundtrack, cinematography and marvelous casting all come together to create a finely crafted gem of a movie.One reason I believe this to be such a good film is because the screenwriter (Kirk Jones) also directed and was able to translate his screenplay to film in the way in which he conceived it.This is a must see and should certainly have been nominated for a major award.See it and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable way to pass two hours","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A straightforward story shot with unknown actors playing quirky and engaging characters.  Proof that you can make a good film without a big budget or big stars.  David Kelly is wonderful as the harmless and rather inept Michael O'Sullivan.  A very enjoyable way to pass two hours.  Nine out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Almost Funny","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine is one of these charming small films that have been coming out of the British isles the last few years.  Clearly the Irish film industry, together with the Scottish film industry, are staking claims to good, small, independent films.  This film concerns a small village in Ireland, home to a certain Ned Devine who has just won the Irish lotto prize of seven million pounds.  Unfortunately he dies upon hearing that he won. That's when two of the village's charming old scoundrels, Michael and Jackie, concoct a scheme for posing as the deceased lotto winner in order to collect the prize.  Of course this involves getting the entire village to go along with the scheme, and that is where all the fun begins.  The film primarily follows the attempts by these two to convince the village to go along with the scheme.  Faced with the prospect of being truthful and giving up the prize or basically conning their way into seven million pounds to be distributed evenly, it only takes the villagers a few minutes to decide to support the con (no lengthy breast-thumping in this film).  There is a subplot involving a romance between Finn, the village pig-farmer, and Maggie, a young single mother, which brings about the dramatic relief for the film.I had heard from several people that this film was truly hilarious, but in fact I kept waiting for the hilarity to begin.  True there are some great sight gags, which I don't want to give away, but IMO even those were overplayed.  Perhaps this pic is like one of those wonderful Irish jokes, the ones told by great Irish comedians like Dave Allan, where the dialogue, the setup for the punchline are beautifully, lovingly done in great detail. On the other hand, those stories are told in 5 to 10 minutes tops, and can't really be expanded into a full length feature film.Excellent performances by Ian Bannen and David Kelly as Jackie and Michal. I believe Kelly in particular was cheated out of an Oscar nomination.  "},{"Title":"Hits the Jackpot","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very charming, amusing, and pleasant movie. Starts off a bit slow, and the Irish accents take some time to get used to, but you settle into it and enjoy the droll humor. The motorcycling scene is particularly enjoyable.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining little film","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... rather stereotypically Irish. It sounds like they were pandering to some idealized American notion of Ireland. However, this doesn't detract from the entertainment value of the film. A fun night at the movies.  "},{"Title":"amusing, emotional, music score excellent, scenery excellent","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great movie which could have gone a little bit longer; some very funny and very special emotional moments.  The musical score was epic and complimented by fantastic scenery. I would rate it as one of the best movies I have seen this year.  "},{"Title":"Bust a Gut Funny","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I haven't laughed this hard in a long time. A genuinelyfunny movie. Endearing characters. Saw it in a small theatre setting with a fair sized crowd. All of whom enjoyed themselves.  "},{"Title":"Mystical And Delightful","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The British make delightful small movies such as The Snapper, Brassed Off and The Full Monty. Those set in Ireland are often doubly enjoyable.Waking Ned Devine is one of those smiling, fulfilling movies from Ireland which like Into The West and The Legend Of Roan Inish have a spiritual, dreamy air that especially warms the heart.Ned Devine lives in Tullymore, a small town which only sports a population of 53. He wins the lottery but dies sitting there in front of the tele, ticket in hand, grin on face.It takes a few days for the locals to find old Ned's body and to discover that because he's dead the lottery will be withdrawn and there begins the shenanigans that will hopefully keep the windfall in the town.Eccentrics abound in Tullymore and Waking Ned Devine is determined to show just how damnably dreadful and daft these Irish men and women can be. The lottery money is the mission. Will the locals be able to plunder this money from heaven?And what of  the mystical side of Waking Ned Devine? Well Ned appears in a dream to his old mate Jackie (Ian Bannen) and assures the town that he wants them to have the money.And then there's the seal and the Selkie. Irish legends tell of the Selkies who are half woman and half seal. They can be captured by men, usually fishermen, then becoming their wives. (I learnt this from The Legend Of Roan Inish.) Maggie in Waking Ned Devine (Susan Lynch) has a strange air about her and her son Maurice can call seals.Consider friends that Maggie may well be a Selkie, especially when you find out who the Dad is of young Maurice!  "},{"Title":"Funny, cute, and spectacular backdrops.","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a cute little movie. A funny and heart warming story set in the beautiful landscape along the coastline of Ireland. Some really spectacular shots of the country are spread throughout the movie. Even though the story is simple there is a combination of the story, the people, and the location that amounts to something really special.   "},{"Title":"It's a 10! Don't miss it!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine has all the ingredients that makes a movie special. Great acting, great story, great script,and a wonderful score add up to a 10 in my book.The story is about  Ned Devine,one of just a handful of towns people who holds the winning lottery ticket for over 6 million dollars. Apparently after hearing the news on television, he dies with the ticket in his hand. A friend discovers Ned and comes up with an idea of how to keep the money. What happens after that is hilarious. Don't wait for the video folks. See it on the big screen.  "}{"Title":"Side-splitting and heart warming!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is quality Irish comedy. They have such a knack for humour. Waking Ned is about a small village of 52, whose just had a winner of the lottery. The protagonist of the film, Smith, invites the village over for drinks to see if he can find the winner. But, he doesn't find him.Turns out that the winner died of shock. An old man, Ned Devine, holds the winning ticket in his hand. Smith and his friend, Michael, devise a plan to trick the lotteries commission into believing that Michael is actually Ned.The whole village gets involved in the scheme and hilarity is the result. There are some priceless moments in the film, such as naked motorbike riding. It's hilarious!Nine and a half out of ten! "},{"Title":"Storytelling at it's finest","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hurray for Kirk Jones and his innate ability to tell a story.  One cannot help but become emotionally involved in the plight of the townsfolk in this movie - and become tormented along with our protagonist as he wrestles with the morality of his actions, but, not least of all, one cannot help but roll with laughter and delight at the zany antics a small Irish village will perform in order to get their hands on the lottery!!  "},{"Title":"A truly glorious film","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   From what I can gather, this wonderful picture is the writing/directing debut of a gent named Kirk Jones III - an incredible effort. We will certainly see more from this talented young man. There are no well-known actors or actresses in this film. It is purely Irish. Some might remember a face or two, however,  from another great Irish movie named The Commitments.Without giving anything away, it is safe to say that the basic plot could be construed as a black comedy. An inhabitant of a tiny coastal Irish village dies upon realizing he has won the lottery. This tragic irony is the nucleus of the story.The other townspeople (all 52 of them) then proceed to feign his existence in order to collect and evenly distribute the winnings amongst each other.While one might assume that the film revolves around greed, but the characters are all far too endearing to wear such a tawdry accusation. You will simply revel in their timeless opportunity and laugh as they stumble through the elaborate charade. The screenplay is extraordinary, and the acting is superb. Throw in the charm of a small Irish village, a single local pub and the picturesque island countryside and you have a truly glorious film.I give Waking Ned Devine my highest recommendation, and I can already place the film amongst my favorites of all time.Go see it when you have the chance.  "},{"Title":"MEDIA FRENZY OVERLOOKED","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In 'Waking Ned Devine', the media would certainly have been all over the story of someone winning such a large lottery jackpot.  The town's folks who try and collect Ned's winnings after his death would be exposed as a fraud by the electronic media that would find its way into even such a small town as the one depicted in this film.  This serious flaw keeps it from being a truly great film. For pure entertainment value, however, it is a very good one.  "},{"Title":"a delightful poignant comedy","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine is film written and directed by Kirk Jones, and I would like to thank him for so much wonderful entertainment. This film tells the story of Ned, the dear departed lottery winner and his friends.  The characters are well written and acted.  They range from two friends, one's wife, a pig farmer, an unwed mother, her son, a priest, the town witch, and a host of oher richly developed characters.  Mr. Jones uses these character, human nature, and comedic timing of events to make the audience at times laugh outloud and at others possibly shed a tear.  I would love to discuss the particulars here but don't want to give away any of the many fine moments.  I would also like to say that the film's first and last scenes are fantastic--as any film that wants to make a lasting impression should.  The soundtrack was also excellent and matched well the moods from joyous to mournful. Yes, if you like a film that is funny both in situations and dialogue and touching to the point of being truly moving then this Irish gem is a MUST SEE.  Four stars!!  "},{"Title":"Another example of a rekindled British cinema.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the days of Ian Carmichel, Terry-Thomas, Alec Guiness and Peter Seller, and a host of others, the British comedic cinema had not equal. That died. Since perhaps Chariots of Fire, there have been a number of excellent British gems - not high budget by any stretch - that prove the Brits are back  Four Weddings and a Funeral, The Man Who Ran up the Hill . . . and the Full Monty are examples. Waking Ned Devine stands tallest among them and deserves all the awards it gets in 1999.  "},{"Title":"One for all, all for one!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Every few years, I have to go to a small village in Ireland to see my husband's family.  This movie captured the look of the town and the attitudes of the people.  From the endless hours spent in pubs to the pervasiveness of the church in their lives, Ned Devine is a movie that is right on target.  Besides being funny, the story touches on moral questions. When a film can be funny and make one think, it's a real winner.  "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine is the funniest and most uplifting film I've seen in a long time. The scenery (shot on location on the Isle of Man in the Irish Sea) was beautiful, and the stone cottages with thatched roofs give you a feel for how the residents of Tully More live. The two senior citizens who play best friends Michael and Jackie are excellent and very believable. It's fun to watch an entire village scheme how to collect Ned's lottery winnings. I highly recommend this film.   "},{"Title":"Excellent, Best feel good movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What would you do if someone in your small town won the lottery, and they died from the shock of it. And to claim it, you had to convince the entire town to lie.Jackie O'Shea and Michael O'Sullivan are life long friends who tend to get into mischief. They find out that someone in their town has won it and sets out to befriend them. They are able to track done who won it, but the problem being for them, is that he's dead.They find out how much has been won, by a bit of acting, and wince at the thought of it going unclaimed. And now they have to  make sure that entire town of 52, lies about Michael.The soundtrack was well put together, and can make you tingle all over. It is well worth seeing, and if you have already seen it, see it again.  "},{"Title":"Feel-good comedy of manners warms the heart","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clever characterizations and wacky situational humor compensate for the slim plot of Waking Ned Devine, a movie stereotypical (but certainly positive) in its portrayal of the rural Irish.  Going the distance with one bizarre escapade after another, writer-director Kirk Jones unspools the tale of Jackie (Ian Bannen) and Michael (David Kelly), best friends who scheme to keep a lotto payoff when they discover its winner -- the titular Ned Devine -- is as stiff as an arctic wind.  Through a familiar set of complications, the entire village ends up in on the scam, and it is their sense of solidarity and community that fuels the real spirit of the film.  David Kelly, an adorable little old bag of bones, shines as Michael, performing some unique motorcycle driving that will prove as memorable as the flick's inspired use of a telephone booth.   "}{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film reminds me of why a really good movie is story driven and not reliant on special effects.This sweet, charming story of a town that bands together to pull one off on the man from the city is probably the best movie I have seen from 1998.Some of the best films in recent years have come out of the United Kingdom The Full Monty, Trainspotting, Beautiful Thing among others.  These films are all stories driven by the characters in them.How Ned Devine reaches out from beyond the grave to help the people of his tiny village is heartwarming, gentle and palpable.The personas of Good (Devine read Divine) and Evil (Lizzy Quinn) are clearly drawn with the townspeople existing in the limbo that most human beings go through on a day-to-day basis.This is a movie not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"Simply Delightful!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I wasn't laughing out loud, I think there was a smile on my face the rest of the time.  Cheers to Kirk Jones for writing & directing this clever sleeper.  A great cast, including Ian Bannen, the wonderfully underrated Finnoula Flanagan, and David Kelley, who should get an Oscar Nod as Best Supporting Actor riding nude on a motoryccle & keeping the audience cracking up. Applause all around! "},{"Title":"excellently done!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  after a long, long time, i felt HAPPY when i came out of the theatre. genuinely funny. a definite, definite must see!i don't remember laughing so much with the characters, ever!  "},{"Title":"** out of four stars","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a classic example of a cinematic tease. The first ten minutes are wonderful, as are the final ten, but the 70 or so in between was tedious. The movie had two sub-plots, one involving the romance between a young woman and the a pig farmer, and the other involving a young boy and a priest. They had nothing to do with the movie, which wouldn't have been a problem, but I didn't find them the slightest bit interesting, or funny. Ian Bannen and David Kelley (him especially are in fine form, but I wish they had better material to work with. But, I'm in the minority on this... "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Divine is a wonderful movie.Set in a quaint, Irish country side village, the scenery and culture envelop you, and you can almost believe you are there.  The characters are genuine and charming and emerse you in the lighter side of life.I recommend this movie to anyone who believes in the power of people and the wonder of life!  "},{"Title":"A Tour de Force for Irish Wit","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having seen Waking Ned Devine twice, I am still reeling from the laughter and the joy of this movie.  Sad to think that the filmmakers had to go to the Isle of Man in order to find an authentic Irish village, but aside from that the film offers an insight into what makes the Irish so beguiling. A joy to watch from stem to stern with fine acting and great insights into life!  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First, anyone who hated this movie has absolutely no heart, soul or even an intelligent mind.  This movie made me laugh, made me cry, and it made me love Irish music even more.  Don't listen to these brainless heartless snobs, go see it, it's GOOD! )  "},{"Title":"Priceless","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I will NEVER be able to look at another motorcycle or phone booth with a straight face again.See the movie and understand this comment.....you'll be well rewarded! "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wonderful!  My only complaint is that I missed a few lines because I was laughing so hard.  I spent half the film wiping tears of laughter out of my eyes.  A very very funny movie, and a really nice movie too.  I can't imagine anyone not enjoying this.  "},{"Title":"What a heartwarming movie!","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As usual, when I want to find a little movie, that is heart-warming, with REAL characters and an engaging story, I have to look for a movie from the United Kingdon.  This film about a lottery winner and how the small town plots to share in the fortune is a real winner.  You'll be smiling for a long time afterwards! "}{"Title":"I laughed 'til I cried!","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the sweetest, funniest films I've seen since Local Hero.  The scenes in Ned's cottage nearly had me rolling on the floor, and the scene in the church was priceless.  I'm so glad this film finally came to local theatres; I think word-of-mouth will really give it a boost.  "},{"Title":"An absolute delight!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine brings out the rebellious nature in all of us, but in all the right ways.  This movie explores what happens to a small Irish coastal village when it is discovered that the only winner to the national lottery is a local dead man.  Would you join a conspiracy to split the winnings? The joys and perils of wealth are portrayed through the actions of the diverse characters in this close society.  The opening scene sets a high standard for the rest of the movie, and in itself is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Simple stories are still the best!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A charming movie. When I saw the check over 6.8 million pounds I thought this must have been more than the budget of this film... and it would not shock me if this were true.You do not need hundreds of millions of dollars to make a thoroughly entertaining movie.This is a classic and the reasons are great idea, the script is as natural as it can get, the characters are very real and time passes before you know it.This film is like a good friend that knows how to cheer you up. "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Enjoyable; a real sleeper of a good movie.  "},{"Title":"Luck, friendship and compassion are alive and well.","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For those of us who spend various portions of the day imagining how we would spend our Lotto winnings, Waking Ned Devine is a wonderful two-hour journey.Writer/Director Kirk Jones reaffirms that the mastery of suspended disbelief is not the sole domain of Hollywood Techno-Thrillers.The storyline banks on the premise that you believe in the following luck, small isolated towns are warm and full of color and that 51 of 52 people will be willing to keep their mouth shut. "},{"Title":"a poor remake of Local Hero","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The problem with WND is that it's all about the money. From the opening scene right through to the end, everything that happens is driven by money or the lack thereof. That's a hard, cold core around which to wrap all these lovely Irish (well, Manx really) vistas and all these craggy Irish faces. If the filmmakers meant to remake Local Hero, they clearly missed the story that movie told. It's a story of friendship and belonging, of learning to connect. The money's there in Local Hero, but only to move the plot along. In Waking Ned Devine, all you really know about the characters is how they react to pounds from heaven. The money is the whole movie. "},{"Title":"An instant classic.  Don't miss this one.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This gentle English farce about a lottery winner in a small Irish village is an instant classic.  The plot is one of the most cleverly constructed in years (it contains the greatest sneeze in screen history).  The characters are warmly eccentric in the best tradition of English comedy.  The performances--especially by David Kelly and Ian Bannen--are so perfect they will bring tears to your eyes.  This is one of those movies that make audiences applaud.  If David Kelly doesn't get an Oscar nomination, there should be an investigation. "},{"Title":"This year's The Full Monty","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this year's best little overseas gem in the tradition of The Full Monty. it's charming, sweet, hysterically funny, and deals with very dark social issues of greed and desire.  don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Warmth, laughter and genuine wit","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An EXCELLENT Irish film, and I wouldn't be surprised if it gets an Oscar nod. How lovely to have a film so full of warmth, laughter and genuine wit.. .WOW! This is a movie who's time has come. How nice to be able to walk out of a movie feeling like a million bucks! (no pun intended!) Genuine, warm, and truly a gem! The audience actually stood to their feet and cheered at the end. I wanted to rush out afterward and do a good deed for someone -- that's just how this film makes you feel. Let's hope it does the same for the rest of the world, eh? When this film comes out this month RUN, don't walk, to see this remarkable slice of happiness! "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine is the sweetest, funniest, most charming movie I've seen in a long time! At some scenes, you just don't know if you should laugh or cry...and ultimately end up laughing so hard that you have to wipe up your tearing eyes. The topic is funny, the development of the plot is clever, the actors are great, and the whole story feels natural (except the phone booth scene towards the end of the movie, which, however, somehow fits in this utterly crazy, yet genuine and touching comedy). Certain scenes are invaluable, e.g. Jackie and Michael's morbidly funny attempt to rearrange dead Ned Devine's facial expression, or Michael's desperate naked bike ride. By the way, David Kelly did a great acting job in the whole movie!The film is set in a beautiful location and the Irish music adds a lot of character to it.Waking Ned Devine really does make you feel like a million bucks! "}{"Title":"Charming","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The flavour, spirit and humour of Ireland is almost bottled in this light-hearted comedy about two old boys who conspire to keep the lottery winnings of a deceased friend.Acted with wonderful mirth and charming wit, and lavishly filmed in that majestically rugged country, the film is easily able to carry you away from your cares for ninety minutes.With all this considered, one can excuse the shallow obsession with money that the film portrays. Ian Bannen and David Kelly form a wonderful partnership as the close friends Jackie and Michael, and able support comes from Fionnula Flanagan, Susan Lynch and James Nesbitt.Saturday, March 13, 1999 - Astor Theatre StKilda "},{"Title":"...Devine","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one case where the American title (Waking Ned Devine - also the title under which the film was released in Australia) is better - so much better, I think, that it qualifies as the film's TRUE title.  The evocative rhythm of Waking Ned Devine captures the film so much better than the multiplex-friendly clunk of Waking Ned that I find it hard to believe that it's the latter title that's the Irish original.It's a charming, good-natured, clever (and, of course, funny) comedy.  It's a good thing the townsfolk are ripping off - if they can even be said to be doing that - the lottery, which is, as the narrator reminds us, an absurd institution, as close to precisely the wrong way to redistribute wealth as it is possible to devise.  The village isn't exactly entitled to the money it's trying to claim, which is why the film has the delicious flavour of forbidden fruit; but then, nobody else is, which is why it lacks the sour aftertaste.  It's a black comedy which manages not to be even the slightest bit mean-spirited, despite the presence of Lizzy Quinn, possibly the most evil, sour old grouch in the world.  (And yet, she's somehow as believable a character as any other.)Side note the fraud doesn't strike me as unworkable at all.  Remember, there are TWO pretences going on at once.  To the State as a whole the village must pretend that NOBODY has died.  (No death, no coroner.)  To the lottery official who comes to verify the identity of Ned Divine, who happens to see a funeral taking place, they're forced to admit that someone has died, so they must pretend that it's someone other than Ned - which is an easy deception, since this is a LOTTERY official, and it's not his business to report or investigate the unrelated deaths that may have occurred recently in the places he visits.Another side note David Kelly - who played Michael - was INSTANTLY recognisable around the English-speaking world as the same actor who had appeared on a SINGLE episode of Fawlty Towers that first aired in 1975.  This must be a record of some kind. "},{"Title":"Gets better towards the end.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable.****Very Good.***Okay.**You Could Go For A Meal Instead.*Avoid At All Costs.I'd been kept in somewhat recupital anticipation of Waking Ned Divine,an Irish comedy I'd missed at the theatres and caught up with just today on video.It seems to have been post subject to much the same fiddling most British helmed pictures are put through nowaday,with numbers of critics viewing it prior to it's theatrical release. I found this valiant attempt to convert hollywood family comedy to British waters a bit slow and slumbering to start with. I think it got it's own character development somewhat muddled,as it tried to build on this at the start,leaving us plodding on for about the first hour and a half,and possibly a bit beyond. The characters were interesting and well presented, especially the central couple of old Irish codgers causing the fuss in the community. Gradually,the script worked on the chemistry of this pair to thrust me into the central story,which gathered pace and laughs considerably towards the end (the actual ending itself is a right hoot.) Mind you,I can't resist a flick set in good old Ireland whenever opportunity arrives,and this interesting,fairly funny and original comedy was satisfactory enough for me.*** "},{"Title":"wacky little independent movie","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this little movie is another example that you don't need a big budget with big special effects.all you need is a compelling story.and some humour,courtesy of some wacky characters and situations,doesn't hurt.this movie has all of that.it is hysterically funny at times,and always entertaining.this is a UK/France/USA production,although how equal each countries participation is,could be up for debate.i say this because the Brits are very good at making this type of movie work,without being depressing understand that to be funny,a movie actually needs comedy.most small American made films are usually depressing(at least the one i've had the misfortune of sitting through)maybe that's a requirement.As for the French,i haven't seen to many of their films,if any.the point is,this is a very good film in all aspects.sometimes i laughed so hard,i cried.and yes,the title is actually relevant to the movie,though i won't say how.check this little gem out.you won't be disappointed. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Waking Me For the Good Parts","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Acting was excellent.  Loved the characters.  Warm and sincere and some really cute scenes.  But somehow, I kept falling out of concentration.  It was slow for me.  Good, but slow.  Really liked the end. "},{"Title":"Pleasant, but not exceptional","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A pleasant way of spending ninety minutes, but virtually the entire plot of the film is contained in the trailer, and what isn't in the trailer is fairly predictable. Nice scenery, but don't try and find it in Ireland, as the film was shot entirely on the Isle of Man. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been much better","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect going into this and I came out of the theater getting something different than what I thought I would. For starters I thought Ned Devine would be a main character.I liked this movie, I wish I could have liked more of it, however; it should have been another 30 minutes long, at least, in order to develop the relationships between the people in the small town more fully. I really think it could have been great rather than just touching. Or it may just have been longer and not add that much more. At any rate, we'll never know it.Ian Bannen and Fionnula Flanagan are great as the O'Sheas. Most of the other performances are good too, none rise to be mentioned, however. Great music and beautiful scenery give you another reason to see this movie; to go along with the main reason its an endearing story of 2 friends, 2 lovers, 1 wife, 1 boy, 47 other townsfolk and some pigs.  "},{"Title":"A big disappointment.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Despite an unusual premise, good acting and beautiful Irish scenery, I found Waking Ned Devine a big disappointment. The story  drags interminably, and except for a few chuckles, the humor is weak and labored, occasionally quite distasteful.  The endless jokes about the malodorous pig farmer are tiresome, as are the conversations between the priest and the precociously cynical boy, who seems to have come out of an American TV sit-com.If the sight of corpses losing their dentures, bare bottoms on motorbikes, and phone-booths tumbling into the ocean, is your kind of humor, then this is your film!  My advice to the rest of you--let Ned Devine rest in peace! "},{"Title":"Cheerful comedy that somehow just misses the mark.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an entertaining, light film, full of charm and easy wit. The performances are warm and natural and there are a few genuine belly laughs.But the opening hilarious joke, is never really lived up to. The film doesn't have much to say beyond its surface, which is fine, but for a pure comedy we need to laugh a lot more.Production is tight, as is the story, and everything Irish is very in vogue so this good film should do well at the box office.Don't wait for video release; this was made for the big screen. "},{"Title":"A welcome surprise!","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this movie without knowing even the slightest amount about it. I thought it was a brilliant film that benefitted from an excellent screenplay, wonderful acting, and gorgeous location.  It has a charm that is rarely seen in films today.  I would (and have) recommend this film to everyone! "}{"Title":"Early Christianity","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you hear the movie title well, you already know that God plays a role in it.  Indeed, although the plot is set in a small Irish village last year, this movie is really about early Christianity.  Viewed in this way, it is extremely pleasant.  Many scenes of the life of Jesus are symbolically replayed here around a winning lottery ticket.I came out of the theater with a question is this parallel a way for the author to get a good story line, or a deeply cynical account of the birth of the dominant religion of our World, where Jesus is just a toy in the hands of the apostles ? "},{"Title":"An over-hyped bore.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My problem with some movies is that I see them because of all the hype it's given.  It happened with The English Patient and I hated that.  This film literally put me to sleep.  I have nothing against films with Irish accents. The Brothers McMullen was a great film.  I couldn't understand most of the dialogue so it made me lose interest.  It had the potential to be a good movie, but it appears that it was aimed at an audience opposite of mine.  I hope I will see better Irish films later on in my life.  "},{"Title":"A classic example of the ends justifying the means","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A local newspaper reports that someone in the small Irish village of Tullymore has won the national lottery but it takes a while to discover who the winner is. In the British comedy Waking Ned Devine filmed on the Isle of Man, Jackie O'Shea (Ian Bannen) invites all the locals to a chicken dinner at which he hopes the winner will be revealed. The only one who does not attend in Ned Devine and soon the winning lottery ticket is found clutched by the prize winner Devine who unfortunately died from the shock. Together with his friend Michael O'Sullivan, O'Shea cooks up a scheme to pretend that Michael is Ned Devine and split the winnings of close to 7 million pounds amongst the 53 people living in the village. The two enlist the cooperation of the people in the village in order to fool an investigator from the Lottery Commission, but one crotchety person in the village stands in their way.Waking Ned Devine is a charming film with a lot of local color and a superb score by the great Shaun Davey. It has some great acting and entertaining subplots involving the romance between a pig farmer, Pig Finn (James Nesbitt), and Maggie (Susan Lynch), an eligible young lady and contains some enjoyable interchanges between a young boy Maurice (Robert Hickey), and the substitute village priest (Dermot Kerrigan), filling in during the regular's vacation. Unfortunately the film sends the wrong message, justifying lying and stealing because it is for the good of the community. They rationalize - Ned would have wanted them to get the money and no one will find out, a classic example of the ends justifying the means. I kept waiting in vain for some indication from the filmmakers that greed may not be the highest value but it was not to be. "},{"Title":"A really sweet film","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is categorised as a comedy. It is not a laugh-out-loud hysterical comedy, more a gentle comedy, with one or two very funny moments. The plot line revolves around a small village in Ireland where a local man wins the lotto and then dies from the shock. His two friends then decide to try and claim the winnings in his name and share the money between all the villagers (all 52 of them!) but to do this they must as a community fool the lotto man from Dublin into thinking Ned is still alive.Although it is not exactly a hilarious film, there are moments where you will genuinely laugh. The first scene in particular when Ian Bannen wants his apple tart brought to him whilst watching the lotto results - hilarious. But it is also a heartwarming film, the perfect feel-good entertainment. And I defy anyone not to feel moved by the main theme song played over the end credits (The Parting Glass by Shaun Davey) which is quite simply one of the most beautiful and moving songs I've ever heard. I know a couple of people who have already said they want it played at their funerals, and I think i might as well.Ian Bannen, David Kelly and Fionnula Flanagan are the main stars, and Bannen in particular is outstanding, striking just the right balance of humour and poignancy. James Nesbitt and Susan Lynch also prove highly comical as the couple kept apart by Nesbitt's permanent Eau de Pig cologne. But the real star performer is Eileen Dromey as Lizzie Quinn, a cantankerous wheelchair-bound old woman, with no friends except her cats (and perfectly happy for it to remain the same). Everyone will recognise someone they know in the old bat, and her simply unbelievable rudeness will leave you laughing more with shock than anything. What further gives the film a more poignant touch is the fact that Bannen died shortly after this film was finished. But it is certainly a fitting swansong to a terrific career.But be that as it may, this is a wonderful film, in a way comparable with Its a Wonderful Life in tone (a weird statement I know as this film revolves around someone's death) but it is such a sweet and heartwarming film that it will restore your faith in the world, and the cinema. A must-see. "},{"Title":"Average feel-good comedy","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waking Ned Devine (or just Waking Ned as it was called in the UK and Ireland) is fundamentally a movie to pass the time pleasantly. It's not the one of the best comedies I've seen even thought it did raise a few laughs. Where this movie succeeds the most is in the two main characters. They combine effortlessly to give us a heart warming performance worthy of any award. But sadly its failures seem to over-shadow those two preformances.These failures come from an uneventful script and a love story that bores you to sleep. It's these two aspects that bring the movie down a lot. Plus the fact that you aren't even laughing non-stop the whole way through. True, it does have its hilarious moments (especially the beginning) but these are too few and too far apart.Waking Ned Divine is not a bad movie, but it isn't a good movie either. When it tries to be funny it mostly is, but when it tries to be serious it's disappointing. Overall, a nice-but-dim experience. "},{"Title":"A wee bit overrated.","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am apparently of the small minority that finds this movie vastly overrated. To me, this movie is full of Blarney, showing a tourist's view of Ireland. It's not surprising to me to find that the movie's writer/director isn't even Irish (indeed, it's not even FILMED in Ireland), and it's even less surprising to find that he previously worked in advertising. This movie is more of the postcard idealization of films like The Quiet Man that appeals more to outsiders' stereotypical views of rural Ireland than any sort of reality. Apart from the iconic image of aged David Kelly naked on a motorbike, the laughs are few and far between, the farcical situations far-fetched, the characters unidimensional.The climactic dispatch of the villainous is surprisingly mean-spirited for a film that tries to sell itself on its sentimentalism.It's useful if you're an actor looking for rural Irish dialect study, but otherwise, in my humble opinion, it's a bore. This is a movie made by non-Irish purely for other non-Irish, strictly to sell a version of Ireland that doesn't exist.  "},{"Title":"One of the best sleeper endings in all filmdom","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wonder how many people picked up on the stunning tour de force resolution?; a cameo by God, intervening on the subatomic level.  I came across a christian movie review of WND, and was curious to find that *they* didn't pick up on this delightfully harrowing theological implication.  They were too busy scouting out the naughty bits, dirty words, and nice landscapes!WND artfully, cheerily-yet-nail-bitingly leads us to this denouement.  It's an almost textbook example of fine tension management in narrative; slow buildup of conflict and tension, to the breaking point, then a complete climactic release.  At that point, there's nothing left to do but show folks taking a pint then taking their skycam out for a pleasant stroll to a grassy sunsplashed seaside overlook!Wonderful dream sequence where we meet Ned on the astral plane.  Great acting and characterizations; everyone lets you under their skins.All told, a fine example of great cinematic narrative.  I don't think this movie did very well at the box office, and I've got to say I sort of wonder why.  If you like a sturdy, functional story, see it.  "},{"Title":"Predictable, yet fun.......","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was entertaining.  I wouldn't rent it if you want to follow anything that makes a lot of sense, but if you just want some laughs, it's okay for that.  I feel that there are many other films out there that offer wittier fun, though.  I was actually a little disappointed because several people raved about this and it was kind of a let down.I gave it 6 out of 10 for trying to be funny and for some of the acting that did pull it out of being a poor film.  All in all, I'd say it is one that if you missed, you'd be just fine without it..... "},{"Title":"charming but weak","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a charming movie but offered nothing new. The characters were simple and endearing but both they and the plot were absurd.The countryside was pleasant and a realistic small village feel was obtained. Michael O'Sullivan (screen name) stole the show as he was funny without having to do anything. In some ways this was like the start of a mini-series. I felt I wanted to know more about the the people and their pasts and futures. "},{"Title":"Contrived and overrated","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I guess every year must have it's quirky (and inoffensive) comedy hit and this one was the closest that 1998 had to offer. The acting is very charming. The payoff was better than body of the film which was a bland stew of small Irish village cliches. On the whole, this film is pleasant and competent, but unless you find naked old guys on motorcycles to be intrinsically funny, see Local Hero!  "}{"Title":"overhyped","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, the opening scene is hilarious, but there are too many suspensions of disbelief for me. Good to see the one-armed waiter from Robin's Nest gets big screen roles as well as bit parts in Ballykissangel...Had a habit of skipping over major plot points really quickly as if to hide their significance.  "},{"Title":"Good music, good scenery...needs a new ending.","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Waking Ned Devine started off wonderfully. The music, the scenery was all very nice, especially if you like Ireland as much as I, but I found that the main character, Jackie, reminded me too much of Jack Lemmon in Grumpy Old Men. I also thought that there were too many attempted subplots, but they weren't given enough attention for the viewer to understand or care. The only one I liked was the romance between Maggie and Finn, especially a scene where she comes so close to kissing him, then smells the pigs that he cares for...and once more turns him down. About five minutes from the end of the movie, it seems that all is a mess, and I think they attempted to end it all too quickly. Talk about getting rid of enemies. In short, it had definite potential, BUT...  "},{"Title":"Light hearted but superficial comedy.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Waking Ned' is made very much in the style of old Ealing comedies and thematically is very similar to 'Whiskey Galore'. Like Mackendrick's film we are presented with an isolated and traditional community who depend on fishing and farming for their sustenance. The themes in the film are, firstly of 'little people' versus authority, namely the National Lottery whom they must deceive to fraudulently claim the dead villager's winnings.And secondly the kindred versus malevolent spirits, such as the unpleasant and reclusive Lizzy Quinn who would shop the community to get 10 per cent of the winnings and put them all in jail and out of sight.The performances, particularly Ian Bannen, are good but somehow the film is too superficial to be a great film like 'Whiskey Galore'. It would be fair to describe 'Waking Ned' as an 'Ealing' film, in that it attempts to convey strongly the idea of 'community' which was typical of post-war Ealing movies i.e. 'Passport to Pimlico', 'Whiskey Galore' etc. However while those Ealing movies reflected many of the ideas and cultural perceptions of community in a Britain which had just gone through the Second World War, 'Waking Ned' projects a mythical Irish 'innocence'. In modern Ireland (or reality) a dead body would be taken to a coroner (as in most civilized countries) who would verify the cause of death, the body would not be left to the villagers or simply be recorded on the parish register. Perhaps, I should suspend my disbelief, but I feel that in doing so I am acquiescing to a patronising and rose tinted view of Ireland. It seems that while New Labour is desperately striving to cultivate an ideology of community in an uncertain Britain, Ireland becomes, in film at least, a backdrop for idealised fantasies about dying communities struggling to stay alive in a harsh and indifferent world. "},{"Title":"So much premise. The end result was disappointing","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this movie with high expectations. I had been told that it was hilarious/ witty and a great film.Bah, I'll admit the film had a few good laughs but I would hardly call it hilarious. The biggest let down in this film was there were far too many moments when nothing much happened. It was these moments which distracted from this unique film.Scenery was excellent so if you are homesick for Ireland see this film other wise wait to it come out on video.  "},{"Title":"You win some - you lose some","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Once you get over how gut-retchingly Irish Waking Ned attempts to be, you are left with an hour and a half of mild entertainment.  I even managed to raise a smile once or twice.Perhaps a less familiar pair of protagonists would have allowed me to settle easier into the backwater isolation of Tullymore.  But David Kelly, he of the rearly inserted garden gnome, is a familiar face wherever an element of colour, green, is required in studio or set bound shenanigans.  And Ian Bannen, a Scot, gives the impression of the English star do his darnedest for the home market.None of this was needed.  The gentle story coupled with verdant sweeps of, er...,  the Isle of Man!, maybe, just maybe, made this a winner.  "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's obvious from the first moments what this film would like to be an absolute Irish charmer of tears and laughter.  Unfortunately, though there are a few genuine moments of hilarity (notably, the ending), it remains a poorly crafted film.  The actors are at best wasted, only Kelly and Bannen emerging with laughs.  The rest are left floundering with disturbingly thin roles, so that when the plot tries to move forward, you can really hear those wheels groan with the weight.  It is a shame, because just the sight of awkward Kelly is enough to bring a smile to your face, which perhaps heightened my disappointment. "},{"Title":"One Naked Scotman On A Motorbike Does Not A Comedy Make","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Despite some grand scenery, interesting faces and capable actors, this movie falls absolutely flat. Intermittently amusing, it lumbers along to a mean-spirited and all-too-convenient conclusion that negates the fleeting, effervescent charm merited by the setting and the charming cast.Who is Ned, anyway? What makes him such a saint? Posthumous revelations about the man - who is never seen alive in the movie - ring hollow, and the final fifteen minutes, complete with the ending helicopter shot and swelling music, are downright offensive, and futile in their attempt to cover up the glaring inadequacies of the script. The film needed a new ending, about ten extra minutes and, most desperately, to be re-edited. "},{"Title":"No comedy.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The story was fairly good, but more melodramatic than comedic.  I had hoped to see a comedy, but was disappointed in it's lack of humor.  I have spent some time in Ireland and have respect for the Irish ability to poke fun at themselves.  This just wasn't a good example of Irish humor.  Sorry "},{"Title":"A comic missed opportunity","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film promised so much and delivered so little. Here we have the ingredients of a classic comedy - a colourful local community, deception, death and the land of the Blarney stone.The scenery was stunning and the story-line full of possibilities, however, the dialogue between the characters, 'the crack', was lame and uninspired. Given the type of film this was that is an unforgivable error of judgement by the director.I so much wanted to like this film, but instead I ended up disappointed. "},{"Title":"Check out Whiskey Galore instead","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A disappointment. It started with lots of promise, but then the ending just fizzled away. There are a million funnier, more meaningful turns for the ending.Waking Ned Devine is very similar in spirit and theme to the 1959 Ealing Studios comedy Whiskey Galore, which is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. However, Whiskey Galore actually shows the effects of greed on the village, where Waking Ned Devine merely uses it for cheap comedy. Whiskey Galore knew what it was about, but Waking Ned Devine doesn't have a clue - it's not about anything.Ned Divine did offer some nice performances - and I was happy to not recognize a single face. A big star would have ruined it. If you can find Whiskey Galore, you'll be doing yourself a lot better than watching this pointless rehash. "}{"Title":"Nostalgic muck","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was so bored with Waking Ned Devine that I kept dozing off.  And when I woke up I kept waiting for something to happen.  The joke of tricking the government agent into giving them the money wears thin in about five minutes, and even though the acting was good, I didn't even chuckle. I don't like comedies, but this wasn't even a good comedy, just a bit of silly heartwarming nostalgic muck.  As far as I'm concerned this was a waste of my money and my time. "},{"Title":"Greedy People Not Funny","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have some Irish heritage but I'm not from Ireland. I love Irish music, like the people, like the accent. think the country is beautiful, etc. I say all this because this movie sucked, and to me made the Irish people look like idiots. Let's hope they aren't like the annoying characters in this film. In here, most of the people are money-hungry, shallow people who will do and say anything to get the riches of the Lotto. Someone in the town has just won the big lottery and they want to get in good with whomever it is. Sure, some parts are funny and it's only an exaggerated movie to get some laughs but I found the people irritating. I also don't appreciate hearing the Lord's name in vain seven times in first 20 minutes. I guess I'm an unusual Irishman in that regard. I say, stick that blasphemy in a crime movie, not a comedy. "},{"Title":"Excruciating, agonizing trip into total boredom","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a lousy, pathetic, downright dull film. Nothing even remotely amusing occured during the entire mess; unless you want to consider the sadly laughable plot, the corny dialogue, the dispirited performances. The only thing I enjoyed about this one was the scenery and that was not nearly enough to keep me even somewhat interested. Bad; really, really bad...... "}]