[{"Title":"Starts Promising... Ends Illogically.","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  This film starts out promising and carries that promise a fair way into the movie, but when everything falls into place we are left with illogical character developments purely so the film-makers can end the movie on time. The fact that Snoop's character is not a villain, but the script unjustly makes him one, is probably the worst thing about the movie. However, this film is still worth the watch for Snoop Dogg's interesting performance and some actually creepy moments.This film as a whole is not a success, but for fans of B-grade horror (which admittedly I am), this has some value to it.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"8/10 on my scale. What a good horror/revenge fick should be","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Yeah, like pretty much every other horror movie that hits the theaters, this one took a pretty heavy trashing both, from the critics and from the audiences who didn't understand it.  However, I found Bones to be a highly enjoyable, entertaining, and (at times) creepy horror flick that I hope, is the birth of a new franchise.  It's very refreshing to see a horror flick that can take a standard premise and make it seem fresh again.  Also, I enjoyed the killer being a someone who we can sympathize with. Let me break it down a little bit. Back in 1979, Jimmy Bones was the man of his neighborhood.  Just what all he was into is never fully explained, but we do know that he runs a pretty classy little nightclub and loves to dress in full-pimp get-up.  Basically, Bones is a good guy.  All he wants to do is run his business and take care of his people.  However, when he is propositioned to bring in crack, he refuses and is double-crossed then murdered by people he thought he could trust.  Jump twenty years into the future and we get a group of twenty-somethings who have just bought the building where Bones was murdered.  Hoping to turn the place into a club, they ignore all warnings of the place's evil and pretty soon, they mess around and wake the dead.  Now that Bones is back, he's upset, understandably, and wants revenge on the people who did him wrong.That's it.  Kinda sounds like Nightmare On Elm Street right?  Well, it's a lot like it and a lot of others you may have seen.  What set this one apart for me was the lead.  Casting Snoop Dog as Jimmy Bones was perfect.  I've never been a big fan of his acting, but here, he pulls it off great giving us a villain that we can sympathize with, care about, and root for.  We know where he's coming from and watching him take his revenge on the dispicable villains was fun fun fun.  I also enjoyed the romantic angle brought to the film by the chemistry between Snoop and Pam Grier.  I don't think that it would have gone down near as well had there been a different set of actors, but it gave a real soft side to Bones and made me like him that much more.I really loved the cinematography and having the blood look intentionally fake, was also a nice touch.  Unlike some others, I really enjoyed the shifting in tones. The first 2/3 of the picture had a really dark and gothic tone to it while the latter third had a little bit of comic relief thrown in.  Yes, it went WAY over the top (the severed heads, that whole world of the dead bit) but, for me, that added to the overall joy of the film and made it that much more.  It also made it  VERY hard to take it serious.  It's pretty hard to find a good horror flick these days (and a mainstream one, at that) and I'm sure that I'll be adding this one to my dvd collection pretty soon.  Oh, (I don't think I'm giving too much away here) the door is left open for a whole slew of sequels.  I can't wait. "},{"Title":"A wild,very entertaining horror movie","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  I was doubtful about this movie when I went to the cinema to watch it last weekend, but after having watched it I reinforce my good opinion about the products made by New Line Cinema. The film is very well done but apart from that, I think it shouldn´t disappoint any fan of horror, it has everything that a good movie of the genre must have, including great amounts of blood, a very good rhythm and effective actors such as Pam Grier(Jackie Brown), the muse of blaxploitation genre from the seventies, a genre which is paid homage in this movie as well as some classics of the genre such as Hellraiser or Reanimator, although the introduction of the comic element paying homage to that movie was for me the weakest element of the whole(it broke the so tenebrous atmosphere).Finally, director Ernst. R.Dickerson who also directed the not so good but entertaining tales from the Crypt Evil Knight assured that this movie had elements from Italian horror cinema, I don´t know but perhaps there is one The warms.A homage to Lucio Fulci?, I know there is many homages here but it is the same for other movies and the cocktail is far from being so effectively combined as here.I don´t think they are going to make a sequel, but I am looking forward eagerly the next movie from this director and I wish Resident Evil was so satisfactory. "},{"Title":"'Bones'","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  With a growing trend of rappers starring in their own movies, Snoop Dogg joins the pack with 'Bones'. Snoop plays Jimmy Bones, a 70s hustler, who is betrayed and murdered by some of his closest associates. Since the time of the murder, Jimmy's corpse is buried in the basement of an abandoned house in Bones' now seedy neighborhood. When a group of empty-headed teenagers buy the abandoned house, they unsurprisingly wake up Jimmy's spirit, resulting in Bones going on a bloody rampage for revenge.What the heck are we to do with a movie like 'Bones'. Are we supposed to take it seriously as a horror movie. Or laugh at its silliness and Snoop's attempt at becoming a real-life 'Doggfather'. Whatever its intentions are, this movie doesn't have the feel of a horror movie. Rather, it feels more like one of Snoop's pot induced fantasies.Rating 5/10 or (2 stars) "},{"Title":"Suspenseful? Maybe not.","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  This movie is not the worst of horror movies that I have seen, however it is far from the best also. This movie has some pretty decent special effects, and doesn't have a bad story line. Who better to play a drug pusher in the 70's than Snoop Dogg. Snoop is not the best actor in the world but does show a better job in this movie than previous movies. 7 out of 10 stars. Not great, but not bad. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Midnight Movie","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Ahh... the midnight horror movie.  Cheesy, silly, and not in the slighest bit scary, its sole purpose is to provide a cheap thrill or induce sleep.  As anyone who's read any of my other reviews can see, I like cheap thrills just as much as a good movie, and although Bones certainly was cheap, cheesy, silly, and not in the slightest bit scary, I didn't enjoy it as much as I'd thought I would.The reasoning for this is that Bones is exactly like any other direct-to-video, midnight cable fare, only at theatrical release, midday pay-per-view pricing.  The reason I like other cheap films so much is because they are just that - cheap.  I'm biased; I expect a lot more from a movie that I shell out $9 for in a theatre than a $2 5-day rental.In 1979, Jimmy Bones (Snoop Dogg!) is your friendly neighborhood numbers-runner.  A crooked cop, a drug dealer, and his business associate try to convince him to bring crack to the hood.  Bones is a numbers-runner with morals and a love for his people, and won't allow it.  The business meeting ends with his murder.In 2001, the neighborhood has gone to hell, especially Bones' old mansion, which is currently haunted by a big black dog with blood-red eyes.  A group of teen wanna-be DJ's (who also just happen to be the children of Bones' old associate) decide to fix up the mansion and turn it into a happening nightclub.  They discover Bones' skeleton buried in the basement, and a stray dog, whom they name Bones (how original!).  This dog just happens to be the same killer incarnation of Jimmy Bones' ghost, and every life he takes adds life to the bones in the basement, until Jimmy is resurrected from the dead, and he sure is angry!This film, equal parts horror, comedy and blaxploitation, begs you not to take it seriously.  If you do, like most films of this type, you'll notice the atrocious acting and cheap special effects.  If not, however, you'll be intrigued by bleeding pool tables, talking severed heads, and a climax in the city of the dead, that is actually well done and far surpasses the rest of the film.  Unfortunately, it lacks the campy charm of any of the above mentioned three genres.I knew from the trailers and movie posters not to take this movie seriously.  Even taking it as nonseriously as I could, I just couldn't enjoy it; it's a lowbrow wolf of a film trying to pass itself off in theatrical sheep's clothing.  Honestly, if I had found this on the back shelf of some cheap video store I would've loved it.  In a theatre, I just expect more from films. "},{"Title":"Awwww - It really isn't that bad!!!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" I've read the other comment referring to Snoop Doggs'horror film, Bones....When this first came out it was my favourite horror film but I watched it that many times that it lost its' lustre.The effects are great and plenty of blood and some gore from the outset. The beginning sets the tone for the rest of the film as it's one of those films that you just NEED to get to the bottom of why it is happening and what actually took place to cause it. It all unfolds at a pace enough to keep your interest as a viewer. This film is still a very watchable and enjoyable film in my opinion, even today. It was nice to see Snoop in something different and anyone that is a Snoop Fan will enjoy this film all the more.....7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not too bad, not too good...","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  I must say this film was a little better than I expected, however, having said that I wasn't expecting much in the first place. Im not giving anything away - the storyline is very straightforward and the blurb on the back of the dvd/video cover is quite sufficient in explaining the plot.  If you like your horror movies whether they be A or Z grade (like I do) then this film is worth a peek. The horror scenes are quite decent. There is a surprising amount of genuine suspense (even I jumped a few times)and quite a few laughs - but dont even try and look any further into the film than this! If you are one of those people to whom the quality of a plot must be in league with films such as The Shawshank Redemption and The Godfather - AVOID AT ALL COSTS. This film should only be viewed by those who are fans of the horror genre.  This is a messy film when taken seriously, it makes very little sense, the explanation as to how Mr Bones became of the undead is limp to say the least. Pam Grier (Jackie Brown) is wasted in this film - she has no room to show any of her (in my opinion) excellent talent and comes off wishy washy. Snoop Dogg is a terrible actor and I was very glad that his main roles in the film were limited to flashbacks and the climax. Unfortunatley once again the directors and writers had no idea how to finish the film and resorted to the old spirit of the thought to be defeated demon managed to slip into someone else for no apparent reason cliche. Also I was HIGHLY dissapointed with the death scene of Bones that caused the whole thing -very weak. For horror fans out of interest only. 5/10   "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Bones Street!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  This was a very good film if you dig any of the Nightmare on Elm Street series (preferably Parts 3 or 4). You can see it has that Freddy Krueger vibe running through its veins. Right down to the colorful shadows, neato killings, and anti-hero villain. But it also stands on its own much more than some similiar Nightmare knockoffs (Leprechaun comes to mind, in fact this film plays like a much more effective Leprechaun 4 Lep in the Hood).Snoop Dogg does very well in the role of Bones, making lines like, The Gangster of Love don't need no fried chicken sound very serious and convincing. Pam Grier once again returns to her roots and I for one am not complaining. Maybe I'm slightly partial to this film because it features Katharine Isabelle from one of my favorite horror films Ginger Snaps. But beyond that I very enjoyed this ride of movie. "},{"Title":"Good horror movie","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER CONTAINEDI can't see why everyone is complaining about this movie.  The plot was a little weak, but it's a horror movie.  say that to yourself while you watch it and you won't hate it so much.  Think about it.  there is a very small fraction of horror movies made that have 'good movie' components.  plus, snoop dogg is in this.  that's the first reason to watch it. i realize this doesn't sound like a sound argument to you people that think Traffic was a good movie, but get a life, loosen up, and watch horror movies with the expectation that they'll live up to the legacy of The Horror Movie, not some brainy flick that people superficially latch on to becuase they don't understand it.anyway, Bones was a good horror movie because it did the job of a series of movies in one installment.  usually if there is a lapse in time it's between moves and not in them.  ***SPOILER*** I also appreciate how he is never vanquished by the end of the movie.  It's a plot twist that is not often used. ***END***if you liked this go rent  Killer Klowns from Outer Space "}{"Title":"Not quite complete crap, but close enough...","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" An attempt to make a modern-dress Gothic melodrama that is just not successful. Ernest Dickerson has a good grasp of the iconography of horror films, but he can't put them together well enough to make a good scary movie. He borrows concepts and images liberally from Clive Barker, Dario Argento, and Mario Bava - but all it shows is that he's a good copycat, not that he's a good stylist. From the idea of evil reviving itself by consuming a victim (Barker's Hellraiser, but cinematic ally dating at least back to Hammer's Dracula, Prince of Darkness from 1965), thru the rain of maggots (Argento's magisterial Suspiria), to the disembodied hand reaching out of the darkness to torment the dead man's lover (Bava's masterpiece, Whip and the Body), there really is nothing here that we haven't seen before and better. The conceit of setting it in a ghetto with an all-black cast promises an interesting variation on your basic revenge from beyond the grave scenario, but beyond the music and fashions it's still a pretty clichéd film. One of the problems is that Dickerson just can't seem to leave well enough alone - like the maggot scene. OK, it's raining maggots and it's terrifying, we get it already, is it really necessary to go for the gross-out by showing people EATING them? Or the scene where Maurice is killed - again, the dog-spirit eats Maurice to give form and substance to Bones' cadaver, we get it, it's not necessary to linger on the details of the chow-down. It's never scary - just disgusting. Even his attempts to inject humor are forced and heavy-handed, with the idiotic scenes of Bones carrying the heads of his victims and having them carry on an interminably pointless conversation. And again, he doesn't show it to us once, there's at least three long scenes with the chatty heads so whatever humor there was is pounded into unconsciousness thru repetition. But the most glaring problem with this movie is that we are asked to sympathize with a character who is, at bottom, just as big a bad guy in life as the crack dealers who murder him. Dickerson tries to show us Bones as the protector of his 'hood, but come on - he's exploiting his people just as much with his numbers game, or did it never occur to anyone to ask how Bones got the money for his supah-dupah fly crib when everyone else around him lives in complete poverty? For a MUCH better horror movie that reflects the black urban experience, rent Tales from the Hood instead. "},{"Title":"Not so bad...5/10","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Ok, this movie wasn't all that bad.  It wasn't quite a B-movie, but it's not worth anymore than 5 points, though.  It had decent flashback sequences (and note the blacksploitation theme throughout the movie to go along with those) with good music and a good feel to add to a horror movie.  Snoop did a pretty good job as well, even though not changing his damn voice around the end would have helped for an extra point.  And it had a new hot face for the sexy girlfriend in trouble, Bianca Lawson.BUT, it did get goofy and unbelievable in MANY scenes.  The complexity seemed to be added on after the script was written.  The cutoff head scene was funny and actually a pretty good thing to add to the movie to lighten the mood.  And the whole idea that we are to be afraid of Snoop coming back to bitchslap the lot of us is ridiculous.  What was up with the fake blood?  The worst looking around...I don't anyone who is a fan of horror films will appreciate this film.  It seems to have been made for Snoop fans or people going out to watch a bad horror film (for it's humor, not for scare tactics.)  It was a cool club in the movie, though! "},{"Title":"Gripping Until the End","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  I watched this with my roommate Saturday night and I must admit that it had me on the edge of my seat, until the very end.  The special effects and camera work is very impressive.  It is what it is, a fun movie that has some redeeming qualities.  Believe me, I've seen worse and some that weren't this fun.  This is definately not a keeper but it should be viewed once. "},{"Title":"Packs about as much bark as a goldfish","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" Hey, don't you think it's kind of odd that someone would stab themselves in the chest with a flick knife and then bury themselves? If your answer to the above question is I agree, then you could have been, or may well be part of the team of monkeys that came up with the idea for, wrote and cast this movie. It's a huge shame that stuff like this gets made when there are screenwriters and directors with good ideas and just need some money. Speaking of money, if you want to waste it; Bones is as good a film as any to waste it on. Well, if you like to waste money and you enjoy pain, that is. Bones is notable for one of the most incredible reasons a film can be notable for, and that is that it stars a rapper. The rapper in question is Snoop Dogg (a.k.a. Dogg, Snoopy, Snoop Doggy Dogg, Snoop and just about every other lame variant of the words 'snoop' and 'dogg' that you can come up with). The tired blend of Hellraiser and rubbish movie starring a rapper see Snoop Dogg get to flex his acting muscles, and he proves with his one-note performance in this movie that he is just as adept at the art of acting as he is at the art of music making. If you catch my drift.To be quite frank, despite his best efforts to look cool; Snoopy Doggy Dogg ends up looking like just as much of an idiot as his name suggests he is. I mean seriously, who goes by the name of 'Snoop Dogg' when they don't have to? Aside from it's star, this film has a number of other problems. It's plot is very tired, and it follows the exceedingly boring and familiar tale of someone who was killed being resurrected and then taking their revenge. The tacky dialogue, duff acting and illogical plotting don't help this, and not even the murders can save the film, as it's easy to say that even they manage to score maximum points on the dull scale. I will never forgive the people responsible for this movie for wasting all that time and money on it, when it could have been put to better use. How about giving one of the more experienced directors who could produce something good, if given a budget? I guess that's one of the many problems with things like rap music; if it sells, it will continue to be made. "},{"Title":"okay","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  okay horror flick is not that bad but isn't that great either it has lots of gore but it is pink looking and its poorly done the acting is bad and it has an intriguing premise but is sometimes dull although it is fairly entertaining it is really nothing special ** out of 5 "},{"Title":"**** out of 5","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  The name Jimmy Bones strikes fear into the hearts of all who hear it. Back in 1979 he ruled the street, now after his death, over twenty years later Jimmy Bones is still in charge. After a group of teens buy Jimmy's building and turn it into a dance club, his sprit is released and he goes on a bloody rampage, seeking revenge on his killers. Sounds like a horror movie doesn't it? It even looks and feels like a horror movie. But if it's a horror movie your expecting you may be in for a little disappointment. We spend the entire film switching back and forth from 1979 to the present day. The 1979 scenes seem to be knocking on blacksplotion flicks. The present day scenes are a parody of new age fright flicks. Between the two settings everything seems to be played for laughs and it works wonderfully well. Back in 1979 there is everything you would expect to see in a blacksplotion flick, the afros, the sideburns, the stylish clothes and they even use phrases like kracker Saturday mourning special and you know what? It's pretty darn funny. Now we move to the present day. Seems like everyone in the film  knows that they are ripping off House on Haunted Hill, there is even a reference to Vincent Price in there somewhere. You can also see all of your favourite old school horror cliches, projectile vomit made of maggots, the pipes that bleed, the severed head that still talk even after they have been decapitated, the pool table that bleeds after it is cut and the perfect silhouettes of blood that splatter on the wall. But what makes it so enjoyable is not the fact that we have seen it all before, it is how we get the feeling that film makers don't want us to take the film seriously, they just want us to sit back and enjoy. The film has a very fun atmosphere surrounding it and that is something that you don't find often in horror flicks today. The script is so clever you almost have to let out a chuckle because everything that happens is so predictable. What do you think will happen when a turn table group called the Resurrection Brothers enter a haunted house or when you find a dog with glowing red eyes that attacks you and you keep him and call it Bones? It's almost like the fact that everything is so stupid and cliched that it comes off as being smart. Now I'm not saying that everything is all fun and games. Director Ernest R. Dickerson throws in some very distorted camera angles and creepy imagery to keep the horror fans please and the meek on the edge of their seats and it comes off rather effective. Snoop Dogg is wilding over the top and entertaining as Jimmy Bones who could very well have been making the next Crow film right here without anyone knowing and blacksplotion queen Pam Grier can also be seen as Bones' girl. The special effects are very enjoyable whether they are serious (the night club explosion) or amusing (the talking head) or even just plain bad (the fake looking blood) and not to mention there is never an absence of gore through out. If I didn't know any better I would have to say that this is a feel good movie. So if you are looking for an entertaining nod to the old school that doesn't require and thinking or logic than you are in for one of the summers best horror flicks, it not you'd better just pass this one by.   "},{"Title":"Amusingly awful. (spoilers)","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" Caught this on BET one night. Bones was utterly horrible, but so bad that it was actually funny. And I must say, that while it is a pathetic teen-targeted horror film (and directed even further at Black and probably Hispanic audiences), it was about a zillion times better than most of the pretty white teen horror movies I have seen (Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer, Urban Legend, and all of their nauseating sequels to boot).This is the story of what I guess was a drug dealer (gee...does Snoop ever do anything different than play a street thug of one sort or another). And his ghost floats around this bizarre, abandoned mansion, that is suddenly claimed by a handful of neighborhood teens who want to turn the pit into a party palace. Bones (Snoop) is terrorizing the people in the house as his ghost floats around in pergatory aiming to take revenge those who stabbed him in a drug deal gone wrong. Why he chose that moment to take his revenge, or why he goes after the teens is unclear. Bone's old woman, played by Pam Grier (a good actress wasted in yet another trashy movie), is psychic and can tell that something bad is brooding in the air. There was a special effects paradox at work in this film. On the one hand, the production crew goes out of their way with some fantastic, if not innovative, special effects moment (and you need plenty of them with a story so thin as this). And towards the end of the movie, they really take advantage of all of this. On the other hand, for all of the bloodbath scenes, the production crew is very generous with this cheap looking fake blood, which is nothing more than bright red paint. How stupid. Actually, the whole movie was pretty stupid. But, at least they did try here and there to do something a little different (both in story elements and special effects), although it was still a bad movie. And, at least it was something you can really laugh at whereas the other movies I mentioned can just really make you homicidal, they're so dreadful (in story and special effects). "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Gangster (Snoop Dogg) who was trying to clean up the streets is killed by his friends back in the 70's. He comes back to life after 20 years to seek revenge on those responsible for his death. Atmospheric thriller with good visuals and a commanding performance by Snoop Dogg, but it is uninvolving, poorly paced, and comes off as a Nightmare on Elm Street clone. Pam Grier is wasted in a supporting role.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Profanity, Drug Use, and Graphic Violence. "},{"Title":"Fairly pitiful black horror","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" BONES is an attempt at a black, urban horror film starring the rapper Snoop Dogg. In fact, I think Dogg's presence is one of the biggest detractions of the whole film; his acting simply isn't up to much, considering the decent performances that the likes of Ice Cube have done in the past. Dogg is a distraction here, his delivery stilted, and I think the film would have been better off without him.Not that the script is very good. Ernest Dickerson - who helmed TALES FROM THE CRYPT PRESENTS DEMON KNIGHT and some WALKING DEAD episodes - does an adequate job as director, but the script is sub-par and pretty low brow, it has to be said. The set-up of the cursed mythical figure returning to right some wrongs is fine, but the execution isn't great and all of the characters are badly written. This feels like a cheesy NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET sequel more than anything else.Still, there are reasons to watch BONES, and those increase if you're a fan of cheesy horror. There's plentiful gore and some stand-out sequences involving the likes of maggot storms which would have made Lucio Fulci proud. The emphasis on prosthetic effects for the most part is a good one. Pam Grier is always a pleasure to see in the cinema, and there's a minor part for GINGER SNAPS starlet Katharine Isabelle too. But overall, too many scenes in BONES are stilted with hollow-sound dialogue, particularly those set in the past, which end up feeling like the cast are just playing dress up. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated effort","Date":"8 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" Hired to clean up a derelict building, a group of friends are suddenly killed off one-by-one by the released soul of a 70s-era gangster who applies supernatural powers to his rampage in his quest to get free from the trappings within.Overall this one was quite the enjoyable effort. Among the better elements here is the fact that this one really manages to wrap a n effective atmosphere that work incredibly well here. There's a lot of this due to the building itself as there's a glorious Gothic imagery with the large stone archways, glass windows and a general appearance of an evil force in the structure that makes for quite the creepy location here for what's taking place inside as the inner design of the house makes for a truly complete look and feel to the film. This makes the later supernatural scenes have even more of an impression as there's great supernatural action taking place in a creepy setting, as the initial fun starts with the opening attack on the hoodlums and carries into the resurrection scenes here of his spirit swirling around the house tormenting the others around him. The discovery of the body in the basement in the condition it's in really starts the fun here as there's the really enjoyable attacks on the solo members of the community and the former members who killed him while having a lot of fun with the club opening as there's the temptation kill turning into the ghost dog and tearing him to pieces which is connected nicely with the ravenous devouring and the reappearing body down in the crypt while the fun of the maggots being showered on the party guests raining down from above as well as the demon-dog vomiting them up onto another victim alongside the fun burning down the building in a large fire that holds up incredibly well to the remaining action scenes. The finale, bringing about the trip into the alternative dimension is quite impressive with the discolored blob of souls tormenting those still alive in the mass which is nicely integrated against the layout of the house leading into the fun of being tormented throughout while trapped in the house. Along with the plentiful gore and fast pace, these here are more than enough to hold this up against the few flaws. The biggest one here is the lame and unnecessary back-story scenes from the 70s that take up way too much time here not really doing much. This easily could've dropped them entirely and had the girlfriend reveal it in a simply encounter to ward them off rather than keeping the truth from them as a way to instill. It's also pretty heavy on CGI, since there's pretty big scenes which are driven by this and it looks really bad in the film. These here are what hold this back.Rated R Graphic Language, Graphic Violence, Brief Nudity, a sex scene and heavy drug use. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Good!","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" So here I was in the early hours of the morning browsing IMDb, looking for a quality outrageous horror flick. Stumbling upon this film, my jaw practically dropped at the sheer perfection of my find. HORROR FLICK RATED LESS THAN 4/10 STARRING SNOOP? This was too good to be true. But oh, it was true. Just having finished watching Bones, I can fully say it lived up to my expectations and even went beyond.I won't waste your time giving you details of the plot, as it isn't necessary. I'll just highlight some of the great things about this movie that made it so enjoyable for me, and that I'm sure would be enjoyable to any fan of wonderful, campy horror flicks.Obviously the big attention grabber was Snoop's face on the cover of the film. How did he deliver? Perfectly. Snoop's acting is just ridiculous enough to smile at while still being coherent enough to be passable. There are some absolutely CHOICE bits of dialogue in this film and Snoop does not fail to entertain for a single second of his screen time.I was also impressed by the story. Going in with absolutely no expectations for a coherent story, I was actually pleasantly surprised by how plot driven this film was. The first half of the film is actually entirely based on establishing Snoop's character Jimmy, while the second half let loose with the outrageous effects and violence. I was engaged by the plot the entire time and Jimmy is actually a much more interesting character than you might figure. Obviously no masterpiece, but definitely not a mindless story and certainly entertaining.Along with an impressive story, the film also had great atmosphere. There are really three distinct settings in the film, though technically all three are in the same place! The first we're introduced to is the ghetto, run down neighborhood that is the basis of the story. A very interesting setting for a horror film, and quite frankly, a great idea as well! We've seen the haunted houses, asylums and summer camps a million times but throwing in a setting that's scary in REAL life and ACTUALLY exists works wonders. Next we have Jimmy's old house, a Gothic-style building that plays out like a haunted house. While it doesn't really seem to fit in with the urban ghetto setting, who cares, right? Dusty, dilapidated, and actually pretty creepy at some times; if you watch this alone in the dark you'll have a fun time with the spooky atmosphere in the house. Well-done! Finally we have the oddest setting, the neighborhood during the 70s! The filters they used on these scenes really give it that groovy feel so common in blacksploitation flicks, and seeing all of the actors from the modern setting done up with afros is good fun. The silliest parts no doubt, these scenes were an interesting cutaway from the dark atmosphere of the rest of the film.And finally, what it all comes down to for a lot of horror flicks the gore and sleaze! First off, the sleaze is very limited here. There is exactly one scene, a few seconds long, that features nudity. Depending on your tastes, that's good or bad; I'm pretty indifferent. What there is plenty of, on the other hand, is blood! The brutal gore is limited, but there is quite a lot of blood here, and its bright red, ridiculous color makes it even better in my opinion. It's amazing to me that they could use the amount of CGI they did in this film and STILL make the blood absolutely unconvincing, but it's definitely not something I saw in a negative way, rather just adding to the fun!Overall, what you've got here is a surprisingly serious - but still full of fun and laughs - horror flick. The story held me the whole way through, Snoop was excellent, and there were plenty of laughs to be had at some of the sillier moments. I had a smile on my face the whole time and was definitely very satisfied when the credits began to roll. I would highly recommend this to any real horror fan out there who knows what mindset to be in when putting on a movie like this to watch.Easy 9/10 "},{"Title":"Cool and very underrated African American horror movie","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" Bones is an urban Gothic horror flick starring Snoop Dogg and Pam Grier . Snoop is Jimmy Bones , a supercool gangster that also looks out for his community . When his homies sell out and snuff out Bones to make money selling crack , the neighborhood dies off with him. Bones not resting in peace comes back for revenge and to see his lady ( Pam Grier ). The flashback scenes from 1979 are very much a nod to the blaxploitation era that Grier was undisputed queen of . However , this is a horror film and has great atmosphere ,gore and creepy stuff in addition to the coolness of Snoop and Grier . Most of the f/x are practical and for the most part look good . The film is'nt perfect , but lower budget horror is much like pizza . It needs cheese, Bones has more than enough to go around . Bones is to Gothic horror what Tales From The Hood was to Tales From The Crypt. So, if you are down with that give Bones a shot. It is much better than the haters suggest. "},{"Title":"Not suspenseful but not bad","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" I used to watch Pam Grier movies back when I was a teen. Loved 'em even though they were grade B. The same goes with this one. Simply a grade B movie. I don't like bloody flicks but somehow this blood (tho massive) didn't bother me. It has a good story line & the dialog isn't bad. The flash back scenes sometimes are a bit fuzzy as to what is flash back & what isn't. It does get a bit creepy with worms flying from everywhere. It's supposed to be a horror flick but it lacks the suspense. Old horror flicks have more suspense than this one does for me and that's saying something. Snoop does a better job in this movie than others I've seen him in. Pam Grier plays a mom/Tarot card reader with something to hide. Michael T. Weiss's bad cop role is believable but I wasn't crazy about the make-up to make him heavier & older. All in all worth watching. "},{"Title":"It was worth a watch","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" this movie has a lot of old ideas all mixed into one, yet it doesn't look messy, several teen agers try and open a night club, on holy ground without noticing, one of the teenagers finds a girl but her mother is the local crazy person they ignore her about this but it was a bad move, when the club is up and running the fun begins, from maggots to wall of dead, its a fun thrill ride that keeps you on the edge of your seat. This movie wasn't one that was supposed to be taken serious, it has snoop dogg so if you came for a serious movie then you are pretty much crazy... It Is a lot of fun to watch, it has a a lot of funny moments, a few sad moments a few scary moments and even some dramatic moments but the main point of the film is to entertain, people are really hard on this film because they expected a masterpiece but if you just want to have a fun time enjoying a movie then this one should do! "},{"Title":"Not blaxploitation but feels groovy.","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie under the misleading title Diabolical Mansion but what can you expect from 400 a.m. local Mexican programming? I decided to watch it but I didn't know it was a Horror movie! I mean, Snoop Dogg stars on it. From the opening sequence where he gets off his car and acts like a pimp you don't expect a revenge from the grave movie.I was surprised and satisfied with the movie's content and violence. True...it isn't scary, violent, or even spooky but it features some interesting sub-plots that deal with revenge and crime. The perfect combination.Please give this movie a try but think that it stars a Rap Star, it deals with a rap soundtrack and the rap scene... It's a treat.Recommended for Late Night Cinema insomniacs like myself. Don't waste your money on it, just wait for it to air on t.v. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and not as bad as its rep...","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" In an attempt to bring something positive to the inner-city, a group of wealthy suburban teens decide to purchase an abandoned mansion in the ghetto and convert it into a happenin' nightclub. Their parents, who spent their youth in the city, have passed down an urban legend about a man named Bones, who was brutally murdered in the area. Unfortunately, the kids don't heed their warnings and stir up trouble when they happen upon the bones of the dead 70s gangsta residing in the basement of their new digs. Bones is a fun mix of old blaxploitation and contemporary horror. The acting (like most things about the movie) is hit or miss. The young actors playing the teens do a tolerable job. Snoop plays the titular roll and doesn't have that many scenes, but he's decent when he's on screen and probably the smoothest horror villain ever. Pam Grier gives an out-there performance as Bones' lover from the old days, now a worn and slightly crazy fortune-teller overly-protective of her teen daughter. The movie tries to take on some interesting themes about the intersection of class and race, as well as the suburbanization of America's cities. But who am I kidding, the real selling point here is the nastiness. There's plenty of sick gore scenes (including lots of icky maggot sequences!) they will please any horror fan. Some of the special effects are misguided, but some of them are effectively creepy. Overall, it's not as bad as many genre fans claim it is. It's like a less serious take on Candyman. The plot is a somewhat muddled, and I never really understood the motives of half the characters. If you can overlook the obvious missteps and silly abrupt ending, there is an enjoyable movie in there. "},{"Title":"You mean this was supposed to be scary?","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" All in all i thought this movie was hilarious. Yes the story line was good, but the movie itself sucked. The actors didn't do a god job & the special effects were awful.However, I found this movie really funny. The movie is so poorly done that what was meant to be a horror flick had become a comedy(maybe not laugh out loud, but still funny). In one scene, the characters find blood, which is clearly neon-red paint(hence the bad special effects). I do think that Sean Amsting(the gangsta of love) did a good job. Though he did add to the comical part of the movie.So, the movie sucks so much that i found it funny. I watch it every time i need a good laugh, you should too. "},{"Title":"Awfully bad (in an awesome way!)","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" Wow! i just caught this movie on a TV channel. This is absolutely an unmeant masterpiece! The story is as useless as it should be in a decent horror film. In the late 70's Mr Bones does not want to be a dealer, gets killed and goes get revenge 20 years later (for reasons still unknown to men). Ironically the house he is killed in is sold to the kids of one the guys that kills him. He regenerates from having a dog kill people and eat crap and then goes to get revenge on his killers. so far so good, it sounds as a crap horror movie should be.But having Mr Snoop Dogg playing a pimp in the 70's (in flashback scenes) and a murdering pimp in the 90's is so ridiculously cool it hurts. Even though the whole movie doesn't make ANY sense at any point, it's just cool to see Mr Dogg in a pimp outfit. Also the pun of having two token white kids getting killed in the first minute, the cheesy red colour of the blood, the totally unfitting comic relief of 2 talking heads and all skanky girls in the movie being played by white chicks makes this an absolutely excellent movie! I admit, i have a taste for bad movies. Horrible sci-fi and 80's action movies are a must-see in my opinion, it's cheap laughs! this movie is fitting for that so amazingly i'm getting the DVD tomorrow and organizing a 'movie nite' next week to show this (together with 'Alien Sex Party') to some friends. Hilarity guaranteed! So, get a case of beer, some illegal, mind altering substances and a few good buddies that can appreciate bad movies and have a blast with this Snoop Dogg gem! Oh, and the probably totally unmeant Fatboy Slim homage was the cherry on the cake. A DJ kid wearing sunglasses and a cowboy hat (as does Mr Slim in the 'Rockafeller Skank' video) asks another DJ 'can you do a solo performance, i need some time off right about now, funk soul brother'. Comedy gold, right there. "},{"Title":"This is the story of Jimmy Bones--Black as night and hard as stone.","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Bones is a 70's blaxploitation film that got edited into an 80's horror flick; it's Superfly meets Night of the Demons.  It has a very House on Haunted Hill vibe.  There's even a Vincent Price reference.  I was actually surprised to find the first hour of the film entertaining and somewhat enjoyable.  Ernest Dickerson (Demon Knight) should be pleased because the direction is great and sells the movie.  I was also able to take Snoop Dogg fairly seriously as the titular character.  Helping Snoop out was Pam Grier, Michael T. Weiss in fat make-up, and even Ginger.  The movie fails in its ending though.  Bones seems to kill a couple of people who had nothing to do with his murder and the final minutes just make no sense.  The real reason to watch Bones is a dog that vomits maggots.  It's thoroughly disgusting.  My only question is when is Rudy Ray Moore gonna do another horror flick? "},{"Title":"Doggy want a Bone?","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  *SUBTLE SPOILERS*All this movie needs is The Crypt Keeper and it would have been an excellent addition to the Tales from the Crypt franchise.... it's probably that Ernest Dickerson eliment that does it!This movie is much better than average. Sure, it has it's flaws... but I wont hold them against it. Over all it looks great, feels great and delivers the horror! (In my eyes it does anyhow).The few flaws that I do have with Bones are Firstly.... The Blood! The consistancy of the blood is thick and cloudy and is more suited to a Troma movie! I imagine they did it on purpose to add to the comic-like feel which they have created.... however, I felt that it stole a little from the movie's credibility.Secondly, Snoop Dogg. I have medium level of respect for him, but he was fairly dismal in this role. His over acting was almost cringe worthy (go the evil laughs)..... I feel that a more accomplished actor such as Ice Cube would have lifted this movie to a really excellent horror movie!But it was easy to put those critisisms aside and Bones was a really fun and entertaining little horror movie. It has it's share of originality as well as a few subtle nods to other horror movies. If you're a fan of the 'Crypt-esque' movies of late (Thir13n Ghosts, Ghost Ship, House on Haunted Hill, Frighteners etc etc)then you will love this one.I give this one 6.5 out of 10!  "}{"Title":"Starts out strong, fizzles in the end, but still entertaining","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  I suppose when going to see a movie how much you end up liking the movie depends on the expectations you had of the movie.  Most people would agree, the lower the expectations, chances are the more you'll like the movie.  HOwever, with high expectations the movie is pretty much damned...never being able to live up.  Well, with Bones, I have to admit I went in with expectations being the lowest of the low.  Actually, I was half asleep at 3am channel surfing when this caught my eye.To give Bones credit, it caught my attention and held it (even as tired as I was).  The movie starts out quite strong.  Very intriguing, moody, and atmospheric.  The shadowy shots, the subtle inferences...all start to add up to what could be a good scare.  Unfortunately about 1/3 of the way through it really fizzled.  The acting (which wasn't too bad to begin with), simply got worse and less believable.  Although the premise wasn't anything new or unheard of, it still started out strong.  A deal gone bad, murder, betrayal...all combined with a chilling ghost story and Bones could have been more successful.  But, like I said, it eventually succombed the to inevitable cheese and instead of keeping with the cool, atmospheric creepiness, decided to go full swing into cheesedom.  Aaaah, such is horror.And, well, since my expectations were low (and I was half asleep), I actually liked the movie overall.  Sure, I could have done without the last 20 minutes or so.  But what it lacks in a great ending, it makes up for in overall eerieness.I'd have to say that Bone is, at the very least, entertaining.  No, I wouldn't rent it, buy it, pay to see it, etc, but if it's on...watch it.  The first 40 minutes alone are worth it. "},{"Title":"Surprising but not close to Demon Knight","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  A lot of people rip this probably because it's a so-called black movie.  However, I'm white and I think it was pretty good.  Unlike the overly white vs. black Tales from the Hood, this isn't meant to be racially driven.  Tales from the Hood was brilliantly acted especially by David Alan Grier and the always awesome Corbin Bernson but it was too much against tha man!  This is fun, Snoop comes through and it even has the hot chick from Ginger Snaps.  Some of the gore is too computerized and the blood looks way too bright but I'm not complaining.  The ending hurts the movie but it's obvious that this is directed by a man who loves the genre.  It's not a classic like Demon Knight but it's much better than They or Darkness Falls.  The girl who plays Cynthia is gorgeous and should have a long career ahead of her.  I wouldn't mind seeing her in another horror flick (naked perhaps????). "},{"Title":"Well the casting was pretty good","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Jimmy Bones(Snoop Dogg) comes back to life 20 years or so after his murder too seek revenge on the people who killed him.And that pretty much sums up the plot.While i am not into rap music i find Snoop Dogg very fun too watch, i find the guy pretty funny.But not even Snoop can save this flick. But he was the only thing good in the movie.His scenes are the only ones worth watching.Director Ernest Dickerson failed at telling the story but then again with a script this poor there isn't much he can do.The cast though was pretty good but they can't save the film.Pam Grier, Michael T. Weiss, Khalil Kain and Bianca Lawson co-star with Snoop Dogg.Katharine Isabelle from the Cult Classic Ginger Snaps is pretty much wasted she's a fine young actress but isn't given much to do in Bones.The final 45min are some what entertaining.A few good one liners from Snopp Dogg and some good gore.I give Bones 3/10.Still worth a watch for a few cool scenes, It's just that the script was rather awful "},{"Title":"Horrible horror film, decent comedy","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  As a horror film I don't think they come any cheesier. The reason I watched the movie was for a good laugh, and it provided just that. Apparently this type of horror scares people. They used disgusting ideas and visions to try to get a scare out of you. For me it just made me laugh. However if you want a good laugh check it out, you wont be let down. "},{"Title":"Baron Bones","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  This movie has a lot of qualities from various little seen horror films. It has a lot of qualities from The Crow, A Nightmare on Elm Street, etc. Being a fan of Italian horror, it has a lot of resemblences to a 1972 Mario Bava flick titled Baron Blood, (aka The Torture Chamber of Baron Blood) with similar sets, costumes, and lighting of a old fashion Euro horror film. Even Jimmy Bones' black hat resembles the one worn by Joseph Cotton in playing the Baron Otto Von Kleist in Baron Blood.  Worth a look if you're into that kind of old fashion grade B horror. "},{"Title":"Freddy in the hood...the black Elm Street.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Doesn't anyone get the joke? This movie is funny and scary at the same time. I must say that I somewhat enjoyed the film. I bought it so that I can watch it every Halloween.  	A pimp (Snoop Dogg) is murdered and comes back a few decades later to kill the people who wronged him, oh, and their children too. This is like Freddy Kruger in the hood. The black Elm Street.  	The film's special effects are pretty believable and the directing was pretty good. Snoop is wonderful as the title role and he just seems as if he's having so much fun with the role.  For fans of the horror genre I suggest you check this out. It's better than you think it will be. "},{"Title":"Freddy in the hood...the black Elm Street.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Doesn't anyone get the joke? This movie is funny and scary at the same time. I must say that I somewhat enjoyed the film. I bought it so that I can watch it every Halloween.  	A pimp (Snoop Dogg) is murdered and comes back a few decades later to kill the people who wronged him, oh, and their children too. This is like Freddy Kruger in the hood. The black Elm Street.  	The film's special effects are pretty believable and the directing was pretty good. Snoop is wonderful as the title role and he just seems as if he's having so much fun with the role.  For fans of the horror genre I suggest you check this out. It's better than you think it will be. "},{"Title":"Interresting...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Of course this movie doesnt have good plot, acting or direction, but it's interesting to a certain point. It seems to try to imitate the old 70' balxploitation films(well, Pam Grier does star in it) and it does that good. It may be just a film to pimp Snoop Dogg's music and for the studio to make a quick buck out of an Halloween flick, but it's worth a viewing if you just feel like seeing a kind of modern blaxploitation attempt and just relax while watching a mindless film. Oh, a last thing, all the plot points can be predicted 20 minutes before they happen and the ending is more like laughing matter than scary stuff. "},{"Title":"Hip Hop Horror Surprise","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  This hip hop horror flick was a pleasant surprise. Much better acting than I expected. Snoop was excellent as Bones and Pam Grier is always a joy to watch, but the main stars were the young lead actors who carried the film. The story line was intriguing and although some of the horror scenes were a bit over done towards the end, the film is suspenseful and will hold your interest from beginning to end.  "},{"Title":"Snoop Dogg Done Gone Becomes A Ghost!!!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Man this film is da Shizzy! Scary as! and da dogg is running wild, man, at the start he even is a dog! Genius!  Basically the plot is that some dudes went and whacked Jimmy Bones back in the day but they never bet on him coming back from the dead. Then business starts to pick up!  I liked this film cuz it was pretty moral, with Snoop givin gangstas what they deserve but at the same times you could tell he understood that sometimes people make you do bad and it ain't really yo' fault.  Pam Grier is back to doin' what she does best after the blip that was Jackie Brown.  My only gripe was the gratuitious nudity but other than that 11 out of 10!!! Roll on the sequel. "}{"Title":"A good campy mess of an old-fashioned horror film.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Now, this is a traditional horror film which was released right in the wake of FROM HELL last October. After viewing it, you can clearly tell that production of this film was only because it was Halloween. It contains little originality and no scares at all. But, for some reason, I still liked it.*SPOILERS*The year is 1979 and Jimmy Bones (Snoop Dogg) is the king pimp in his 'hood. When a gang of bad guys trying to sell crack try to entice Jimmy into getting to deal for them, Jimmy refuses and crooked cop Lupovich (Michael T. Weiss) forces the rest of the gang to kill Jimmy. Flash forward some twenty years where Jimmy's home has become his tomb and a Gothic ruin. Four teens decide that the house has potential and decide to make it into a nightclub. But, after accidently releasing Jimmy's spirit, Bones is coming back to exact revenge on those who killed him.A traditional plot, sure, but for some reason I liked the gloominess and Gothic atmosphere of the film. Snoop Dogg really isn't the main character of the film, in this case, it would probably be Khalil Kain- but one cannot be sure because of the numerous characters. Pam Grier plays Jimmy's girlfriend who was also forced to kill him. Director Ernest Dickerson tried as hard as he could to fit Bones into the boogymen category with Michael Meyers and Freddy. And it works, the only problem is that the film wasn't a major hit when it first came out. You would expect that a film such as this (containing bad acting, stupid dialogue and blood that looks thick and paint-like and even orange in some cases) would atleast have been popular. But, the plot itself was better that SCREAM. The only problem with this one is that the killer is a spirit. And during the death scenes, I wish that there would have been some sort of chase scene during atleast one murder.In any case, BONES is a campy horror film that brings you back to see how much movies have changed nowadays. It is a film to take off the shelf once a year around Halloween and give it a watch. But, the plot is paper-thin and makes little sense. I could name a thousand stupid things that were in this film, but I liked it a lot so I'm not going to. If you watch it, you will spot them too. BONES is a good little film that wasn't destined to become a classic but certainly had the potential.....4/5. "},{"Title":"No BONES About It","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"     Well, at least the folks at New Line Cinema were smart enough to market this Snoop Doggy dog of a film in season. It's dog season. It's eat Dog, the title character asserts. And it sure is because BONES cannot be anymore unmemorable than the other Halloween releases of '01 i.e. THIR13EEN GHOSTS. Snoop Dogg stars as Jimmy Bones, a gaudy 'hood pusher who is resurrected ala HELLRAISER to stalk his killers. BONES also stars Pam Grier as his old flame. She does go up in one by credits end by the way. It's fitting how Pam Grier can have such a role which requires such a glorious death. Altruism sucks,don't it? Well,never mind. Half of the movie seems to be filled with flashbacks of Jimmy Bones' mortal and immortal incarnations which the producers think justifies it's frenetic music video-style look. Check out the credits sequence. Make no bones about it(pun obviously intended)BONES is a ripoff of Alex Proyas' THE CROW not to mention it is also just another post-SCREAM horror romp, crackerjack ending and all. At least in a box of Crackerjacks you know your only getting one rip-off. "},{"Title":"An inner city Nightmare on Elm Street","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Bones is an interesting horror movie that borrows ideas from lots of films from the last 25 years. Elements of the Amityville Horror, Nightmare on Elm Street, and any of the countless Friday the 13th/Halloween style slashers abound. ***SPOILERS!!!! SPOILERS!!!! EVERYBODY RUN AWAY!!!!!********The plot centers around Jimmy Bones, played with unquestionable coolness by Snoop Dogg, as a 1970's hustler/pimp/drug dealer/neighborhood protector (I was never sure whether Bones was a good guy or bad guy from the flashback scenes...) whom gets double crossed and murdered by his best friend, his bodyguard, a business associate (to put it nicely), and a corrupt cop. His former home remains haunted and unsold until present day, when some kids buy it to renovate it into a dance club (cool idea, I must say...) Suddenly, Jimmy Bones' ghost gets busy, and people get killed, ranging from those who deserve it (the double crossers), to those who don't (some of the innocent club owners). We also learn that Bones' former girlfriend still lives in the area, and that she has a daughter that has an undeniable interest in the old place - you can probably figure out how that relates to Jimmy Bones...    Much of the gore is off screen, or in very brief shots, except for the characters that get eaten alive by the Bones dog, (one of many ways in which Jimmy Bones manifests himself), the reanimating corpse of Jimmy Bones (reminds me of a similar scene in Hello Mary Lou Prom Night II, except done better), a nice death by mirror shards, and some disembodied heads. Although these heads serve as awkward comic relief, as Bones' allows the heads to still comment on happenings around them, providing some uneasy laughs. (the head of one character, after blood splatters on it's face from another's death Awwwwwww man, now was THAT really necessary???)There's also a wall of tortured souls... not really gory, just disturbing, and a shower of maggots from a variety of sources.      And Jimmy Bones' former home, now a musty, run down haunted wreck, surrounded by empty lots (the surrounding building's values went down, so all were bulldozed...) is one of the creepiest movie buildings I have ever seen, looking like a real-life gothic version of the Castle Greyskull playset from the He-Man toy line of the 80s. Overall, Bones is no cinema masterpiece, but it is a good solid effort to produce a modern horror movie with some solid scares and gore. "},{"Title":"Yay for Snoop!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  The main saving grace of this movie is Snoop Dogg. If you like seeing him all pimped out, it's worth renting this movie.The acting is okay, the storyline is good, but it seemed undeveloped, with a wide opening left at the end for a sequel. A pretty good soundtrack, Snoop inspired.All in all, don't get this movie unless you're looking for a mediocre horror film or you just love Snoop Dogg. "},{"Title":"Some say Bad, I say Good","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  At first I was expecting typical goofy teen film like I Still Know What you did which I thought was ok. Bones started out really good then I thought it would go down hill after a good begining, But it didn't. And Snoop Dogg was a really good actor along Pam Grier and Micheal T Wies better known as the Pretender. This movie wasn't your typical trash and bash horror it was scary at times but it's not for everyone some really rough lanuage and gore are there but a really good horror pic "},{"Title":"I thought it was a great scary movie","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  I rented Bones last weekend and I thought it was a great scary movie. And I am not a fan of scary movies. Snoop Dogg plays the ultimate villian. His performance was the best thing I liked about this film. I can understand why some people wouldn't like it because the plot is full of holes.  But it was chilling! I mean, I couldn't sleep after I watched it!! The maggots were so nasty. I had to cover my eyes on this part. But the part where the dog was eating the guy that took the ring off Jimmy's skeleton and then the dog's face changed and he started talking like that guy really freaked me out. I think he said something like a brother don't eat no fried chicken! OOH! That gave me chills. I loved the part where Jimmy was being resurrected. I think that was the best scene in the movie. I think the filmmakers could've worked more on the blood. You could so tell that the blood was fake. That was the main spoiler. I thought that the part where Jimmy was being murdered was kinda sad because his friends and his girl were forced to help kill him. And the ending did kinda suck. There definitely has to be a sequel. I liked this movie a lot and I want to see it again! (I only got to watch it once.) I know I'm going on and on about this movie but I liked this film and it was frightening! This is definitely on my must see again list. Talk to you laters ~! "},{"Title":"It's the S to the N to the double O  P, Snoop Dogg makes a bad movie","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Hmmmmm....well I went in with a light heart, knowing I wasn't going to get a blockbuster hit. But when I see a movie that stars Snoop Dogg, I was expecting to be able to laugh a bit, either at him, or at the poor quality of the movie. But this movie wasn't even the kind of bad movie that is fun to watch. I'll say that some of the special effects were decent, and there were a few humorous things, but it was supposed to be a horror film. People either watch those to scare themselves, or to be amused at the attempt of movie to scare them. Now, I don't know about you, but I don't find Snoop Dogg to be all terribly frightening. As you could imagine, there's a dog in the movie, and that does a lot of the deadly deeds, but again, German Shepards aren't too awful scary. And back to the humor, there was little of it. Say in movies such as Astro Zombies, you can chuckle at the ridiculous costumes and sorry acting. Here they combined fairly decent costumes and a couple cool looking scenes with bad acting, but not ha-ha bad acting, more so the kind that makes you want to take your Snoop Dogg cd and beat yourself with it. I'll spare you a plot overview, on account of the lack of one. Sure, Snoop Dogg is some guy who is killed in the 70's and ya da ya da, and I can see him wanting to get some revenge on that. But does he really need to kill everyone? I mean come on, his character in the 70's seemed pretty cool and everyone loved him. Why does becoming undead make you need to destroy every person in your path? And the ending was by far the worst part. Well, if you've seen this movie you no doubt agree. On my scale of 1 to 2, it definatly gets a 1. "},{"Title":"It might not be good, but at least it's violent.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  A horror movie starring Snoop Dogg, who would have thought?  Well, the people who made Urban Menace, to start with.  Bones is better than Urban Menace, but not by much.  It has that joke-for-every-killing thing that we all got sick of in the eighties, and the acting isn't exactly top-notch. The script runs like an urban version of Wishmaster, bad in other words. However, it does have an appealing amount of maggots and blood splattered in there.  If you're a Dogg fan or just a gore hound, you might be able to get a kick out of this one. "},{"Title":"70 minutes of a good movie","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  While I can't be certain that Bones went under the studio knife for a little test-screening cosmetic surgery, I sure am suspicious.  The first two thirds of the movie deliver old fashioned, 80's-style horror goods with decent character development, a nice history lesson as to why Jimmy Bones is so hacked-off, and some juicy gore.  This movie even has a good reason for the heroes to stick around in a haunted house (please, no more horror movies about scientific research groups studying the supernatural).  By the time Bones awakens and starts killing those who wronged him, the film has settled into a tight, supernatural revenge flick with a nod to the blaxploitation genre.Then, oh man, then the film goes horribly wrong.  All subtlety flies out the window as the relatively creepy 'hood' setting is replaced with a trip to a city of dead that looks like an rejected set from the worst Nightmare on Elm Street movie.  What's even worse is that there is no allusion to the city of the dead in the entire movie until the scene before our heroes bumble into it.This glaring shift of setting is made worse by the sudden inclusion of corny, corny attempts a humor--talking decapitated heads complaining about their hair?--and a silly ending.  In fact, the last twenty minutes even seem like they were directed by someone else.  Imagine watching Se7en, with all its creepy direction and atmosphere, only to have it end like it was directed by Joel Schumacher.  Bones is no Se7en but after a healthy start, it deserved better.  "},{"Title":"The Soundtrack is Great","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  What did anyone expect from this movie?  I missed it when it played in theaters during Halloween and I showed up at Hollywood Video this morning to rent it. The casting was good. I particularly like the fact that Snoop is doing his movie thing.  He was scrumptious in his pimp daddy clothes and simplistic acting style.Definitely a spin on the movies of the 70's.  I thought the blood and effects were extremely weak, but again, I wasn't expecting this to be Nightmare on Elm Street.  Actually, it was much better than I expected it to be.  Let's face it, Snoop will never be an Oscar contender, but at least he's attempting to do something positive with his dollar- dollar bills.The absolute best thing about the entire movie was the Soundtrack which the movie starts out with playing a smooth re-make by Snoop of James' Brown's The Big Pay Back.  That alone gets two thumbs up from this critic.  "}{"Title":"Bones is strictly for the Dogs","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** I'm pleased that Snoop Doggy Dogg has realized that he can't rap forever and is trying to branch out into other arenas. I'm even pleased with the fact he played a character against his rap image of being the baddest m*f*. A Snoop rap song would never have allowed a humiliating  murder like the one he received in the film (he was killed by his friends in his own house). And although it's nice to see actors like Ricky Harris and Pam Grier working, the film was pretty bad.The plot was decent, but it should have been better. Are we really going to believe that after finding a dead body in the basement with blood pouring out of the pipes that those kids would really have spent the night in that house?Like most horror films it was predictable. I knew when Maurice (SeanAmsing ) took the ring off the dead Jimmy Bones' finger that he was going to be the first to die. It's been done like that too many times in too many other films. My mind needs more...The graphics were great but any horror film made in the 21st century is supposed to have great graphics. You don't get credit for that. My mind needs more...Some have said that when a film is truly good you leave the film thinking about the film, perhaps even chilling with friends and discussing the more thought provoking elements of the film. There are definitely aspects of this film I can't get off my mind Did I really need to see Pam Grier in an afro wig pretending to be 20 something but looking more like Jimmy Bones' mother? Did I really need to see the severed heads arguing amongst themselves? Was that supposed to be the comedy relief? If so, why wasn't it funny? Was Snoop Dogg wearing a weave? If so, it blended very well. A lot of us would look much better with his hair dresser. I can think of 10 or 20 off the top of my head. Did this Ernest Dickerson fellow learn how to make bad films from Spike Lee or is this a talent he already had? Do you think if I write a really polite letter to the CEO of New Line Cinema that I can get my money back? Did I remember to pick up my black dress from the drycleaners?I'm afraid I have to give this film a C-. I'm being generous because I adore Snoop and Pam. Although, they both should be scolded for selecting such a sappy, crappy film. Yick!  "},{"Title":"K.I.S.S.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  As we all know, it stands for Keep It Simple, Stupid.  All of us, that is, except Earnest Dickerson.  For reasons impossible to fathom, he's taken what should have been an entertainingly simple drive-in flick and turned it into a convoluted mess.The plot beneath it all In 1979, numbers runner Jimmy Bones (Snoop Dogg) is murdered by his so-called friends because he refuses to go along with their plan to enter the drug trade.  Some kids buy the abandoned building in which his body was hidden, and Bones wakes up to get his revenge.  We all know how this plot SHOULD play out ACT 1, Jimmy's murder.  ACT 2, Jimmy's revenge.  ACT 3, Jimmy gets sent back to hell.  Simple, no?No.  This film makes the colossal mistake of treating Jimmy Bones' fate as some sort of mystery, so we don't flashback to his murder until at least ONE HOUR into this 90 minute film.  Since it wouldn't make sense to show him getting revenge for a murder we haven't seen yet, we don't get any revenge until the last 30 minutes, either.  So what DOES the first hour consist of, you ask?  The kids.  The kids clean up the building.  The kids fall in love and stuff.  The kids say things like, Don't you remember that old song about Jimmy Bones?  The kids listen to their parents saying things like, Stay away from that building, it's evil!  Yadda, yadda, yadda, ZZZZZ.....  It shouldn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that it's not a good idea to spend two thirds of your movie on characters whose only purpose is to wake up the monster.  (For anyone who remembers the blaxploitation classic Blacula imagine if the entire first hour of that film were concerned only with the two gay decorators who buy Blacula's coffin, with the rest of the film jammed into the last 30 minutes, and you'll have some idea of how inexcusably wrong this structure is.)If you must watch Bones, wait for the dvd, then look for the chapter in which we see Jimmy's murder, which will be about 30 minutes from the end.  Watch from that point on, and you'll get a fun, VERY fast paced little supernatural revenge flick.  And you'll have spared yourself an hour of dreck. "},{"Title":"Typical glossy, Hollywood JUNK!!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Did I expect anything from this movie?  NO!!  Typical cookie cutter junk from the Hollywood clone machine.  Lucky I work at a movie theater and get to see this stuff for free.  People should bypass this and check out REAL modern horror movies like FREAK and TERROR FIRMER.   "},{"Title":"Sort-of ok.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Yes, another cross over in American media and entertainment, WOOHOO!!Ok, now that we got that out of the way, I will just state the obvious, this was a bad movie, but not as bad as you think it could be.  It looks like they spent time on the begining and the middle, but the ending is too predictable and un-orginal.  The acting is actually pretty good compared to some of those other cross-over movies(Kazaam anyone?) but isn't oscar worthy.It looks like Snoop-Dogg tried acting, and even though wasn't that great, was better than I thought it would be.  If only he would have lost that stoner personality, he could have done much better.  Most of the other acting jobs is like watching a high-school play, they tried so hard to memorize and get into character, but just wasn't that convincing. Special effects though are pretty neat.All in all, this isn't worthy of the $7.00 in a movie theater, and isn't really worthy of the $2.50 at the local video store.  Wait till it comes out on HBO, Showtime, or Cinemax to see it.  It would be a good party movie if your lookin' for something to make fun of, but don't take it seriously.Out of 10 I would give it 4 on acting, 6 on special effects, 4 on orginalitly, and 4 on over-all.  "},{"Title":"Very average, while ...","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" While at first, the film would be more inspired by the Blaxpoitation no doubt the result would have had any other (much more importantly, of course).Here are just a hint of Blaxploitation. Suspicion is the right word because for fans of this genre (like me), since the rest of the film is really in the horror classic, seen many times (even worseby the way, good for Bones ). Bones are talking about, we feel greatly inspired by Freddy Krueger. Except that in contrast to Krueger, who would iconise Bones after vision, sadly missing the boat.Whose fault is it, what? Try to answer them, mentioning Snoop Dogg (Very average,as usual as an actor) who really tons (But not the Actors Studio's for sure). In short we made the Snoop Dogg, or is an actor, a true, would have more charisma (like all the heroes of Blaxploitation) the character and create a real character in itself.Snoop Dogg has to just stay a fan of the genre Blaxploitation but he never will be an icon.Otherwise the film is far from bad, the past of Bones is the best route according to the film.After it's like I said before already seen the (Including, some good ideas).As for the director, he does not sign by his best film, which for me is none other than Surviving The Game, but signs with Bones means a film that with a director in full possession of his could give a result equal to Surviving The Game. "},{"Title":"Full potential never reached","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" I only recently saw this movie. Basically your standard man gets killed and sometime later comes back to life to get his revenge on his killers. It starts with potential and kept it through about 3 quarters of the film but in the last quarter it choked, stalled, and then died.All through the movie the blood was any color but the color of blood, I have to wonder if that was supposed to have paid homage to the days when the censorship laws prohibited film makers using blood colored blood, it does in its own way add a kind of sick humor to Bones and there was plenty of dark humor to go around in the first place, really there are parts that are quite funny. Unfortunately there are also parts that are just plain stupid and other parts that are gross just for the sake of being gross. It also has plenty of things that are cliché then there is the racially cliché. A black man has a white lover called Snowflake and a joke about eating fried chicken among other things.Getting closer to the end the story begins to follow an illogical line, if Jimmy Bones returns from the dead to seek revenge on those that killed him then why did he do so much more damage and why did the movie end the way it did? So that the film makers could get the movie done and leave an opening for a sequel to a movie that never needed one?I think that the greatest injustice of the movie was that the character of Jimmy Bones was made into the bad guy, vicious and ruthless and completely the opposite of what and who the character was made out to be during flashback scenes that occur throughout the film. Even though this happens Snoop Dogg gives a great performance as Jimmy Bones but the writing of the character and the movie itself could have been handled better, both had potential that was dropped and ended before the full potential was ever reached. Still the movie is fun and that makes it very watchable even if you watch it just the once. "},{"Title":"Coulda Been a Contenda","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" Snoop Dogg showed that his success as an on-stage performer is no fluke. He has presence and skill, and is a very believable hero-turned-villain in this film. I definitely recommend the film.I would have liked to see more development of Pam Grier's character. Grier can definitely carry a film, and this one needed carrying at times. Some of the scenes are more gruesome than I prefer, and could have benefited from more work on the script and less on the special (gruesome) effects.The flashback scenes put Snoop Dogg in his true element - the funky 1970s. Those alone make the film worth watching.Altogether, this is an above-average film that will keep the attention of most people. You'll find yourself cheering for old Bones as he looks for his next victim. "},{"Title":"A fun flick","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  This movie got so much bad press for featuring Snoop Dogg as it's main villain, not too many people took this film seriously. Yeah the acting in this movie is kinda cheesy but I have seen a lot worse! There are some terrific horror images in this movie. The demonic dog, the wall of screaming soles, lots of nasty bloody death, etc. I caught this movie late one night and got a huge kick out of it! There was a lot of tongue in cheek humor thrown into the movie that kinda killed the horror in some parts. I still had a lot of fun watching this movie. The good far outweighs the bad and to skip out on this movie would be to miss out on a lot of really cool moments. This is the perfect movie for horror fans that like to root for the stalker. The effects in this movie are top notch and the kill scenes are nasty! Now that audiences are more familiar with Snoop Dogg as an actor I think this movie should be given a second chance. A few stupid comedy moments aside, this movie is not that bad, certainly better than  I Know What You Did Last Summer or  Valentine . If you are a horror B-movie fan and you have not seen this flick yet go rent it now! As for myself, I liked it enough that I am buying the DVD!  "},{"Title":"Anyone who sez this movie sucks is dummm","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Every now and then I have to affirm my role in society as a strong white woman by having White Girlz at College night with my housemates and see movies with rap stars in em.  This time it was Bones and How High--and yah both of them were muy wonderful and pleasant and I laffed all day everyday about the premise of How High (yah the movie was funny too) and I was in awe of Snoop's acting skills and Pam Grier's perfect self in Bones.  White Girlz at College night may have to graduate to Anaconda.  Jeah. "},{"Title":"This film is not bad at all, it's entertaining.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  This film could have drove it's point home a lot better than presented. It should have stayed CLEAR away from the feel of the 70's type blaxpoitation films. But this film was not so bad at all.It tells a story, a story of a big time 70's guy who's soul has not been put to rest. He has a vendetta, dead or not, he needed to see it to its full completion. (Ya know, similar to George W. Bush and his Iraq thing.)Ernest Dickerson is a darn excellent cinematographer and director of photography. In the 80's I enjoyed his work on Tales From The Darkside and I can see he was headed for it here. Trouble is, in feature film, audiences expect more. Progression is the key, and Ernest went for a 70's blaxpoitation thing here instead of just telling the tale as it should be.Snoop Dog actually did a good job for the material here. If nothing else, this was his audition tape for the feature film Starsky and Hutch.The stereotypical parts for the other actors is what turned me off. (Turned me off in the 70's as well.) which is why this film could have done without it.But it is an entertaining film. Good for your adult Halloween Party if everyone there is over 35 to recall the movie days of Foxy Brown, Blacula and Black Cesear.  "}{"Title":"Snoop could have done better.","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"   For the first half an hour of this movie,I thought that this was going to be a scary movie after all. Till he started walking around with Eddie Mack's head. At the beginning of the movie the setting was spooky with the shadow of a demon on the walls and on the ceilings, the hymn Pam Grier did while there were flashbacks of how Jimmy (Snoop Dogg) got killed and her daughter lying in a pool of blood. These scenes were all creepy up into the point when Jimmy was resurrected and came after his assassins. This movie reminded me of the 70s Glynn Turman's flick JD's Revenge. But Snoop's lines weren't hip it seem so elementary like you knew what he was going to say. He (Snoop) didn't have a major part in this movie until towards the end. To me which the best part of the movie where they set Jimmy up by getting rid of the blood that remained on Pam Grier's dress. That was the only thing that kept him alive,although Grier's daughter and her boyfriend are the only two that survived or have they.   "},{"Title":"very entertaining","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  I don't know why people bitch so much about this film.  Even though I didn't find it scary (nothing after The Others is anyway), I thought it was great entertaining.  Sure the movie is full of plot holes, sometimes the acting is pedestrian, and the special effects can be laughable, but I don't think the makers set out to make something as scary as The Shining.  This is supossed to be funny people, after all Snoop Dogg is there.  Check it out lightly "},{"Title":"Bones should have stayed in his grave","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  This movie sucked! I was hoping for something that was scary. This wasn't even scary at all. The acting was good. Snoop Dogg was a great bad guy but the plot needed to be better. But it wasn't the worse horror movie I've ever seen. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves horror films.  "},{"Title":"It's dog eat dog, bro","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" First of all, I'd like to point out this film features B.S. Dogg, esquire, as a resurrected pimp out for revenge on his murderers (in case you're wondering, B.S. stands for Bigg Snoop). Now, this man actually misspells three-letter words like big and dog. This man is responsible for the creation of words like izzey, shizzey and my nizzey. I KNOW the kind of quality attached to the name Bigg Snoop Dogg. I rented Bones this Halloween anticipating one of those so bad it's good deals. Unfortunately it wasn't so bad it was good. Fortunately - and against all odds - it actually WAS pretty entertaining. Director Ernest Dickerson brings on all your horror clichés, which I don't consider a bad thing, and even slams in some blaxploitation clichés. There were enough references to horror classics to show Dickerson loves the biz-nass he's in. The comic relief in the later half also reminds us (after some darker parts) that this film is not to be taken seriously at all. Snoop delivers as the ghetto Frank from Hellraiser or Jason Voorhees or Freddy Krueger or whatever the f**k. The kids are as believable as you can get with the lines given to them (Lawson and Isabelle look good though). Michael T. Weiss is better than expected as Loopy-Lou Lupovich, the crooked cop. Pam Grier is her usual good self as well. But all in all, this truly is Snoop's film. I wish they'd do a franchise on this. After all, the Freddy sequels weren't as successful as the original, but still they made 'em. To me, Jimmy Bones is up there with other boogeymen like Pinhead, Michael Myers and the Candyman.The Gangsta of Love don't need no fried chicken! "},{"Title":"This was beyond stupid","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  There is no plot. The story makes no sense.  The blood is so fake, it looks like bright red paint.  The way Snoop Dogg comes back to life is so silly and unimaginative.  And in the beginning when those kids find that dog locked in the house, how come none of them think it is strange the dog has glowing red eyes?FINAL VERDICT Nothing about this movie would make me want to see it again. It was basically a wasted hour and a half.  Don't waste your time with this one. "},{"Title":"Worth a look spoilers","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Snoop Dogg has proven that he is a great rapper, but he has yet to prove that he is a great actor. He has proved he is better than the average rapper/actor with his performances in films like TRAINING DAY and BABY BOY, though he's still not what most would consider an actual actor. Here, he plays Jimmy Bones, a gangster who is killed in 1979 and then years later is awakened and out for revenge against the ones who killed him. Think of it as a goofier, more urban version of THE CROW. However, unlike THE CROW this is a good horror movie. Everything you could want in a horror movie is here plenty of gore, sex, and there's even a scene with a severed talking head! It's actually a lot better then the trailers make it look. **1/2 "},{"Title":"A solid horror film! Snoop Dogg is da man!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Bones, starring Snoop Doggy Dogg and Pam Grier and directed by Ernest Dickerson, is a great horror film with lots of violence and gore.  Snoop Dogg was perfect as the main character, Jimmy Bones.  The movie also had solid special effects.  If you like Snoop Dogg, then you'll love Bones. Doggy dog brother, doggy dog!!A+ ****** (out of ****** stars) 13/13 "},{"Title":"I loved it!!!","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  The time is 1979. Jimmy Bones is respected and loved as the neighborhood protector. When he is betrayed and brutally murdered by a corrupt cop, Bone's elegant brownstone becomes his tomb. Twenty-two years later, the neighborhood has become a ghetto and his home a gothic ruin. Four teens renovate it as an after hours nightclub, unknowingly releasing Jimmy's tortured spirit. It's thrills and chills as blood spills when Jimmy's ghost sets about its frightful revenge, his killers unaware of the gruesome fate that awaits them. I thought this movie was great!  Everything about it is good. It has excellent camra work and scary lighting. This was no doubt one of the best horror movies of the year 2001. If you have not seen it and like horror movies I would highly recommend you go rent it or even buy it. The DVD is great with some really cool Documentaries and deleted scenes. I give Bones *** stars out of ****. UNLEASH THE DOGG!   "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation at it's best","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"   Bones is what intends to be a blaxploitation film for the nineties. You don't see many horror films with black casts like you did the seventies. Bones reminds of classic blaxploitation horror flicks like J.D.'s Revenge and Blackenstein. Snoop Dogg makes a wonderful villain and you actually root for his character. Khail Klain and Bianca Lawson are very good in supporting roles. My only complaint is that the film didn't have enough nudity. It's still a lot of fun though. I give it **** out *****. "},{"Title":"Snoop Dogg in one of the most messed up horror movies I've seen in a while","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  (Spoilers Ahead)Snoop Dogg, who added a good amount of talent to Baby Boy, Training Day, and even the cameo in Half Baked, has his first starring role in Bones, a film that at times seems like a formulaic horror movie mixed with revenge tale saga and part love story too.  A little too much you might say, well it might be, but in the strangest way, Bones is unique.Ernest Dickerson directs this movie which tells of Jimmy Bones (Snoop) who was a low key gangster and pimp type in the late 1970's, until he gets killed by a number of people after turning down a drug deal.  Cut to 22 years later in the same area where some burb kids (some of them connected with the original slayers now more or less normals) decide to use Bones' old house to hold a party, not realizing they are about to bring him back from the dead so he can get revenge, and so on and so forth.The film brings grotesque (maggots are at the same time disgusting and creative) and potently brooding imagery to the fright and squirm factor and it works.  The formula, however, brings the movie down as that you realize the first two acts are like any common horror movie (oblivious kids, bringing back the villain, etc.), and yet after seeing the flashback footage you might want to root for Bones instead of against him in his revenge payback (Spawn comes to mind).Overall, Bones is a horror movie that's too by-the-books to be easily enjoyed, yet it has the audacity, originality and coolness not to be easily dismissed; people who find the fact that Snoop Dogg plays a zombie killer might even consider this a comedy (at times I did, a good one).  Pam Grier also stars as a crazy yet needed psychic.  B- "}{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Like the first reviewer here said, this is a mess of a movie.It's really more of a 70's black exploitation type film than anything else. Not a genre I am a fan of.I should have known it would stink when Snoop Dogg is the lead. The only rapper I have ever liked in a film was Ice Cube in Ghosts of Mars. "},{"Title":"What.","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" I don't think I have ever seen such a terrible movie in my life. Every bit of this movie is horribly acted and well predictable. Who ever gave this movie higher than 2* is an ignorant child, there is absolutely nothing interesting about this movie, except for the gore of course. I don't think that even the most die harder than hard gore fan would be too keen on this waste of film. Mr.Dogg is an ignoramus that does not deserve to be given the privilege of directing, writing, casting etc. If you are smart, you will avoid this movie completely. Save your money, don't rent, buy, or even watch online.May god help us, thank the lord this movie was made in 2001, and our taste in horror has increased, if you are truly dying to watch a popcorn movie on a late Friday night with the friends, then do yourself a favor and rent 'Valentine', the acting is less bad and the storyline can be accepted. But if you do rent this, I guarantee your wonderful Friday night with your friends and popcorn will go to hell, and they'll leave blaming you.Good day. "},{"Title":"Evil Snoop Dogg comes back to earth to feast on human flesh","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" The entire concept is great. This movie in no way is horrible, but its not actually a movie in the first place. Instead, it's more of a comedy. It follows along the lines of Snoop Dog entering a room, his adversary saying the cliché of, no! I'm sorry!, or, Bones! (shocked expression). I have got to say that Bones is first-rate comedy. It would be what Troll 2 would have been like if Busta Rhymes and Ice-T were cast.I ask you, however, what is greater than the concept of Evil Snoop Dogg coming back to earth to feast on human flesh, and wreak vengeance on those who betrayed him. Sure, it's been done in 50% of movies, but at least watch it for its absolute corniness.By the way, when Snoop was floating across the room with those eyes, I was rolling on the floor. I didn't see the ending, but it probably involves Snoop Dogg unleashing his rap zombies on the world, and feasting on the living, ending Civilization once and for all. "},{"Title":"Jeezus","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Quite possible the worst movie every, seriously. Stay away at all cost. I could go on all night why this one is awful, but as a friend to humanity I must warn all; you may want to kill yourself for having viewed this movie in it's entirity. Yes, it just that bad, I mean for God's sake the blood is orange, and that's not even the tip of the ice burg. The movie has no tone, and the little bit of tone it does attemps to establish is ruined by the last 25 min. or so when tries unsuccessfully to switch over to comedy. This movie is bad all the way around the board, there really not one decent thing about it. I refuse to even say anymore about this trash, I dare not give it anymore attention than this. But this is more of a warning just say no. "},{"Title":"NOT WORTH THE TIME","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie thinking that it would be scary and suspensful, but it is totally the opposite! It is dumb and boring, I even almost fell asleep. Don't waste money renting this movie, instead if you see it, throw it in the trash. "},{"Title":"A decent b-movie.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  I thought Bones was okay, and here's whyThe cast are pretty good, the story is simple (but nothing wrong in that), and it makes a change to see a mainstream sort of horror (in the same vein as Scream, or IKWYDLS) with a virtually all black cast - but without resorting, too much, to street-slang and negative stereotypes.  There is some flashback in the narrative, but I didn't see this as any attempt at mystery - it's obvious from scene 1 what happened.On the plus side, the ghost effects were pretty slick - even if the blood was totally unrealistic (like thick paint), and the model/monster effects were only at the Clive Barker level.  Which fits with the whole Hellraiser aspect of the movie.Apart from the paint, my only other quibbles would be the very silly aspect of Snoop's revenge on his two main enemies (more like a comedy sketch), and the way Pam Grier COULD have just got naked to save the day (dammit!)Yes, the film could have been so much more (scarier, longer and deadlier for three things), but I still enjoyed it,  If nothing else, I spent a good 20 minutes chuckling at the outrageous design of the house, and I don't remember 'Kendra' being nearly so beautiful.  "},{"Title":"there is meat to this bone","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  I heard this movie sucked. It did not. It is not great film, but it is good film.  The homage to the 1970s was there, the little film buff touches that remind one of urban horror's roots as far back as nosferatu.this movie could easily have been a sell out, with Bones as Snoop da CROWwith the vengeance thing, but it did not.the only bad horror gimmick was the last 4 seconds of the film.I expected a crappy horror movie. This beats urban legend or scream 3. "},{"Title":"Snoop Dogg is da man!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Bones was a scarefest that scared up the goods.  Director Ernest R. Dickerson's last time he taggled a horror movie was Tales From The Crypt Presents Demon Knight.  On Bones, he does a better job, but, what I was most impressive from this movie was Snoop Doggy Dogg as Jimmy Bones.  He was creepy.  There were alot of violence and gore in this movie.  But, just the whole movie, from beginning to end, was very good.  If you like Snoop Dogg, then you'll love Bones!A+ 13/13 ****** (out of ****** stars) "},{"Title":"Decent Movie","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Ok, so the movie didn't scare me. but i thought that it was well done. it had some very good horror elements to it. good ambience. i thought snoop was actually pretty good in the movie, too. it was entertaining and that's all the really matters, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  OK--I'm a big horror fan and while I don't disagree with any of the former posters (who all hated the film) I sort of like it.  A bunch of college kids buy an old condemned brownstone with plans to renovate it into a dance club.  Unfortunately, a murder took place their years ago and the spirit is waiting around for revenge...Predictable but fairly well done.  Director Ernest Dickerson uses a lot of flashy camerawork and good special effects that provide a few effective jolts (I jumped three times) and works in some spooky scenes--I wasn't scared but damned if the movie wasn't trying.  The story doesn't make a lot of sense (there are glaring lapses in logic) and the acting by Snoop Dogg is pretty terrible (don't give up your day job Dogg).  Still, it's worth a look at matinee prices or on DVD...especially for horror fans.  Also there is a good performance by Pam Grier and a fun ripoff of a scene from Suspiria.  "}{"Title":"Good silly horror fun","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Although the best horror films ever made are genuinely frightening (Psycho The Sixth Sense Nosferatu), most of the good ones were not meant to frighten but to provide light escapist entertainment with lots of thrills.  Think of Poltergeist, Nightmare on Elm Street or the classic Universal horror movies of the 1930's through the 1950's.  Bones falls into that category.  There are no surprises, the special effects are subpar, but it's still a fun thrill ride.When four inter-racial siblings purchase an old deserted house in the ghetto with plans to turn it into a nightclub, they come across a black dog with red eyes.  One of the sibs thinks the dog is cute and names him Bones.  Of course the dog is really the ghost of '70's drug kingpin Jimmy Bones(Snoop to the D to the O double-G) who was murdered in that house.  But wait, there's more.  Turns out the kids' dad was one of the ones who betrayed Jimmy.  And there's even more  the oldest of the clan, Patrick (Khalil Kain)has fallen love with a girl named Cynthia (Bianca Lawson) who is Jimmy's daughter by psychic Pearl (Pam Grier).Gradually Jimmy resumes human form and goes out to kill everyone who ever betrayed him when he was alive, plus their meddlesome offspring.  Will Jimmy achieve his goals?  Will the daughter he never knew betray him?  Who cares?  The plot ain't the point.  The point is watching Snoop in all his mack daddy (am I dating myself?) glory and Pam Grier bringing an A-caliber performance to C-caliber material.  And of course to have fun pretending to be scared.This is not a great film by any stretch of the imagination, and some of the political overtones (whites brought crack to the ghetto, only sellouts leave the 'hood) are distracting and annoying.  But it's good old-fashioned empty-calorie silly horror fun.  7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"WOOF!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  BONES (2001) * 1/2 Snoop Dogg, Pam Grier, Khalil Kain, Ricky Harris, Clifton Powell, Bianca Lawson, Michael T. Weiss.  Hodgepodge horror flick cum blaxploitation send-up with slain gangsta Jimmy Bones (Dogg at his silky surliest yet in this his first starring role) returning from the dead to wreak vengeance on those who murdered him with the usual genre violence and histrionics.  Poor f/x (except the transmogrification/resurrection of Bones) and lame acting only hinder the potential of a franchise for the blunt rapper.  (Dir Ernest Dickerson) "},{"Title":"Doggy Doo.","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" Any film with a rap artist as its star should be approached with caution for every '8-Mile' (Eminem), there are a dozen 'Lockjaw Rise of the Kulev Serpent's (DMX). Not that the failure of Bones is the sole fault of its legendary hip-hop star Snoop Dogg (AKA Snoop Doggy Dogg, Snoop Lion, DJ Snoopadelic, Snoopzilla)&#x97;even the most talented of thespians couldn't prevent this predictable vengeful ghost story from being a total mess.In addition to a tired and muddled plot that leaves too many questions unanswered (what did that dog have to do with things? why didn't Bones's spirit kill the kids as soon as they entered the house? why wasn't that building demolished like the others?), this film suffers from an irritatingly 'trendy' directorial style and gimmicky editing, awkward humour (were those talking severed heads really necessary?) and totally wastes the talents of both Pam 'Coffy' Grier and horror hottie Katherine Isabelle (in the role of token white girl).Working slightly in the film's favour are its impressive production design, the half-decent gore (the red paint for blood notwithstanding), a few neat visual references to cult horror classics, and some surprisingly good visual effects, but make no bones about it, this is a desperately uneven and not in the least bit scary effort that even avid Snoop fans might want to give a miss. "},{"Title":"Copy cat dumb waiter to an underground dungeon","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" The film is original in a few ways but it is mostly a jigsaw puzzle of borrowed elements. One can recognize Clive Barker's Hellraiser, or a new episode of Candyman, or an extension of Nightmare on Elm Street, or even Halloween or some Stephen King film. But it is black, black and black again and the hood is always very close, the hood of Boyz in the Hood and its crack and the execution of the little local gang leader by his associates including his protecting cop, and he finally comes back to get his vengeance, get even and recapture all his executioners and their next generation of children, including his own daughter. That does not make a film with a meaning, just some kind of thrilling entertainment, if you like blood and maggots, underground tunnels and skeletons in some kind of cabinet, or is it a cupboard or a closet? A little bit sad in a way because the situation and the theme could have produced a film with some insight in black imagination, in black white-induced schizophrenia, and it does not.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"The first two-thirds of Bones is interestingly done until the last third act is mess.","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" Jimmy Bones (Snoop Dogg) is a business man, who was well respect in the urban neighborhood of Chicago in the 1970's until he mysterious disappear without a trace. Now over twenty years, Bones' house was turned into a Gothic ruined. His spirit still lives on in the neighborhood in the body of a black evil dog! When a group of middle-aged kids (Khalil Kain, Merwin Mondesir, Sean Amsing & Katherine Isabelle) decides to buy Bones' home and turned into a dance-night club. But these four friends are experiencing something odd and as well meeting local people (Pam Grier, Bianca Lawson and Ron Selmour) knows that house isn't what it appears to be and especially they have deep dark secrets, they are not telling. But more trouble are starting, when one of kids father (Clifton Powell) discover that his son bought that house. The father isn't happy as well, along with an corrupted police detective (Michael T. Weiss) and a low-life Drug Dealer (Ricky Harris) do have something to do with Bones' disappearance. While the spirit of Bones is planning to come back in the real world and having his revenge.Directed by Ernest R. Dickerson (Bulletproof, Never Die Alone, Surviving the Game) made an enjoyable Gothic supernatural horror movie with an refreshing sense of humour. Although this film was an Box Office BOMB, when it came out in the fall of 2001. Dickerson's visual style recaptures some of the Italian's Horror Movies of the 1970's and as well for the some of the soul of the Blaxploitation films. But after the two/thirds of the movie. It becomes an mess, when Bones finally is back on the real world and the picture does have an unsatisfying conclusion. But Bones does have its fair share of campy humour, Dogg does have an strong presence in the movie as well for Dawson and especially Grier do look good in the movie. Good performances and Style over Subtance does makes this enjoyable mess, worth a look. A must see to capture Dickerson's visual style in Widescreen. Which it's a must on DVD. Written by Adam Simon (The American Nightmare, Brain Dead, Carnosaur) and Tim Metcalfe (Fright Night Part 2, Kalifornia, Revenge of the Nerds). Super 35. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Holy fake looking pink blood Batman!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":" I rented this movie not expecting much, and that is a good thing because this film is a real stinker. The overall idea is not very original, which is okay. Some gangster named Jimmy Bones died and is coming back for revenge, or something or another. Plot does not really matter for a movie like this, you just watch and try to enjoy the ride. Now, this is not near close to the worst movie I have seen, I have seen far, far, far worse, but it is also quite far from the best movies. My main gripe with this flick may sound dumb but...pink blood? What is that? The pink blood really takes a lot out of it...it makes it more unrealistic (though not realistic to begin with) and just looks...bad. I have seen $5,000 budgeted films with better looking blood! And other than the pink blood, the movie is just stupid and annoying to me. I say avoid, but some may like it. Worth a rent, I guess, if you want to see a cool pool table death......with pink blood. "},{"Title":"Pick the Bones out of this.","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  Why do african Americans feel they need to make films that are predominantly full of black actors and promote the film on the fact? Can you imagine Speilberg making a film and sayingthis is a film made by whites and acted by whitesThere would be uproar. Blacksploitation they call it. I call it pointless. As for the film , i have seen worse and i have seen a lot better. The story is the usual far fetched dross that we get from most horrors and the special affects are everage. Its not unwatchable and even at times it is a little entertaining but for the most it is quite forgettable.Snoop Dog is as bad an actor as he is a music artist...Complete and utter crap. Dont dismiss this film if you like horror but expect to much.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not bad of its kind","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  I can smell a series here! Snoop is just OK as the titular fiend, and the rest of the cast looks like it was lifted from HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL (and in fact the script includes a joking reference to that movie). Having said that, I give BONES points for some great and gory violence, and the haunted house design is more than passable. The story develops at a nice, even pace, saving the best moments for the last half. Gallows humor abounds, and the director makes it clear nothing here is to be taken seriously. I suspect it will be head and shoulders above the similarly themed HALLOWEEN movie due out in July. "},{"Title":"Katharine Isabelle (tia) is the only part of the movie that is good.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror","Review":"  KATHARINE ISABELLE is the only good thing in the movie. if she was not in it i would not have bought it.  she is not in it long which is a shame cos if she was it would have been better a lot better. still it is yet another film to my Katharine Isabelle collection which is a good thing cos we can never have too many films starring Miss Katharine Isabelle now can we.ginger snaps is still her best film so far i hope she is in the 2 sequels she bloody well better be or i will boycott the 2 sequels. "}]