[{"Title":"A different side of England","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wish there were more movies about the different cultures in the UK. Not just the Anglo, but the Asian and West Indian perspectives. Even the Southeast Asian view. The Middle Easterners have shown great strides with movies like Bend It Like Beckham and a few others. This movie got away from me until recently. I saw in the library video section and decided to check it out. The box is very misleading. They put a young interracial couple, front and center on the cover when actually their subplot is very peripheral to the story. I guess the movie studio figured they'd get a wider audience interested with younger faces on the cover since the main characters look to be in their 50s.George Khan (Om Puri) has left his native Pakistan to live in the UK with its soveriegnty ties. Though he has a wife back in his homeland (she is only mentioned, not seen), he marries a white Englishwoman, Ella (Lynda Bassett). They have 7 kids 6 boys and 1 girl. Flash forward to the late 60s (where the movie actually begins) and we see his kids are truly English in behavior though he stresses that they must go to Mosque to study and worship. His oldest is to be wed in an arranged marriage to a woman he hardly knows. He runs out in the middle of the ceremony in fear, embarrassing his family especially his father who disowns him. This sets the tone of the movie. His kids are English-born and want to live like their friends in their working-class neighborhood but George wants to raise them as traditional Muslims, despite opposition from his wife, Ella, who only wants the kids to be happy. She tries to help them avoid run-ins with their father who despite his cheerfulness is quite an ogre when angered. The kids range in attitude and indifference toward George's attempts to introduce them to the traditional ways. This is a decent introduction to immigrant life in the UK especially since it's set during a time when there was political strife over immigration of non-whites into Britain. Though it's an effective comedy, it also touches on the frustration immigrants of any culture go through to hold onto or reject their identity. The only thing marring this movie is a domestic violence scene that may bother some. Still a very good movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"low keyed comedy/drama","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `East is East,' something of a modern day version of `Fiddler on the Roof,' explores the culture clash that occurs in the context of a half Pakistani/half British family living in early 1970's England.   George Khan is a Muslim who, upon immigrating to Great Britain in 1937, married a British woman despite the fact that his first wife still lives in Pakistan.  Now, twenty five years later, the still happily married couple lives in a small apartment with their daughter and six sons all of whom have been raised to honor their father's religion and traditions.  Yet, like Tevye, George is suddenly confronted with the fact that, as times change and the world moves on, the younger generation will no longer abide by the archaic rituals of an ancient age.  In many ways, this is the flip side of `Fiddler' in that here the reluctant marriage partners are sons and not daughters.  For indeed, George's ultimate goal in life is to arrange marriages for his teenaged sons within the accepted tradition of the Muslim faith.  But culture is often a force that parents try in vain to withstand and these children, raised in the far more open and liberated society of `mod' England, are not about to take such dictatorial parental control lying down.In the script based on his play, Ayub Khan-Din provides an evenhanded and comprehensive view of the situation.  George is not presented to us as an inflexible or unreasonable ogre, yet at the same time, he will, in his frustration, strike out even physically at the children and the wife who seem to oppose him.  We sense the fear that runs through him that, if his sons are allowed to exercise their freedom in this one crucial area, the family will sever that connection with the past which brings stability to their lives.  Thus, without any traditions to anchor them, George dreads that he and the family will be cut adrift in a seemingly rudderless world that suddenly seems in the 1970's to be in such great and terrifying moral flux.  Moreover, we are left to ponder the strange contradiction between George's own words and the choices he himself has made.  After all, his opting to marry a British woman who does not share the tenets of his faith obviously went beyond the bounds of the very traditions he is now so dogmatically insisting his sons uphold.  This type of ambiguity within the characters enhances their credibility, for indeed life and the people we meet therein come replete with such maddening inconsistencies.Khan-Din and director Damien O'Donnell establish an effective balance between low-key humor and occasionally searing drama.  The relationship between the husband and wife who comprise this interracial marriage is complexly realized and fully drawn; the obvious difficulties the two have experienced as a result of the nonconformity of their union has obviously strengthened their devotion to one another and they appear to greatly enjoy each other's company.  She has undoubtedly made any number of concessions and compromises to her husband's belief system, yet she has retained her British feistiness and knows how far to let George go before she draws the line, especially when it comes to protecting the rights and happiness of her own progeny.   In a similar way, we see, in thorough detail, the complexities that make up the two very different sets of relationships between the respective parents and their children.  Din and O'Donnell have, wisely, chosen to limit the scope of their film by downplaying the broader theme of how a suspicious and prejudiced society deals with so unconventional a marriage and family.  We see only bits and pieces of this in the form of bigoted comments uttered by a disapproving neighbor and a mere mention of a political rally intended to rouse the populace on the issue of `repatriation.'   Instead, the authors concentrate almost exclusively on the internecine struggles taking place within this one family.   This helps to keep the scale of the film life-sized, thus enhancing our identification with the characters and their universal parent/child conflicts.  For, in a way, the Khan family is really not undergoing any crisis not already familiar to countless families the world over, as parents cope with children eager to cut the filial chords and establish life on their own terms and as children, likewise, deal with parents who want to determine the course those lives will take.  The Khans just happen to provide a more heightened and intensified view of this subject.`East is East' is a small movie but an absorbing one.  Thanks to uniformly excellent performances from a gifted cast and a careful modulation between humor and drama, the film emerges as a compelling and insightful glimpse into a life that is, as for all of us, so full of both terrifying and wonderful complexity.   "},{"Title":"Touching and unpredictable","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Engaging, well-made comedy based on the play by Ayub Khan-Din concerning the misfortunes of an Anglo-Pakistani family verging on the brink of change in early 1970s Salford.  Traditional dad Om Puri is shocked when his oldest son (Ian Aspinall) runs away from an arranged wedding, and decides that from now on his family will be more respectful. Among his plans are the weddings of two of his other sons, both of whom are far from delighted with the idea. Khan-Din's fine script never resorts to cliche resulting in a funny, study of the clash between the old and the new.Linda Bassett as superb as Puri's second wife, an English woman who straddles both camps between her husband's traditionalism and her kids' sense of rebellion while nonetheless attempting to keep her own dignity.Fine performances from Chris Bisson and Jimmi Harkishin (Coronation Street) and Jimi Mistry (EastEnders) while little Jordan Routledge is great as the parka-loving Sajid.However, it's Puri who shines as the complex father, desperately trying to hang on to tradition and finding nothing but rebellion from his family.The ending could easily have been a familiar family seeks revenge on their overbearing father but what results is a refreshing change to the many TV movies that usually opt for an easy solution to a difficult problem.  "},{"Title":"Well-made drama about culture clashes","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Three teenagers are sitting in front of a TV, enjoying their large helpings of pork sausage and bacon. Suddenly they hear a door opening and immediately start cleaning up all of the dishes and unsuccessfully try to get rid of the fumes of grilled bacon and sausages that billowed through the whole house. This is, of course, not depicting the normal life of three teenagers, but taken from the film East Is East by Damien O'Donnell. It deals with the story of a family in England in the 1970s with a Pakistani father (multi-facetted enacted by Om Puri) who still believes in his Pakistani traditions and his Muslim religion and an English mother (great performance by Linda Bassett) who tries to give her seven children as much freedom as all of their fully English friends enjoy. This movie was labeled as a Comedy both in theaters and on DVD or VHS, but anybody looking for light-hearted entertainment fitting for a Saturday night will be hugely disappointed. This movie is out to teach the viewer about how difficult it is to get two very different cultures to not only co-exist peacefully next to each other, but to merge them to create a new one. The script by Ayub Khan-Din, who also wrote the book and the stage version of this movie, does have its funny moments, and the whole cast, including the children, is in for some good laughs. But the more intense moments are those where the viewer has to deal with outbursts of domestic violence or things like arranged marriages that seem so far away and cruel to Westerners. The cast shows its brilliance in those intimate moments. Even though the script might sometimes appear to be too ambitious &#150; there are just too many characters all developing in a very distinct manner and all crucial to the movie &#150; the movie can be recommended to anyone who is not looking for a standard comedy and is willing to have his views on life challenged. "},{"Title":"East is East","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" East is East- another boring film we have to watch in our English lesson. These were my first thoughts when I heard that this film will be the next topic our English class has to deal with. But that is absolutely not the case! This film is a great enrichment for the viewer and it is no boring stuff at all.Ayub Khan-Din wrote a fantastic script which is perfectly put into action by Damien O'Donnell. The cast members did a good job by giving their characters influences to link them into the right direction. For example Om Puri who played his complex character George Khan with such a conviction and even the youngest cast member Jordan Routledge who has absolutely not to hide behind his co-cast members in his performance of &#132;Sajid Khan. Also the setting in the 70's is a big success so that you get the impression as if you are living within this time. Mostly I liked the way the writers handled the difficult topic of the different lifestyles of Pakistani and British people without speaking in favour for one group. They used a lot of prejudices about both cultures but they converted it into funny scenes everybody has to laugh about. So a good balance between comedy and tragedy is created because of the spontaneous comic relieves. The film gives a good opportunity for watching it for entertainment but also for talking seriously about it, like for example the two generations and their different points of view On the one hand we can see the young generation of Sajid who does not care if his friend Earnest is a Pakistani or not. And also Tariq who does not want to be a devout Pakistani and likes partying all night even if his father gets angry about it. But on the other hand, there is the older generation of immigrants George belongs to which is extremely influenced by their traditional values and it is hard for them to adapt to the British society. It seems as if especially George does not learn from his mistakes After the failed arranged marriage of eldest son Nazir, he tries to plan marriages for his sons Tariq and Abdul who are strongly against it. At the end, left alone from his family, George seems to be contemplative and Ella goes back to him for reconciliation. But the viewer does not get to know whether George changes his behaviour or not but you can still hope it! And that's why East is East is such an intoxicating movie Everybody can identify with one of the characters and so you suffer with Ella when she is beaten up by her husband, you laugh with the siblings when they are teasing each other, you want to give them good advices and most importantly, you think about what you would have done in their situation.So I can really recommend watching this movie because of the good balance of comical and tragically effects, the great actors and not to forget, the fantastic story written by a man who collected his first experiences by creating this script which was such a success. "},{"Title":"East is East","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" &#132;East is East is a refreshing inventive family story. Directly the first scene where two different religions and also two opposing views of life (namely the children's and the view of their conservative father) clash together. With the funny way of telling which is typical for the whole film, nevertheless the problems are shown in their graveness. The cast represents every member of this Pakistani family as an individual but the good relations between the siblings and their mother is shown as realistic as the problematic relation between them and their incorrigible father. The viewer gets the impression of a different culture but he will recognize a lot of aspects of his own family life, too, what was aimed by the makers who brought in the personal experiences. All in all, this movie is an evening-filling enrichment for the viewer. "},{"Title":"A GREAT LITTLE GEM","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Excellent film of interracial family, traditions versus the contemporary and chartering somewhere in the middle ground. I was somewhat dubious about the way EAST IS EAST was touted as a comedy, seemingly about horny teenagers and adolescent rebellion against parental authority. I thought, Oh Lord, the Americans have a lock on this type of flick, and now the British want in, too.      Then, I saw Om Puri's name as the lead. I have been a longtime fan of this amazing actor, and thought, well it's worth a look.Wow! What a captivating, interesting and at times, humorous film. I found it unpretentious and unflinching, and marvelously human, which is where the humor rested. The mingling of cultures, and those becoming an amalgamation of the two, lead to uproarious clashes sometimes. The wishes, well in this case, the demands of the draconian father for his children, and the reality in which they live clearly head for confrontation. The screenplay by Ayub Khan-Din is a great slice of life; it's certainly wasn't hard to tell that he might have culled some of the notions included from life experience. It's not meant to be exacting, as some have criticized. No more so, than Laura Ingalls Wilder's LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE was meant to be a strictly historical factoid on pioneering life in the early western US. It's meant as a slice of it, of one persons vision or interpretation.EAST IS EAST is extraordinary, a marvel to watch, and one that simply gets better with each viewing. Don't miss this one. Highly recommended.    "},{"Title":"High-class movie","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A bitter-sweet comedy with some moments of truly stark drama, this is a high-class movie.  Yes, there are randy dogs and fat, ugly girls - but the piece is a class act because it mixes those laugh-out-loud funny comic set pieces with great drama so cleverly.  Very much a period piece, the movie is set in Salford in 1971 - a telling time for a part-Pakistani family with Enoch Powell's shadow never too far away and the break-away of East Pakistan (Bangladesh-to-be)unravelling as the film goes on.  The poverty of 1971 Salford with the outside toilet, bedpans and tin bath is excellently portrayed.  And at a more mundane level, the constant sight of a bright orange space-hopper and its comedic demise is truly nostalgic, especially to this reviewer whose own space-hopper suffered a similar fate around 1971.  Superb acting performances all round - Linda Bassett used to be one of the better-kept secrets on the UK stage, but now I suppose the secret is out.  Highly recommended movie. "},{"Title":"He Loved His Parker","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" East is East tried to cover too many issues and genres in the one film. In the end I don't think the script was strong enough to tie all this together, and the film suffered because of it. Having said that I believe it was a strong performance from a talented cast.In it's favour there were some hilarious scenes throughout the movie, and an insight into the Pakistani families and communities in England. Not the typical English stereotypes usually portrayed by Hollywood, nor the typical London lifestyle so often seen in movies today, which was a refreshing change.Oh Yeah, this confirmed how dangerous and damaging religion has the potential to be. Definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Solid slice of nostalgia, but something of a wasted opportunity.","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Damien O'Donnel's bright and colourful comedy drama is, for the most part, an entertaining and nostalgic tale of the conflicts within a mixed-race family in early seventies Manchester. A hit in the UK upon release the film also did modest business in the US helped by a marketing campaign that promoted it as a breezy comedy but the film also tackles the serious question of what it was, and what it is, to be young, Asian and British. It's curious, and perhaps a little disappointing, that despite the early seventies setting the film steadfastly refuses to tackle the broader issue of racism in any depth. At a time when Enoch Powell was extolling the virtues of repatriation and the nations favourite sitcom was 'From Death Us Do Part' (or possibly 'Love Thy Neighbour') the worst any character in East Is East has to contend with is a shifty look from a nightclub bouncer. Powell does have a brief cameo, as a poster on a window that the family's daughter Meenah (Archie Panjabi) smashes in a defiant demonstration of her footy skills. It's a nice moment, a teenage Asian girl kicking in Enoch's head with a soccer ball &#150; What would Alf Garnett say? Unfortunately we don't get to find out as the films only really abusive white character (Who bears a suspicious resemblance to Johnny Spate's 'lovable racist') only appears a couple of times to mutter something about 'Bloody Pakis' or 'Pickininies'. The conflict between Indians and Pakistanis is given a similar treatment, with George expressing his distaste for Those cow worshipping bastards and the contemporary conflict on the subcontinent being relayed on the family's radio. Again, however, this seems more to add colour and humour than for any other purpose. Perhaps O'Donnell felt that a deeper examination of these issues would detract from the theme of Asian/British identity and it's true that other British features have dealt with the subjects in greater detail. Having said that it might have been an idea to make a passing reference to the fact that racial prejudice, while not necessarily any more commonplace than today, was certainly seen as more acceptable. Of course, despite the considerable attention to period detail, 'East Is East' lays no claim to painstaking factual accuracy. There's a fairytale like quality to the film heightened by the Bollywood-style primary colours that frequently contrast with the drab Salford landscape. This viewer was reminded of Hettie MacDonald's council estate love story 'Beautiful Thing', like this based on a stage play with a script by the original author. Both of these films employ a subtle heightened sense of reality that suggests a half remembered childhood memory. One marvellous sequence set in a Bradford Asian flea pit (The 'Moti Mahal') sees the entire Khan clan sitting transfixed during the latest Bollywood epic. It's that rare occasion when the conflicts within the family can be forgotten in favour of a fleeting moment of escapism. And conflicts there are, because the real meat of the film concerns the alienation that exists between the rigidly traditionalist George and the other family members. Played, with a mix of bumbling comedy and genuine menace, by Omi Puri George is certain he knows what's best for his children, not to mention his wife. He wants the kids to learn Urdu but they refuse to study, his precious sons should marry into another Pakistani family of his choosing but they want to screw around with white girls and his wife refuses to show the respect that is demanded in a Muslim marriage. George, while not exactly an anachronism &#150; he gets plenty of understanding from the like minded down at the local Mosque &#150; is a man who cannot see that his children are not like him. Their only sense of the 'homeland' is through their father and the traditions he imposes upon them. It's not surprising then that they consider themselves unequivocally British. Upon arrival in Bradford one of the youngsters takes a look at the locals and shouts excitedly There's 'undreds of 'em! In a way it's a shame that the family is mixed race. Not enough is done with this to really justify it and how much more impact the conflict between George and Ella (Linda Bassett) would have been were she also Asian. The fact that the Khan children are half Caucasian also simplifies the question of British-Asian identity a little too needlessly. All of this might suggest a rather dry, even depressing film, but like the colourful feature playing at the Moti Mahal 'East Is East' never forgets it's primary function is to entertain. This is, after all, essentially a comedy and it's frequently very funny indeed. The humour ranges from extremely broad &#150; a scene involving the 'banished' sons new life as manager of a 'swinging' London Boutique and another involving a latex vagina could both have come from an 'Austin Powers' movie &#150; to the grimly dark. The best example of this might be youngest son Sajid's (Who lives permanently inside his Parka like a prototype for 'South Park's Kenny) trip to hospital for a circumcision. Towards the end of the film, in a moment mirroring this, he has the hood of his jacket unceremoniously ripped off and is finally exposed to the outside world, or as close to the outside world as George allows the family to get. Clearly Khan-Din's surrogate in the film (Himself a Salford boy who would have been ten in 1971) much of 'East Is East' is viewed through his eyes and from this perspective the film can be seen as something of a 'coming of age' tale. While not entirely successful 'East Is East' is still a welcome addition to the increasing ranks of British-based Asian cinema and television. Seemingly made with a broad audience in mind it, nevertheless, takes up some serious issues. It's just a shame the filmmakers weren't willing to stick their necks out just a little bit further. "}{"Title":"In one word Pathetic!","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Being a Pakistani, I was pretty geared up when I heard about a film about Pakistani people, though I had my reservation knowing that it was a British film, and I was probably the first customer to rent `East is East' when it arrived to a video rental store near my house. And boy was I disappointed!I've very rarely found British comedy films exciting and &#145;East is East' is no exception. The last one I saw was Blue Juice and it was even worse than this. Why Britain continues to produce amazing actors and actresses (Anthony Hopkins, Sean Connery, Hugh Grant, Emma Thompson, Kate Winslet etc.) and fail to produce great filmmakers is beyond my comprehension.`East and East' could have very easily been an engaging sentimental drama about a Pakistani immigrant and his family trying to cope in a foreign culture. But instead it is an obscene and vulgar comedy that makes mockery of Pakistanis in particular and muslims in general. All the characters that belonged to Pakistan, be it George Khan, Mr. Shah or all those Pakis George meet in Bradford (or is it Bradistan?) were stupid, ill mannered and devoid of any common sense. If that was not enough, they all were cruelly ignorant to the feelings of their families.   Character of Om Puri (George Khan) is very uni-dimesional. He is, ignorant, cruel, violent and doesn't seem to give a damn about anyone of his family. Never once do we see him talking nicely to anyone of his seven kids. Minnah was the only daughter among six sons, that should have made at least her an apple of his eye, or like many other of their misconceptions about Islam and Pakistan, the filmmakers thought that all Pakisatnis think less of their daughters than their sons? Throughout the film we hear that he wants the good for his children and never once does he talks politely to them? And was he blind or something to marry his oh-so handsome sons with such ugly looking girls? What was the director's message? That if u grow up in a Pakistani environment like Mr. Shah's daughter's did, u turn up like that?One more thing, in the wedding sequence at the beginning of the film, we hear `Allah Ho' played in the background. It was my first experience of hearing a mystical song on a wedding! Even the most radical families of Pakistan tends to sing certain traditional wedding songs and George's family was from Punjab where they have probably thousands of songs for this particular occasion only. Lack of knowledge Mr. Director? Or was it your unfathomable British sense of humor? The only commendable thing about the film is acting. Everybody has given a decent performance and it is useless to elaborate on how great an actor Om Puri is! The accent, the language, the facial expression were simply superb. I wish if only it had been for a better film. `East is East' is disappointing in every sense and to know that it has been rated as one of the finest British comedies ever made only suggests the standard of the British cinema.    "},{"Title":"Good attempt but falls between the stools of comedy and drama","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  East is East is a good example of British comedy drama.  Set in the north of England in the 1970's it is the story of an mixed race Asian family living in a mainly white community.  However the film doesn't really tackle the conflict between the races but rather the conflict within the family itself - both the clash of the cultures between the white mother and Asian father, and the children resisting the traditional culture of their father.The film rises easily above TV sitcom/drama to be of film standard in every sense.  The director captures the size of the house and the community well.  The acting is good - especially Om Puri as the father.  The film builds the picture of an eastern family mixing with the western culture well - with comedy scenes used as well as more dramatic scenes used to show this.If you enjoy this style of domestic humour, you'll love this (especially the scenes where the family are all together - check out the youngest who is a very British indeed and reminds me of Kenny from South Park!).  But don't be fooled into thinking that this is a crude toilet-humour style comedy (like the marketing suggests) it is much more than that. Also if you have a father who wanted his children to be raised a specific way (not necessarily Asian) then you'll get much of the drama between father and children.My only problem with this is that the characters sometimes seem to be caricatures, and the plotting is sometimes a bit ropey with so many things to fit in.Is it realistic of the experience of british Muslims at the time? Probably not but it's funny, moving and thought-provoking in equal measure. "},{"Title":"Funny in places, reasonable storyline","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a 27 year old Muslim who grew up in this country I have to say I could not relate to much of this film. My gripe lies with the inaccuracies of a director who couldn't get the details of the film correct. He managed to get the 70s look and feel of the film spot on, he even managed to get the Indian films and songs of the time right as well. However, being a Muslim director he couldn't (or more precisely deliberately didn't) get the religious details right. These include (spoilers here, but reading them won't spoil the storyline) Muneer getting up in the morning when the sun was well high and starting to pray (prayer at this time is prohibited in Islam!), or all the boys of every age being taught one monotonous sentence by an Imam at the mosque when in reality children of different ages are taught at different levels of difficulty. Minor things one might say, but details are everything with me.I had been asked if all the sexual goings-on in the film was offensive and I replied no, because I wanted to watch the film as an objective moviegoer. But, the film was spoiled by the inaccurate details two of which I have mentioned above. Most (non-Muslim) people won't notice these details, but its like going to the best Indian restaurant in town to try some authentic Indian dishes but being handed a plate of vindaloo (people in India don't even know what this dish is!!!).Nevertheless, the comical moments were superbly handled and thought out and the acting was excellent. This is definitely one fictional comedy to see. "},{"Title":"A great film greatly misunderstood.","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Contains spoilers.Not a movie for those with literal minds, obviously. This is not a film portraying Muslims or Pakistanis as bad and western society as good. It's not about wife-beating or making fun of ugly girls, or homosexuals, or any of that nonsense. It's about a man--overly concerned with society's opinion of him--who struggles with an increasing feeling of impotence in a changing world. He could be any man in any society. The film could as easily be about a fundamentalist Christian father who fears his children's slipping away. To view this movie strictly in literal terms--to think it is about Muslims or Pakistanis--is to completely miss the point. That's simply the canvas for a larger theme.This father mistakenly places what society thinks of his family ahead of what the family itself wants. He's not evil--he's trying to do good--but errs in identifying what good is, and misses the signs that he's gone wrong.He has his youngest son circumcised at 8 years old. He hits his devoted wife, beats the one son who takes his side, and promises his two middle sons to ugly cows whose snobby mother sits in his house and insults his wife and children--all in the name of doing what's right for his family.His wife tells the awful prospective mother-in-law my sons are too good for your daughters because it's TRUE. Her husband has his head so far up his butt that rather than be embarrassed in front of his peers he takes for his sons the girls no other father would. His son Tariq is the catch of the town-- gorgeous women are literally fighting over him--and his father signs him up at a moment's glance to the ugliest girl in England.This after his first son ran out on an arranged marriage.Please don't tell me I'm horrible for judging the girls by their looks. They're SUPPOSED to be ugly to make a point. They're a PLOT DEVICE, meant to illustrate just how wrong George has gone. We're not laughing at fat girls--we're laughing at a father who doesn't realize his own sons are way out of these particular fat girls' league. I'm sure they're lovely people, and that there are nice boys out there for them. But not his sons.Ultimately the family bands together to stand up to him, and only then does he realize whose side he's really on.Highly recommended to anyone who had a parent who meant well. Great film. "},{"Title":"Frustrating","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Quite possibly one of the most annoying movies of all time.  The characters are little more than caricatures (sp ?), which in itself doesn't have to be a problem, but in this movie it IS a problem because the terribly-written characters are accompanied by a go-nowhere plot, awful dialogue, and ongoing toilet humour (which is woefully out of place). "},{"Title":"And never the twain shall meet?","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A blistering condemnation of traditional Pakistani values that is purported to be a comedy.Set in 1971, East is East is more drama than comedy (with the much-touted randy dog only appearing twice) and is extremely well acted. Yet it shows no respect for it's subject matter, casting the father of a mixed-race family, George Khan (Om Puri, excellent) as a vicious, foul-mouthed wife beater. This also causes a severe narrative conflict, where the warm-hearted George undergoes a complete character change halfway through the film.George is married to the English, white, Ella, yet we are asked to believe that he is a traditionalist and still upholds his religion. While many have slated the stereotypical portrayal of George, who is at first extremely humorous, later extremely violent, what is not often brought into question is the attitude of the children. As anti a representation as the father, they rally against circumcision and arranged marriage while drinking, dating white girls and eating bacon. It is this extreme characterisation that seems determined to cause offence.In technical terms, the film cannot be faulted. It is adequately directed, and the script by Ayub Khan-Din from his own stage play is full of witty lines. Acting is what truly saves it, though, with strong performances in particular from Tariq (Jimi Mistry) and Saleem (Chris Bisson). And, of course, Jordan Routledge as Sajid gets most of the best lines. But the film does not suggest any easy solutions. George's ideology (who's frequent use of the Urdu for sisterf***** is tellingly not subtitled) is discarded out of hand. There is no display of how his traditional values could be accepted by his family. So too, there is no suggestion that the two values could be combined, or that a compromise is available. Instead, what the film seems to promote is that the values George holds dear as wrong and that the western way of life is the only correct way for society. Political correctness, for all its goodness, saves this film. Negative reviews are virtually unheard in England where no one would criticise a minority work. And the fact that the production is written by an Asian rescues it from the racist tag. However, making a film that openly lambastes a culture and a belief is not a positive statement. There is, thankfully, an ever-increasing market for Asian culture in modern British society, and the country looks forward to the first successful British-Asian film. East is East, unfortunately, isn't it.  "},{"Title":"Serious subject matter, but handled a bit irresponsibly","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though the subject matter is interesting and relevant, I didn't like the absurdly unrealistic character portrayal of the father. I am familiar with the demographic that this movie was trying to depict, and this paints a throughly unredeeming picture of a dysfunctional family. Nothing goes right in this family, from the sibling relationships, to intrafamily communication, to religious education, to anger management... Not to say that some of these issues don't exist in some Pakistani families living in Britain, but the fact that this is a rare glimpse into this population, the viewer can be easily misled into thinking that these backwards-ass families are the norm. Also, it is transparent that the screenwriter has a bone to pick with a character like the father in this movie, because the father is portrayed as one-dimensional, and hypernegativestereotypical in every way (manipulative, self-centered, violent, grammatically challenged, vulgar, and overall not too savory) and it portrayed almost comically.There is so much positive, vibrant, and beautiful in the Pakistani culture, and I'm not just talking about the clothing, as it was portrayed here. Most families are much stronger than what they have become in Western society. I wish this film would have had included some of these aspects and not so much ugliness passed off as slapstick. "},{"Title":"George is not representative of Pakistanis or Muslims","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't want to do this, but after reading how many poor souls think that this movie is an accurate represenation of a Pakistani immigrant, you should know that it isn't!Most Pakistani men are not so vulgar and stupid, and George does not understand his Islam at all (e.g Children must freely consent to marrying their spouse, whereas George is autocratic, and a man can never disown his son, to name a few doctrinal points). I can say that he does tend to represent all the worst stereotypes of Pakistani culture (the overbearingness, insecurity, arrogance). But this has nothing to do with his religion. More to do with his own misunderstanding of it. And I've never seen anyone so poorly understand it as him. This guy is a creep. Yuck. "},{"Title":"Crass, authoritative Pakistani father in an immigrant tale that could have been much more interesting and palatable","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No doubt to a large extent due to my low tolerance for vulgarity, violence, and adolescent humor, I came away almost wishing I hadn't seen this film.  Perhaps blinders prevented me from really seeing East is East, which I saw tonight at a local Indian film festival, for what it is.The movie reminded me of films like Sammy and Rosie (with Pakistani father played by Shashi Kapoor returning to visit family in London) and My Beautiful Laundrette (set in 1980s London) that I saw around 1985 or 1986.  Like those films, East is East deals with the lower middle class South Asian immigrant experience in London.  I didn't enjoy those films either, though My Beautiful Laundrette was worth seeing.George Khan (Om Puri), a traditional Muslim Pakistani, leaves his wife and homeland in 1937 to settle in England.  Sometime after that, he takes a second wife, Ella (played by Linda Bassett).  The film is set in the 1970s, and portrays George and Ella raising a number of sons and one daughter.  George tries to hang on to mores he was brought up with, and is insistent that the family follow these ways, accept his sole authority, and not adapt to the culture they are in.George claims to only try to do what he thinks is best for the family, but the lack of two-way communication and his authoritarian style deepen his cultural gap with the rest of the family.  His inflexible old-world traditions are especially problematic in that Ella is British and the children were all born and brought up in England, and this leads to a family crisis.I'm not sure what others saw in this film.  George's domestic violence was difficult to stomach, as were his constant profane tirades and closed-minded tantrums.  There were glimmerings of discrimination, and I feel the film could have been much more multi-dimensional and socially telling if it had explored this context.  I would also have found the story more compelling if it had hilighted some of the elements of Pakistani culture in a more positive light, and set the scene for more sympathetic consideration of the struggling immigrant father. Chalk it up to my idiosyncracies, but I would only give East is East a rating of 4 on a scale of 10. "},{"Title":"Never the Twain Shall Meet","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" East Is East can be seen as a return to the tradition of kitchen sink realism, which was responsible for so many fine British films in the fifties and sixties. It has a number of similarities with one of the last of those films, Spring and Port Wine. Both films are set in industrial towns in Lancashire (Salford here, Bolton in the earlier film). Both are set in the same period, the late sixties/early seventies. And both are centred upon a strict, autocratic father who finds his authority being challenged by rebellious children. There are, however, two major differences. One is that the action of Spring and Port Wine took place around the time it was made, whereas East Is East is a period piece, made in 1999 but set in 1971. It relies heavily on nostalgic period detail, featuring the fashions, pop music (The Hollies), television (The Clangers) and even toys (spacehoppers) of the era, although there are a couple of errors. Enoch Powell, for example, is seen on television referring to Alec Douglas-Home as Conservative Party leader (he resigned from that office in 1965) and there is a reference to the half-crown, a pre-decimal coin which ceased to be legal tender after 1969. The other major difference is that East is East revolves around the question of race, something that was quite absent in Spring and Port Wine. The father in this case is Zahir George Khan, the Pakistani Muslim owner of a fish-and-chip shop, who has lived in England since 1937. He is married to Ella, a white British woman, and they have seven children, six sons and a daughter. (There may, in fact, be some doubt about the legitimacy of their marriage under English law; we learn that he has a first wife still living in Pakistan, from whom he has never been formally divorced). The film starts with the oldest son Nazir refusing to go through with an arranged marriage, leading Zahir to disown him. (We later learn that Nazir is in fact gay). With the exception of Maneer, who is a devout Muslim, the remaining children, who were born and grew up in Britain, see themselves as British rather than Pakistani, and resent their father's insistence that they should follow Pakistani customs of dress, food and religion. Some of them, for example, go so far as to drink alcohol and eat pork, but always behind their father's back. It should be noted that Zahir does not always follow his own precepts; he is generally known as George, but has given all his children Muslim names and his sons Abdul and Tariq have to hide from their father the fact that among their English friends they are generally known as Arthur and Tony. (Nazir goes by the name Nigel). Similarly, although George has himself married a white woman he would be horrified to know that Tariq has a white girlfriend. There have been a number of other recent comedies about the Asian immigrant communities in Britain and their relations with the indigenous British community- Anita and Me and Bend It like Beckham are two other examples which come to mind- but East Is East, based on a play by Ayub Khan-Din, himself of Asian ancestry, takes a harder, more critical, look at Asian culture, especially at practices such as arranged marriages. Rafe Crompton, the central character of Spring and Port Wine had, for all his strictness as a father, a basic decency and kindness which enabled the Crompton family to stick together when threatened by crisis. George, by contrast, is an overbearing domestic tyrant who bullies his children and beats his wife when she tries to stand up for them. He even assaults the normally loyal and obedient Maneer. He resents the racist attitudes of his English neighbours, but displays similar prejudices himself, against Hindus (cow-worshipping bastards!) and even against his fellow-Muslims from East Pakistan, as Bangladesh was then known. (Bengali baboons!) Imagine the furore which would have been unleashed had epithets like these been uttered by a white character. At times he resembles not Rafe Crompton but an Asian version of Alf Garnett, the monstrous anti-hero of Till Death Us Do Part. Ayub Khan-Din took his title from a poem by Kipling, East is East and West is West, and never the twain shall meet. Kipling's theme was the differences between Eastern and Western culture, so the title is appropriate to a film on the same theme, although since Kipling write these lines East and West have indeed met in all sorts of ways he never dreamed of. In the context of the film, in fact, the implication is that when East and West do meet there should be some two-way cultural exchange, a suggestion that it is in nobody's interests for immigrant communities to try and live in some sort of monocultural ghetto, rejecting Western influences, as George is trying to. East Is East is sometimes described as a comedy, and there are certainly a number of amusing scenes, such as the ones in which George- who clearly has not learned his lesson following the debacle with Nazir- tries to arrange marriages for Abdul and Tariq to the two daughters of a Pakistani family from Leeds, despite the fact that the girls are fat and ugly, their father rude and arrogant and their mother a monstrous snob. If it is a comedy, however, it is a rather bleak and bitter one; George is a deeply unpleasant individual and we are left uncomfortably aware that attitudes like his could all too easily lead to tragedy. If we laugh at him, it is a very uneasy form of laughter indeed. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Astonishing!!!!","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just saw this incredible ensemble movie - I was most struck by the amazing ensemble acting by the entire cast, mostly unknown to me (Archie Panjabi is an emmy winner for her role on The Good Wife, and I have seen Linda Bassett in a few movies). I absolutely hated the father - he reminded me of my late father, who was also a bully who was enraged by his lack of ability to control others completely - Om Puri gives a ferocious performance - I would be curious to know what the actor felt about his part, did he see him (as I do) as a villain or did he see him as right? I found Linda Bassett's role a bit infuriating those women who stay with their abusive disgusting husbands no matter what. I loved how rebellious the kids were, yet they stayed stuck under this tyrant's thumb. But they could escape into British culture, the neighborhood, school, music, culture that was not Pakistani. The gay son was certainly stereotypical but I still found it daring - it's rare to see a happy gay couple (who also appear to be married) in movies from before 2000. Meena's dance is wonderful and fun. Damien O'Donnell's direction makes me wish he could make more movies (I've also loved Rory O'Shea Was Here, which was originally titled Inside I'm Dancing, but his other few films don't seem to have made it over here) - his direction is incredibly self-assured and brilliant, it was his feature film debut (he had made short films and commercials previously). I especially loved the feel of the film, the production design, the street - interestingly, it was filmed at Ealing Studios, 40 years after the last of the Ealing films were produced there. While this film can get my blood boiling - I wished somebody would run the father over with a car or do anything to get him to STOP his bullying disgusting behavior. (Why is he married to her? It's a real mystery. If he's so Pakistani, why isn't he married to a Pakistani woman?) But that's what's so great about this movie it can be simultaneously infuriating AND fascinating! I absolutely loved this movie!!! "},{"Title":"Great portrayal of dilemma's & tribulations in a multiracial family","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  East is East is an brilliant effort to convey a Father's dilemma's & tribulations in a multiracial family/community.From an asian perspective this movie could'nt be much farther than the truth of what's really happening. Om puri,the seasoned actor that he is,carries the film on his shoulder with excellent support from Basset and others.One scene in particular,When he sees the photographs of his would-be daughters-in-law,he contemplates between the word he has given and family honour, and decides hastily lest he should lose his face.Throughout the movie he shines in many scenes, which only a great actor can do justice. Basset in the confrontation with mother of the brides, performs brilliantly in suppressing/bursting with anger.The children, all of them have made the movie what it is,with each one of them excelling in one way or other.Neighbours and friends support the films appeal/message very well. "},{"Title":"Could not Stop Laughing","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time and I watch movies everyday.  The premise of this movie (Pakistani father chooses wives for his English sons)may steer some people clear of the movie, but it shouldn't.  It's a movie about rebelling against your parent's traditions and rules because they don't feel like they should apply to you because you're not of the same country as one of your parents.  You know your parent's love you, but their way of showing it may not seem as though they do.  There's love, laughter (lots of it) and lessons.There are some moments of sadness, moments that will make you cry, but within a couple of minutes you'll be laughing your head off again.  No minute of this movie should be missed.   "},{"Title":"Witty, certainly not a cliche Asian spoof.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I picked up the video above some funny movie about a hairdresser. I picked because I thought it was a simple Indian spoof, with lots of goodie goodie's and chapatie's.What surprised me was the good mix of humor with drama. It excel's its magnification of reality. A sort of 'Pakistani Beauty' "},{"Title":"It just doesn't get much better than this","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Call me biased but British comedy is unbeatable for it's freshness and depth of character. In the ranks of British comedy east is east is in the top rank. While making serious comment on the community and personal problems of race mix in working class england around 1970 (has anything changed?) this film extracts so much humour. I am just in awe of the talent on both sides of the camera. Don't miss this masterpiece "},{"Title":"The epitome of 70's anglo/asian culture shock with real humour","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film depicts ultimate realism for people who have grown up in multi racial environments. The graphic nature of the language only goes to reinforce the raw acceptance of the cultural influence of the times and area in which the film is set (70's Manchester, England). The director has captured the emotional elements the script intended perfectly. It was obviously deeply researched. The character portrayal of the dominant father is by no means stereotypical of the part, but is truly based on the difficulties encountered by the respected head of any multicultural family. His six sons and one daughter are experiencing the natural mix of eastern and western influence and putting their own spin on their existence, much to their father's dismay. The character of the mother portrays the natural ethnic blindness that should be much admired and is yet so common throughout the world. The humor is very real. Every family, if they look back on their own historical events would come to recognise the similarity of the situations encountered. The work surely ranks among the very best in regional exposure along side the likes of Kes etc. Well worth watching more than once  "},{"Title":"Very good, but hardly the next Full Monty","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've just seen a special showing of what is being touted as the next Full Monty, East Is East. And it was very good, but not quite as good as they would have you believe. It is packed with some great jokes and acting, but it has a tendency to vear uneasily between There's Something About Mary-esque humour and grim drama. Aside from this, it is a very witty film and ought to do very well. "},{"Title":"A comedy classic","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Damien O'Donnell made his feature debut with this comedy-drama adaptation of the play of the same name by Ayub Khan-Din that took home the Alexander Korda BAFTA Award for Best British Film amongst a slew of other awards and accolades as well as a healthy commercial return and a sequel in the works.The extraordinary Om Puri puts in a powerful performance as the bewildered head of family with able support from the resplendent Linda Bassett as the long suffering British wife as well as Jimi Mistry, Raji James, Jordan Routledge and the gorgeous Archie Panjabi as the children of the mixed-ethnicity household growing up in 1970's Salford.The fledgling Irish director shows a surprising sympathy for the material in his big screen reworking of Khan-Din's deeply personal theatrical production that draws both moments of high comedy and deep tragedy from it's pitch perfect characters without ever resorting to mocking them or their beliefs.Mum! Mum! The Pakis are here! "},{"Title":"Realistic, Funny and Tragic","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" East is East is a breath of fresh air that gives an accurate insight into mixed race families and their struggles to gain acceptance in the community.It is also very daring in the way it explores how dangerous religion can be, and how it can seriously harm human relationships; this is the case for every religion in the world, not only the religion used in this film.On the lighter side East is East is hilariously funny at times, which balances out the tragic and dramatic moments. The cast are all extremely talented, and they are very convincing in their performances, and the direction is really simplistic and believable.7/10 This is a really good movie, and should be seen by everyone at least once. "},{"Title":"East may be east but this is a feast -- of four-letter words and funny accents","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Using the small canvas of a not-so-well-educated, twice-married and financially insecure Pakistani immigrant as its protagonist, this film, set in 70s era Britain, tries to highlight inter-generational conflict in an inter-racial family of six sons and one daughter.Khan's character is real sloppy. After 7 kids he displays no maturity, no assimilation, no respect for his family or adopted homeland, nor is there any sense of belonging (achievement) or alienation (resentment). Maybe the superficial treatment was deliberate. Whatever.Do working-class folks in suburban or rural England routinely use such mouthfuls of slang when speaking with family members?? Well, maybe, but the only impression it leaves is of poor dialog, not deep empathy. The circumcision issue has also been handled clumsily, as if to convey what a big deal it is to Muslims. It is! But so is it to Jews, Christians, and others!!Its extremely hard to understand the rural British accent. And save the barrage of foul language and unnecessary diversions, East is East could have been a much better movie as compared to Monsoon Wedding, Bride and Prejudice, etc. "}{"Title":"good thing is saw this for free","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to catch this movie for free, and i had a bad feeling that it was going to be a lousy movie....and i was right. East is East is supposed to be a comedy, but quite frankly it is not. If you are expecting a good family humor show, boy are you in for a surprise. Every joke in East is East would usually be sexual related, or something just as vulgar.Speaking of vulgar, this movie also consists of the most number of F words i have ever heard in a motion picture. But even more than that is the number of times the characters say bloddy or bleedin, and i never quite got used to the way the characters said it. And as if the heavy accent wasn't enough, the persons in the movie just HAD to include at least bloddy, bast@#d, bi!#h and fo#k(yes, fO@k) in every line they said. This makes East is East the most verbally vulgar movie i have ever seen.This movie isn't a family comedy. It is more of a drama that is visably disturbing, because the way the family is portrayed makes them look like a bunch of murderers and rapists tossed into a house and forced to live together. Just as often as they use vulgarities, the family gets into extremely violent squabbles that usually result in someone getting seriously hurt, making the Simpsons look like the Flanders.So to sum it all up, this movie is a drama that is plagued by crude toilet humor and a mammoth, redundant use of vulgarities. Part comedy, part drama, this combination of genres really doesn't work out well at all in this movie, because both genres are entirely opposite of each other in every aspect. If you're looking for an enjoyable family comedy, watch Meet the Parents, not this trash. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Watchable but one for TV","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has some good helpings of humour. It also has some good acting and the deeper parts of the film are portrayed credibly. Unfortunately, most of the humour relies on the family, particularly the father, a Pakistani, swearing in English but with a stereotypical accent. The novelty of this tame profanity soon becomes choresome. There is no plot to speak of which is reinforced by the ending as quite simply, there isn't one. The film just stops. It is basically a snapshot of their life over a short period of time. The makers have also missed the opportunity for a glorious Seventies soundtrack, instead opting for a few instantly forgettable tunes. Whilst the film is watchable and passes a couple of hours it is more suited to a Sunday night on TV and not worthy of a cinema ticket. "},{"Title":"Another film showing the Evil of Religion.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  East is East is a very entertaining film about a Pakistani/English mixed race family living in Manchester in the 1970's and how when the Father tries to force his sons into an arranged marriage and how it almost rips the family apart.  The film starts with the eldest son running away from an arranged marriage and the father saying that he is now dead because he has disgraced the family .It then goes on to show the everyday family life of a mixed race family. They seem to be happy living in a small terraced house with no money but they had each other. Some of the scenes are very funny and the acting in parts is outstanding. Later on the Pakistani father changes. He tries to arrange a marriage with two more of his sons to two misfit girls from a family from Bradford. The boys find out and for obvious reasons rebel against their father which leads the him beating his wife and one of his sons. My feeling on the film is that it shows how religion ( any religion) just splits people up and causes nothing but grief . While religion waves the banner of Love all it does is bring the Hate out in people. 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good but could've been awesome","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film is not responsible when it comes to explaining that NOT all Asian families are like what they are portrayed in East Is East. Now, besides this problem, the film is rather interesting.The film opens up the 70s and it's quite interesting to see how things have changed.The acting is superb in this picture, a credit to the director.I wish the film had a lot more about different families, rather than concentrating on the bigot father's stupidity.Worth watching, quite funny at times, but I wish the writer and director thought more about the consequences. "},{"Title":"Funny,tragic, bittersweet.","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a beautifully-made, bittersweet comedy drama with much to say about integration, the clash of cultures and the hierarchy within families, no matter what colour or culture they happen to be. I first saw this film soon after its release and since then I've probably watched it four or five times. Every time it appears on TV I find I am unable to resist it's wry humour and incisive social comment. There are some hilarious moments (such as the scene with the rather rude sculpture).It packs an enormous emotional punch for such a low budget production and puts many star-studded movies that have attempted to tell the same story to shame. "},{"Title":"East Is East","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Aka. FISH & CHIP, a UK film whose plot hinges on a Pakistani family living in UK, the patriarch is a traditional chauvinist whose only tenet is to do everything in Pakistani Muslim ways, while the mother is English, with 7 children, the cultural collision and marriage-defiant headaches begin to aggravate the family, and finally ends with a drolly amusing farce. From Irish director Damien O'Donnell (his debut feature), this film emanates a great sense of humour (never pull it off overhead) and a whiff of theatrical commotion when the storyline needs it, supplying career-best leading roles from both Om Puri, who is deft in embodying himself into a highly unlovable character even without any preach-the-converted statement, and Linda Bassett as the chafing-yet-united parent, imaginably with 7 offspring (6 boys and 1 girl, age ranging from 6 to 25) to coping with, the familial disarray can dissuade many chic couples from children-rearing quandary, not counting there is a bigger hurdle standing in front of them, the religious disparity, Puri is an out-and-out Pakistani, even living in England, has an English wife (which is his second one while his first wife is still living in Pakistan), he rebuffs any discord and claims absolute submission from his family members, as long as he is still the man-of-the-house, even resorting to domestic violence when things are out of his control. As the most-of-the-time pliant, sometimes witty, but complete sympathetic mother, Bassett has her gut to fight back for her children, and her performance does has an effect of sublimating the heightened tension and brings about some excellent empathy which sharply differs from a general comedic tonality. All seven progeny and a handful supporting roles are molded with distinctive personalities (with many laughable episodes to entertain the viewers). So, about the aforementioned preach-the-converted argument, the film can be a tint offensive to portray Pakistani people in a quasi-teasing milieu (the two Pakistani maidens are rather wickedly selected), it seems the film is assuming the audience should already taken their stand (against the abominably bigoted father figure), clearly the truth is this fictional approach opts for its own British slant towards the Muslim immigrants, it may find its voice in the island, but elsewhere, its acceptance inevitably needs to be tested under the surface of its light-hearted masquerade. PS My Oscar entry, Linda Bassett storms at No.6 in the BEST LEADING ACTRESS category. "},{"Title":"east is east short review, George and co","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" East is East is an excellent film. It is very funny and has a great story line. Also the actors in the film deliver an outstanding performance. George is not presented to us as an unreasonable way, but at the same time, he will, in his frustration, strike out even physically at the children and the wife who seem to oppose him and his beliefs. We sense the fear that runs through him that, if his sons are allowed to exercise their freedom in this one crucial area, the family will sever that connection with the past which brings stability to their lives. This is an all round fun film that can be watched with family and friends. "},{"Title":"The best snapshot of Asian Britain to date. And bloody hilarious too.","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was twelve years old when 'East Is East' first hit the cinema and, thirteen years later, this still holds up in my eyes as one of the best social commentaries on British life. Set in the seventies, the film follows the lives of George Khan (Om Puri), wife Ella (Linda Bassett), and their seven children. George is an overbearing and domineering father, but his inability to listen to his family starts to tear them apart.I might be biased, being a British Asian myself, but I love this movie. Yes, it's funny. It's unbelievably funny, an excellent portrayal of North England in the 1970s. But what I love most about this film is just how frighteningly realistic it is. This is a family that I see even today, struggling through the exact same problems. It could so easily have been a pastiche, and it wasn't, thankfully.Of course, the performances are fantastic across the board. Om Puri is a legend in India, and he is stunning in this. Linda Bassett is always great, and the kids are great too. I'd go as far as to argue that actors like Jimi Mistry and Archie Panjabi would never reach the heights they have now had it not been for 'East Is East'.You can watch this as a British comedy, and you won't be disappointed. This is as funny as 'The Full Monty' and 'Billy Elliott'. But, like those two films, it should also be seen as a snapshot of where Britain was, and where it is now. A brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"Personal, poignant and humorous","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I decided to register my vote on this film because I was surprised to see that it had scored so low. One person stated this was a fairly standard drama, which smacks to me of Jane Austen and Midsomer Murders, although it is probably the most untypical drama I have ever seen. What I had found to be a delightful and poignant portrayal of a personal experience of life in a mixed race marriage in England's 1970's, has been lambasted by some very narrow minded critics on IMDb. I therefore went on to research the writer of the film and if you want to check it out for yourself go to http//english.emory.edu/Bahri/Khan1.html If, having looked at Ayub Khan-Din's own comments, the people who have scored a 1 for this film still believe that this is a skillfully made racist movie or that In this age of political correctness, this film openly lambastes Pakistani culture and its beliefs, perhaps they should look again from an insider's point of view. ...This was our Pakistani life; this is how we existed outside Salford. A life none of my friends knew or could understand...I think in 'East is East' I came as close as possible to understanding my father's motivation in the way he tried to bring us up, &#x85;&#x85;&#x85;The parents are drawn directly from my own family. A less standard drama you would be hard pushed to find! "},{"Title":"raising children out of sync with the environs","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Damien O'Donnell's East Is East is a clash-of-cultures story. It focuses on a family in Salford in 1971. The father (Om Puri) is a Pakistani immigrant and the mother (Linda Bassett) is an Irish Catholic. The father is trying to raise his children as if he still lives in the old country, but it simply does not fit their upbringing in 1960s-1970s England (especially with what we find out about the oldest son). To be certain, there are some VERY tense scenes when the father thinks that his wife and children are disrespecting him.A particularly funny scene is what somewhat writes on the Bradford sign. Of course, this brings to mind the large South Asian presence in England, or the rising immigrant populations in any country. The point is that there are bound to be issues of cultural assimilation no matter where you are. Most importantly, it's a very good movie. I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"Interesting... and quite enjoyable...","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I live and work in an area of the UK with a very large Pakistani population and so I thought this film might throw a little light on that community. A lot of people I know are always telling me that this film is really good and a great comedy. Well, even though I don't 'get' a lot of comedies, I thought I'd take a look, and I must say, although it has some amusing moments and some very funny dialogue, it's not really a comedy. I will tell you why after this brief summary.Set in Salford, Manchester in the early 1970's, this film tells the story of chip shop owner George Kahn, his wife Ella and their children. There are six sons and one daughter, oh, and I should point out that Ella is white and from Manchester. George wants to bring the kids up in the traditional Pakistani manner. Unfortunately for him, they don't particularly want to be brought up like that. He is insistent though, and goes ahead arranging marriages for his sons without telling them until the very last minute. We get a look into how the youngsters are just typical teenagers/young adults, who just want to be able to have a good time with their friends. The relationships between the various family members are also looked at quite closely, particularly Ella's relationship with George. I really don't want to go into too much detail as I'm very wary of giving too much of the plot away (Them Spoiler Police are very strict these days!).A very well made British film with some nice insights into a very interesting, and diverse family. The highlight for me was the performances of the main characters, both Om Puri as George Kahn and Linda Bassett as Ella Kahn were excellent. All the kids were very good; Jordan Routledge as Sajid, Archie Panjabi as Meenah, Emil Marwa as Maneer, Chris Bisson as Saleem, Jimi Mistry as Tariq, Raji James as Abdul and Ian Aspinall as Nazir.For me, I thought this film worked much better as a drama; this aspect of the plot brought out the best performances and was much more interesting. I did feel that a lot of opportunities went begging, but I could see that the filmmakers were very wary of causing offence. It was almost like they wanted to make a full-blown comedy, but the, more interesting, story about relationships and family life got in the way. I should mention that there are scenes of domestic violence that some may find distasteful. Having said that, I did quite enjoy this film and I think so long as you're not expecting a raucous comedy, it's one I can deem&#x85; Recommended.My Score 6.6/10.IMDb Score 6.7/10 (based on 9,232 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes Score 81/100 (based on 31 reviews counted at the time of going to press). "},{"Title":"Great recreation of 1970s England","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At 90 minutes, East is East doesn't outstay it's welcome. The film won the 1999 BAFTA for Best British Film and began life as a play at London's Royal Court two years earlier. It's a comedy drama set in Salford in the very grim North of England 1971. And if you're in a working class Anglo-Pakistani household it's doubly so. The Khans live in a back-to-back terrace house with an outdoor toilet (the production design here is terrific, it really does make the past a foreign country)and run the family chip shop.The film recalls another English movie from 1969 called 'Spring and Port Wine' - the northern working class family, the children wanting to break away from the grip of a tyrannical father. The father is George, played splendidly by Om Puri, the Pakistani father of a family who he doesn't realise are English they're sausage and bacon eating English, with sons who booze and go to discos and one of whom has a white girlfriend and responds to the prospect of an arranged marriage with I'm not marrying a f**king Paki.The whole cast is excellent - especially Archie Punjabi and Jimi Mistry - with Linda Bassett quite outstanding as Ella, George's English wife. She looks as if she's had 7 children. She's beaten up by George at one point, but remains devoted to her family throughout. She's a gem. "},{"Title":"A few laughs between the many bumps in this film...","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let me start by saying that this film is terribly mislabeled as a comedy when it is, in fact, very much a drama. Yes, there are times when I laughed out loud but I chose this film because I was in the mood for a comedy. Had I been in the mood for a drama I am sure I would have scored the film much higher.East is East is the story of a Pakistani father, George Khan, his Caucasian British wife, Ella, and their seven children. The acting is superb, the writing is excellent, and the soundtrack is wonderful. Having said all of that, I do have a few issues with the film. (SPOILER ALERT) First, the oldest son, Nazir, just kind of disappears for a while without any explanation. Did he run away? Did he kill himself? Where did he go? We find out about halfway through the film when his father pronounces that he is dead. This leaves the viewer wondering how one could have missed such an important event, but a few minutes later we realize that Nazir is only dead to him. In fact, we discover, albeit something I guessed in the first ten minutes of the film, that Nazir is gay. This is all the more reason for his Pakistani father to call him dead.My second issue with the film is that I really liked all of the characters, even the strict and traditional George. Ella is charming the way she can talk him down from almost any argument with typical British humor mixed with a few choice swear words. The kids adore their mother and, although they disagree with him, they love their father. This led me to believe that the film was going to be a Dad is a strict traditional man, kids and mom are not, so this is the story of how everyone changes Dad. (SPOILER ALERT) Unfortunately, the story became, Dad is an abusive and closed-minded bastard and starts beating on anyone, including mom, who dares to defy him. I just don't understand why the story had to change this way. I left the film wishing Ella would leave her bastard husband and raise her kids on her own. We went from the tenderness of how Ella would ask George if he would like some tea and he would reply, just half a cup, to George calling her a bloody b**** and giving her a black eye. Why? My final issue with the film is the ending. (SPOILER ALERT) We are left with nothing changed in the family other than the children discovering that their father isn't just strict, he is cruel. I just feel incomplete after watching East is East. I get that the Pakistani culture is very different from British culture and that, particularly in the 1970's, the west was not very open to accepting this new group of immigrants. What else came of this story? I don't feel warm and fuzzy toward this culture if George is a shining of example of how the men truly behave. Why did he choose to marry outside of his own culture if he hates it so much? Why raise children with a mother who is not Muslim and not from Pakistan if you are just going to teach them that it is unacceptable to marry anyone who is not from Pakistan? I feel like I got a glimpse of a very dysfunctional family who will never see a happy ending and that is just not why I choose to watch films. I watch films to learn something new, or to laugh, to perhaps cry a little, but overall, I watch films to have a few hours of enjoyment. I watch films to forget my own problems for a while. After watching this, I just feel like I would have been better off calling my own family back home and hearing about their issues and problems. "},{"Title":"A rare hybrid of entertainment and food for thought","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is about a controlling Pakistani father who sets the path for all his children to follow.Given that East Is East is a film about racial and cultural differences, it has to be executed in a delicate manner. I think it has done well, as the plot is funny and thought provoking, thought being offensive. The characters are realistic and engaging, all the seven children have their own unique personality. The relationship between the siblings and the parents are portrayed well. For example, the other siblings are jealous of Maneer as he is the father's favourite child. I was impressed that I managed to recognise and remember the names of all the seven kids! The controlling and authoritarian rule of the father is thought provoking. Given the society and cultural values are rapidly shifting, people who do not change with the times bring misery to themselves and others around them. When the father threatens Tariq at knife point, I thought I would already have gone to the police and the social services if I were them. The fact that Ella and the children tolerate this oppressive regime and domestic violence mirrors many real cases out there right now. It is sad.Despite the very heavy and sensitive subject matter, East Is East contains many hilarious moments. The best one for me is that the family pretends to be very British during the Shah family visit. When Meenah answered Righty ho in Queen's English, I laughed out loud! East Is East is a rare hybrid of entertainment and food for thought. "},{"Title":"East is East","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" East is East, not only a movie about a Pakistani family in England. The story of the Khan-Familyis typical for most families all over the world. On the one hand, George is very strict and wants to control the family and on the other hand Ella loves her family and tries to protect them. But the whole family loves each other most the time. The story is underlined with many filming techniques very well, so that you can identify with the characters. The situations in this movie are not so positive for the members of the Khan family, but with a little bit of British humour it becomes funny. Because of this  East is East s not a normal tragedy, it is also a comedy. All in all it is a movie about family-life with a touch of Asian culture. "},{"Title":"East is East","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" East is east is a movie for the family. The Khan's are 9 family members and you can identify yourself in one of these persons.This comedy-drama make you think of the author's message. Should we have more comprehension or is it just an insight into the life in a Pakistani family? If everybody think about it on his own we can all win something for our self-image.You can see that almost everybody in the Khan's family make a elaboration, so we, as the viewer, can learn from their mistakes and new experiences In my opinion east is east is not only a nice family film, but also it shows racism and suppression.In one hand it is a very funny film and in the other hand it is sad feeling in this story.The characters are very different, so the most of us can identify with them.. "},{"Title":"east is east","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie East is East mainly shows the difference between Parkistani and European families.One of the main characters George Khan is the father of the family which clarifies this difference the most.He is cleaved between the love to his family and teaching his children the Parkistani life. But this isn't so easy easy it seems, because nearly every member of his family has his own way to dispute the Parkistani life. This is already point up at the beginning,when the oldest son Nazir runs away from his wedding,by the reason that he is gay. As well his brother Tariq is the rebel of the family, he fights against that, what his parents want him to do. Also Saleem another son, is a art student,what is against his fathers idea to become a Ingeneur. Maneer seems to be the only child of the seven, which stands behind his father. So it is shown, that nearly everybody of the Khan family isn't a perfect Parkistani. In fact of that, it isn't an astonishment, that at the end of the film happens a big conflict with George Khan ,where everybody fights against them, till the very surprising end. I think the film is great to show the difference of the Asian culture in the family aspect.There is a good suspense and every time there happened a new mistake , which shouldn't happened in a Parkistani family! "},{"Title":"East Is East- Review","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" East is East is a movie about cultural differences and the difficulties which emerge from trying to handle with it. It tells about leaving a country and his culture because of a new live. But in East is East two cultures met each other, which couldn't be more different Pakistani and traditionally Englands. George, the Pakistani dad, loves his ancestry and wants to educate his kids as real and erectly Pakistani. His English wife Ella, loves her kids how they are, with English and Pakistani elements. But this is the point, where the different point of views clash with each other. The movie is a reflection of a lot of different problems, like violence, how to avoid with those cultures and a special kind of family life. So I think it's a appropriate movie to clarify and to point out such difficulties. "},{"Title":"Better than Greek Wedding","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is the story of an immigrant father straining to retain his native culture while his family of teenagers want to assimilate. It is a thousand times better than the much vaunted Big Fat Greek Wedding which dealt with a similar situation. The issues of race relations and sexual prejudice are dealt with in a sympathetic way from both sides of the fence, as it were, while at the same time carrying a serious message. The family conflict is at times entertaining, at times violent and at times sad. The father in this film happens to be from Pakistan but he could be Central European, Latin or of any religious background. This is definitely one of the best films I have seen on this subject. "},{"Title":"Family conflict","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  East Is East (1999)This is director Damien O'Donnel's second movie and the it's a comedy drama about culture conflict, set in Manchester in the 1970s. The story is about George Kahn who is Pakistani and a very religious man, he has a British wife Ella, and they have 6 children together 5 boys and 1 girl. George wants his children to live under Muslim traditions and wants his children to be married in an arranged marriage with Pakistani girls. His oldest son Nazir did not want this, so he ran away in the middle of his wedding. After this his father don't want him in the family anymore, he's dead to him. And when Sahid and Meenah two of his sons, finds out that he has found two Pakistani girls to marry them, it's a start of a family conflict. Because the children don't want to be married away to some strangers, they feel like they are English, and they don't want to live under Muslim traditions, they want to live under the same conditions as normal English people do. But their father shows no mercy, he is strict, and expects everybody to follow his orders. The father has some inner demons that he keeps for himself, because he ran away from his wife in Pakistan and came to England and got married to an English woman. He probably feels that he has betrayed his culture and religion and he doesn't want his kids to do the same thing as him.The movie has a serious topic with a humorous undertone and the director manages to balance it very good so that the movie is fun and easy to watch.The characters are good, the actors play very well, and the dialogues are fast and funny. The movie ends with an open ending, and lets us think about what will happened next to the family. East is East is a funny little British film that people in all ages can enjoy, and have a good one and a half hour in front of the television.My rating 8/10  "}{"Title":"Assimilation ?","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In a time when ethnicity was trying to sort itself out in the world (the '70s), this film takes the one group to focus on. Generally the film was brilliant, but there are portions that should either have been edited out or expanded (opening parade, the gay brother, the randy dog for example) to show more relevance. Best was the cinematic attention paid to the Khan and Shah families. The movie builds just to this one point nicely. As I suppose is the case with all abusive partners, there is a soft apologetic side. I'll have a half a cup of tea was a nice way for Mr Khan show that without showing weakness. Assimilation into an outside culture is nearly impossible across generations. This film takes us to a place where we can see some of the difficulties and the humor in being new to a society. East is East could be study material for any number of classes. Well done; I would like to see more. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It doesn't get much better than this. This movie is an excellent and hilarious insight into what might happen to second generation people from the Indian Subcontinent. Indian Actor Om Puri and Linda Basett give an excellent performance. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this film.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film; it was funny, dramatic and very watchable. I have seen it a number of times, but dont get bored. I am not a Pakistani or a Muslim so I cannot comment on whether the film handle that part of the film well. The acting was first class, I especially enjoyed the characters Ella and Aunt Annie. One of the best British film os the 1990's. "},{"Title":"A challenging, heartwarming film","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recognise that some people might close off from this film because of the social climate it represents (the bad language and religious contention especially). However, after opening my mind a little, I thoroughly enjoyed it. Personally, I find it heartwarming, especially at the end of the film to know that modern-day England is very far from the bigottry and fear of immigrants in the 70's. Furthermore, it brings a smile to my face when we see messages from hypocritical americans with claims such as 'the language is vulgar.' I have to say, this film is highly realistic in representing a working-class northern english town in the 70's. What made me chuckle was an american claiming the 'sound' is badly done because they can't understand the accents. They sardonically complain that England is 'another foreign country that speaks English.' Can anyone spot the connection between the words 'England' and 'English?' hmm.. sorry.. where did the language originate?  The only bigottry going on these days is the cynical exclamations of small-minded folks who deny a good movie because it goes right over their heads. This film gets a solid recommendation from me, for what it's worth! "},{"Title":"Have I been watching a different film?","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A comment previously posted regarding this film rates it 1 out of 10 and describes it as totally humourless...well, I must have been watching a different film.'East Is East' was as funny as it was dramatical and extremely well made. It was well written (I cannot comment on it's realism - and anyway...it's just a movie!), well directed and the acting was superb. The young man who played Sajid has a long, successful career ahead of him I am sure.Congratulations to all involved, a most enjoyable 90 minutes was spent - I wholeheartedly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A gem of a comedy about life as a Pakistani in 1970s Britain","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  East is East is set in 1970s Telford, where the first generation of Anglo-Pakistanis are dealing with the tension between the culture of their people and the one of the country they were born in. The story focusses on George Khan (brilliantly played by Om Puri), a twice-married Pakistani man who is desperately trying to find wives for his older sons. Meanwhile, his sons have other ideas...With such a great story to begin with, you would expect this to be entertaining, but East is East manages to be even more than that. Most of the time it is a highly entertaining comedy, using the tension between the old ways of the father and the new ways of the kids as a vehicle for all sorts of gags and great set pieces. (The scene in which they have to get rid of the evidence of bacon-eating in a hurry is a great example of this.) Of George's six sons, Tariq is the most spirited, climbing out of his bedroom window at night to head down to the local disco, where he pretends to be English and has a whale of a time flirting with all the local girls. His regular squeeze, sweet-natured Stella, comes from a family of Enoch Powell supporting racists, emphasising the tensions that accompanied being a Paki in 1970s England. Fortunately, the film does not labour the point, instead focussing on quite how normal and spirited the English-born Khan kids really are.The film turns a bit darker in the last 20 minutes, as father tries to assert his absolute authority over his (white) wife and all of his children -- but this is also handled well and does not make the film seem too heavy. In fact, the final scenes are really quite moving, because after a big confrontation, everyone is shocked that the order of things has been challenged so fundamentally. This points to the fact that both Pakistani and English cultures are quite stable and slow to change, revealing similarities which lie beneath the apparent differences of culture.East is East is not a particularly deep film but it's a great chunk of entertainment and is well worth seeing. If it never reaches the dizzying heights of The Buddha of Suburbia (of which it is very faintly reminiscent), it is because its primary aim is to entertain, which is manages very well indeed. Definitely worth watching. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Black comedy","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A breath of fresh air. Hollywood - this is how to make a movie. Real people dealing with real life situations and not a soppy love scene in sight.Very entertaining. "},{"Title":"For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  having lived my own youth in a light version of similar circumstances it was easy to sympathize with the mainstream-wannabe children. not being kid anymore i am also finally able to understand (maybe still not accept) the mindwork of the deeply religious father. east is east may not be a particularly deep or even mighty clever view on religions and the clash of different cultures, but it's not your regular feel-good comedy either. tragicomic events follow each other building up to a grand finale, a hilarious conflict of dubious done-deals and pre-marital expectations. children's characters remain thin compared to the brilliant parents, but their comedial value is evident. this movie is worth seeing, even just for the last 15 minutes! "},{"Title":"new mentality","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  EAST IS EAST&#133; Really nice movie!!! It have been a surprise for me, I didn't expect a strange  movie like that. It underline the problem between two different religion but above all between two  different culture. In my opinion it is strange also because the director mixed funny and quite-tragic situation bravely and  he achieved success. It was a good new and young cast without particular experience it passed the test. I like it also because it doesn't pass through the hollywood way and in this period it is not easy!!! DADIE "},{"Title":"A really good film, except for one thing...","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would like to start by saying that I really liked this movie, the character development was great and the acting was superb. And just like real life, things weren't just black or white. But towards the end I felt that they were sometimes joking a bit too much when things actually weren't that funny, and it made me feel a bit uneasy.But the thing that really annoyed me was that they were all the time making fun of fat and ugly people. Are ugly people (girls!!!)automatically mean and stupid and unpopular? Both Tariq's girlfriend's friend and the two brides to be were portrayed as stupid, evil and desperate. Would the arranged marriages have been OK, had the girls been beautiful? Making fun of peoples look is a really cheap way of making comedy, and it's a shame that the film makers, who did such an excellent work otherwise, descended to it. "}{"Title":"Brilliant,Typical British Comedy","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great film,take along your sense of humour, lighten up and enjoy.Whilst it puts into perspective the problems some first generation migrants face it also shows the ability of children to change.  Can anyone tell me the origins of the song the bannerman.Thanks "},{"Title":"Very funny and poignant.   Entire case excellent.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Richly comic but also sad.  A movie about domestic abuse which doesn't get stuck in villifying the abuser or making those he abuses into victims.  We find ourselves sympathizing with all the characters.   The raunchy humor does not detract from the dignity of those portrayed;  on the contrary, it keeps us from getting too bogged down in the tragic aspects of the situation.  Fine performances from the whole cast.   "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the marketing 'geniuses'","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have absolutely no idea where the tagline used for this movie came from this movie has nothing to do with a raunchy dog. Two scenes do not qualify for this kind of statement. Instead it is a wonderful movie which deals with immigrant culture, the conflicts which arise between the traditionalistic (nationalistic?) parents (in this case only the amazingly portrayed George Khan) and the rebellious children. The plot illustrates that tensions which are present when a family is torn between conflicting belief systems. As is the case in real life, this is not a black vs. white problem. The father, a Pakistani immigrant, is divided between the culture he left behind and the new lifestyle which he has accepted as his own, however unwillingly at times. As an immigrant myself, it was very interesting to see how many of the conflicts portrayed paralleled my own experiences.Tragic and hilarious through out, this is a highly entertaining movie. But don't listen to the advertisers. This is not that kind of movie. "},{"Title":"Lovely Comedy about Culture Clashes, and Social Implications","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is very enjoyable although it deals with a serious subject of Racial and Ethnic Integration. It is not just a Comedy about Pakistanis In England, It reminds me of Yana's friends or  Chaverim Shel Yana, Ha- (1999) that is also a Comedy about Russian Immigrants in Down-town Tel-Aviv. Israel has become to be a Multi-Cultural Society as other parts of Human Society. "},{"Title":"Warmhearted, compassionate look at family foibles","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's natural if this film invites comparison with My Son the Fanatic (both about the tribulations of Pakistanis in Bradford, both starring Om Puri).  But they are radically different.  MSTF was ideologically driven, because Hanif Kureishi was trying hard to make a point, so his view of Islamic fundamentalism came off as forced and unreal.   East is East has no such ideological ax to grind.  It has a lot of compassion for the characters in this family and treats them as real human beings.  Om Puri's acting job in this one was brilliant, to take a character as brutal and blockheaded as this, and still infuse it with warmth and sympathy.  That must have been almost impossible, but he pulled it off.  The portrayal of plebian Muslim life was (in some respects) much more true to life, unlike in MSTF.  Another comment criticized the character praying in the morning after the sun had risen high in the sky.  Actually, it is not forbidden in Islam to pray when th sun is risen high, only when the sun is on the horizon.  The dawn prayer is supposed to be before sunrise, but if you oversleep, you make it up whenever you awake.  Since this film was set in the summer in North England, when the sun rises awfully early, it would be easy to oversleep.  So given this condition, the film was actually realistic.  In any comedy, they have to play up certain exaggerated characteristics.  But you don't have to be too thin-skinned about racism.  I didn't see the film as an attack on Pakistanis or Islam.  Om Puri's character said that in Islam, everyone is equal, no black or white.  That was true and well spoken.  But otherwise, he was ignorant that in Islamic law the parents cannot force the children to get married if they don't want to.  I thought it was more a comment on ignorant Muslims than an attack on Islam.  But non-Muslims seeing this may not realize that Islam is actually more liberal than Om Puri's character showed.  They will just have to investigate on their own, I guess, or Muslims like me could point it out.I see other commenters going on about the dog gags in the trailer.  Well, I didn't see the trailer, so I just went in with an open mind and had a great time!  The best line in the film was the one about half-breeds vs. inbreeding.  That hit home especially because there really is too much cousin marriage in India & Pakistan, not good for the gene pool.I also richly enjoyed the moment when Enoch Powell was smashed to smithereens, and the redheaded kid who kept saying salam `alaykum at the most inopportune moments was priceless! "},{"Title":"Humor effectively used to discuss cultural assimilation","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The issue arising from the melding of different cultural identities - conservative muslim vs. 1970s western hip, is treated in a humorous vein in this movie. The age old problem of generational differences is given an added facet, often present in many mixed marriages, in a many funny situations. Some may seem forced and overbearing, but in the end it all works out to be a very entertaining movie.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and thought-provoking film","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went to see East is East for a film class and was favorably impressed. I come from Oklahoma and am not very familiar with the situation in the movie, but I found that the conflicts in the movie apply universally.  I did not find that the father, George, was portrayed as a villain; in fact, I liked and respected him almost throughout the movie.  His need to control his family and his inability to do so without becoming violent seemed very real and true-to-life.  I also found Ella, the mother, to be an intriguing character.  She seemed to understand and sympathize with George's problem, even though she still tried to protect her children.  Tariq, as the rebellious, older boy, seemed to be an English version of his father.  The scene where he confronted his father about George's hypocrisy was wonderful. Also, while George tried to make his children behave more like Pakistanis, the world outside their home, because of the prejudice against Pakistan, influenced them to become more English.  The acting in this film was superb. While the transition between comedy and tragedy was often sloppy, the film showed that both comedy and tragedy do exist in the world.  While the scenes where the children ran from their father during the parade and where the children hid the bacon were funny, the scene where Tariq ripped up his wedding clothes and his father beat his father was tragic.  All of these scenes dealt with the same issue, even though it was handled differently. The violence and the bawdy humor may discourage some filmgoers, but this film is worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"Not for Hollywood-weaned babies","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked it a lot. As soon as I saw the statue of Christ dancing to the parade music in the very beginning, I realized the director is my kind of fella. Far from Hollywood standards of what a comedy (can't mix intelligent and silly) or drama (the lost should see The Light) must be, the director shows the life as it is (I mean, he shows the life as I see it ), leaping from fun to tragedy that soon may turn into love. There is no emphasis on the bright or dark sides of family life, they both offset and complement each other. Life just goes on, and the plot is not tied neatly at the end.Yes, not much of Pakistani culture is shown positively in the film (regrettably - it would add more depth). But come on, you politically correct bigots, this is not the Official Textbook for the Grade School! The kids who grew up in the English culture would feel exactly as they do in the movie about the restrictive Pakistani customs. Have you forgotten what it is to be an irreverent teen?The acting is superb. I didn't notice it, because I believed the story too much to be distracted by idly watching the actors perform. My only complaint is that the Mother's swings from suffering to obedience seemed slightly forced to me. "},{"Title":"Works great as a film, didn't as a play","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw the play in the West End of London several years ago and thought it not very good and kind of a surprise that a major house would mount it.Today I saw the film and I don't know if it's been tightened up or what, but the film is good, entertaining, and works very well.  I checked the cast listing against the program I'd saved and about four of the cast from the West End were in the film, including the mother. "},{"Title":"Cultural Divide","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is probably more poignant and appealing to those who have made the cross-cultural journey and can relate to the process that journey engenders. Granted George Khan was the archetypical cruel father who came to England with no baggage but was proud that he had his own business. But the cultural baggage from Pakistan is what he cannot unload . His children all handsome and lovable have taken to calling their cross-cultural cousins the derisive term Pakis. The English mother is played brilliantly by Linda Bassett who has the right mix of resignation to George's explosive temper tantrums and raising a family. This is 1971, in Salford, teeming with Indians and Pakistani immigrants, bringing in their curries, habits and marrying their kind. This is also the welfare-state England before Maggie Thatcher and when Enoch Powell held full sway. So the barriers are high. What is poor George to do? He makes the impulsive decision to marry an English girl in 1946 knowing that his culture will never accept his wife or ever fully tolerate mixed-heritage children. But he single-handedly wants his kids, all seven of them, to follow the Pakistani way. Being unsuccessful with his first son in an arranged marriage and almost ready to strike out with No. 2 and No. 3 arranged marriages, you could see the Pakistan George built in Salford slowly disintegrating. And in a gripping scene with his son Tarik who has the courage to tell his father his own feelings, George menacingly challenges him to go against his wishes and face the consequences. But they capitulate only at the urging of the mother. The scene when the two brothers meet the absurdly ugly brides-to-be and the supercilious future mother-in-law questions the Khans ability to house them in the cramped quarters must surely be familiar to many South Asians who may have at least seen Bollywood movies with the same theme, or even worse, heard of or experienced their own experiences.But this is 2000. The world is a global village  with 747s depositing cultural baggages at heady rates. CNN and the Internet have bridged these divides. The immigrants coming from South Asia hit the ground running and achieve all sorts of capitalistic success. But the movie tells us that beneath a thin veneer of tolerance and acceptance there may be powerful xenophobic forces that cause a George Khan to retreat back into his own cultural comfort zone. "}{"Title":"A Pakistani Fiddler on the Roof!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was well worth the price of admission.  Set in 1971, East is East provided an insight into the Khan family of Manchester, England. Father George, played by Om Puri, was a Pakistani immigrant who believed that the traditions of his homeland were of utmost importance to raising his seven children.  However, as the second generation, they didn't see it that way.  East is East used comedy in several scenes to illustrate a serious message, and the conflicts between George and his children included circumcision, Islamic dietary laws, and interdating.  Ironically, what most angered George in his children was something of which he, himself, was guilty.  This movie is worth watching. "},{"Title":"The whole is less than the sum of the parts","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, this movie really could be divided into two films.  The first half is really a lot of broad comedy about ethnic divides that people can relate to wherever there is a multi-cultural community and kids feel separated from their parents by differing views about the importance of ethnic traditions.  Some of the comedy was very funny I thought.  However the second half is quite heavy going.  The Pakistani father tries with terrible results to arrange marriages for two of his sons.  I think that the drama was well done, but it seemed as though the makers of the film couldn't decide whether this film was to be a comedy or drama.  Now I'm not saying that a film can't be both, but the change in tone between the two parts of this film, is quite large.  However, I must say that there are a lot of good things in the film.  Om Puri and Linda Bassett are both terrific and the humor in and of itself is funny.  Touching the issue of domestic abuse is certainly admirable, but to me, the change of tone from broad comedy to dark drama was too jarring for the film to retain its effect.   "},{"Title":"Over-ambitious","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One or two small spoilers.The panting critical reaction to this film was what led me to see it on video. It turned out that the critics were just reacting to seeing a British movie that wasn't total toilet - remarkable enough in itself, but still no cause for great celebration.It would be churlish to attack the intentions behind this film, of course - to show racism and domestic violence as both aberrant and abhorrent can only be a good thing. But the film would have got these points across better were it a straight drama, instead of which we are treated to rather forced 'comic' scenes juxtaposed distastefully with tension and violence. It also would have worked better as more of a two-hander between Om Puri and Linda Bassett's characters, rather than needlessly beefing up the roles of the children (none of whom was actually established as a believable character anyway, with the exception of the youngest son Sajid).There was simply too much tokenism and stereotyping - gay son runs away from arranged marriage; white neighbour hates 'Pakis'; son's girlfriend has 'comedy' overweight friend - to allow the film to be taken seriously. Try watching it again, though, or just thinking about it again, not in terms of race -  because it's not actually a film about race. It's about family, masculinity, values, tradition, morals - almost everything BUT race. All viewers  need to get past the novel concept of seeing brown faces in a film and they'll discover an interesting, honest film, albeit one that ultimately tries too hard. "},{"Title":"The trailer was the best part of the film.","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All of the trailers for this film suggest its going to be funny, witty and cleverly scripted around what could potentially be sensitive subject matter. So its fair to say I was looking forward to seeing it, afterwards I felt let down.The film is set in seventies Manchester, and centres around a mixed race Pakistani-English family. The main theme of the film is about do the children feel English or Pakistani and will they go through with their fathers wishes and agree to an arranged marriage.As mentioned, this is rather sensitive subject matter, but the films director seems to have been dettered by this and only just really scratched the surface of the issue. The father is a typical stereotype, possibly done for comic effect to a certain degree. But his wife and children are not in alligence with him, and hence the plot devlops, rather slowly and painfully.The film is not without its bright moments, and you do laugh once in a while but not for any great length of time. If you watch the trailer, you've seen all the jokes.There are possibly eight characters the film that we are expected to centre our concerns around. This doesn't work though because no real time is speant on each of them and you don't know or in some cases care what they want out of life etc. No real time is speant exploring the reasons behind why the characters either want to be involved in the marriages (religous beliefs etc.)or why they don't (feeling as though they are English etc.).Due to these factors you can't really gain a full picture of the circumstances in which the film is set. You end up feeling depressed and sorry for the family because of the way they are, not because of the struggle that they face, which should really of been the goal of the film.This film had so much going for it and a load of potential that it just hasn't realised. Better luck next time. More bottle required. "},{"Title":"Best comedy of 1999","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The funniest film of 1999, much better than American Pie.  It blends comedy, the racial problems of the time (i.e. Enoch Powell's repatriation speeches) with the life and times 'up north.  It is exceptionally well written , acted and directed. The comedy and the violence are very poignant and at one point leave you with an uneasy feeling for a film that has been so funny. Whether it will translate to the US remains to be seen, as the average Brit has a lot more knowledge of US culture than the average American has of the British. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Overall disappointing after so much hype","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film seems to have been hyped up by public and critics alike, and to its credit the reason for this is the most admirable one - it has made a lot of money. I think I heard that it is now the most popular British film of all time, so I was eager to check it out!The film runs for approximately 100 minutes, and I have to say there is no where near this much good material to be found. The funny scenes are very very funny, the sad scenes are devastating, but both these parameters are controlled by the excellent ensemble cast. The script was not nearly as good as I had expected, with many stagnant points in the film that made me wonder if I was perhaps missing the point! If I was then I apologise, but for me this film did nothing but demonstrate how good some of these complete unknown actors can be. This is not necessarily an Asian film - the problems and situations can relate to every family, so don't let that put you off, however if you believe the hype then you may be disappointed. "},{"Title":"East is what?","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must say, I wasn't too eager to see this film and expected it to be much like the other recent Om Puri film, My Son the Fanatic which I found myself utterly apathetic towards. As it turned out, East is East was rather engaging, often humorous and had some truths about the immigrant's experience although it wasn't especially profound. In the last act, I was dismayed when the domestic violence aspect was introduced and from there the movie began to disappoint. The issue of domestic violence was no more relevant to this situation as it is to any other and nothing in the disposition of Puri's character to that point indicated that he would cross the line and nothing in his wife's disposition suggested that she would stand for it. The imposition of a person's will on their children or spouse in such situations is usually through guilt and manipulation and the film would have been more interesting and intelligent had it stayed in that realm. Even when the domestic violence occurs, the film doesn't commit to exploring the issue to the extent deserved and begins to inject a variety of comic relief instead. To be honest, I didn't even realize that it was set in 1971. I thought the disco, clothing, hair and whatnot were part of some comedic retro styling. Certainly the xenophobia is largely as true now as it was then.  "},{"Title":"Funny tragic comedy","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An Asian family living in salford in the 1970s falls apart under cultural pressures. Ah, a British film that doesn't involve psychotic alcoholics or fop-haired romances in bookshops. Instead, a character driven story with lots of good jokes that raises and examines BIG issues without getting bogged down. That said, the bout of domestic violence does give the final third a rather sombre feel. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Short Review","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The following is a short review I wrote for school (minor spoilers) that I hope will be helpful to anyone interested in this film.They say don't judge a book by its cover, and don't judge a movie by its trailer.  It's especially true for the new Brit offering East is East, which just won major kudos at the BAFTAS over the weekend.The trailer for this film made it out to be a raunchy comedy, complete with animal sex jokes and urinal humor.  Not that there's anything wrong with that, but the movie is way more than that.  This is essentially the story of a family, and a journey that it takes.  It delves into areas such as family loyalty and honor with skill and depth, and brings out subtle shadings that keep it from merely stooping to play to the lowest common denominator of comedy.This flick has some superb direction and the acting is great, especially Om Puri, who added a human dimension to a character who could have been difficult to portray onscreen as anything more than a traditionalist domestic abuser.  In his turn as a traditional Pakistan father and man of the house, trying to keep his family together as they are seduced by English culture, he gets your sympathy by refusing to bow to any kind of stereotypes at all.George Khan, who also wrote the stage play of the same name, based a large part of it on his own experiences.  For this reason, the circumstances never seem forced or implausible.That said, as I remarked I do have some problems with the juxtaposition of the abuse and the comedy in the film.  This tension filled scene is put between two scenes of hilarious comedy, and while it often happens in real life that extreme comedy comes from extreme tragedy, I felt the filmmakers did not give the audience enough time to breathe and recover from the harsh physical violence that was portrayed.  The father has some serious flaws that I felt were splendidly shown by Puri's acting skill, but were often glossed over in favor of advancement of the plot's comedic elements.  "},{"Title":"So much fun!","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is a riot! I think the guy who plays Tarek is really well known in England but I had never seen him - he's Hot! I bet you he's going to become well known here as well.Anyway, the film was well constructed, touching and moved along swiftly. The acting was top notch all around - really- and it was completely realistic in terms of how families are portrayed. There were some parts of the film that got really serious and were very sad and touching but altogether it was a fantastic film. Very touching. "}{"Title":"Hilarious, touching, ....lacking....?","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is reeeeeaaaaaaaallly funny. That's right people, the comedic bits really are top-class, better than anything you will see on the top TV sitcoms. However the film is not just a pure comedy as the trailer might have you think. There is actually a lot of dramatic content and a very touching, moving storyline about the culture problems of a Pakistani family trying to live a normal life in 70's Manchester. My only gripes about the film would be that the main character (played by Om Puri) is just so disgustingly vile that you can barely bear (!) to watch him on screen. Well acted and all, but do we really have to be subjected to such a horrible character? Even the meanest horror film baddies are nicer than this guy! And secondly, although the film does have a definite storyline which moves towards a definite end, there are times when I could not help but feel that something was lacking, either the plot was advancing too fast, or not fast enough, anyway there just seemed to be something annoying about the pace of the film. Oh yeah, and the soundtrack sucked ass, all that asian music! "},{"Title":"Disappointing. It is time for the great English film industry to get out of this niche","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First I would like to apologize for my English.I saw East is East on stage in London few years back and it was great. The film is quite different story.This is yet another English comedy, based on the outskirts of society.The first half was quite boring, and contains too much nonsense. The other half was much better and cause identifying with the heroes almost as in the play. "},{"Title":"A clever amusing film.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a clever film, which because it is set in the 1970's allows the watcher to laugh at the racism contained within the film while understanding how far the UK has moved in the last twenty years.  I watched the film with Asian friends and they enjoyed the humour as much as I did.  Although billed as a comedy the film has a very serious message for all concerned with improving race relations within the UK.  A good watch after a long working week! "},{"Title":"This is NOT a comedy, but still a great film","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As usual the movie marketeers are trying to catch the big fish with comedy trailers that will appeal to both Asians and mild bigots. The French would call East is East a comdie dramatique a realistic and deep story with very funny moments thrown in. The film is the story of any second generation immigrant family with the children refusing the image of the old country. It could be anywhere Polish Jews or Mexicans in the US, North Africans in France, Turks in Germany, etc.There are two major strengths to the script and direction make that often told story highly involving (you never look at your watch); and portray characters in such a way that their behaviour is highly consistent throughout. At the end of the film everybody retains their integrity, in spite of many irreconciliable differences. There are extremely funny moments which, fortunately, are not all in the trailer. During the more intense scenes you could hear a pin drop. So is it good? YES! As a comedy it's probably a 6 or 7 as a drama it's an 8 or 9. Go and see it! "},{"Title":"Intermittently funny, but should have been much better.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a big disappointment from the genius director of 35 ASIDE, one of the great films of the decade.  Rather than continue with his own material, he has adapted a proven play.  This isn't a big problem - many of O'Donnell's concerns are here the minefield of family life; the family capsule versus the outside world; the individual versus an institution (in this case religion).  The best bits are those which follow the children - the style is a bouncy, funny, irreverent joy; the acting is spot-on; the situations generally amusing.  Despite the magnificent performances of the two adult leads though, their plot is rather cliched and hysterical - it's hard to see anyone sympathising with wife-beating religious fundamentalists.  Better luck next time. "},{"Title":"Missed opportunity as comedy raises a laugh at expense of British Asian culture clash","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It makes no sense to recount the story of this film as your reviews and others readers have already done so. For my critical appraisal I'd just like to say that as a semi-lapsed Muslim woman myself I found this film excruciating.Most disturbing of all was the fact that the (largely white when I went to see it) audience's laughter came at some highly inopportune moments bordering on the racist eg at the children calling their father Paki or the jarring English of the aforementioned father.The story was quite frankly implausible (a marriage of two people with clearly nothing in common) and the film itself downright irresponsible (sending out unwanted signals of wife-beating merciless Pakistanis). Every Asian cliche  in the book was present from inbreeding to home office (via throwawy remarks) to the in-yer-face not at all subtle soi-disant Islamic discipline, arranged marriages etc.Such public forums portraying British Asians - until recently an invisible community in popular culture - are rare. This one by communicating such negative vibes blew it, I'm afraid. It must rank as one of the most offensive films of the year.The only redeeming feature was the scene whether the geeky son character Sajid peers out of his Parka hood and the round the screen is a furry outline, but then again had you blinked you'd have missed that too.As Morrissey once said It means nothing to me about my life.Dr R. Huq, Manchester "},{"Title":"Oh so funny","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Coming from a mixed race family and having grown up in England in the seventies, this film gave me an opportunity to reflect on certain aspects of my childhood and smile.I was Sajid's age and wore one of those Parkas all the time too!  "},{"Title":"Caught between humour and a serious message","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film doesnt know whether it wants to be funny or serious but carries both gendres quite well. Some parts are very touching and disturbing and other parts are hilarious. Overall very good though don't expect a laugh a minute unless you find asian accents rib-tickling "},{"Title":"SHOWS THE DILEMMA OF ASIAN FAMILIES - DOESN'T MAKE JUDGEMENTS","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an interesting piece about the dilemma of Asian families living in modern day Britain.    It is about the struggle of an Anglo-Asian family coming to terms with life in 70s Britain with the father (a Pakistani) wanting to keep the lifestyle of his roots and the inevitable rebellion of his children and to an extent his English wife.   It is very well written, and although the father is unsympathetic to English eyes, one still understnds his dilemma, and that of his family.    The question is not resolved, although one would like to think that the father reflects on his despotic nature and allows his children their freedom to live a life in the style of the country in which they and their mother were born, and that he may come to terms with the fact that life in England cannot be lived in the same way as life in Pakistan.     Interestingly at the end of the film, one can still sypathise with his character and understand why he is the way he is.In spite of the seriousness of the subject, it is also a very funny, well observed piece.    The tagline is wonderful.   All in all a very engaging film which I would certainly want to see again.  "},{"Title":"Continuing 4 Films strong run...","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  East is East is very enjoyable, and despite it's serious subject matters of arranged marriage, racism in the 70's and the more universal theme of rites of passage, it never strays too far from being a comedy - more laugh out loud funny than a film like Secrets and Lies. There are some very endearing characters, anyone over the age of 25 will cringe with recognition at some of the more embarrassing fashions, and while this isn't a ground breaking or particularly original film (it follows a pretty standard happy, sad, happy pattern), it does provide an evenings entertainment, and helps to represent,in part, a section of the British community that tends to be overlooked in film.  "}{"Title":"See it again","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A refreshing change from the big movies of the summer like 'The Phantom Menace'. Like all great films the humour is underpinned with sadness. I laughed all the way through, and so did most of the audience. It is that funny. Although a Film Four production it is unlike 'Four weddings..' or 'Brassed Off'. It was great to see a film about asians in Manchester (Salford) go down so well with a predominantly white audience. Something that probably would not have happened so well ten years ago. The main roles are played extremely well and I will definately see it again- which always shows how good a film really is. "},{"Title":"Stunning comedy which clearly deserves a bigger scene","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Along I went to see a sneak exclusive of a brand new film which I had no absolutely idea about - East Is East.I admit to you now that i was dreading this film, thinking it was going to being one of those stylised epics, but it turned out to be one of the best written comedies EVER!The film has the knack of dragging you in & toying with your every 'ooh' & 'ahh' emotion.The term 'b*****d' is used every five minutes & a catchphrase of 'half a cup' becomes very amusing, as well as the humping dog!As the film progresses, sick jokes & innuedo's are thrown in with more moral issues which you can't help but wonder if you should really be laughing at them.Every actor & actress are spot on & the 'Coronation Street' characters do their bit for Eastern cinema.This film may be a dark horse, but it is worth every single minute.A fab film with a hilariously sick ending makes this movie a classic gem.Go see it & fulfill yourself with Eastern promise! "},{"Title":"Original, moving and very funny.","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Whilst East is East is a very good film to watch with interesting use of camera and evocative locations, the real joy is in the acting.  Om Puri gives an amazing performance exciting both disgust and real sympathy but the real accolade must go to Linda Bassett as Ella. Her portrayal feels so genuine you could have known Ella all your life.  A stunning performance worthy of a great actress. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very Good.  And just as eggs is eggs, this is the kind of British film the Americans will be falling over to watch.  It is very British, and Om Puri is a very good actor in it, but there are quibbles.However, the way in which the films swing violently from funny to deep drama is a worry.  Apart from that, it gets my vote. "},{"Title":"Go see it!","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The internal cultural and family conflicts created a poignant dichotomy. All of the performances were excellent, but Archie Panjabi, who plays Meenah Khan, was particularly funny (and good at torturing her younger brother, Sajid). Hilarious, but moving.  Go see if you can. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film, Extremely funny in places & good, varied plot","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see a preview of the film & thought the plot & the acting were excellent. The swearing was off putting for some but it did not marr the overall film.The preview was superbly presented by one of the actors of the film - Raji James. "},{"Title":"Powerful and hilarious  deserves a wide release!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The premise of an Anglo-Asian family growing up in 1970s' Manchester doesn't sound altogether riveting, but this is a poignant, but superbly funny portrayal of the difficulties faced by mixed-race children growing up in England and also a fiercely religious father who wants his children to maintain family principles. The language is often strong, but becomes less noticeable as the film progresses, and the whole cast depict their respective characters sensitively and realistically. My only quibble would be the relative acceptance  that seems to be shown towards the family given that they're almost the only Asian family in the area. Seek it out if you can! "},{"Title":"Islam the religion that divides","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" after having spent the better part of a year studying religion, namely Islam, this movie is a good portrayal/example of what Islamic teachings result in division and a sense of hostility towards those that reject the Islamic life.I realize all religions create division to a certain degree but none to the degree of Islam.The humor is great, very funny. Sadly, what it clearly showcases is the sense of duty to religion that is inherent in Islamic teachings vs. the humanity and the sense of self that we in the west are accustomed to.Highly recommend viewing this movie. The issues within Islamic families and Islamic teachings become even more apparent (like when the father beats the mother, verse from Qur'an 434 As to those women (wives) on whom part you fear disloyalty and ill conduct, admonish them, refuse to share their beds, beat them..) when one has studied a little about Islam. This is in no way slandering Islam, but actions speak louder than words and this movie is a good portrayal of how religion can divide. "},{"Title":"This is a drama with a few jokes, but that doesn't make it a comedy yet","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When this movie was shown on television, it was said to be a comedy. Since I'm always in for a good laugh and because I really could use a good laugh that day, I was really looking forward to this movie. Big was my surprise when I saw that this wasn't exactly the kind of comedy I was looking for. I kept watching it nevertheless and I must say that I'm glad that I did, because this movie sure is worth a watch, but it didn't really fulfill the expectations that I had in advance.When in the early 1970's, a traditional Pakistani father - who lives in England with his English wife and his kids - sees how his offspring more and more starts to behave as British and start to reject their father's rules on dress, food, religion,... he decides that it is time for them to get married to a good Pakistani girl. But their desire for independence and a modern way of live clashes with the traditional believes of their father and it doesn't take long before a lot of things start to go terribly wrong. And when the potential candidates aren't exactly the prettiest of all women, they know for sure that they will have to do anything to prevent getting married...If you are looking for a light-footed comedy, than this movie is one big disappointment. Sure, there are some funny moments to be found in this movie, but overall I certainly wouldn't call it a comedy. In my opinion this is a drama that shows how the traditional values of immigrants don't always fit in with those of the native inhabitants and that their children often are the victim of that. They no longer seem / want to belong to their own ethnic group, but are still seen as foreigners by the traditional inhabitants. They have to fight against prejudices from both sides and that's not always easy. In my opinion the movie really gives a good idea of what it's like and even though it's all situated in the seventies, all that much hasn't changed in thirty years time.The acting in this movie is really good. Although I can't immediately say that I know anyone of them, the actors in this movie make it all feel very authentic without overdoing it all. It's all too easy to make stereotypes out of the different characters, but that certainly isn't the case in this movie. Just as unknown as the actors are the director and the writer of this movie. It was Ayub Khan-Din's first and only script and Damien O'Donnell isn't exactly the most famous of British directors either. Still, they both did well and that's all that matters to me.All in all this is a very good movie as long as you forget that you are watching a comedy. I don't believe that a joke or two make a movie a comedy, but that doesn't mean that it can't be any good. As a drama this movie stands quite firm on its feet and also thanks to the relevance of the story, I must say that I liked what I saw. I give it a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Good Film, Bitterly Racist!","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" East is East is funny overall, but is ultimately racist. I follow the religion Islam, and I was dumbfounded to find how this movie portrayed Islam. Take Bend it like Beckham for example; they portray Sikhism in a much respected manner. All the non-Muslims who have watched this, I assume that you all think that all of us Muslims are like that. It is 100% fake as in realism. I am very angry of this film, even though it is just plain funny. Also, I'll like to add, that we DO NOT beat our wife's. I cannot believe that. Hears proof, Bend it like Beckham was directed by a Sikh women named Gurinder Chadha. But this, it was directed by an Irish person. Good film, with an excellent cast and good story. Basically, it's about a Pakistani dad (Om Puri), who wants to bring his children up in a good way. But they soon get sick of him, seeing as he arranged a marriage without them even knowing! A good film, but you can only watch it twice and you'll be bored! "}{"Title":"lots of great films out there - avoid this 90 minutes of your life at all costs","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I looked forward to watching east is east because, I'm of Asian origin (non Muslim but a hindu) and was told it was really funny and enjoyable to watch.I got bored very quickly. I didn't find it as funny as I would find most comedies. In fact, I think it had the same amount of humour as most dramas or thrillers if that at all. So what was I left with? I was left with an inaccurate movie making me wonder exactly what the intention of this film was. I don't think it relates to anyone that I know. I think the writer effectively uses the English white wife as a ploy to test the viewers approach to the patriarchal strict father. What I don't understand is, how does a man, who married an English white wife have strict rules for his children? Especially during a tough conflicting period in Britain for Asians.It has numerous flaws stemming from this and so the reality is ultimately flawed here and it is greatly flawed by the fact they try to bring it across as a reality.I would also add Asian's (from Indian sub-continent) will enjoy this because they can create a false image of the non-existent strict parent they hear about in society. He doesn't exist. It's just a story people use as an opposite to the free-liberal and hedonistic view their parents have of the west.It's an illusion.So you'll basically find people watching this from all persuasions seeking a realistic example of an urban myth.Is it enjoyable? I will state it is enjoyable if you love your films dramatic and to appear realistic. It is neither and at times I couldn't believe how the director attempted to present this or in what state of mind the writer wrote it.All families are dysfunctional in some way these days and this is another film trying to play on the urban myth in the uk of a strict parenting from a dysfunctional family. There are more Children who run away from their families in western families in the UK than from Asian origin by ratio. Grotesquely flawed is this film that you could probably realise it does appeal to people who love dramatic films hoping for that realistic feel and getting lost in the illusion of film making.Yes - Awful.The Comedy.It's funny if you like slapstick badly presented. I know there is a market for this with the jackass shows and amateur stuntmen programming or even the home video shows. That's about the comedy throughout the film - laughing at the expense of someone else doing something you'll probably never ever see in real life; probably because it doesn't exist.This is where it begins to border racism as well. Presenting a group of people inaccurately so people can laugh at them (of Asian and non-Asian origin) in the belief the dramatic sense of the film makes it real, it's not them and they can sleep easier.Awful film. Avoid at all costs. Watch Donnie Darko, The girl with a pearl earring, Shawshank redemption, a beautiful mind, road to perdition... instead. My point is - lot's of great films out there - avoid this 90 minutes of your life at all costs. "},{"Title":"A curate's egg","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anticipating 'White Teeth', 'East is East' tells the story of working class, first and second generation immigrants in inter-racial marriages and set in the not-so-distant past.  The film mixes cheap (but effective) comic gags (on subjects like the 1970s and genitalia), with a darker portrayal of domestic violence; and in places works as brilliantly observed black comedy, though in others it seems shallow and lazy.  The film's greatest achievement is to maintain a level of sympathy in the viewer for Om Puri's father figure, however monstrous his behaviour.  It's also fun to see John Bardon in a pre-Eastenders role.  A mixed bag of a film. "},{"Title":"Could be retitled my b****rd father and why I eat pork","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I sort of feel this is more like the authors anger at his upbringing that any kind of film.  So we get some brutal misogyony (woman are seen as dumb, vain, slutty or ugly.)  A paen against mixed marriages (the english wives seem to cry alot, and seem like prisoners in cruel marriages. No idea why they are in these ostrasizing marriages from the way they are presented. Too bad, would have loved to see more about them than the kids) The kids come of as one dimensional emotions (the loyal son, the rebel, the poet, the gay man).   I respect the authors anger behind this but this film comes off as deeply anti-muslim.  And this is coming from a Zionist Jew who kept a picture of Moshe Dyan by the bed as a child. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a Muslim and I absolutely hated this film.I know that this film is a semi-autobiographical account of the life of scriptwriter Ayub Khan Din and his life living in England, but it doesn't justify anything. This film is extremely stereotypical and gives a distorted view of the Pakistani culture. It seems to feed into and confirm the negative stereotypes on Muslims living in abusive, patriarchal, sexist, oppressive families and children who dream and worship the western culture. Although it may have occurred in Ayub's family there are thousands of Muslim families in which this does not happen. A lot of Muslims who leave Muslim countries are proud of their background and live 'normal' lives just like western people.Domestic violence and sexism are universal problems, that occur all around the world and not just in the Muslim community. I also got the impression that the message of this film is that western culture is better than the Muslim religion and the phrase 'when you are in Rome do as the Romans do' arises, which I totally disagree with. The 'comedic' moments in the film were mostly dirty and rude jokes which was what further made this film really bad. If Ayub Khan Din wants to make good British Asian films, he should look to impressive examples such as 'Bhaji on the Beach'. That was a balanced film that gave out the message that all ethnic groups are similar, in that some people are good and some are racist and prejudiced. Overall I thought that 'East is East' really stank. "},{"Title":"Great film that's both funny and serious","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  May contain some SPOILERSEast Is East is a semi-autobiographical piece written by Ayub Khan-Din, based on his play. It is set in 1971 when Din would've been about 10 - the youngest child Sajid is representative of him at that time.The film attempts to tackle a serious issue with some humour which, for me, worked well though others may be offended by the light-hearted take on the issues within the film.The culture clash is hilarious, providing a great take on multiple identities, and any kind of opression. The lengths that the children go to to enjoy British culture mixes great comic set pieces, whilst showing the difficulties encountered in mixed race families at the time. The concept of arranged marriages seems alien and despotic to the British-Pakistani children, but to their father George, (Om Puri), it is a part of his culture, a culture that he thinks should be adopted by his children too. Note George's hypocrisy - he is bigamously married to a white woman, leaving his Pakistani wife in Pakistan.The racist grandad across the street, who campaigns for anti-immigration politician, Enoch Powell, shows the kinds of attitudes that such a family would've had to face every day.Please don't call this film racist. Ayub Khan-Din grew up in Salford at this time, in a this kind of environment, so is basing this film on FACT with a comic spin. If you dislike the movie, fine, but don't accuse it of being something it isn't.For the hilarious script, great characters, and suprisingly skillful direction this film stands out from the crowd. Add the quality performances by Om Puri, Linda Bassett, Jimi Mistry and Jordan Routledge among others and you are left with an unforgetable, and educational experience. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting issues, bad jokes","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  East is East deals with some quite serious issues, such as domestic violence and of course cultural differences within a family. The story is quite interesting, but leaves a lot to be desired. I don't see why this had to be a comedy. If they made a drama out of this, it would have been much better. Some of the elements were downright tragic, such as the wife beating scene and the poor youngest child who had to hide behind his hood. These things were acted out well and gave food for thought, but the overall quality of the movie was uneven. Nothing wrong with the acting here, the mother and the father were good characters, as well as some of the children. Tariq, the youngest boy whose name I forgot and the boy who hanged out with him were well made. The oldest son, the girl and the other boys had less depth and left me thinking the writers didn't know what to do with them. Tariq's girlfriend and her fat best friend were stereotypical and boring characters, as well as the other family who wanted to give their daughters to marriage.The humor seemed terribly forced. Some of the scenes were funny, but none left me roaring with laughter. Most of the humor was just old and uninspired. How about coming up with your own jokes before making a comedy? There's been talk here about the profanity, and it didn't bother me, but profanity isn't enough to make a good joke. There's a double standard in the movie. The traditional culture's view of women is shown as sexist and bad, while the western-world beauty ideals are presented as good and natural. A fat girl clinging on a boy and following her best friend even on a date? Pleease. What about the ugly brides of the boys? The mother tells them you are not good enough for my boys - even though the girls did nothing but looked bad. Soo sexist. This might be funny for men, but as a woman, I was only offended to see this stuff. It's stereotypical and just simply not funny. The other stereotype is with gays. A young man doesn't want to get married - he's gay! Look, he's a hairdresser! Soo gay. Is that funny? NO. If humor has to rely on stereotypes, it shows lack of creativity. Make this movie again with more drama and less stupid humor. Make all the children characters in their own right and include more discussion on the cultural problems and domestic violence, and you've got a great movie. The way it is now, I give it a 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Comedy!?!  Only if wife beating is funny to you!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After reading the reviews and the synopsis on the back of the box I watched this movie and I'm wondering if someone switched tapes.  The movie I saw had the same characters and the same title, but a comedy?  This movie tells a rather dark story of a Pakistani family's struggle to westernize itself. The patriarch has very narrow traditionalist views and virtually crushes his wife (a Brit) and children in an attempt to force them to adhere to the Pakistani ways.This movie could be a comedy if it didn't have the father's character to deal with.  If you want to see a real comedy about these issues, go see My Big Fat Greek Wedding. "},{"Title":"I can relate!!","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     There's a lot of people who think it's racist or unrealistic. Well let me tell you, I'm a hybrid (half Pakistani half Austrian) and have a lot of hybrid friends... some stuff is exaggerated to get a point across, but there were a lot of scenes where it was like OH MY GOD, I totally can relate to that! Pakistani fathers think that Pakistan is the best country in the world, and how corrupt the west is. Arranged marriage wise you do have a lot of say as to how things go down. However in the movie the father was doing it because of what the community was thinking of him. And that is 100% true, in Pakistani culture what the community thinks of you carries massive importance to the point that people live very artificial lives as all they display is a fake realm If you expose any flaws about your family, you then get marked and set yourself up for gossip. The scene where they are at the middleman's (the guy who knew the family with the daughters) house and the kids were just zoned out and staring at the floor. Oh...that brings back many similar memories.Hybrids definitely live dual lives. One for each culture. People expect you to think and behave like them. Pakistanis want you to care about Pakistani culture, traditions, food, clothes, chain of command, urdu, etc&#133; And the same thing happened in white environments, for example that one dudes bachelor party with all the drinking. It's hard for purebreds to relate when someone sort-of like them doesn't think like one of them. Pakistanis think you're being rebellious. White people think you're antisocial. So your options are to live dual lives and just integrate to whatever people think you should be doing so you can be accepted, or not adopt anything and become isolated (eg that one religious son). Picking one side completely never works either, because you'll never be someone you're not. So as a hybrid you're totally playing this balancing game. And like the movie depicted the mother is usually caught in the middle.  "},{"Title":"Error","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At the start of the film they write on the screen 'In 1937 a Muslim from Pakistan came to England to find work'. This is an ERROR because there was no such thing as Pakistan, as that country did not arise until August 14, 1947! "},{"Title":"maybe it was true in 70's","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Immigrant father vs. assimilating sons.  How many american films have I seen those?  The film is funny at points, but it tried to be a serious film about father, family, social commentary etc etc.  It got nothing new for me. Maybe it's something new for British ppl.It's hard to believe an immigrant who married a local english woman, lived in England for 30+ years would be so fanatic about arrange marriage.   And arranged marriage is such a watered down process now days (at least in America) it merely resembles an anonying setup date.   Of course, this is not America and this is 70's england.  Even though other reviews tried to explain away that the father wanted to find an identity.  It's still quite ridiculous.  And is there any father in the world who wanted to find their handsome sons ugly wives?Another problem is that the film family just simply have too many sons, and it almost took whole length of the film to get to know everyone of them (the run-away, playboy, playboy-wannabe, artist, religous, kenny), forgive me I don't remember their names.  The middle two or three of them have little contrast to provide different view of the father, instead they just add the confusion.  I'd think playboy-wannabe and artist son can be do away with, and religous son could have more lines.Why was the daughter charater needed?  She doesn't participat in any emotional conflict,  rather, she is merely a lesser version of playboy son. If she was also arranged to be married then maybe the film gets more interesting (one daughter leaving, one or two daughter-in-law coming).  But I'm not making the movie. "}{"Title":"Masterwork of comedy & tragedy as 2 sides of one coin.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went into this totally clean - I happened to walk past a theatre that shows foreign films once in a while, all the domestic releases looked horrible, so we took a chance on this.I haven't seen such a hilarious film in years.  I think that many people were disappointed or offended by the juxtaposition of low comedy and some truly violent scenes and situations, but I think that if you kept a totally open mind and allowed the film to carry you on an emotional wave, you could see that it is tragic and comic at the same time, neither one being more valid than the other.This was a real milestone film for me.  I loved it! "},{"Title":"Not as I thought","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Going to see this I didn't get what I expected.  A tale of an overbearing father who abused his family both emotionally and physically isn't what you'd call a laugh a minute, but this film was quite enjoyable in parts and was a well put together insight into the troubles that immigrant families suffered in 1970s Britain.This was also an insight into multi racial relationships and the closeness of families in these communities, and there were several lessons in it all round.  Some excellent acting and some very good directing, along with a good script makes East is East eminently watchable. "},{"Title":"boring, offensive rubbish","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this has to be one of the worst films produced in a land now only capable of not very good cinema.  any audience who found this to be funny really needs to ask itself is it funny to laugh at others. good humour should never be at the expense of someone else especially at how someone may look or dress or speak. here that is all they do. the family are all despicable, no love is shown between them except for the mother who ends up getting it from all sides.  i notice it was written by an Indian, who ought really to be ashamed, i feel very sorry for him if this is how he grew up.  no wonder he wrote a bitter and twisted tale.and apart from all that the film was utterly boring "},{"Title":"A Truly Offensive Film","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Characterisations that ran the gamut from paper-thin to cardboard. Vulgarity and profanity as a poor substitute for comedy. Cartoon homosexuals and mental and physical abuse used as cheap plot devices.... need I go on?Well, yes. I'm afraid I do. It is no longer acceptable to portray homosexuals as camp, limp-wristed hairdressers just to get a cheap laugh. I understand that the film is meant to be set in the seventies but so, it appears, is the writer's mindset. When remaining in an abusive household is presented as preferable to seeking refuge with a gay brother something is seriously wrong. And Channel 4 should be ashamed of themselves for funding such retrogressive tripe.A truly terrible film. Offensive. A waste of an evening. 0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Could not Stop Laughing","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time and I watch movies everyday.  The premise of this movie (Pakistani father chooses wives for his English sons)may steer some people clear of the movie, but it shouldn't.  It's a movie about rebelling against your parent's traditions and rules because they don't feel like they should apply to you because you're not of the same country as one of your parents.  You know your parent's love you, but their way of showing it may not seem as though they do.  There's love, laughter (lots of it) and lessons.There are some moments of sadness, moments that will make you cry, but within a couple of minutes you'll be laughing your head off again.  No minute of this movie should be missed.   "},{"Title":"Great little film that is funny, charming, poignant and quite refreshing","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" East is East, a culture-clash comedy set in the 1970s is a great film. It is thoroughly accessible, and while it never takes itself too seriously, it still manages to be a funny, charming, poignant and refreshing film. It does start off a little slow, but the performances, script and story more than make up for it. The script is constantly funny, yet has a sense of poignancy as well, and the story is surprisingly compelling about Asian integration in Britain.And the performances are really very strong, Om Puri especially gives a powerful one as the patriarch of the family, while he loves his family very much the tradition he is part of makes him a very strict father. Linda Bassett is great as his wife, and out of the equally strong younger performances, Jimi Mistry really stands out. The boys yearn for freedom, and are resistant to the life their father wishes them to lead.All in all, great film that breaks the mould for films similar to it. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Brilliant film about mixed marriage and the consequences in working class Britain","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a brilliant film because it uses comedy in a masterful way to highlight some very serious issues. Without the comedy aspect it would be unbearable to watch because of the very obvious violence and domestic abuse within the film. Not only does East is East tackle the unpalatable truth about mixed marriages and how two very different cultures can clash on all levels; it also highlights the effect on children and how they cope with it. It is clear that patriarchal societies have traditionally subverted the role of women in society; this film is interesting in portraying how a western woman can become a victim of the same problem regardless of religion and race. It is all about love, family loyalty and class struggles in Britain as well as the obvious race issues and how a family deal with a big bully father. A very clever film with strong performances and very worth watching. "},{"Title":"Not particularly funny, but reasonably involving","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" We watched this film in English class, to get into the subject of clash of different cultures. I think the first thing that got to me was the very unnecessary gag very early in the film... very literally toilet humor. Anyone who's seen it will know what I'm referring to. A similar gag occurs several more times in the film. The question the viewer immediately poses is, quite simply, why? It has no proper place in a drama about national identity. In general, the humor doesn't work well, and it at times even hurts the strength of the drama. The plot is fine, and it develops OK throughout the film. The pace is sufficient. What little of the humor does work, works really well. Personally, I found the male lead difficult to comprehend a lot of the time... had it not been for the subtitles(as us Danes are and have been used to for many decades), I would have had a hard time of following the plot. The film provides some perspective on the subject of immigration as well as that of mixing cultures. These people are neither entirely British nor Pakistani... the father desperately clings on to his Islamic heritage whilst the rest of the family find themselves preferring their surroundings, England. The choice of whether to adapt to your new environment, become assimilated... or to stubbornly resist. As bad as the father looks at times, as easy as it would be to hate George... his cause and motivation is impossible to ignore. He's afraid. He sees the bad that complete assimilation can do, and he has faith in the ways of his old country. His dominance over the house is a thing of frailty, and the slow but determined struggle to challenge it is a big part of what makes the film worth watching at all. The film presents an image of a Middle Eastern family living in a Western country... whether or not this image is accurate is arguable, as is how objective it is. My final thought... is George's frequent outburst at his kids, calling them bastards an ironic statement made by the director... or is it simply a sad testament to the fact that, at the end of the day, that is what he considers his own children to be? I recommend this to anyone interested in films dealing with what happens when dramatically different cultures meet, but be forewarned that the jokes rarely work and the overall film isn't as well done as it could be. I will say that anyone finding themselves watching much of the film, and not downright hating what they see, ought to watch it all the way to the end... a scene right by the end is funny, strong and empowering. I'm not sure how I feel about the very end, but that one scene made the lesser scenes of the picture worth sitting through. 6/10 "},{"Title":"An enjoyable slice of life","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is a comedy drama that actually succeeds in both. This is in stark contrast to the dreadful 'Bend It Like Beckham' which manages neither.This is quirky and amusing without being patronising or politically correct.Watch! Enjoy! Don't be put off if you have seen B.I.L.B. "},{"Title":"A great laugh","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film a while ago and thought it was genius. I can't believe that some people thought it was meant to be offensive. I think that this was a film which truly makes you sit up, pay attention, and have a barrel full of laughs at the same time.The arrival of the mosque van and the kids' reaction is hilarious.If you want to watch a good film and have a good laugh, then this is the one for you! "}{"Title":"Great comedy/drama mix","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a pleasant surprise this little movie was. A couple of nights ago I was really bored because as always, there was nothing on TV. Then suddenly I came across this movie...The mix of drama and comedy is daring but it really works very well. The balance between the drama and comedy is excellent and the movie can be touching and dramatic as well as hilarious.Nice acting, directing and a good script make this movie worth seeing. Not a must see but still worth your time.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film.","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film is set in the 1970's and the oldest son is not a hairdresser, - but a milliner.  Since the previous poster could not tell the difference,  .  . .  I felt the need to add a comment.  The poster seemed to understand so little of the film and made rather disparaging comments based on those misunderstandings.   The film is a slice of life depiction of a multi-racial family at its crisis point, - the children are entering into adulthood.  The parents who have been able to straddle both worlds up until this time are pitted against each other in terms of which world they want the children to become part of.  But much like life, it is not a simple story of culture clash. The father wants them to be traditional Pakistani, even though he has been very happily married to an English woman for 25 years and not returned to see his traditional Pakistani First Wife during that time.The mother while verbally balking at much of what her husband says, supports him and demands the children respect him and encourages their embracing his culture.While the father is domineering, the wife is shown as being more than able to stand up to him and he as being all bark and little bite.   The domestic violence portrayed in the film is not of the on-going variety, but more of a crisis moment.  The family is portrayed very real.  They never bend to the Hollywood convention of giving the audience too much information.  You enter their world for a brief time and share their family's experience.A wonderful film definitely worth the rental price. "},{"Title":"Mis-sold but brilliant","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The admen promoting this film got it slightly wrong.  Certainly in the UK it was portrayed as a tender comedy about racial politics and strife faced by Asian children growing up in northern England in the 1970s.  Whilst that is the subject matter, comedy is not the right word for it.  At times it is hilarious, and often has very funny subtle observations.  But it also does not do the film justice, as the brilliance of this film is in its tragedy.The family is slowly splintering as the children realise that they want more from life than their traditional Indian father does for them.  They are embracing British White culture, and this causes immense conflict in the family, heightened by their mother being white, born and bred in England. The struggle she in particular faces, with her love for her often brutal husband and respect for his culture clashing with her love and hopes for her children to experience a more liberal upbringing whilst respecting and not disappointing their father is the heart of this film.  Om Puri, as the father, is simply wonderful as a man caught between his children's wishes and the life he wants for them.It is a touching and warm film, but is often hard-going because of its hard-hitting drama.  But it is always worth watching. "},{"Title":"Funny, sad and uplifting","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anybody who has seen this film will remember the 'low-flying' denouement as an example of comic genius.However, it is facile to describe the film merely as a comedy, even if there are some scenes that leave the viewer begging for mercy. There are moments of real tragedy, tyrannical abuse meted out be a father made desperate by his family's refusal to remain traditional.  Om Puri manages, however, to make the father George Khan a sympathetic character, despite his sometimes irredeemable behaviour.Desperately funny, sad and uplifting. "},{"Title":"Really great film","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Good laughs and plenty to learn from this dreamy movie which is at the same time so down to earth. It catches you dreaming while exploring the difficulties of integration, mixed families, family life in itself, poverty. But it's everything but a dark film about a lousy reality. It does not blame society, nor does it blame anyone in fact. It's just plain fun, and joyful truth. To sip. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film over the weekend, and watched it twice because I enjoyed it that much.   I will presently be studying it at college.Some comments on here that I have read complain about the stereotypes of asian people.  The autocratic asian father is no more offensive than the bigoted old white man, or the fat girl desperate for a snog.  Stereotypes have to come from somewhere!One of the things I loved that no-one has mentioned was the sense of community they managed to convey.  Although this has died out recently in the north, and survives only in relics such as coronation street, in the 70s it was the norm.  The opening walking day sequence was spot on, and the way the neighbours all gathered around to see off the wedding party.The most shockingly violent scene being surrounded by the comic made it seem more real, as this is what happens in life.I would recommend the film to anyone. "},{"Title":"Amazingly great despite","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Small-time films like this, from another country that speaks English with a difficult accent, are often so difficult to understand that much of the meaning is lost.This film, even with coarse accents, is still great. The acting is fantastic, the story riveting, and everything seems so REAL. Both the Pakistani husband and the English wife play their parts achingly well.This film would have been a 10 with just slightly better sound. See it. "},{"Title":"Cute little movie","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Minor Scene Spoiler (at the end of the review Funniest Scene)East is East is a cute little comedy about a Muslim family in Manchester (I think, but don't let me mislead you). While the father is very serious about the Islamic faith the wife and children seem to prefer a more reformed life style. A very cute little comedy which only the UK could've made. The USA would never and will never be able to make a film like this. The UK has created some very well-made movies, this included. It's not one of my all time favorites or a favorite in general, but I still think it's cute.(minor spoiler)-- Funniest Scene When the 'art project' falls on the Muslim girls' mother's lap.  "},{"Title":"Warning A comedy, but also serious, with some violence.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a good film, no doubt about it.  But we (two couples in our 40s and 50s)left the theatre rather shell-shocked.  We looked at each other and said Well, that wasn't the light-hearted funny movie that we expected!Sure, there ARE funny items.  It is a comedy, BUT ALSO it contains verbal and physical family violence, and also serious thought-provoking cultural and sexist conflicts.I would recommend this movie to others, but you have to prepare yourself for a film that may disturb you deeply, or at least touch a few raw nerves.By the way, I personally loved the insights into Pakistani culture, both the beauty and the dark areas (like any culture). "},{"Title":"A really wonderful film...","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film while in France and it was very well received.  I think some people that have left reviews on this site are missing the point of the film and the combination, although quite abrupt at times, of comedy and tragedy are integral to the lives of all the characters.  I thought that there was a great deal more dimension than in most films that try to do one or the other.  Is this a DARK comedy? Yes.  Is it well done?  Yes.  I believe most people will really enjoy it. "}{"Title":"But why did they have to pee?","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One strange thing about the movie is that many characters (esp. Sajit) tend to urinate in public quite a lot (in fact, the film opens with a mock urinating scene and it gets worse afterward).Otherwise, the points have all been made in other comments. Good movie, but could have been a lot better.   "},{"Title":"East is Ugly","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I came into this movie knowing only what I read of a short blurb five minutes beforehand.  I got the impression of a cultural, light-hearted comedy flick, in the tradition of Goodness Gracious Me, instead I got a disturbing drama about a culturally divided family and a domineering father possessed by a sort of general malaise.  The laughs which did come in here and there were half-witted attempts at making half-brained viewers smile with odious and frankly quite vernacular toilet humour,  genital humour, and the like.  A feeble attempt on behalf of the individuals involved in such a masterpiece of bullroar, ahem, excuse my french.  The fact is the people who made this movie did not know how to approach the topic of humour and as a last ditch attempt included irrelevant, vulgar, pieces of nonsense.  Go now and locate the nearest place where you can see this movie and run in the opposite direction as far as you can.  Out of five?  I'm feeling generous today, so I'll give it a one.   "},{"Title":"Very, very good","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film, portraying the culture clash of an anglo-pakistani family, is a stunning piece of work. Humourous, moving, powerful, sympathetic, it just about has it all. Stellar performances by the leading cast members add remarkable polish in this ensemble performance. The viewer is drawn in to this peculiar family trying desperately to straddle two cultures, two religions, two countries, in the middle of working class england during the early seventies. I can imagine similar scenes being played out in other anglo-south asian families across the UK. I can see why this film won best british movie of the year. I cannot recommend it highly enough. My vote, a very solid 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not scathing enough","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When you try to make a movie about one of the world's more bigoted, conflicted and emotionally unstable communities, you will inevitably be accused of being the same. Om Puri plays a psychotic Pakistani immigrant to Manchester trying to hold on to a culture which he thinks he has left behind, but which he has actually created himself for need of security and continuity in his life. His seven children and long-suffering white wife unfortunately have to bear the brunt of this crisis. He might not represent all Pakistani males in Pakistan (although the situation will soon be as such), he might not even represent all Pakistani males in England (a particularly provincial lot -- they were among the greatest supporters of the Rushdie fatwa), but he is representative of a cultural trend. If anything, the film is overly generous to this culture - the son who prays is depicted as being the most self-sacrificing, considerate and genuine; the father is depicted as eventually being soft on the inside. Its an OK film which doesnt quite get to the root of the problem; but the subsequent customer reviews on this site accusing it of being racist and offensive are the true event.    "},{"Title":"Want you want from this film is inferior to what you get","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On renting this film I thought i would be getting a film that was a light hearted satire of the Muslim religion (but then i thought, anything that has been made by Film Four has got to have more edge to it than that) I was right in this assumption...the films seems to be a scathin attack on the Muslim faith, using a very compitent actor (Om Puri) to emphasise the harsh way of living in such a culture.... I would say more but I urge anyone reading this comment to go and rent this film (to form their own opinion of it) "},{"Title":"Billed as comedy, succeeds as drama","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Actually, I think it succeeds as both.  The subject matter is interesting and different.  It's not immediately relevant, but I think echoes of the issues discussed are still ringing true in many groups today, especially those who find themselves, as the Khans do, trying to fit in on both sides of the fence.  I thought matter was relevant, especially here in America, the melting pot and in NYC, where people are thrown together and yet still divided into neighborhoods and classes.  As I watched the film, I couldn't help smiling at the jokes, and yet nodding when recognizing the problems that the family, especially kids, faced.The father figure, George Khan, certainly was a perfect specimen, but then again, no one is expecting him to be.  That's the whole point. How would there be a story if everything was just peachy keen?  I enjoyed watching as the family dealt with its problems and still managed to remain a family throughout.  Sometimes the raunch got to be a bit too much, but the dramatic elements always shone through.I'd recommend this movie to anyone with enough intelligence to appreciate it for what it was, and an interest in seeing something a little different. "},{"Title":"Losers, no winners","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ask Hollywood to make a film about a fundamentalist Islamic father and his seven worldly children and it would be a situational comedy complete with laugh-track.  Ask the British to do it and you would get East is East, a film that would be funny if it wasn't so deadly serious.  The irony is that in trying to portray a painful assimilation by an earnest Pakistani father to an English society (including his own unresolved acceptance of his mixed marriage), it has delivered the very anti-Islamic message it was trying to avoid.  The touching scene, in which the English mother and her six children crowd into a public phone booth in the rain to talk to the eldest son who has been cut off by the father from the family, symbolizes the movie's half-baked attempt at humor while setting its serious tone.  At the same time, attempts at religious satire such as the children eating pork while the father is away, scratching over the town sign of 'Bradford' to 'Bradistan', and presenting two would be wife candidates so unappealing they are referred to as Laurel and Hardy, only serve to give a terribly one-sided slant on Islamic culture.  Curiously, the only son who tries to mimic the fundamentalist nature of his father is strangely not demonstrative and even gets caught up in a tragic beating by his father. Added to this are some interesting conflicts which get tossed around without much thought - the neighbor campaigning against immigrants, another English mother who has lost her daughter to her domineering Pakistani husband, and side romances between two of the sons to odd English girls and one of the sons to another man. The real strength of this misshapen family would seem to be the mother, who carries the enormous task of placating the harsh and, at times, violent demands of her husband with the Western seeking and rebellious appetites of her children but the film botches up this role until the copped-out ending.  East is East wants to be a mainstream film serious about conflicts between two cultures but comic enough to be successful commercially, not an easy task for which this picture fails miserably.  "},{"Title":"In A Land Far Far Away","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There should be a law against the big bang trailers for films which are a) otherwise quiet intelligent, (as in The General's Daughter) or b) continuous trailer (as in Bond 4-19).  Similarly there should be a ban on humorous trailers that play the one big joke on which the film survives.  So it is with East is East..  Sure, this is an interesting film if based on a questionable premise.  I was/am unaware of Pakistani/Indian immigration into Salford in the 30s, (which is how I understand George Khan's predicament), but it was certainly touching to note his indigenous children's fascination with the Paki world just across the Pennines.Well done.  Amusing stuff.  But could do better.Ron "},{"Title":"How much urinating do we need to see in one movie?","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  East is East has some fantastically funny moments, but most of them appear in the trailer.  The rest of the movie places these hilarious moments in between some deeper and disturbingly dark scenes of domestic life.  For me, this it made it difficult to take the serious moments as seriously as they should have been taken.So, generally an interesting idea for a movie, but too wide a range of emotions to deal with in one sitting. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fish-and-chip shop owner George Khan commands his family with strict Muslim rules. He wants his English wife and their children to obey him without discussions. But the children were born and brought up in England, they feel themselves Westerns and begin to reject all the conventions established by their father...East is east is a comedy based on a theatrical play about immigrants and cultural differences. In Britain many books, movies and stage productions tell stories about that... The theme is very important in British culture -see films like My beautiful Launderette and Sammy and Rosie get laid by Stephen Frears, with material written by Hanif Kureishi; see more recently the comedy Bend it like Beckham and Ken Loach picture A fond kiss.This film has a comical approach, it's hilarious. But the story is dramatic and has a lot of tough situations -because for example the father (played by Om Puri) wants his sons to marry the women he chooses for them. He also hits his wife and the children.The film is set in 1971, soon after the Sixties protest wave that shows a contrast between tradition (seen by a Pakistan immigrant) and modern times and wishes.All the comedians are excellent in this low budget movie. Its strength are dialogs and the way misunderstandings are shown. The film is not pure entertainment -it makes also think. "}{"Title":"Fantastic rendition of the play","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film, contrary to what many people seem  to be saying, is a fantastic exploration of hybrid identities and very well observed and portrayed.  In reply to all those who say that the film is not realistic, it actually comes from the play East is East, written by Ayub Khan-Din (as is the film) and it was mostly autobiographical (he is represented by Sajid).  His father was very much like George is in the film, and there is actually a very interesting discussion as an introduction to the screenplay in which Khan-Din in which he says that he wrestled with the representation of him (which is why there are elements of him trying to do the best for his family in the film).  I recommend that people who feel the character is too shallow read this.  Again with complaints about the swearing - this is how working class Salford was (and still is in many parts) - to not include this would be to take away the gritty realism of the film that works so well.I am very disturbed by the comments saying that the filmmakers were irresponsible by not pointing out that not all Asian families are like the one portrayed in the film - it represents intrinsic racism in which a 'white' or 'mainstream' film can represent specific interpretations of reality which we understand do not represent all of an entire section of our society but an 'Asian' film must represent ALL Asian people, as if they are so easily stereotyped.  We know that not all Scottish people are heroin addicts even though Trainspotting portrays some of them - please don't be so crass as to assume that this film can somehow tell us everything that there is to know about Anglo-Asians.  It just shows us a 'slice of life' of one specific family, and it does it extremely well in a way that we all have something to learn from it.  If people go away from this film thinking that all Asian people are like that then they are ignorant, and this is an intelligent, thinking film which would have been way out of their league.Not only does the film talk to us about race, but about growing up, about domestic violence, about the poor/rich divide, about ANYONE with multiple aspects of their identity, about the pressures to fulfil expectations, and something about the whole ethos and richness of Northern life in the 70s. Watch it for this, not as an 'Asian-by-numbers' film - if you go into it expecting something as shallow as that, that's not what you'll get and you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Is This a Comedy?","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On my way out of the theatre, I made a point to check the blurbs on the poster for this film.  I recall distinctly the trailer suggesting that the film was a wacky, offbeat comedy.  Sure enough, some respected critics thought this film was amusing.  I didn't find the domestic violence to be either funny or an amusing comic set-up.  Let me suggest that if Ralph Cramden actually hit Alice in The Honeymooners, we would not have been laughing.  This film presented a serious cultural dilemma, by no means new (i.e., see The Jazz Singer), and the dilemma was merely left unresolved at the end.  A film need not solve everyone's problems, or even suggest a solution, but the essence of comedy is to make order out of chaos.  This film didn't do it, and the extension of Battered Women's Syndrome to an entire family is definitely not funny. "},{"Title":"Alright...","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thought this film was alright. Seen the trailer and thought it looked quite funny... after watching it though it did have some serious points to it.The story is set in Salford, just outside Manchester (which is where my mum grew up) and follows a rather large Pakistani family. With humour as the main ingredient it shows how these families come from different countries to settle in a new life in Britain have to cope with the differences in their cultures. This is a down to earth working class setting and the story reflects this, especially with the mother of the family being a local lass, and the father the Pakistani.There are some cracking lines in it though... How old are you son? - Not old enough to get married, so don't ask me! - hahaha.Worth a watch, but 5/10 for me.Dave "},{"Title":"god awful","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's not that the film isn't funny - although it isn't (intentionally); it's not that it isn't dramatic (it's certainly melodramatic). It is simply that when it's not being absurd it's being offensive, when it's not being offensive, it's being risible; all the time, it's being simply INCOMPETENT to the point of dementia. The acting is abysmal, especially Om Puri who acts like he's in a Victorian melodrama, and Linda Bassett, who acts like she's in a poor episode of On the Buses.It's just monumentally cack-handed in every way, made by people who seem never to have watched a film in their life before. Another crock of rubbish from the British film industry. "},{"Title":"One of the worst and most offensive films I have ever seen","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Imagine that you are the producer of East is East, a fairly standard drama about a husband abusing his wife and children in 1970's Britain. Not many box office returns, eh? So the producer has the bright idea of introducing sub-American Pie slapstick (dogs attempting to rape girls, sculptures of vaginas etc) to bring it to a wider audience, while still 'staying true' to the original play. Oh, and as a bonus, it has a 'comedy' Asian father who may beat his wife and sons, but whose vocabulary is limited to comic obscenities. Hilarious! Please do not see this film. It is abysmal beyond belief. "},{"Title":"Some Cultures ARE better Than Others!","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie is well done and entertaining, BUT, what gets lost in the shuffle is the fact that the so-called Pakastani culture is misogynistic, intolerant and oppressive!!! I was feeling kind of sympathetic for Geroge, what with his trying to adapt to an alien culture and all, BUT..when his wife came to the door with her face purple with bruises I realized that this jerk belongs in JAIL!!! Culture differences be DAMNED..There is NO excuse EVER for beating a woman! The fact that there is no intervention by authorities in the movie leads me to believe that the children of George, their rebelliousness notwithstanding, give tacit CONSENT to their dad beating the crap out of their mom!! Not to mention that they guy is a BIGAMIST!! My dad never beat my mom. If he HAD, then I'd probably have taken a baseball bat to his head as he slept.I reiterate...Some cultures ARE better than others!! "},{"Title":"Another fine new-wave Britcom","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was shot very close to where I live. It's a very interesting study of the difficulties that mixed religion marriages face. Set at the time that Enoch Powell was advocating repatriation for the Pakistani community it skillfully mixes comedy with thought provoking drama. It is easy to associate with the dilemmas that face all the leading characters. George Khan is a Pakistani that is married to an English woman Ella. Whilst George wants the 7 children to be brought up according to Muslim customs, Ella is bringing them up according to Christian values. The nice thing about this film is that it doesn't really take sides and is both poignant and funny in equal measures.  "},{"Title":"One of the best British comedies for years","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a fine film. Funny yet gritty. Beautifully written and played toperfection by an outstanding cast. The final scene is an absolutegem and will have you falling off your chair. Any shortcomings canbe forgiven for the sheer verve and brilliance of this minormasterpiece. If only all British comedies were as good as this one.  "},{"Title":"Confusing","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just a minimal sort of comment. I really liked the movie. I watched it with great pleasure. Acting is superb. The script is funny (perhaps language can be slightly too harsh occasionally). The film touches a very serious problem -- the problem of immigrants leaving in foreign country torn between integration and identity. In this sense this is a great film. It has it all emotions, fun and makes you thinking.But in the end I felt that this was an abuse over Pakistani culture. The message that further should consider children's good is so European in fact. It shows a complete misunderstanding of Muslim ideal, when actually father considers children's good. Only the good is considered different.This is sad -- I liked the movie but I can't rate it. The movie was great but I simply can't accept such un intolerant message. I feel that rating the movie highly would support the message itself.To authors really thank you for the great film and grate topic! "},{"Title":"A pleasant comedy/drama with a minor genre conflict.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Twenty-five years ago, George, a Pakistani immigrant to England, married an English woman who bore him seven children. East to East picks up George's story as he's beset with a clash of cultures and befuddled trying to maintain his native old world traditions amidst his flock of new age kids. This humorous film makes a couple of severe excursions into serious drama which seem in conflict with it's intended comedic purpose. However, viewers unvexed by the mismatching of genres should thoroughly enjoy the film. "}{"Title":"Superb image of cultural clash","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Finally I managed to go and watch this movie. Most of the comments I had read about it were very good, so that made me very interested.It is all about a mixed British/Pakistani family of which the father is a very believing Islamic person. Islamic culture states that the father is the head of the family and decides what happens even to the level of marriages of children. Islam can have arranged marriages, in which the children have no influence of their own. And of course Islam states that the father decides on the family affairs and everybody else has to obey.British culture in the seventies was of course very different. We had just had the sexual revolution or were still in the middle of it. People, if they married, married for love and not because the fathers arranged the marriage. Children learned to think for themselves to the point of rebelling against the parents if necessary.Those are the two scenes in this family. The children have grown up in British culture and adapted brilliantly to it (i.e. they like pork meat, disco, alcohol and wanting to make decide for themselves), but the father wants to put Islamic principles on his whole family when it comes to religion and arranged marriages. This of course creates major conflicts and that is how the movie starts. The oldest son walking out of an arranged marriage on the wedding day. In Islam this is a disgrace to the family and the father is ultimately responsible.In the end the conflict heats up so much that the father has no other option than to use violence against the only child that wants to live the life the father wants him to live and against his western wife, brilliantly portrayed by Linda Basset. However, although the violence is quite severe (black eyes, wounds etc), Ella in the end sticks to her husband and stands up for him against her own children. The end of the movie is a romantic open ending. The audience will have to decide.During the movie, I continuously had to be alert of what I was thinking. As a Western European person I was appalled with the way the father wanted to force his principles on his family, especially his sons (in Islam the sons are much more important to a father than the daughters), from the circumcision of the youngest to the violent reaction against the other sons when he had arranged their marriages and they did not like it and showed him very clearly. My thought Hay, we live in a free country... When thinking of my (very small) knowledge of Islam and Asian cultures, however, I could not help and sympathize with this father, who really wants the best for his children (the best according to his own cultural background) and gets to the point of despair when his children appear to think completely different (Western/British).The movie was a comedy, but one with a very serious underlying theme, the clash between two completely different cultures in one family. "},{"Title":"East Is East","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This Film Four made film is pretty good drama, I just wasn't that interested in all of it. BAFTA nominated Om Puri plays grumpy and strict George Khan, he wants his family to be really perfect and his kids are starting to dislike his strict behaviour. I can't really remember why it is called East is East, probably something to do with the main characters being Asian. The main reason why I wanted to see this really was for the appearance of EastEnders' Jim Branning (John Bardon). But there was also the appearances of EastEnders' Ash Ferraira, Raji James and Coronation Street's Dev Alahan, Jimmi Harkinshin. I think that Dan Ferraira's character was based on Om Puri in this film. It won the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film, and it was nominated for Best Film, Best Actress for Linda Bassett as Ella Khan, Best Adapted Screenplay and the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer for Ayub Khan-Din, and it won the British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film. Adequate, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"Racist, bigoted & completely unilateral","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (This review may contain some minor spoilers.)My past experiences of British films depicting Pakistani culture have been highly disappointing. So I wasn't really surprised when I saw East is East going the same route. In this age of political correctness, this film openly lambastes Pakistani culture and its beliefs.East is East could have been a very engaging, thought provoking sentimental drama about a Pakistani immigrant and his mixed race family struggling to cope with each other. But instead it is an offensive, obscene and crass comedy. The comedy has almost childishly been created at the expense of Pakistani values, which happen to be different than those of the film makers. It could even have been amusing, if this depiction were balanced, but unfortunately, this film just projects a one sided and highly biased viewpoint. All the Pakistani characters are portrayed as stupid, ignorant and devoid of any common sense.Om Puri plays (George Khan) a Pakistani immigrant living in Manchester in the early seventies. Although he acts superbly, his characterization is extremely one-dimensional. His very name, spells out the film makers' ignorance. No self respecting fundamentalist (as George is portrayed to be) would ever call himself George!!! He is portrayed as an ignorant, vicious, heartless and violent wife basher who has utterly no regard for any of his seven children. George is married to the white, English Ella, yet we are asked to believe that he is a traditionalist and wants to uphold his extreme religious beliefs.Not once is he shown expressing love and concern for his children. Instead, he is portrayed as a despot slave driver who is willing to whip up anybody who dares to confront him at the slightest provocation.  The most ridiculous premise is that we are actually asked to believe that his children who are all in their late teens to mid twenties,  (except Sajid) accept this reign of tyranny until the very last reel!!!The film would have been more intelligent if George Khan were shown as an intelligent manipulator. That at least would have been more convincing. The film makers sadly have numerous misconceptions about Islam and Pakistan and in their zest to pass it of as comedy, some totally unbelievable situations are injected such as the sequences involving watches with Arabic inscriptions. Moreover, only a blind father would be willing to marry his good-looking sons with hideous, unsightly girls in the name of culture and tradition. Perhaps the director implied that children raised in a Pakistani environment like Mr. Shah's daughters, turn out to be dull, dumb and grossly obese.The only commendable factor in this film is acting by a cast of virtual unknowns. Almost all actors have given decent performances with Om Puri once again establishing his prowess as an exceptional actor. Strong performances in particular from Ella (Linda Basset), Tariq (Jimi Mistry) and Saleem (Chris Bisson) help keep the film afloat. Jordan Routledge as the youngest son Sajid also deserves a special mention.The script by Ayub Khan-Din unfortunately, lacks authenticity and spells out extreme prejudice suggesting that any culture other than the western way of life is loathsome, silly and laughable! The fact that this film has been hailed as one of the finest British comedies ever made, only suggests the criterion of the British cinema.George's values are high voltage even by the standards of the most radical families in Pakistan. To accept that he wants these beliefs thrust upon his mixed blood family living in Manchester is nothing but an insult to the audience's intelligence.  "},{"Title":"absolutely disgusting and worse piece of cultural murder.","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was made specifically with only one object at mind. Ridicule Pakistan and Muslims and its culture. Starting with the very first scene which says George Khan moved from Pakistan to England in 1937. There was NO Pakistan in 1937. It was simply India and they couldn't say he moved from India then western viewers will identify him as Indian NOT pakistani. And they simply did not make the date AFTER 1947 because then the scene with the 1971 war references would become meaningless as his children wouldn't have grown up by then. This is a careful and methodically planned cultural murder. All actors are Indian or of Indian descent, Om puri, Archi Punjabi, Jimi Mistry, emil marwa, etc. Indians are usually passive aggressive people and don't lash out on the face but rather carefully and meticulously plan projects like these to methodically humiliate what they hold a grudge against. I will make sure I post this on all major western websites. "},{"Title":"Hidden subliminal messages in the movie","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I cannot help but notice the subliminal messages of hatred and narrow mindedness which is incorporated through out the movie. Start with the glaring mistake of history shown in the early part of the movie when the opening says george khan immigrated from Pakistan to england in 1937. There was no Pakistan in 1937. It was part of India. But if the film maker has said that George Khan immigrated from India in 1937 then people would have associated his character with indians and thats not the goal of this movie The goal of this movie is to ridicule Pakistan. Then the other scenes especially of bringing 1972 war totally out of context of the movie and putting sentences like these bastard indians truly shows what this movie is all about. It is not a comedy movie or drama. It is a pathetic futile attempt by tiny narrow minded Indians hiding behind the lens of the screen and just trying to ridicule their neighbor. Im not from Pakistan. Im a white irish American and I have more than a few pakistani friends and I don't agree with the content of this movie and I had to speak up in their defense. Nevertheless I gave 1 star to the movie for the aforementioned reasons and also I didnot find the movie funny and most of the time the comedy was done in awfully bad taste "},{"Title":"Save your money","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Save your money.  The movie isn't worth the price of the ticket.  Billed as a comedy, it turns out to be a long, relentlessly uninteresting story of an abusive old Pakistani patriarch in Manchester, England, thirty years ago. Are we interested?  No.  Do we care? No. "},{"Title":"An example of Western arrogance and racism.","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (This is not a spoiler, though I discuss some elements of the plot).The general idea of this movie is Pakistanis are worse than the English. Too bad, but it is so. That a parent must not marry off his children against their will, is certainly right. But this idea was fresh already 400 years ago (take Romeo and Juliet for example). What`s new in this film, is that the old Pakistani`s sons don`t want to marry the proposed brides not because they love other girls. They meet with some plain-looking and vulgar slips of girls but don`t even want to take those kids with them when they run away to another town. They say to their father that they want to marry English girls - no matter which ones. Why? Are all Pakistani girls as monster-like as their brides? They dislike Pakistani men too. 'There are thousands of them here!' - exclaims the younger brother in disgust, entering a town where many of his compatriots live. His mother is English - that`s the reason for the arrogance! And the filmmakers doubtlessly sympathize with all that. If this film were only a satire at the roughness of the Muslim family orders, it would have been all right. But it mocks at all the features of the Eastern culture - clothes, music, films, even circumcision. The latter is practiced also by Orthodox Jews. Would D. O`Donnell like to make an anti-Semitic film? It is easy to find a dull melody and an extract from a movie which looks stupid without context. But the sari, worn by the heroine against her will, instead of a miniskirt, still looks more beautiful than any modern Western dressing. I am not a Pakistani nor any other Muslim, but I study Eastern (Tajik) history and culture and like them. I like English culture too, and particularly the music of the 70s. But opposing them in this way is racism. Would you like to watch a skillfully made racist movie? If yes, I recommend you East is East. "},{"Title":"Great ingredients;  wrong recipe","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here we have interesting characters, great acting, accomplished cinematography, colourful locations, relevant issues, and so on, and so forth. All the ingredients for a fast-paced multiculti culture clash comedy are on the table. But I still got to resent this movie. The reason is that the makers decided to make this fluffy comedy also relevant, edgy and deep. That's like taking a mousse au chocolat and loading it with fibers and vitamins. In this case, the story starts out with an inept and somewhat backwards, but likable Pakistani dad who turns into Bin Ladin's evil, wife-beating, uglier brother halfway through the film. He's like a stereotype straight out of Enoch Powell's book. All this is decorated with plot holes the size of BP's Gulf-of- Mexico oil leak. For example, the parents discover that their ten-year-something son hasn't been circumcised. How could they fail to notice -- had they adopted him earlier that same day? And sailing under the flag of political correctness, the movie manages to round up almost every distasteful movie clich in the book kids with glasses are nerds. It's OK to poke fun at fat chicks. Bullying is fun. Being sexually assaulted by a large dog is hilarious. Blonde chicks who wear makeup are white-trash slags, and it's OK to treat them like pieces of furniture. Homosexuals run enormous hat stores out of Eccles (OK, that one was new to me, but it's still not funny).Give me comedy. Give me drama. But if you want to give me both at the same time, you better know your cinematic onions. "},{"Title":"Sorry to tell you, but this is utter rubbish","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had heard many good things about the film, about how funny it was, and you could take that as a positive thing. However, I always had my doubts about it. Although it does have it's funny moments, the film is a basic bore. It starts off with the family in difficulties, and finishes in the same way. Maybe it was just not my cup of tea, but I have not sat through a film half asleep, since seeing water world. It had no plot, and no interesting twist. Really nothing happened. It may bring you a better understanding of how a mixed raced family lived, but personally I would not go and see this film if I was you. "},{"Title":"A film we could do without.","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Another waste of time.  I watched and wondered what all the hype was about.  I paid full price for this film when it hit the shelves and after watching it, I felt like I had been mugged.I couldn't see anything funny about it.  I mean...why am I actually bothering to review this rubbish.  It must be because I am trying to save some people from wasting their time and hard earned cash buying this junk.Just to set the picture and this is no word of a lie - I actually GAVE MINE AWAY!!!  Says it all really.  Please don't watch as it will feel like you were sucked into the black hole with nothing surrounding you and knowing you were gonna starve to death.PS.  I think they should put a TOXIC sign on the cover! "}{"Title":"One major drawback","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A video rented from the shops that sounded funny, was how I approached this film. Good for a night in, so to speak. Oh, was I wrong.How exactly this film got such good reviews is beyond me. As a comedy, the one major drawback is the lack of anything humorous. It's virtually impossible to understand anything that George Khan says (and if this is supposed to be funny, it wears thin quickly) and the film overall goes nowhere very slowly.I actually gave up on this film before it finished. What a waste of 2.50. Goes to show you can't judge a book by its cover (or in this case, a video cassette by its reviews).1/10 - a completely dismal no hoper. Awful in every respect.  "}]