[{"Title":"What the Shiznit?","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"46 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have no idea what is wrong with all these lame-ass downers.... Don't listen to any other comments on this movie. Because obviously, non of them got it.... This movie has been on my top 10 funniest movies since the first time i saw it. My friends and I still gather on occasion and light a Lil something up while we laugh are asses of at this film. Molly Shannon is a Comedic Genius, and Will Farrell falls right behind... Buy this move right now, smoke some bongs, and get your fiends over to watch it with you, so that after its over, and your quoting the movie ever 5mins after, they know what the hell it is you're talking about. As for he rest of you.. WHY DONT YOU GO DRINK A BOTTLE OF YOURSELF! "},{"Title":"Underrated comedy excellence","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember watching this movie when I was working in America in the year 2000 with my cousin and absolutely pissing my pants with laughter at it.I then totally forgot about it until I noticed it on a website for sale for like £3 and thought I would buy it and see if it was as funny as I remembered. It was - and it was funnier the second time around.Molly Shannon is an underrated comedic actress who we should see more often and who should be given lead roles on a more regular basis as she is absolutely hilarious in Superstar.This movie has absolutely no point and no story but is just full of class comedy moments which make me chuckle over and over again. And not only is Ms Shannon rather good in it - Will Ferrell is on top form before he made it big time. Its just a shame he didn't drag Molly with him and make her as big a star as she is.Get her in the Frat Pack now! Oh - and this movie is well funny so I recommend it highly to anyone with a sense of humour! "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me? I LOVE this movie","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is the funniest SNL movie ever. Another commenter said it was just about better than A Night at the Roxbury, but I thought that movie was good too.Molly Shannon delivers a great performance as Mary Katherine Galligar, the weirdo that has always wanted to be a movie star so that she can get a movie star kiss. I love all of the comebacks she makes because they are so out of nowhere and are original. Will Ferral is also a laugh out loud as the hot football player of Mary's dreams, Sky.I saw this movie in first grade and used a few of the comebacks Mary made when I was having a fight with a mean girl in my class, and she never bothered me again! ****outta***** see this movie!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A true classic comedy!","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie! It was probably one of the funniest movies I had ever seen! When I had watched Molly Shannon preform her Superstar on SNL, I loved it. It was hilarious and something new and enjoyable. This movie makes me feel better for some reason. When I'm depressed or something, I watch this movie and laugh forever and instantly feel better! My favorite part of the movie was Mary(her name in the movie) saying Superstar! I loved it. It made me feel happy and made me laugh. Also, this movie does have some meaning to it. It shows you that anything is possible. And I mean ANYTHING. If Mary Katherine Gallagher can do it, you most certainly can. I really think you should at least rent it but I really think you should buy it because of how many times you will want to watch it. It's hilarious and you will find yourself watching it over and over again. ...you didn't know you were competing against a...SUPERSTAR!!! "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time.  There are many really great belly-laughs here.  There also are some very heartwarming moments when Mary Katherine Gallagher conjures up feelings of sympathy for her plight as a nerd among beautiful people.  The ending was wonderful. I really enjoyed seeing Glynis Johns again.  I've always enjoyed her performances very much.  All in all, I think this is an all-round good, very enjoyable movie! "},{"Title":"Don't Always Believe Critics' Reviews","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Because we had seen all the other comedies at the DVD store, my son and I finally watched Superstar. It had been so panned by every review I had ever seen, I thought it would be a waste of time. Perhaps especially for those who have memories of Catholic schools, it is as delightful as it is silly. My twelve-year-old does not have these memories but he laughed hysterically none the less.I do recommend this film, but I do not recommend the critics who gave it only one star. Like psychologists, film critics must understand both the genres they review, and every type of audience that will view the film. This comedy may not be for everyone, but I cannot imagine anyone taking real offense at it either. "},{"Title":"Superstar is one super movie.","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Superstar is the not so hit movie starring Molly Shannon and co starring Will Ferrell in one of the first movies they did together. The movie is about Mary Katherine Gallagher and all she wants in life is a Hollywood kiss but she realises that to get that she needs to be like the people in the movies. The movie is funny on many bases and Will Ferrell's character just held it together beautifully. The movie is definitely a must watch for fans of Saturday Night Live or Saturday Night Live skit turned Movies and Molly Shannon/Will Ferrell shows. Overall this movie is funny the whole way through and Will Ferrell's character was excellently petried. I rate this 74%. "},{"Title":"If you want a good laugh even if you know you'll feel dirty, then this movie is for you!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Rayato has a confession to make. I'm with stupid! Yep I am. While all you high-class society puppets prefer AN IDEAL HUSBAND or some type of crap like that, you know deep down you yearn to watch DEUCE BIGALOW,AUSTIN POWERS,or WATERBOY. Yes, you know you do. I am not afraid to show my love for the stupid comedy. And if you want stupid, then SUPERSTAR is as stupid as they get (and as funny). SNL alum Molly Shannon (who I plan to marry someday) plays everybody's favorite horny Catholic schoolgirl Mary Katherine Gallagher who wants to become a Superstar! so she could have a chance with Sky Corrigan (Will Ferrell, brilliant!)and get the kiss she dreams about. I love basically everything in this movie, from Supermodel Documentary Hour to the ARMAGEDDON spoof. God bless SNL, for bringing America Eddie Murphy, Adam Sandler, Mike Myers, and the latest among the giants, Ms. Shannon herself. B+P.S. MTV's Tom Green makes a cameo has some dumb guy and well....he's....dumb.........BRILLIANT!The Rayato has spoken. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I completely enjoyed Superstar. Its one of those movies that are kind of cute, but still had enough off color humor to keep your attention. It is not raunchy at all. The off color humor comes from many things that kids in the age group really go through.I grew up attending Catholic High School. So I can related to many things in this movie. Just the uniforms alone are funny. And the characters of the Priests and Nuns are very funny, and reminds me of many of the teachers I had back in the day.Yes both Molly and Will were a little too old for their characters. I wonder what the movie would have been like if they made it with child actors. It certainly would have been a whole different thing. But I like how they made it with the older actors. It's Molly Shannon's character and really no one but Molly can play her. "},{"Title":"If Forrest Gump were searching for an ideal date movie, he'd grab Superstar.","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Anybody that watched Saturday Night Live back in 1999 knows about Mary Katherine Gallagher. Comedian Molly Shannon portrays Mary as a klutzy, disaster-prone, teenage ugly duckling who has trouble fitting in at a stuffy Catholic school. Wearing dorky horn-rimmed, birth control glasses, she obsesses over kissing Mr. Right and attaining media super-stardom. The 'in-crowd' hoots at her, while the 'out' crowd adores her. Mary Katherine is the kind of stereotypical screw-up we are meant to laugh as much as love.Obviously, SNL producer Lorne Michaels felt there was something about this Mary that made her a prime Hollywood property. Some SNL characters, such as Wayne and Garth, survived the transition from boob tube to the big screen. Although Superstar qualifies as the comic equivalent of Rocky, this spasmodically unfunny farce proves that Shannon's character was better off on TV than in the movies. Almost as abysmal as Julia Sweeney's It's Pat The Movie, Mary Katherine Gallagher's bid for cinematic immortality wears out its welcome long before its flatulent 82-minutes buffoonery runs out of gas.A spin-off from the popular SNL sketch, Superstar depicts the outlandish antics of an orphaned teenager, Mary Katherine Gallaher, who lives in the ugliest house on the block in a small town called Besame. By the way, Besame translates as 'kiss me' in Spanish. Gallagher's hard-hearted grandmother (Glynnis Johns), who hates showbiz with a passion, struggles to keep Mary Katherine focused on a future as a businesswoman. According to Grandma, a school of hammer headed sharks devoured Mary's parents.The truth is that they got stomped to death on a dance floor when an accelerated record player triggered a nervous breakdown among their fellow dancers. As a result, Grandma wants Mary to avoid show business. Nevertheless, poor Mary wants to enter the Let's Find VD Talent Show sponsored by Catholic Teen magazine at St. Monica Catholic High School. The winners gets a chance to appear as an extra in a movie with positive moral values. While Mary Katherine dreams about super-stardom, her chief rival, Evian (Elaine Hendrix), a popular but mean-spirited cheerleader, devises schemes to humiliate our heroine.Bulimic Evian manages to keep Mary Katherine off the cheerleading squad and wants to prevent her from entering the talent contest. Meanwhile, Mary Katherine fantasizes about kissing St. Monica football hero Sky Corrigan (SNL's hilariously funny Will Ferrell) and stealing him from Evian. Evian mounts a down-and-dirty campaign to degrade Mary, pulling off all the predictable pranks when she isn't acting like a Heathers-bent-for leather ice queen.A Night in Roxbury scenarist Steve Koren's dumb and dumber screenplay makes Mary Katherine into a classic underdog heroine we can root for no matter how horribly the opposition treats her. Indeed, Mary Katherine resembles a teenage version of the woebegone heroine in Welcome to the Dollhouse. Of course, Mary Katherine will emerge triumphant after one too many setbacks, and the smug villains will get their just comeuppance. Unhappily, Superstar boasts few surprises, fewer laughs, and lacks the overall subversive hilarity of There's Something about Mary. Certainly, Superstar ribs the Catholic Church, but nothing as derogatory as director Kevin Smith's Dogma distinguishes this timid, status quo burlesque. They make fun of Father Ritley (a beetle-browed Mark McKinney) when he crunches his toast in front of several nuns ,and then orders them to find out why the toaster burnt his bread. Sure, Superstar provokes an occasional laugh, but not enough to redeem this nonsense. Mary Katherine is at her funniest in small doses. We chuckle when a nun catches her hugging&#151;as well as French kissing&#151;an oak tree. Or when she decks a nun with a high kick during a dance class. Of when she destroys everything around during a cheerleading audition. Her role as 'rewind girl' at a video store is worth a chuckle. Unfortunately, during the long stretches, she loses her spontaneity and imitates just about every other underdog that comes from behind to win despite impossible odds. The drawn-out confessional scene where Mary Katherine reverts to Sybil shows that somebody didn't know when to quit.Blame for stretching Mary Katherine's exploits beyond the two-minute warning mark into an overlong 82-mintue fiasco rests not only with Koren but also with Dog Park director Bruce McCulloch. A Kids in the Hall alum himself, McCulloch does little more than usher Mary Katherine from one stupid predicament to another. The spoofs of Carrie, Armageddon, and Jesus Christ Superstar grow pretty tiresome, especially Will Ferrell's 'surfer Jesus' set to the top hit Spirit in the Sky. The clash of the cliques plot is lame, tame, and pretty much the same as in Never Been Kissed, Can't Hardly Wait, and Drive Me Crazy. Nothing new here. Never mind, also that everybody looks about 20 years too old to be playing their respective roles. Happily, the veteran cast of comedians ignores the shambles of a script and maintains a straight face throughout this hokum. As Mary Katherine's grandma, Glynnis Johns gives a spirited performance. If Forrest Gump were searching for an ideal date movie, he'd grab Superstar. "}{"Title":"Much better than I expected...a really funny movie!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see Superstar on the understanding that some SNL movies are terrible, and I didn't expect too much...but I really thought this was a great movie.  I also enjoyed the additional surprise that his film was directed by Bruce McCulloch (whose talent as a director was revealed in his Kids in the Hall sketches; i.e. Sausages.)  I think his direction was excellent.  The plot was predictable (as some like to point out...predictably) but who goes to a film like this expecting wildly innovative writing?  The actors were very funny and the humor quirky; it even managed to be warm, but not in a syrupy way.  This is a movie I recommend! "},{"Title":"Reply to SamRag comment  This movie rocks","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ceirtanly Molly Shannon is one of the most brilliant humorists right now, and yet we hope she still has a lot to do. From her beginnings, she has always been involved in interesting projects dealing with both comedy and drama, but always from the independent wing of the factory. Some of her appearances on TV Twin Peaks, Will&Grace, Sex and the City and the most popular on Saturday Night Live, performing one of her greatest characters Mary Katherine Gallagher, who leads this crazy movie. Besides, she also appears in Never Been Kissed, Happiness, American Splendor... It is not a coincidence that all the projects she is involved in are such recommendable. Warning Superstar is a freak movie. A pure freak film... freak enough to be a cult film. If you enjoy Family Dad, Kevin Spencer, Airport, Top Secret, John Waters' movies, Ghost World... you'll like this one for sure. That character , Mary Katherine Gallagher deserves an honor place in the comedy history. She's totally freak obsessed with being kissed. What else better than becoming a superstar for that purpose? There are all the necessary elements in this high school movie the typical religious school, 30-year-old playing teenagers, the mean blond girl, the cute-one (that has at least 40 and wears a wig!!), the freaks from the special education class and a talent contest. The movie itself maintains the rhythm , with hilarious moments, and it's so easy going that you can't believe it longs 90 minutes. Of course Molly Shannon puts all the attractiveness to this movie, her character is the freakiest thing ever. Once you have seen it , it will be part of your cult movies to watch with friends and laugh time and again. If you like it, it does mean that you are a freak. But if you don't, it does mean you are a freak , a freak without sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Molly Shannon Superstar.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Superstar (1999) Dir Bruce McCulloch / Cast Molly Shannon, Will Ferrell, Harland Williams, Glynis Johns, Elaine Hendrix What can be said of a film where its heroine stands for hours and molests a tree? It is a twisted past time for Mary Katherine Gallagher, a girl at a Catholic school wishes to be a superstar. She was raised by her wheelchair bound grandmother after her parents died. She attends a boarding school where she learns of a talent contest where the winner will be an extra in a film. Directed by Bruce McCulloch of Kids in the Hall fame with religious references that may offend. Molly Shannon is hilarious as this ridiculous female yet somehow we can identify with her longing for acceptance. Will Ferrell plays the popular jock whom Mary has her sights set on. He is a jerk who is responsible for much of the humour once the tide swings in the other direction and favors Mary. Harland Williams plays a biker student whom everyone fears due to rumors. While the role is limited, Williams pulls off an amusing performance that leads to insight as to why he connects to Mary. Glynis Johns plays her grandmother who sports hidden wisdom that allows the role to elevate above conventions. Elaine Hendrix plays the typical rival chick yet after Ferrell breaks up with her, the role becomes funnier. Its message of acceptance is one of real stardom when we can achieve it. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"A very lighthearted movie!","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I gotta tell ya, Molly Shannon really stood out like a girl who just wants to be like everyone else. This movie relates to what my life was like being in a catholic school and believe me, it wasn't a funny experience like what the movie thinks it is! I wish in the end that Mary Catherine Gallagher and Will Ferrell's character became a couple. Although I have to admit Slater had a good catchy theme song and a motorbike but still, the story should really have stuck with the movie cover cause in that way, no SNL fans will be annoyed!You have been warned if you think Will Ferrell and Molly Shannon live happily ever after cause by god, don't fell through the trap like I did! "},{"Title":"Superstar was Super-solid","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coneheads and now Superstar are the only two SNL skit based movies I've ever seen. Coneheads is still the leader in the clubhouse in my book but this was still good.I'm not an SNL fan. In fact, the last time I saw a full SNL broadcast would have to have been 20 years ago or so. If it weren't for the internet and Yahoo posting some of their clips I'd never catch any of it.Superstar is about a very awkward and borderline mentally retarded girl that has only one ambition in life; and that's to be kissed by a boy. Because of her television and movie assisted upbringing she believes that the only way to get said kiss is by becoming a superstar. Her journey to superstardom causes her to do one highly embarrassing act after another. It becomes increasingly apparent that embarrassing is not even a part of her vocabulary.The movie is quite funny and delivers some good lines. Molly Shannon is probably the best fit for the role of Mary Katherine, the socially underdeveloped teen. Although, Shannon passing as a teen was about as believable as Channing Tatum passing for a teen in 21 Jump Street. Be that as it may, if you like the SNL skit you'll probably love this movie. "},{"Title":"You are a Superstar!","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After watching it my second time, I realized that this movie is not primarily a comedy It is a social statement and source of inspiration for all those who have been dis-enfranchised, isolated and rejected. As we see in Superstar, some of these outsiders, like Mary Katherine Gallagher (played by Molly Shannon) and Helen Lewengrub (played by Emmy Laybourne), have a heart of gold.Yes, some of the things Mary Katherine does and says are funny, but it is not the main show nor the main point She wants to prove to herself and others that she is worthy of respect and love. She knows how good she is. When she realizes that she is seeking fame for other's approval, however, she rights her motivation, and continues on to a stellar performance at the talent show.This spiritual instruction by her grandmother, played by Glynis Johns, deserves special mention, because her character, although handicapped and in a wheelchair, proves that she still has much to offer Mary Katherine and the world. Pay attention to this movie and listen to what it is telling you about finding your own heart and soul and defending it at all times and at all costs Dare to dream and to pursue those dreams. Also, make sure it is your dream and not someone else's.I would have done a couple things differently in Superstar, had I been directing Sorry, Bruce Any movie with spontaneous, choreographed dance scenes is all-the-worse for it. Why? It is impossible. It makes no sense. Where and when did the students in the cafeteria rehearse this number? It makes me want to puke more than Evian pukes.Also, Mary Katherine's act at the talent contest should not have been interrupted by the record getting pushed to 45rpm. That was just stupid, and it consumed the time that could have been devoted to Mary Katherine doing some more funny and entertaining stuff on stage. Will Ferrel's appearance as Jesus Christ was particularly cool and funny. Slater took it pretty calmly when confronted by the King of Kings, on the road out of town! Very funny.I enjoyed the character of Slater, and think Harland Williams did a great job playing this complex-yet-simple character. Especially touching was the scene when Mary Katherine told him she (still) wanted a kiss from Sky (Will Ferrell), and Slater, though hurt, politely told her good night, and left.An especially candid statement was made by Mary Katherine, to Slater, at the pool Sometimes, I just hate the way I am. Molly Shannon does a great job of lighting up when Slater told her she is beautiful. This movie is not a comedy, and anyone who has ever been isolated, insulted or made to feel sub-par by a group will recognize this fact.If you are one of the drones who make others feel bad to make yourself feel good, you will despise this movie. Please think twice about the psychological effect you have on others.There are not many movies I can think of that I consider important. Superstar is an important movie because it speaks for the outsiders Those who have had to do things by themselves with little or no help, despite over-whelming odds.Right now, you may wish that I was savagely ripped apart by a school of hammerhead sharks, but I figure.., if Steven Tyler thinks Mary Katherine's hands smell pretty good after being in her armpits.., then maybe we underestimated her. If someone in a wheelchair can organize a stage show like that.., then maybe there are superstars all around us. "},{"Title":"Why are people hating this movie?","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was a very funny one. Based on the SNL skits, this proved to be an accomplishment. It was quite strange at some points, but still making you laugh. Just the thoughts of praying to be a SUPASTA (the way Molly Shannon says it), or going to a school full of nuns, being in the special education class because you act like an idiot (or just misunderstood, ha-ha), and making out with trees for practice for kissing boys, well I could go on and on. This is worth renting or buying, whichever you prefer. Will Ferrel was a co-star in this, and he did well, as did Molly Shannon, and Elaine Hendrix as Molly Shannon's hyperactive friend, Evian. This was a pretty decent comedy. "},{"Title":"A movie with good laughs with some good cheers","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie on HBO and it got my interest because of the nerdy girl (Shannon) and Will Ferrell, my favorite comedian.When I take a look at the first 5 minutes, I thought it was just a silly movie. But when the movie progresses, I started to laugh and laugh. When the movie ended, I said I want more!The acting was good, Molly Shannon was very convincing as a nerd. Will Ferrell is good as always and Elaine Hendrix as the villain is a sure villain that you will hate.The story would be unoriginal but, who cares? It is still a funny movie. The technical aspects were good. the gags were just the best. The musical numbers were enjoyable. And the humor that it gave to me is just pleasurable.It may be a must-see movie but it is still great. If you ever had a chance to watch it on TV, or see it in a video store, don't hesitate to get it. It's worth it.My score 9/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is so fricking hilarious******!!!","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I own my own personal copy of this gem, and will NEVER part with it (THANK YOU).Molly Shannon, next to her SNL comedy genius predecessors (Steve Martin, Will Ferrell, Chris Kattan, Bill Murray, etc. etc.), is a sure hand in this comedy. There wasn't one moment I DIDN'T laugh. I absolutely LOOOOOVE Shannon. She is nerd comedy precisely where the late Gilda Radner left off (before her demise). What more can I say about her? This film is not ONLY her SNL alter-ego 'Mary Catherine Gallagher', but her real-life personality as a former Irish-Catholic schoolgirl. This film basically depicts her former real-life experience growing up in Catholic school education, but from a modern-day perspective, and with hilarious side-kicks. Will Ferrell is perfectly cast as the football hero hunk who is 'broken up with Evian. We're dancing in the contest. But we're still 'broken up'. Genius! And talk about the choice of Harlan Williams as the mystery biker hunk??? Oh babeee. He made my heart melt to goo. What woman wouldn't want this sexy mute (stuttering) pulling up to rescue her off to a pool for a swim? (somebody STOP me!!!) Especially in the special ed classroom scene when Helen (the women's basketball giant) is briefing Mary on the other kids, and biker hunk walks in. He scribbles his name on the attendance card 'H E R E', then catches Mary looking at him, and shoots her a glance, almost wiggling his eyebrows (!!!) I about died laughing - the response on Mary's face.Elaine Hendrix is delicious as the stuck-up, booby cheerleader Evian - 'I think I just might wanna kick yer a**!'. Amazing how many grown up actors can pass for teenagers in this movie!! But Hendrix is double-funny as Evian ('you should be embarrassed....you're parents named you after BOTTLED WATER---'), especially in the scene where she calls her cheerleader stuck ups, 'it so wasn't your fault, Evian' 'Thank you -- I KNOW'. If any former nerd girl can't relate to that vignette, than she is not from THIS planet.My family has told me repeatedly that this movie reminds them so much of me, as a girl. That I WAS Mary Catherine, growing up in my teens. The unattractive nerd girl, whom everyone made fun of in high school (even if I didn't attend Catholic school), and became friends with the 'outcasts', like Mary did. That I was very much a 'dreamer', much like Mary Catherine. And that I only desired a normal 'kiss' like in the movies, just like Mary Catherine does. The only exception there was never any hunky biker mute that I ran off to a public pool with, nor wanted to bag the football hunk, nor did I go around school grounds kissing trees (and being caught by the nuns). But the rest of the plot is amazingly similar, far as desiring to run off to Hollywood, like Mary Catherine does.This film is an absolute must-see. And from a religious standpoint, really does not offend anyone, religious or not, far as the God-scenes go. Shannon's team did a wonderful job in creating the God presence, in more of a modern, relaxed - but not overbearing way (Will Ferrell), which should please any movie fan.This film is not screwball, dopey, or bathroom, stupid humor, nor low-class. It is simply PG sardonic comedy, with a touch of physical humor (the scene where Shannon/Mary breaks down the confessional doors after her slapstick monologue venue 'I'm not a slut! I'm not a slut! I'm not a slut!') PEANUT "},{"Title":"Just plain stupid","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think that the humor in this movie was awful. The part about how the parents died is extremely stupid and not well thought out. The only thing that saved this movie for me is the fact that Evian (Elaine Hendrix) was in it. Only memorable part of this move was her in her bra and panties. Will Ferrel was decently funny but overall the movie as a whole was just plain terrible. The movie was filled with cheesy lines. The single worse part was the random singing and dancing. I thought this was an even stupider version of glee. The acting was way over the top and not in a good way. I didn't find myself crying on the floor laughing. "}{"Title":"one of the most funniest movies","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i remember watching on TV and i died laughing it is one of the most funniest movies and molly Shannon plays Mary Kathrine Gallagher a nerdy catholic school girl who wants to be a star and win her school talent show and their are plenty of laugh out loud moments and molly Shannon plays Mary Kathrine Gallagher really good and i really couldn't picture anyone else playing that role and well the whole main cast played their roles really good too. this is really a good comedy movie very funny a really underrated comedy. anyway i hope people see this movie it is a funny movie and i hope people enjoy as much as i did thanks for reading my opinion on this movie "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever!","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this is the funniest movie ever, it is based on the character Mary Katherine Gallagher made up by Molly Shannon who worked on SNL for a while, I love Molly Shannon although she hasn't starred in much she has had a lot of small parts in movies for example Talladaga Nights the Ballard of Ricky Bobby Evan Allmighty and Serendipity but she is seen in supporting roles in other fantastic comedy movies that you must see, for example Never Been Kissed and Night At The RoxburyThey do this dance in the middle of the cafeteria which i love, the do it to the song Gonna make you sweat there are so many jokes in it physical humor as well as a lot of spoken jokes, and a lot of little subliminal jokes e.g. the bad girl in it s called Evian. Also i find it funny when she makes out with a tree! All in all Hilarious if you ever get the chance see it! it's a must 10/10! "},{"Title":"A classic example of stupidity!","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie in my friend's collection and decided to take it home! just for fun!!! hey folks, this movie is no fun. it's maybe the most stupid movie ever produced. The way it's stupid is not even enchanting like the case with Napoleon Dynamite (stupid but cool). When watching it I even started to wonder how smart the people can be to spend money and energy on a movie like that. Yes, seriously, the world is going crazy!!! Why not spend all those resources on something else instead of a movie like that... think about it!!! However, there is something funny about this movie. I like it when she's trying to kiss the tree. That's quite unique!!! But overall, i don't recommend anyone to watch this movie. It's just a waste of time!!! "},{"Title":"Fairly Good Movie","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Superstar can only be described with three letters SNLIf you do not normally enjoy the humor and/or plots of other SNL skits turned movie, then I do not recommend you waste your time on this one either.On the other hand, if you enjoy silly, senseless humor involving video store rewinds and swanky catholic outfits, this movie will entertain you. Superstar puts a politically incorrect spin on the politically correct catholic school system.I, myself enjoyed this movie, and give it four stars because it does, indeed, have heart. "},{"Title":"Get rid of this and give us Waynes World","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely hated this movie. The only good SNL movies are Waynes World1 and 2. After A Night at the Roxbary, it all went to hell. This movieis not funny at all, it has the usual stereotypes, the super happyending, and a stupid obsession of kissing tree's. I disliked this moviemore than The Crow Salvation, and that takes effort. Avoid at all co "},{"Title":"Had some funny bits, but overall LAME","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was no more than an extended SNL skit. I expected more but alas, was disappointed. MKG is a funny woman and Will is very good too but this was choppy, didn't flow well at all, and left you feeling (at the end), that's it?!? Heck of a way to drop $14 in one swell foop...ah well...I should have known better! "},{"Title":"It 's like Catholic High School Girls In Trouble.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Four days after seeing SUPERSTAR, I found myself  at the theater looking for a film to see. Nothing appealed to me. So I saw SUPERSTAR again. I enjoyed it the second time around.  I have seen it several times now. Yes it has weak spots. But the cute spots carry it along. It has a possible Rocky Horror  feel about it (Everbody Dance Now). It is not about a Catholic School. It  is not about God. It is just about a plane jane girl who dreams and wants to be loved like a super star. Is that so wrong? And if you don't agree, than you are just Horrible! Horrible! Horrible! "},{"Title":"it was a waste of money and time.","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was so boring the only funny part was when she was making out with the tree and even that was killed in the ads.  I went to see this movie with my brother who usually hates high school movies but he wanted to see this one so i thought it must be great if he would even think of seeing it.  it was boring.  First of all I didn't think the movie made enough of a point of exaderating things to make it seem like a spoof of all the teen romance movies out now. Another thing that i thought was stupid was that most of the actors in this movie were playing high schoolers when they could pass for 30 if not 40.  There are plenty of funny teen actors and actresses out there, why not use some. "},{"Title":"It is from Loren Michaels of SNL, do you really expect a Good Movie?!!!!","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  With the exception of Wayne' World there has never been a good SNL skit turned into a movie worth wasting 90 min in the dark with, so what else would you expect from this.  It is better than It's Par or Stuart saves his Family, but what does that say. Some day Loren Michaels will realize that he is a very old old man who's day has come and gone(apparently he has not realized this for a minimum of 10 years)and he needs to  retire and let someone with talent run the show.  SNL seems to think that we can hardly wait for some 5 min skit for TV to be made into a waste of 100 minutes.  If there is nothing going on in the afternoon this would be worth the half price or wait until it is at the $1. theater near you.  It is not worth a full ticket. Better yet, wait until it is on cable. "},{"Title":"In the name of all the gods, WHY???","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, Lorne, thanks for another disappointing foray into what used to be your fertile imagination. The SNL Studios have had some fairly good films in the past, but they were always based on SNL skits that were, to SOME degree, funny. Wayne's World, and the Coneheads come to mind. You'd think they'd have learned their lesson with A Night at the Roxbury, which was so painfully stupid, I wanted to be killed on the spot for wasting my $6 admission fee. Ah, well. I guess we should thank the stars we haven't had the Chizzborger, chizzborger, chizzborger movie inflicted on us yet. As for this...rent a National Geographic Documentary instead. Save yourself the agony.  "}{"Title":"Stupidity is fine when accompanied by cleverness (which this film lacked)","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Considering this came from SNL, I had to think back about my favorite all time short sketch; Mr. Bill.  I *loved* that stupid play-dough doll.  Yet; it's hard to imagine sitting through a feature length Mr. Bill movie.The same applies, to some degree, here.  Molly Shannon is talented and has presence.  Yet this movie was, overall, unmoving.  The stereotypes and situations were too predictable to make for clever parody.  There was no substantive main plot nor any clever sub-plot.Either this movie attempted something funnier and more clever than was apparent and missed OR this movie was just too low brow and aimed at too juvenile an audience.  I cannot say.  I just know that even movies like Bevis and Butt-Head do America managed to be more interesting and clever.I don't blame Shannon in this.  It's the horrid writing. "},{"Title":"This super-sucks!!!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mary Catherine Gallagher is one of the few recurring characters on SNL who...I just don't get!  OK, so she puts her fingers under her armpits and sniffs them, shows off her underwear and likes to recite monologues from made-for-TV movies.  I'm still not laughing.  It wasn't funny on a 10-minute sketch, and it damn sure wasn't funny for an hour and 20 minutes!  Watching the trailers where Molly Shannon, who plays the character, smooches with the bark of a tree--I wasn't expecting much in the first place.  Obviously.  But there was nothing else to see.  So I can't say I was disappointed.  When I saw this in theaters, there was a group of teenagers cracking up beyond belief.  At what--how the hell would I know?  Glynis Johns plays Mary Catherine Gallagher's mother and actually has one funny line.  Molly Shannon is definitely talented.  But this character wasn't funny from the get-go, so there wasn't really anything to work with.  Hey, if you find someone lip-locking a tree to be funny...this is the movie for you!SNL failed again.  Geez, I'm surprised.  The days of Wayne's World are long gone.  So just stick to repeats of the show on SNL.My score  3 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Frighteningly Bad...","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most of us are familiar with Mary Katherine Gallagher, Molly Shannon's popular Saturday Night Live character. She now joins the ranks of the many SNL sketch characters on the big screen, with disappointing results. Most of the sketches that have been made into movies suffer from a fairly simple problem taking five minutes of sketch material and stretching it to an hour and a half. Some writers are able to develop the character and surround them with an interesting plot, but this film fails on both counts.Superstar revolves around Mary Katherine Gallagher, a Catholic high school girl with big dreams and a serious lack of social skills. An outcast at her school, Mary dreams of getting kissed just like she sees in movies, and the only way she can envision it happening is by becoming a superstar. The object of her affection is Sky (Will Ferrell) the most popular guy in school, and the best dancer. Standing in Mary's path is Evian (Elaine Hendrix), Sky's girlfriend blonde, bitchy, beautiful, and a great dancer. Mary's opportunity for stardom and popularity arises when her school hosts a talent competition, with the winner getting the chance to be an extra in an upcoming movie. In some comedies predictability is comforting, but in Superstar it turns into annoyance; anyone who has seen Flashdance knows the story already. The characters are fairly standard as well Tom Green as Sky's sidekick, Helen (Emmy Laybourne) as Mary's nerdy friend, Slater (Harland Williams) as the cute mysterious guy with a Harley. Mary even has a wheelchair bound Grandmother.  Will Ferrell's character Sky is the only one who offers something new.Those familiar with SNL know how funny Ferrell is, but he is a surprisingly good actor as well. Sky is different from the normal 'Mr. Popularity' role, and the change is refreshing. Instead of being an insensitive jock, Sky is very feminine and sensitive, with hilarious results. When asked who was the most naturally funny comic on SNL, Shannon immediately said Will Molly Shannon wrote all the material for Superstar involving Mary Katherine Gallagher and Steve Koren (SNL, Seinfeld, and A Night at the Roxbury) created the rest of the story and the other characters. Shannon's talent shines through in the solo scenes; without having to worry about plot or other characters, her comedy is at its best. A scene with Mary talking to her own breasts is extremely funny, and shows the potential Superstar has. By the end of the movie though, Mary's character is too pathetic, and the audience ceases to care whether she gets kissed at all. The problem with Superstar is in the writing. As opposed to a good SNL spin-off, such as Wayne's World, Superstar takes on a cheesy sitcom feel as the movie drags on. By the end of the film the viewer is bombarded with Cosby show values on having dreams, being yourself, and knowing who your friends are.Essentially, Steve Koren dilutes Shannon's edgy comedy to make it appeal to a wider audience, but in the process takes away the heart of the movie. When asked whether she wanted to do movies or television in the future, Shannon said it didn't matter because, what's most important is working with good writers. Obviously the writing team for Superstar wasn't good enough. Kids in the Hall fans may see hope in Bruce McCulloch directing Superstar, but aside from a few dance scenes McCulloch cannot inject anything into the weak script. Shannon notes that Bruce McCulloch is really into the robot...and would would keep adding scenes with the robot dance. It seems his addition is simply based on his membership in the Lorne Michaels SNL family.Hopefully in the future Shannon can throw the SNL monkey off of her back and make comedies that challenge the viewers instead of simply making them drowsy. "},{"Title":"This movie really did supersuck","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When i went to buy tickets for super star I was expecting, or maybe hoping for, another funny snl take off. Recently SNL movies have been going downhill. The night at the roxbury was just simply terrible. Now this? Superstar looked good in the commercials, but then again, don't most movies?Well anyway, This movie used up all its amusing moments in the previews.  Well, I'm sorry if you don't agree with me, but whatever you say, I'm right. "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap.","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Now, I'm one that pretty much laughs at any comedy; even the ones that critics give bad reviews, but this has got to be the lousiest and most unfunny film I've ever seen. Not even Will Ferrell or Tom Green (who are funny as hell) brought laughs to this joke of a film. I like Molly Shannon; she is both funny and attractive. But, as Mary Catherine Gallagher, she is neither and that makes it very difficult to find her undesirable. I hope she puts this character to sleep for good. "},{"Title":"This could very well be the worst movie ever.....","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is could very well be the worst movie that I have seen in my life. The only thing that kept me going is the slim chance that it couldn't get any worse, only better.  I was wrong.  The story line was horrible.  Who would back this movie?  I still can't think of any logical, and mentally stable, people to back this movie.  I think Saturday Night Live should stick to 1130 on Saturday nights if this is their effort to touch us otherwise.  I feel bad for anyone that has any ties to the making or the producing of this film.  You can email me and let me know if I am the only one this disgusted, but otherwise I hope you can take this as a warning.   "},{"Title":"Superstar","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Runs awful close to being the worst SNL-skit film ever made with Shannon performing her unfunny characterization of  disgusting school girl, Mary Katherine Gallagher. Kids in the Hall alum McCullough directs...well, tries at least. Nothing much goes on in the film. No script. No story. No laughs. Oh...how I would never want to be Lorne Michaels.   "},{"Title":"Not worth watching","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Time should not be wasted on watching garbage such as this. Superstar has a weak plot, dumb acting and mild and stupid humor.  There are very few laughs in this film and it is proof that all of these Saturday Night Live actors cannot act in films.  Comedy like this is meant to be on T.V. as a skit people can't expect to be able to watch 2 hours of crap skits that are on NBC.  Superstar is definitley not worth watching.  2/10. "},{"Title":"Stupid Critics! This movie was Funny!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the funniest SNL movies ever! Every critic imaginable hated this movie but I still think that it is the second funniest thing Will Ferrill has done. (1st being DICK) I saw it in theaters and thought it was so funny that I made it the first movie of the millenium that I saw. Yeah, my grandparents hated it but still IT IS FUNNY!!!  I guess you just have to be a kid to like it. "},{"Title":"If you are what you say you are","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well, I won't state it's not a clumsy movie, because in fact, in most of the times, it is. However, I find it to be occasionally enjoyable and funny. One of its mistakes is the actress chosen to portray Mary; don't get me wrong, there's nothing wrong with Molly Shannon, but it was evident that she was much older than her character-- mainly if you've seen other of the projects she's been into in the twenties. For some moments, I noticed many similarities with Never Been Kissed, even if they were released in the same year. I mean, what was going on with American cinema back then? Lack of authenticity, maybe? However, I may be not too critical on that, considering that such subject wasn't THAT saturated as it is nowadays. I'm talking about the weird girl that wins the prom contest or something similar in the end. Also, I admit that the few references to Carrie felt very funny, even if they made clear the movie's overall cheesiness. All in all, it's not a great or inspiring movie in any aspect, but it's enjoyable when you're looking for a light comedy. "}{"Title":"Superstar just not that super","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Director Bruce McCulloch from 'Kids in the Hall' tries to have Molly Shannon recreate her super successful SNL character Mary Katherine Gallagher.She's an ugly duckling weirdo from St. Monica High School. She's tormented by mean girl Evian (Elaine Hendrix), and has a secret crush on Sky Corrigan (Will Ferrell).The school is filled with strange insane characters. Some of them are even funny. However the movie suffers from Mary Katherine Gallagher's low energy speaking voice. It needs to be countered by more energy from the other characters especially Sky. The physical stuff is very funny, and it's no coincidence that's when Mary is at her highest energy output.The basic storyline is ripped from countless other high school fare. A lot of references are made to Carrie. Molly Shannon commits completely. Elaine Hendrix shines brightly as the queen bee. But Will Ferrell is too reserved. "},{"Title":"As An Ex-Catholic, This Is Very Enjoyable!","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This work brings back memories of school. Those were good days. Mary Catherine Gallagher is a misfit. In fact, I can't imagine anywhere she WILL fit in. In every school, there is a girl who marches to her own tune, outcast by all but others who, like herself, were cast out of the crowd for their idiosyncrasies.Molly Shannon is a Goddess, as she refuses to let others re-tune her inner song, finds her way, and reaches for her star.Some will not like this work. Some may find it difficult to watch as Mary Catherine falls and fails. Others will think the work to be stupid or unintelligent, and on the surface, that would seem to be a fair appraisal. If one cares to take the deeper look, however, this work will teach you to have faith in yourself, to look for the best in others, and to hold onto your dreams.It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Okay, it's silly but lots of fun!","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First of all, Glynis Johns should be made a Dame of the British Empire by now. She is in her 80s but she provides a service playing Mary Catherine Gallagher's loving grandmother. Molly Shannon is also incredibly funny if you enjoy her role as Mary Catherine Gallagher who sniffs her armpits when she's nervous and knocks over everything from pianos to tables. Will Ferrell is very funny as the guy she chases. There are lot of familiar faces from Saturday Night Live besides Will and Molly. Of course, I don't think this movie should have been in the cinemas. It would have fared better on Comedy Central just for laughs. Oh well, I have one question is that when the beloved Glynis Johns will be made Dame Glynis and that is the question. "},{"Title":"i had a lot of fun watching SUPERSTAR","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i have never heard about Molly Shannon till i saw SUPERSTAR!it was great.even though the actors weren't as teen as their role asked for the movie was great.at first i thought that this would influence the movie and would make me not see the essential,what the movie really wanted to show,the theme,but finally i realised that if the roles had been interpreted by teenagers the movie wouldn't'have been so remarkable.i saw myself in every characterwhen i was little i used to dream about me being a superstar,sometimes i'm doing the same things Mary Katherine did(sometimes when i get nervous,i put my fingers under my arms,and then smell them like this...);was funny when she destroyed the banana & showed it to that guy who attracted by her.also ,something that teenagers use to do,which is not quite good & i'm ashamed i sometimes act like this, ,is fighting with their parents,and in Mary's case with her granny. i loved the movie and it became one of my favorite's! "},{"Title":"Cute enough Comedy that's entertaining and often quite funny, with a good story and solid performances","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a cute enough Comedy, that's entertaining and often quite funny, with a good story and solid performances. All the characters are good, and this is nowhere near as bad as critics have made it out to be in fact it's rather good, plus Molly Shannon is very funny as the lead. It has some really goofy humor but it worked for me because I like that kind, and it's well made and written as well, plus the ending was absolutely hilarious!. I laughed my ass off when ever Mary started talking dirty and making out to that tree,as I thought the nun's reaction that was watching her so funny, plus Maria's Devil song had me in stitches!. Elaine Hendrix is extremely annoying and very effective as the bitch, and Will Ferrell managed to amuse me in a few scenes, plus Mary's confession scene at the beginning where she says some lines from the T.V movie Sybil was also hilarious. There were a few misses of course, but they were still enjoyable scenes, and I don't see why this is so lowly rated (4.4 come one!), plus all the characters are pretty likable for the most part. This is a cute enough Comedy that's entertaining and often quite funny, with a good story and solid performances, and I say it's well worth the watch!. The Direction is good!. Bruce McCulloch does a good! job here with pretty good camera work, good angles and keeping the film funny and at a fast pace. The Acting is solid and quite fun!. Molly Shannon is brilliant as the lead, she has such a talented and hilarious comedian as she is so funny here, she is extremely likable, had a cool character, seemed to be enjoying her role, was wonderfully quirky and energetic, and was the main reason this movie was as funny as it was, I loved her!. Will Ferrell is rather amusing here and thankfully Doesen't over do it, he was goofy but it worked, I actually kind of dug his character, as he did pretty good. Elaine Hendrix is extremely annoying as the bitch and was so convincing, she was good looking but way too unlikable she did her job extremely well, because I couldn't stand her!. Harland Williams is good as the guy who's in love with Shannon (Mary), he was likable and I dug his stutter!. Mark McKinney is very good as the Father he had nice comic timing and his facial expressions were priceless!. Glynis Johns is funny as the Grandma and surprisingly added a lot of spark I liked her. Emmy Laybourne is good as Mary's best friend she was energetic I liked her. Jennifer Irwin is hilarious as the girl who's obsessed with The Devil, I really liked her. Tom Green has a small role as an ass heckler. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall well worth the watch!. *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"i almost died laughing","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Molly Shannon is truly a talented actress. She kept me laughing and on the floor almost having a heart attack. This movie is truly and utterly funny.....i mean making out with a true....what is better than that. This is almost like dumb and dumber in a way-- it's so stupid that it's funny except for with superstar...its even funnier..and it's kinda hard to beat a comedy classic like dumb and dumber. I am so glad that this character that molly Shannon made in Saturday night live became into this truly hilarious movie There are many scenes in this movie that kept me going with laughter....like for instance in the church when shes praying very quietly..then all of a sudden...superstar(shouts it) ha ha i love it "},{"Title":" You wanna be a star, be a  SUPER STAR!","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A funny story about a girl named Mary Katherine Gallagher (Molly Shannon) who was a religious girl who lived in Besamee Heights. Her parents died when she was young, her Granma Gallagher (Glynis Johns) who wanted Mary to become a Business Manager.But Mary didn't want to become that, she wanted to be a SUPER STAR!!!! Mary was also a girl who went to St. Monica's and she tried out every star making activity. It sure is HARD when you get going! Especially when you see competition. For example, the school's most beautiful girl named Evian Carrie Graham (Elaine Hendrix)upset Mary due to seeing her as competition in the bathroom and then, Mary SNAPPED the cow's bra. WAY TO GO, MARY! And Mary worked at a video store to know how super stars looked. There was such a funny scene when Mary came to confess in the church, she broke down the doors when acting out her monologue. Mary also knew a guy at school named Sky Corrigan (Will Ferrell), the best dancer in the school and she had a close friend named Helen Lewengrub (Emmy Laybourne) who was a good basket ball player. And a new boy named Eric Slater (Eric Williams) who was totally into her.Soon, Mary heard about a contest about starring in a movie with Positive Moro Value as an extra. Mary could just imagine becoming famous. Another funny scene when a boy named Howard Feinstein (Jason Blicker) was rubbing two ruby grape fruits with his hands to attract Mary's attention, and Mary responded by picking up a banana and squeezing it to death! And Howard left her alone. HA! HA! HA! The next day, Mary approached Evian because, she wanted to enter the competition. And Evian bullied Mary in a verbal way by saying she could not enter the competition and saying her parents died because she was so ugly and then, Mary bullied Evian back by saying  At least I wasn't named, after a bottle, of water. And then, Evian tried to attack Mary and Mary beated Evian up by punching her in her boobs, kicking her about and then she dragged her out by her hair screaming. And, Evian was suspended! HA! Serves that COW right! Not so soon, Sky broke up with Evian due to that incident with Mary. She screamed so loudly, that she broke the glass behind the basket ball net and she fainted. Well, she deserved her boyfriend to be taken away from her! And soon, Evian took out her frustrations out on Mary by dropping a tin of paint from the ceiling (Carrie style). This happened just after when that devil-praising Gothic girl Maria Ganitisis (Jennifer Irwin) performed a satanic, dramatic song. You should've seen it, IT WAS SO FUNNY!!!! Suddenly, when Mr. Slater took Mary to the public pool to wash up after that paint incident. Mary discovered Mr. Slater was that little boy who she saved from drowning due to his birth mark on his arm. And it was so lovely to see them have a romantic time in the pool. And when she got home, her gran told her that she won the contest, and she helped her out in order for her to reach for her dream. So, Mary invited all her friends around so they could rehearse. And it SO cool seeing the gran playing the drums!!!! Later, the big night came, and they performed their hearts out, I just loved those fantastic, ruby, glittering costumes and with Jesus (Will Ferrell) going  O-OH! O-OH! That was so awesome to see Jesus loving music and saying Get jiggy with it. And then, MARY WON!!! HA! Ha! Evian didn't know she was competing against a SUPER STAR!!!! It was so sad that Mary decided to let Sky go, but she fell in love with Slater. And to end the review with the last laugh seeing Mary kissing a tree in the school yard with a nun watching with great concern! HA!HA!HA! P.S- I am sure this movie has reflected on many people's lives when they wanted to become famous, especially on mine. But I know it will happen. Remember what Mary said  And if you believe in yourself, those around you, what they say, won't hurt you. Believe in yourself. "},{"Title":"Best Sneak Preview in a while","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the first minutes I thought Oh my god, what is this gonna be? Kids swimming in a pool? After a while I got the idea that this is suopposed to be a comedy. And it became pretty funny pretty soon. I have to admit this was one of the funniest movies I've seen in 2000. It was running here not very long and not in the big theaters, but this surely is a special tip for Slap-stick comedy enthusiast. Molly acts screamingly funny. Go watch it. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Campy, kookie, off-the-wall spoofiness.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Superstar is a love it or hate it camp comedy SNL movie which attempts to capitalize on Shannon's nerdy parochial schoolgirl character Mary Katherine Gallagher and, judging from the boxoffice stats, succeeds. Whether or not this critically panned flick is for you will depend on how much you personally enjoy ludicrous stereotypes, outrageous silliness, and deadpan humor. "},{"Title":"Fun and silly","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For fans of Molly Shannon- this will be enjoyable entertainment. She throws in pieces of many Saturday Night Live characters, and the first two-thirds is often hilarious. The final third bogs down when the writers try to cram the obnoxious title character, Mary Catherine Gallagher, into a romantic, feel-good plot. Until then, have fun. "}{"Title":"Less stupid than you might expect.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, it's dumb.  Yeah, it's padded.  But Molly Shannon has a knack for taking a joke into deeply uncomfortable and funny territory, and the scenes between her and her basketball playing friend are great.See it for the hot arborphilic action, if nothing else. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As far as SNL movies go, this one is pretty good.  Funny and dumb.  Just what a movie goer needs sometimes. Molly Shannon does her best Mary Katherine, and the supporting actors are pretty good, too.  Especially Helen, she was too funny. This is one of those movies you rent when you don't want to have to think about what's going on. Just watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this film. Harland Williams especially. I found the story line funny and VERY easy to follow. My 4 year old even laughs in the appropriate places. I liked this film so much, I purchased it. This film is not available on VHS, only DVD. I suggest buying previously viewed in VHS. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie That Makes Me Happy","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This maybe is one of the best SNL movies out today. But ALL SNL movies are pretty bad. The acting was very bad here. But All I Can Tell You Is That Molly Shannon Does Act The Same As Her SNL Role of Catholic School Girl. So I Don't Know Whether TO Say THats Good Or Bad Acting. A Lot Of People Would Probably Say This Was One OF The Stupidest Movies They've Seen. But I Kind Of Like This Kind of Movie. It Has Corny Jokes(some that aren't even funny) but It just puts a smile to my face when I watch it. It May Not Be A Oscar Nominated Movie, But Its Stupidly Funny. Is That A Little Confusing? Oh Well. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Better than you think, but still not too fabulous","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie for some odd reason.  The jokes are derivative, and the movie as a whole is uneven.  But the optimism of Mary Katherine shines through anyway.  That's mainly due to Molly Shannon who makes Mary both human and far out (see her great cameo in Happiness, too).  Superstar has some interesting moments. While not necessarily hilarious, they're great to see  the super model fashion shoot and Mary's climactic dance sequence.  Don't expect too much.  It's a decent cheap rental. "},{"Title":"Strange, but it's harmless.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mary wants a 'Hollywood' first kiss. From there she does weird things to get practice. When a contest to win a CHANCE to be in a movie with a celebrity, Mary's side project is now to be a 'super star!' The movie is stupid, the ideas are somewhat strange too, but some parts are funny. Fights between Mary and Evian are good but the movie fails to connect with all of its movie references. From ARMAGEDDON to TOP GUN, everything looks too strange to even laugh at. Bonus to Much Music's Rick 'The Temp' Campanelli who plays a cameo as a reporter. But as a reference to another Much Music VJ, Ed the Sock, this movie is more trash than smash. "},{"Title":"Non-essential Will Ferrell movie to watch","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie mainly because of Will Ferrell and boy does it deserve it's low IMDb rating. Molly Shannon manages to create a comedy vacuum around herself with NO funny moments for her central character FOR THE ENTIRE MOVIE. Quite a feat. But, the weak script can take the most of the blame. You'd think one of the writers from Seinfeld (Steve Koren) would come up with something better than this garbage. Molly Shannon french kissing a tree or a stop sign is not funny! The only kudos can go to Will Ferrell, who reprises his Roxbury-style character to great effect, silly dancing and all. See it if you must, but beware of Molly Shannon movies from now on! "},{"Title":"Hillarious comedy starring Will Ferrel and Molly Shannon","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At first, I thought the commersials looked funny, but I never bothered watching it. Then I picked this up at Blockbusters and laughed the whole way through. It even got me turned onto Saturday Night Live! The plot is about a geeky catholic school girl that has a dream to kiss Sky Corrigan, the hottest guy in school. And of course, the inevitable dream of being a Superstar. The whole movie is filled with dance sequences and movie comparisons- like watching a twisted episode of Family Guy. Calling all comic fans, do yourself a favor-watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the funnier SNL Skit Movies","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Question  Why would you watch this movie for any other reason than to get a brainless laugh?Answer  I don't know!  All of the would-be critics out there must learn to avoid movies like this because OF COURSE THEY WON'T LIKE IT!  My advice to you would-be critics  Leave movies like this alone.  It wasn't made to win an academy award and it wasn't made to make any sense.  This is one of the funniest SNL skit movies I've ever seen because it made no sense, because it was stupid, and because of Molly Shannon.  This movies was 20 times better than the pathetic Night at the Roxbury.  I found myself laughing a lot through Superstar which I was surprised at.  The movie ended right before it became tired, and I must say that I was impressed by the storywriters because it is often hard to come up with an 80 minute movie from a 5 minute skit.  Wayne's World probably did the best job when it came to coming up with material but Superstar did an admirable job.Molly Shannon did a rather good job in bringing Mary Katherine Gallagher to the movie screen and the supporting characters were subtle and devious in their roles.Overall this movie is completely ridiculous and unintelligent.  But I enjoyed it because the movie knew that and ran with it.  And as a bonus, it sufficed in entertaining.  Would-be critics be damned. "},{"Title":"This movie is strictly for fun - and it is!","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Thank heavens for films like SUPERSTAR. This movie was not meant to be the comedy of the decade, there are enough movies that are over-hyped, over-budget, and over-done that attempt to claim that title already. This little movie is just silly, and fun. Molly Shannon plays her SNL character Mary Katherine, along with Will Ferrel. The plot is simple enough - Molly and Will are students at a catholic school, and Molly (Mary Katherine) is battling for the attention of Will (Sky Corrigan) who is more interested in the cute Elaine Hendrix (Evian Graham). You might remember Elaine from her role in Romy and Michele's High School Reunion.Glynis Johns, of Mary Poppins fame,  plays Mary Katherines Grandma. For you movie buffs out there, you might be interested in knowing that Glynis is the real-life daughter of Mervyn Johns, who played Bob Cratchit in the 1951 version of Scrooge with Alastair Sim. She helps teach Mary Katherine how to dance and sing so she can win the school talent contest, with the main prize being a trip to Hollywood, and a bit part in a major motion picture.Thats about it for the plot. Kind of like a Three stooges short. Just enough plot for the fun to unfold, and it really does. Nothing serious here folks, just one silly skit after another. You can tell right from the start, this film was just meant to be fun. Ever been flipping through the channels and run into a Three stooges short, so you stop and watch just for a few laughs? That SUPERSTAR in a nutshell!  "}{"Title":"Lorne Michaels obviously a creative genius...oh, wait...I'm getting Michaels confused with Walt Disney...silly me.","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every now and then, there comes a movie that is so good and so well done, it is sure to be a classic.  Superstar isn't one of them. 	The director of Superstar is not very important, at least compared to the producer Lorne Michaels, the creator of Saturday Night Live. Of course, this movie is based on sketches featuring a recurring character, Mary Catherine Gallegher (played by Molly Shannon).  She is most known for her moves and for her habit of putting her hands under her arms and then smelling them. It is easy to understand why Mr. Michaels would want to keep capitalizing on his SNL sketches.  After all, both It's Pat! and Night at the Roxbury did great at the box office (enter sarcasm here).  Now I'm just waiting for the movies The Spartan Cheerleaders and The Bill Brasky Story. The movie focuses on Mary Katherine as she goes through her school years at a Catholic school.  Her lifelong dreams have been A. To kiss someone the way she has always dreamed about, B.  To be a superstar, hence the title.  She has worked on this dream mainly by working at a video store and rewinding all the tapes and watching how everybody does stuff in the movies.   References to Carrie abound in this story.  During a key scene, I found myself saying They're all gonna laugh at you. Anyway, Mary's main goal is Sky (I think that's how it's spelled), who is played by SNL veteran Will Ferrell, who later in the film plays Jesus (no, I'm not joking).  The only problem is, he's dating the head cheerleader, Evian, who by the laws of teen-oriented movies is must be snotty and mean to the heroine or else suffer a 5-minute penalty.   Mary is placed in the Special Ed class with a wannabe drug addict, a gothic chick, a obsessive-compulsive guy, and a strong, peppy girl who becomes Mary's best friend.  One of the other member's of the class is the silent kid, Slater, who takes a special interest in Mary Kate, much to her dismay. Anyway, this movie has the predictability of a sunrise.  Everything is expected, nothing new ever occurs.  What could be worse? How about if it isn't funny?  The gags are all pretty stupid, which is to be expected in an SNL movie.  The only time I laughed was when Mary Kate's dog was squashed to death by a television.  Yes, I'm morbid, but it truly was the only funny scene.  However, it doesn't do anything for the movie, and five seconds later it is like it never happened.  Sigh. 	This movie was better than I expected, but then I expected something worse than The Avengers.  That's hard to achieve.  All I can really say is, that if somebody asks you to go to a movie with them, don't see Superstar.  I have much better suggestions, and you can ask me for them at some point.  "},{"Title":"Superstar","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok, Superstar wasn't as good as I expected. It just wasn't funny enough. There is this girl named Mary Katherine Gallagher and nobody likes her and she wants to be popular and be a superstar and kiss a guy who is really popular. People make fun of her and she likes to lick trees and sign posts and talk to them which I thought was stupid. You can probably guess what happens in the end.  There is also alot of green Volkswagan Beetles in the movie. It is kinda stupid, it's just not that funny. But if you like stupid movies this one is for you.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was, in my opinion, disappointing. The SNL skit is great, but the movie is a different story. I'll laugh at the skit, but in this movie, I barely laughed. I thought that the plot was bad, and some parts were just plain stupid. This is not a very good movie made of a skit. If you want a good SNL skit made into a movie, check out WAYNE'S WORLD or CONEHEADS. SUPERSTAR is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"What a nice movie!","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SUPERSTAR was exactly what its makers set out for it to be a lightweight, pleasant entertainment.  And that's exactly what I got for my money.Being past fifty, I'm not the target audience for this.  But I enjoyed every minute of it.  I laughed a lot, and smiled through the whole movie.  All of the characters- including nasty little blonde Evian- were warm and funny.  And the girl who played Helen was a prize.  This is her first movie, and I hope we see her again soon.Circumstances had a lot to do with our seeing SUPERSTAR.  We stopped at the mutltiplex after a trip out of town and it was sort of a what's starting within the next thirty minutes type thing.  So we saw SUPERSTAR, and were glad we did.  Heck, we even laughed at the scene where the grandma said a naught word.  "},{"Title":"weird but very funny; great ending","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was definitely different, but I thought it was hilarious. Mary was extremely geeky (I've never seen the SNL skit so I was not familiar with her) and even gross sometimes, which was sort of annoying and made it hard to like her, but it also made me laugh my head off. I did think the ending was very sweet, mainly because I liked Slater. I thought all along that Slater was a really neat character, especially when we found out who he was, and that he was a sweet guy. I also liked the grandmother (I can't believe she played in Mary Poppins -- that's so neat!). "},{"Title":"I thought it was great!!  I laughed out loud!","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wish ScreenIt! would have gotten the plot concept correct for any of you who are wondering.  Mary Katherine wants to be a Superstar! Not just to have guys kiss her!  I mean that's part of it, but it's the acknowledgment and the glamour that she really wants!  Ever since I can remember, I, too, wanted to be a Superstar!  (Sometimes I still do).  I laughed because I could relate to everything - I have felt like Helen on more than one occasion, made a fool of myself in front of the whole school many times over, and prayed to God for a kiss from my Sky and pleaded with my parents to let me become a Superstar a zillion times!!!  Molly Shannon shines and the whole cast will remind you of someone you knew in high school.  GO SEE IT!!  It's PG-13 which I appreciated - I felt I could safely walk into a theatre and not be surprised or caught off guard with anything truly tasteless or crude.  The God scenes are even tasteful.  So, if you can lighten up a little and just enjoy some great entertainment - see it! "},{"Title":"I actually liked it!!This movie is funny and cute at the same time!!","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw the previews for this moive and oh no, another skit from SNL turned into a big screen. I had a few laughs from the trailer, but it did  not show the whole movie!This movie is for anyone who has been teased in their life(and who has'n?!), and for people who want to be accepted for who they really are. The movie is told though Molly Shannon eyes so it is a interesting persective. The songs are great and are the musical numbers!Will Ferrell is great in this movie and so is the actress who plays the grandma!Superstar is not too long (like Random Hearts and Three Kings) so if you want to see a quick pick me up movie(a happy movie ) go see this movie !!Superstar is quite funny and cute at the same time!!I actually enjoyed , I might see it again , if not I buy the DVD when it comes out to buy!!Great work to all the stars !!Kudos to Paramount and SNL studios!!!awesome movie !!go see it ASAP!!! "},{"Title":"Superstar couldn't have gotten any funnier.","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As called the worst SNL-skit to movie, was one of the funniest. Molly Shannon (star of upcoming How the Grinch Stole Christmas) stars as her popular SNL character Mary Katherine Gellar, who only wants a kiss from Sky Corrigan (Will Ferrell). To enjoy this movie to its full potential you must be a fan of SNL and also enjoyed A Night at the Roxbury, another good flick. Both films were written by Steve Koren, a writter on SNL and former producer of Seinfeld. So, when Superstar comes on video---rent it.Joey Rocks rating ****1/2 out of 5Recommendations There's Something about Mary, A Night at the Roxbury, Billy Madison.Also check out the next SNL skit to flick, The Ladies Man to be in theaters in 2000.  "},{"Title":"An average SNL movie","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Superstar isn't the worst of the SNL movies, but it comes close.  This is one of the funniest, however.  Molly Shannon was perfect for the role of Mary Gallager.  This movie is only marginally better than SNL's last movie, A Night at the Roxberry.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Molly Shannon is hilarious, her performance is - as usual - deeper than most SNL cast members. Will Ferrell is also good, as his dual roles suit him perfectly. The best of all the SNL character films Sweet, good hearted, and funny. "}{"Title":"Stupid is what stupid does","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why do they make films like this one?  In recent year more and more of badly scripted, bulls*** comedies, have been released, with most of them receiving bad criticism and usually not doing much more than break even at the box office.  This film had some good moments and couple of laughs, but in general it is way below average when it comes to comedy.  The main character played by Molly Shannon is such a twisted young girl that no sympathy is possible for what ever happens to her.  Bordering on playing a mentally challenged person, while making fun of it, just doesn't work.  There is a great confusion as to what she is after, as sometimes she seems to only want to be kissed (like her last film before this one -> Never been kissed), and sometimes she is after fame and stardom.  Her character is also mixed up, as she plays it sometimes as being beyond help, with endlessly doing something stupid, while at some points she seems very mature for her age (discussion at the pool w/Eric Slater).  The best parts about this film where scenes with the priest and with Jesus.  Those were the only funny parts of the movie.  3/10 "},{"Title":"No reaction whatsoever","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Usually, whenever confronted with a truly horrible book/movie/TV show/whatever, I stare at it in total disbelief, my nose wrinkled in disgust.  This one, I had no reaction.  I just sat and stared at it.  It was so bland and devoid of life, I couldn't register any emotion for it.  This goes beyond the standard rant about SNL skits getting turned into movies.  It was just...there.  The actors didn't show any range; then again, with the cardboard they were asked to portray, what could they do?  There weren't any sparks or conflict; you knew who Mary Catherine was going to be friends with, who she was going to fight with, that she was eventually going to overcome her fears and win the talent show.  The ending was such a foregone conclusion, why even bother making the movie? "},{"Title":"the worst movie of 1999?","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are searching for the answer to the question, `What is the worst movie of 1999?,' you may have to look no further than `Superstar,' an alleged teen comedy that &#150; and this is no exaggeration - provides not one single laugh during the duration of the entire film.  And even though that duration is a blessedly brief 86 minutes, it is safe to say that every single one of those moments is a veritable torture to sit through.I must confess that I have never had the privilege of encountering Molly Shannon's Mary Katherine Gallagher character on TV's Saturday Night Live; however, on the basis of this film alone, it is safe to say that it is a character completely lacking in charm and likeability.  Do we really need yet another in a long line of films built around over-caricatured teenage nerds who go to desperate lengths to fit into the snooty upper tier of their snooty private school setting?  The problem with `Superstar' is not that it lacks energy but that it mistakes inexplicably weird behavior for satire.  For instance, having a young lady behaving seductively with trees and stop signs makes no sense when the sole driving force of that girl's life is to fit in.  The audience, rather than finding her plight humorous and touching, simply loses patience both with the character and the film as a whole. It is simply impossible to overstate the complete comic failure of  `Superstar.'   The characters are dreadful, the slapstick antics lowbrow and laborious, the acting strained and amateurish.  However, in all fairness to the actors trapped herein, one must acknowledge that they have been given pure offal to work with.  What a shame especially to see comic veteran Glynis Johns reduced to so low a level. Yet, it is equally doubtful that any of the budding young `superstars' caught in this mire will be any more anxious than she to keep this particular film on their career resumes.  The makers of `Superstar' owe them and us an apology.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes hilarious, but stupid like most SNL movies are.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Superstar' was really funny, SUPERSTA!, especially when Mary Katherine Gallagher utters these words so funnily, and the rest of the movie is pretty funny too. But when you think about it, this movie is a little stupid, but that's what makes it great. My rating 7 out  of "},{"Title":"Conventional, pointless, but also very funny","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My expectations were very low for Superstar, a film based on a series of Sarurday Night Live sketches. Even though the movie is pointless and hopelessly conventional, it is also very funny and quite entertaining. Molly Shannon is quirky and charming as Mary Catherine Gallagher, a geeky Catholic girl who just wants to be famous. The film also stars Will Ferrell, Tom Green, and Casey Wilson. There is almost no story in Superstar, but this is a type of movie that does not require a story to entertain. Mary wants to be kissed by the hottest and most popular guy in school and decides to enter a talent show to impress him. The movie is smarter than you might think. Molly Shannon is a highly underrated comedic actress. The film also features a very funny performance by Will Ferrell as the object of Mary's affection. Superstar is weird, quirky, and very entertaining. All things considered, Superstar is quite good and is easily the best SNL film. "},{"Title":"Am I Supposed to Laugh?","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Loved this movie as a kid, now I find it just too boring and unfunny now that I understand the jokes better. This is a movie that will make you wish you have never recorded it of a VHS. That's what I did a while back. And now my sister has it on DVD. The movie is unfunny. It reminds me of a cheap little comedy show with only fourteen people in the audience.Mary Katherine Gallagher always wanted to be a superstar. She decided to enter the talent show. She and her geeky friends decide to do it together. They practice with Mary's grandmother who at first didn't want her to do the talent show because Mary's parents died at a tapdancing contest. They fell and people tapdanced on them. Although that doesn't really make sense because people would see them and stop trampling them.In the end, she doesn't want to kiss the popular guy and kisses the weird man with the motorbike. That is basically the only good part about this movie.I do not recommend this movie unless you liked what I just typed. Because this movie is unfunny. "},{"Title":"Who broke the good toaster?","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie is a classic SNL spoof of a very funny character. It's not for everyone so get over your problems with it's dry humor. The tree kissing was a bit out of place but, it did bring back the days of grammar school where fitting in was difficult if not challenging. I liked it, I bought it. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yet again we have some people (<cough> Sam Rag) who try to take a simple, no brainer comedy and try to critique it as if he were Siskel trying to find the next winner for the Oscars. Again...THIS IS A COMEDY...why pick it apart and try to surface it's faults? It appeals to some and not to others because everyone's humor is different.I personally loved this movie. I too am a SNL fanatic and thought that it was thouroughly entertaining, and Molly Shannon just cracks me up. I simply love the character! This movie was awesome!  "},{"Title":"funny!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I would have to disagree with the other review.This movie is sooo funny!And I am such an SNL fanatic and their movies are always great.This is one my favorite movies and there are many funny scenes.Molly Shannon and Will Ferrel are great. "},{"Title":"Do not take it serious!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I caught this movie one day on Australian Pay Tv.  I first thought it was very disturbing that a girl kisses a tree and sign post!  But I continued watching it.  Buy the end I was in stitches, I thought it was so funny. It had a very 'sick sense of humor' attached to it and it is not one of my favorite films but I do use taglines from the movie... "}{"Title":"Mary Katherine Gallagher","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I LOVE this movie!! I grew up going to Catholic school.  Most of the story tells a tale of a true Catholic school day, (NO SMOKING was allowed, no kissing or making out and Tom Green's Character would have been suspended for life!) I found the story to be written very well and sooo funny.  I had my mom watch it with me...she went to an all girls Catholic academy...and we were both in tears we laughted so much.  I pop it in the VCR whenever I need a good laugh!  Thanks to Molly Shannon for making the movie!  You did an awsome job...I would like to see more with Mary Katherine Gallagher. Thanks  Mimi "},{"Title":"Superstar","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought Superstar was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Molly Shannon did a great job acting as the somewhat mentally challenged Mary Katherine Gallagher. Throughout the movie, she tries to become a superstar so she can get kissed by her crush Sky. But then she falls for one of her special education friends, Slater. The movie was extremely funny. They had a great cast to keep you laughing throughout the movie.  "},{"Title":"This movie was very enjoyable!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a huge Molly Shannon and Will Ferrell fan, I very much enjoyed this movie.  Taking the movie at face value, it was extremely amusing.  No, it isn't a deep movie, but it was a fun movie.  Molly Shannon was terrific as was Will Ferrell and Harland Williams.  I laughed quite a bit.  "},{"Title":"No...I'm good...I'm God...","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I could never get sick of this movie. It never stops being funny. Anything Will Ferrel and Molly Shannon do is art. They're comedic geniuses. I'm shocked that anyone can not find this movie to be funny. Any of the stupid humor, which was meant to be stupid humor, was well-done stupid humor.  "},{"Title":"kicking butt","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie kicks butt! I love this movie. This is a stupid kind of funny movie. I laughed from beginning to end. This movie is worth watching over and over and over. Thats if you like comedies. If you like SNL show you'll like this movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes comedies or something based on SNL show! "},{"Title":"A Dreams Can Come True movie with a twist (Slight spoiler)","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A loveable, funny fluff piece from SNL studios. While I'll admit it has very little cinematic value, it made me laugh, smile and groan. Did anyone wonder why Sky only wore his pajamis at home? Or why the other dancers didn't notice they were stopping someone to death? Meh who cares? It's part of the movie's charm. The thing a lot of people who didn't like this say is it just wasn't funny. Really though, if you keep a staight face during the Sybil re-enactment in the confesstional you sir (or ma'am) are not alive!!  "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cringed, I was awe-struck.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First off, this movie is a guilty pleasure of mine.  It's bad, and I liked it, and I refuse to apologize for that.Technically, it's bad for the standard reasons  unrealistic acting, pretty predictable plot, yedda yedda.  It's good because, to my mind, the cast and crew knew of the weaknesses and decided to hold up a mirror to teenage ostracism and oddities within that framework.I first saw this film while eating at a restaurant  it came on TV, and the only reason I left is because I was on my lunch break and had to get back to work.  I was spellbound.  For all this movie's faults, Molly Shannon knew what she was doing.  She made such a ridiculously lame and pathetic character that pretty much anyone could laugh at her, and yet took pretty much every piece of embarrassment and paranoia regarding teen years and trying to fit in, stuffed them into this movie and also made a character who I could sympathize with while thinking, well, at least I wasn't _that_ bad.A friend of mine actually gave me kudos for being able to sit through this movie for those very reason.  She just *won't*, for fear that she'd die of embarrassment if she did.  And yet, there's a feeling of and guess what you got through it anyway, didn't you? towards the end of the movie that makes the whole ordeal worthwhile.That's what this is  an ordeal film.  It's likable without being, well, artistically good, but you've got to have the stomach for seeing little echos of a nerdy past in it.  I guess it's also good therapy  if you can forgive Mary Katherine Gallagher for being the way she is, you can certainly forgive yourself for being a social misfit. "},{"Title":"A bit long in the tooth","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Superstar could have been a very quirky, funny teen flick--it's wacky, different, and yet it has some heart. However, the very element which got this film the greenlight-its casting of the brilliant Saturday Night Live players who made the characters popular in the first place-is also what kills it as a feature film.  It is simply too difficult to get into a story about teenagers when all the major roles are played by actors  who are each pushing 40. On a TV sketch show, where everybody plays anybody, it's acceptable.  This kind of suspension of disbelief is not so easily earned in a feature length film, though. If the filmmakers were actually interested in making a good film, they could have gone one of either two routes #1 They could have presented us with a sequel of sorts to the TV skits-a few quick, carefully-lit scenes with Molly Shannon as a teen, followed by the main story featuring a grown-up Mary Catherine Gallagher, still acting oddly.  #2 A bolder move still would have been to have let Shannon script the film, but to have cast a real teenager in the role of the character she created--perhaps someone like Heather Matarazzo from `Welcome to the Dollhouse.'But we all know that these SNL films are nothing more than a simple way to cash in on a craze. Hopefully the talented and attractive Shannon will be give a big screen lead in a film where she plays at least within a decade of her real age.     "},{"Title":"Short and Sweet","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Great movie! My friends and I thought it was hilarious! Maybe if you're a super-SNL freak, you might not approve, but for the average person, it is hilarious. There's something in it that pulls at the very being of every girl who's trying to fit in. We all wanna be superstars. This is a fun movie. Definitely see it, more than once! "},{"Title":"Took me time to like it...now I love it","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was stupid to me the first time I watched it, but then, the second time I watched it, I laughed my butt off. The writers, I think, really understood the strange world of teenage girls and the things they dream about no matter how bizarre they seem to be. It kind of took me down memory lane a bit. And I think girls everywhere (whether they admit it or not) all have a little Mary in them somewhere. "}{"Title":"Offbeat, silly, and ripe with one-liners","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most folks are missing this bizarre gem of a comedy.  It makes you cringe from awkwardness and laugh out loud inappropriately.  Molly Shannon manages to whisper half the dialogue and there are no obvious beats after the funniest lines, so listen closely.  Unapologetically over-the-top and the best use of the song Sister Christian ever.  Folks that call this movie too stupid will unironically sing the praises of a Farrelly flick.If you like the weirder SNL skits with Shannon and Will Ferrell, or loved all of Kids in the Hall, or you went to Catholic school, you can probably appreciate this comedy. "},{"Title":"Best High School Comedy I've ever seen!!!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you like movies that make you laugh, root for the 'unpopular' girl, cry and have a great time than Superstar is for you!! The story has been done before, a girl who wants more than anything in the world to be kissed. So she decides to be a superstar. The Characters are very real, and you really start to feel for them.Saturday Night Live has had a great past with making movies from it's skits, but Mary Catherine the school girl (who smell her fingers) has gone into the big screen flawlessly. I'd recommend this movie for anyone who's ever been young and been in love. "},{"Title":"Superstar!!!!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     Superstar is a hilarious comedy. It is one of those comedies that are so stupid that they are hilarious. Molly Shannon, Will Ferrel, and Elaine Hendrix are hilarious. If you are looking for a fun comedy Superstar is one of them. Superstar is surely a Superstar!! I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Superstar is a sidesplitting cult hit!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Superstar is one of my favorite movies!  It shamelessly pokes fun  at catholic schools.  True SNL humor, if you like SNL, you should like, if not love, this!  I am able to watch this movie over and over without getting tierd of it. "},{"Title":"Keep the Genre In Mind when Reviewing","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After watching this movie the first time, I wondered, what made me watch this?  Then I thought about it.  I decided to view this film not because I expected it to be a quality film with all that goes with such distinction, rather, to just have some mindless entertainment.  Once I realized my own intentions, I was able to look at this film for what it really is--mindless entertainment.  There is no genius here.  There is no great script or acting ability involved.  However, keep in mind the film is a comedy and often we expect such films to be comparable to dramas and the like that often are distinguished as quality films.Now, as a comedy, a different set of rules apply.  We can't expect everything to make sense and we have to suspend our own judgments and values when watching such a film (the same way as when one watches The Naked Gun films).  In doing so, one can appreciate Molly Shannon's work here.  She is a nut!  She is crazy!  She is pure joy to watch as the title character, Mary Catherine Gallagher.  Hers is not an Academy Award caliber performance, but it is more enjoyable to watch then say Jessica Lange from Blue Sky (a torturous performance in an unbearably watchable film).Her performance sets the tone for the rest of the film.  Most of the characters have nothing to offer, but Molly Shannon goes from charming and sweet, to vicious and vindictive.  With relative ease, she quotes monologues from made-for-tv movies that are outright hilarious while trying to play off the insecurities that her own character possesses.  In doing this, she somewhat pulls off an acting coup by making her character as eccentric and difficult to really understand as one of the monologues she exhibits (Sally Field's performance in Sybil).Don't get me wrong...no one will mistake this film as comparable with some of the great comedies of all-time (Some Like it Hot and others), but we must look at what the film is trying to accomplish.  I can't imagine that the creators figured that this film would do anything more than provide a few gags.  In that mindset, it becomes amazing to me to realize that this is really a powerful vehicle to showcase Molly Shannon's performance.With the right material, better script and dialogue, hers could be a true comic performance. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie!  You're not supposed to take it seriously.  It's supposed to be viewed as pure stupidity and comedy!  Two of my other friends and I have watched this movie at least 20 times, no joke!  We know it word for word and we act out the movie when we watch it, it makes it even funnier. And every time you watch, it gets funnier and funnier! "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever!!!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie so much, Molly Shannon and everyone else in the picture were AMAZING!!!  I couldn't stop laughing throughout the entire film!  My friends and I love it so much that we are choreographing our own superstar dance to Everybody Dance Now for this year's talent show at my school. BEST MOVIE EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a good movie. It is funny. It is hilarious. It is great. This movie is a great comedy and a sequel is worth making.Molly Shannon and Will Ferell did a really good job. It makes you keep asking for more and wish it would never be over. "},{"Title":"If you rent only one video this year.....","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MAKE SURE ITS NOT THIS ONE.  Mr. Lorne Michaels...if I promise to take that opening line back and praise Superstar the rest of this review, will you promise to never make another movie based on an SNL character?  Please??  Pretty please???  No?  OK, here goes.  If there is karma and what goes around comes around, I have repaid every single karmic debt.  Superstar is the worst movie I have seen in my entire 29 years on this planet, and unless they make a sequel it will remain as such.Molly Shannon is a talented actress but come on..this is by and far the worst character on a very bad show and to even attempt to turn it into a feature character in an 85 minute movie was outlandish.  Other than Molly and Will Ferrell (who told him he could act??) the only other face I recognized was Karyn Dwyer (Better Than Chocolate) as Summer, the snooty friend of the snooty lead female character, Evian.   As if all this wasn't bad enough, this movie helped unleash one of the least talented people in the world, Tom Green, onto an unsuspecting population. If there truly is a hell, I have seen it....and it was called Superstar0 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Dreadful.  No other word for it.  Dreadful.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Goes neck and neck with Pat as the absolute worst film to be based on a SNL character.  I'd call it a monumental waste of talent, but that would be an exaggeration of both the word monumental and the word talent. Perhaps best summed up as Showgirls without the laughs. "}{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say about this movie? I thought it was pretty good. I read a lot of people saying it was 'awful'. True, it's no American Beauty, but it's not supposed to be. This movie was very funny and stays consistent with the SNL skit. Molly Shannon is a great character actor and has an unique energy through the movie that is refreshing, especially when most of todays actors' style of acting can't be classified as anything but tired. I give this movie 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"This may seem stupid but...","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie! All of these comments people write are usually to say they hated the movie.. well then why did they see it?? Well I loved this movie. It was one of the funniest movies i've seen in a long time. I like that she got together with Slater, happy endings are always good ) And her fights with Avian were awesome too.  Well I rate this movie a 10 ) "},{"Title":"Watch the SNL skits they're funnier!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie because Mary Catherine Gallagher is my favorite SNL character.  I thought I would be laughing hysterically.  WRONG!  I only laughed a little.  The humor was overdone and the story was pretty much pointless.  She is so much funnier in the Saturday Night Live skits.  I was also disappointed that all Mary's inspirational lines came from made-for-TV movies.  I wanted Mary to say something inspirational of her own.  My rating ** "},{"Title":"Weirder than Happy Gilmore","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  And that's saying a lot! I never saw Molly Shannon's character on SNL, I only rented it because Tom Green had a minor role as a smart-ass loudmouth (nothing new there!) When I saw Lorne Michaels' name pop up during the opening credits, I said uh-oh. This film is WEIRD! It's absurd, bizarre and ridiculous. But I found that I was laughing my head off for those same reasons. I especially loved the Carrie and Armageddon spoofs.  Ugh, people outside the U.S. and Canada must wonder why these films are so popular, strange as they are. I find that I don't care. Lorne Michaels comedies are going for one thing ninety minutes of sustained laughter. Mostly through surrealism and over-the-top characters. Somehow he pulls it off, albeit stupidly. I can't say whether I recommend this one or not. If you are an SNL fan, it's a must-see. If you can't stand the likes of Adam Sandler or non-conventional comedies, stay far, far away. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The best movie of our times","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is like an episode of Seinfeld. Zainy antics combined with unusual people.  Sure, for the faint of heart it seems stupid, but for those with open hearts will certainly agree that this is one of the best films ever. "},{"Title":"3 real bellylaughs, and a few chuckles...","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The best I can say about this film is that it really had its moments.  I think Molly Shannon really has something - the character cracks me up, I laugh just thinking about it.  But the film lacked oomph.  I thought it could have been a lot funnier but I am glad it did not turn out to be a one trick pony - doing the same jokes that we already saw on SNL.  There were a few new jokes and they were good, but there weren't enough. "},{"Title":"I wish Mary Katherine Gallagher would die","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I chose this line from the movie as the subject heading because it matches my feelings perfectly. Molly Shannon is downright annoying and boring in her portrayal of the character invented by herself. Frankly I found that the fact  that the main characters to be played by 30-year olds, very creepy. Will Ferrell is awful as the self-loving  pretty boy or as Jesus. Elaine Hendrix as Evian (one of the very few good jokes Go have a glass of water of  yourself) is just a stereotype of villainess. The only one doing an OK job is Emmy Laybourne as Mary's best friend. Mark McKinney is bland and useless. And another thing. Am I suppose to understand that in catholic schools girls and boys  are permitted to kiss like that and to show their underwear countless times?The script is sickly thin. There are too many of Mary's monologues. And Harland Williams who did a very funny performance in The Rocketman is just pathetic here. There are only 2 scenes that I liked and they are similar. The dancing sequences from the cafeteria and the final show are full energy and lively but that was all.The movie is definitely not recommendable.  3/10.    "},{"Title":"So when does the funny stuff happen?","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, I'll give Molly Shannon credit for coming up with a character that might have been funny when we all first saw it on SNL. Possibly it was funny the second time we saw it (the next week, I'm sure) just for verification. But that was a few years ago and thumbs in armpits only goes so far. It certainly doesn't go far enough to carry this movie. I expected the basics of the Mary Katherine Gallagher character such as thumb-smelling, pratfalls, and cheerleading poses, to be repeated ad infinitum in this film. Strangely, they were kept pretty much in check the whole time, which means that not much happens, funny or not. Will Ferrill, who has some potential, is always present but plays a rather subdued dude. Usually in plot-thin movies, effects or action will attempt to fill the bill. Neither really happens here. The movie starts, some stuff occurs in the middle, and then it's over. Just like SNL every week, it seems as if the writer and director just shrugged their shoulders and said, well, there's always next week.Two points noteworthy Mary's grandmother is played by Glynis Johns, best known to me anyway from Mary Poppins where she was the suffragette Mrs. Baxter. She does a nice job and has a voice that is underused in the industry, in my opinion. Also, there seems to be a running joke about automobiles in this picture. Keep your eyes peeled and take note of every car you see. Pretty funny, huh? "},{"Title":"Fun For Simple Laughs","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are looking for a life changing, beautiful and meaningful movie, then don't see Superstar.But if you just feel like laughing and seeing a fun movie, then it's great. Only some people like this kind of humor-the SNL or Dumb and Dumber idiot humor-and I am one of them. I thought it was hilarious, but I'm sure alot of people won't because it's just not for them. Overall, I thought it was really funny, and definitely not as bad as I thought. "},{"Title":"Mary Katherine Gallagher is indeed a Superstar","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw Superstar last evening.  This is one of the only reasons I still tune in to SNL...to see Molly Shannon and her particular brand of physical comedy.  I was not disappointed at all in the movie.  As a matter of fact, this is by far the best movie of a spin-off of an SNL skit that I have seen (far outshining Wayne's World).  The comedy was non-stop and the movie never got flat.  The pace was quick and the jokes and gags just kept flying.  A few times I had to wipe tears from my eyes I was laughing so much.  Both Molly Shannon and Will Ferrell turn in great performances (Ferrell's turn as Mary's idea of a god-like deity is worth the price of admission, as is Mary's turn in the confessional, channelling Sally Field in the made for TV movie, Sybil).I look forward to Superstar II Living the Dream!  Molly Shannon and Mary Katherine Gallagher rock. "}{"Title":"Chris Rock was right!","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A couple of weeks prior to the theatrical release of Superstar, starring Molly Shannon, Chris Rock appeared on the 25th anniversary special of Saturday Night Live.  In his monologue he said Some of the worst films in history were made by people in this room.  It's possible that Rock screened Superstar prior to appearing on that show.  Mary Katherine Gallagher is yet another creation from Saturday Night Live to go the feature film route.  Like many of the films that have come before it, we see this SNL character go through the turmoil that is her life, in a one-dimensional plot, complete with silly characters that do little to back her up.  If anything, this is a vehicle to showcase the funny bits this character has been doing on Saturday Night Live for the past couple of years.  Mary Katherine was known for smelling her arm pits and revealing her underwear as she danced herself into a frenzy.  Unfortunately, these bits have become old and therefore do little to help this film.Here's the plot in a nutshell (and let me guarantee you, it isn't original).  Mary Katherine is a Catholic school girl who dreams of having that first kiss.  She believes that she must be a superstar in order to reach this goal so she emulates people she sees on television and in movies.  Her nemesis is the ultra-popular, ultra-whiny Evian (named after the water, perhaps) played by Elaine Hendrix.  Evian is dating Sky, a supposed big man on campus, played by SNL's Wil Ferrell.  Of course Mary wants Sky but her  plans are sidetracked when she is placed in special ed.  There she meets a cast of 'lesser-than's' who join forces with her.  Among the pack is strange boy who is rumored to have killed his parents.  Throughout the movie she looks at him strangely, and he looks at her lustfully.  The set up up is so predictable that I'm afraid what you have just read may actually be a spoiler.  I apologize for that, but trust me, its not my fault that this story has been done a million times before ... and in much better venues.  It seems obvious to me that there wasn't much effort put forth to come up with a half decent script.  I felt cheated after this movie because it seems apparent that all creativity and thought left this film after the initial idea to turn this tired skit into a big production.  On the other hand I wonder if the pairing of two Lorne Michaels divisions (Molly Shannon from SNL and director Bruce McCullough, formerly of Kids in the Hall) killed this thing.  Two completely different types of humor that just didn't mix?  Perhaps.  Whatever the case, I don't believe that anyone (with perhaps the exception of Molly Shannon) put any heart into making this work.  This was, in the end, simply a throw together for the sake of getting it done. The jokes are rarely funny.  The scene with Mary Katherine making out with a tree was perhaps the funniest, albeit we have seen it a dozen times in previews.  Other jokes simply don't make sense.  The dog dies and goes to heaven.  There he is greeted by Wil Ferrell playing Jesus?  What was that all about?  Mary Katherine attempts to display her feelings by reciting various monologues from TV movies (i.e. The Boy in the Plastic Bubble).  They are funny at first, but much too tiring for the big screen. Following the release of this film there was a lot of grumbling from critics about 'yet another dumb movie about a Saturday Night Live character'.  I love Saturday Night Live and Mary Katherine is a fun character.  I looked forward to this movie but didn't expect too much.  I just wish that going forward, that Saturday Night Live films might offer something in the way of real thought when putting together a movie about one of its characters.   "},{"Title":"not as bad as you would think","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie isn't as bad as you might think.  It is exactly what I believe the movie makers intended it to be, funny and mindless entertainment.  If you have 90 minutes to waste on something fun, you could do far worse than this. "},{"Title":"Molly Shannon Rules, but not here","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   Let's get one thing straight...I LIKE Molly Shannon, even in her Mary Katherine Gallagher costume. I think she's both the funniest, and prettiest SNL castmember since Julia Louis-Dreyfuss, but as far as SNL-skits, turned into films, it just doesn't work this time. The highlight of this movie was seeing Will Ferrell as Sky & God, and I liked him better as the supreme being. And since I'm not a fan of the music of Dan Hill, I think you can guess which point I think this movie was the lowest. Also, I was surprised to see Glynis Johns in ANYTHING! I didn't expect high brow comedy like Monty Python, but Puh-leeze!I'd rank this a 3 on a 1-10 scale. "},{"Title":"It was a somewhat funny movie, and I truly enjoyed watching the antics of that Catholic School outcast Mary Katherine Gallagher.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see Superstar with the expectation that it would be a genuinely funny movie, without much a of plot. I saw Superstar, and it was a genuinely funny movie, without much of a plot. If you go into SNL skit movies, you shouldn't set your goals to high. But Superstar achieved exactly what anyone would hope to expect it to mediocrity.  "},{"Title":"I liked it!!!","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While I didn't expect too much of this movie, I was pleasantly surprised. I am well past the age of the average Saturday Night Live fan. (I haven't watched a whole episode in years.)  The other SNL movies have seemed mostly ridiculous and totally silly to me.  But this one made you care about the main character.  And the humor was not so juvenile.  I laughed out loud several times, and had a smile on my face for almost the entire time. What more could you ask?   "},{"Title":"I think my feelings would best be expressed by . . . the word funny","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an unassuming little movie which nonetheless manages to be sweet, funny, lovably geeky, touching, and strange, sometimes all at once.  This makes it a pleasant respite from movies which do exactly the reverse assuming much, and accomplishing nothing.  For a Hollywood movie equation, think  a female version of Revenge of the Nerds meets coming-of-age story.Mary is, like many of us, peculiar in her own way, and, thankfully, without apology; she neither toes the line of normalcy, nor anguishes over why she doesn't or can't, nor even questions whether she should try. Satisfyingly, she lives her own life in her own time and in her own manner, dealing with the ups and downs as they come, thank you very much.  Molly Shannon expands her familiar Saturday Night Live character with a seamlessly enriched set of quirks, web of characters to interact with, and believable details to explain many of her idiosyncrasies (standard 30-year-old highschoolers notwithstanding).  Of course, it doesn't hurt that there are plenty of laughs, of various shapes and sizes.  Contrary to the complaints of naysayers, the established SNL-skit hooks (randomly loudly crashing into nearby objects; introducing herself awkwardly; the are trotted out only once apiece, and to good effect; her propensity for quoting made-for-TV monologues is used a few times, but works well since each one is, of necessity, different.One gratifying aspect of the film is the fact that not only does it have a female lead, and not only is it a comedy, but much of the time a *physical* comedy at that, making it somewhat of a rare combination.  Some among us (for instance, the irritatingly self-satisfied and those who are aggressively normal) will fail to fathom, much less identify with, Mary's character, her history, or her world.  Such is their loss.Others who find endless fashionability in bashing all things SNL, regardless of the merit of any individual work, will no doubt take great glee in another target upon which to attempt demonstration of smug superiority.  No matter.  Ignore the various Evians of this world (unless you are one) and go see this movie--and bring your inner geek. "},{"Title":"Supermovie","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was always told, if you can't say something nice then don't say anything at all...with that in mind, when it comes to Superstar, I have alot to say, because this was just a GREAT flick, no room for complaint! It was just a fun loving, sweet, and down right hilarious movie. It so neat to see Molly Shannon in a leading role, after really glowing in Never Been Kissed. I just can't wait for the remake of How the Grinch Stole Christmas! The others in this cast are great as well. Elaine Hendrix is a great presence in this movie, as she always is. And who could resist Glynis Johns!!! I mean, she's from Mary Poppins, what's not to love about that. I also got a kick out of all the volkswagens in this movie. They are everywhere, you can't miss them! "},{"Title":"A SNL movie that is actually kind of funny for a change.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Definitely not a one-joke movie.  Saw the movie with a woman and two girls aged 10 and 12. The audience was really pumped-up.  A very weird experience. Mary Catherine Gallagher is every girl. The characters in the movie had personalities, and there was a story. If you like the skit you'll love the movie, if not, better see something else.   "},{"Title":"What can I say? I liked it!","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I work in a theater, so I see almost every movie that comes out.   I saw Superstar with expectations of laughing.  I laughed!  I haven't seen SNL since the days of Dana Carvey, Phil Hartman, Dennis Miller, etc.; so I have never seen the Mary Cathrine skit.  That aside, I felt that this movie was just like an SNL skit, complete with the stupid comedy.  I know this film won't win any Oscars or Golden Globes, but I wasn't expecting that.  I was expecting to laugh.By the way, if anyone can clue me in about the VW bugs, I would be most grateful.  "},{"Title":"Who gives the greenlight to this stuff?","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a longtime fan of SNL, I will go see anything having to do with the show. I have enjoyed many of the skits that have been turned into films.  Superstar may have been worse than Coneheads, though.  I found myself sometimes laughing at it instead of with it.  I love Molly Shannon and I think she should not rely on this character.  She should just be herself like she was in Night at the Roxbury, which is much more watchable.  This is a definite wait for video type of film.  Maybe even wait until it is on the 2 for a dollar for a week shelf.  If it is this easy to get a film made then perhaps I should consider writing many stupid scripts and become a superstar myself. "}{"Title":"Carrie with a happy ending","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't seen the movie Carrie watch it before you see Superstar.  I sat for 80 minutes in a theatre full of 13 year olds who had no clue what Molly Shannon was doing as she sat next to her grandmother (played amazingly cool by Glynis Johns- the mom from Mary Poppins- if you can believe it!) and tried to use here telekenisis.  The movie was a little slow in some parts, but in others it was hilarious.  If you want to leave a movie with deep questions see American Beauty.  Superstar is fun and funny.  Molly Shannon is adorable (and totally rocks), and I found myself feeling so sorry for Mary Katherine when Evian (Go drink yourself!) hurts her.  I'm going to see it again tomorrow! "},{"Title":"I was not Disapointed...","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  But I must admit I wasn't disapointed because I didn't expect much. Personally, I never much liked this SNL skit, but I got dragged to it. I didn't love it, but I must say it was at least funny. There were laughs at least every 10 minutes, sometimes every 5, which with this kind of movie based on a five minute skit anyway, that's pretty good and all you should expect. There won't be any oscars handed out, but watch Tom Green in a small part being himself. "},{"Title":"I do not know if being in the movie, or being at the movie would be more humiliating.","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that is so bad you feel the need to tell everyone who sees you I got in for free.  Molly Shannon as Mary Catherine Gallagher is mean spirited, obnoxious, and baffling.  She is a character based on one joke, that she smells her BO coated fingers when she is upset, and the joke makes no sense.  Mary Catherine's behavior throughout the movie is completely mystifying, I cannot imagine a single human behaving in such a manner.  It is a riddle how such behavior was even written it is so alien. In the movie Mary Catherine dreams of being famous, and being kissed by the coolest guy in school (Will Farrell, humiliating himself AGAIN, you have to wonder if he is taking jobs to get some kind of operation he desperately needs). She thinks she can kill two birds with one stone if she can win the school talent show that is obnoxiously related to nuns and VD. I can actually see this movie as a touching teen drama-comedy if they cast the movie with plausible teenagers and dropped the complete lunatic behavior of Mary Catherine (that was not even funny the FIRST time she showed us her white pantied crotch as she fell to the ground). The director tries desperately to keep the movie alive by using bright colors,and rapid pacing, but NOTHING could save this movie.Molly Shannon is incapable of carrying a film, with her one note, cruel, performance.  The only performance worth noting is Mark McKinney as the head priest, who has what it takes to become a respected character actor.  "},{"Title":"A highlight among recent SNL sketches turned movies.","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is going to inevitably be compared to all of the other Saturday Night Live inspired films that have been made, so to get that comparison out of the way, it ranks near the top of those.  In fact, only Wayne's World presented as multi-faceted a character as Mary Catherine Gallagher.  However, this is a pretty entertaining movie when not compared to the other SNL films also.  While watching the film, the entire audience was swept up in Molly Shannon's exhuberance.  Whether or not you like the character, you have to acknowledge Ms. Shannon's enthusiasm and in this film her enthusiasm is infectious.  Admittedly, some gags worked better than others (Mary Catherine's armpit smelling isn't nearly as funny as her obsession with 1970's made-for-T.V. movies), but on the whole it was light, funny and, at times, surprisingly poignant.  I would be interested to see Ms. Shannon, who has shown her aptitude for physical comedy, in a more serious role.  That would be a step in the right direction if she really wants to be a superstar. "},{"Title":"I love it I love it I love it!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For all you SNL freaks, me included, out there who love Molly Shannon then go and laugh yourslef silly!  My parents, who are not fans of this particular cast of SNL, STILL laughed themsleves into a frenzy.  Sure it isn't Citizen Kane but it is a Blues Bros. or a Wayne's World. "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny! Go for a good laugh","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Molly Shannon can pull of this character with ease and agility (after all, she DID create it). This movie is definitely worth watching if you are a fan of SNL or if you like Shannon in her other roles. Will Ferrell adds to the show, but not as much as I would have thought. The person to watch out for is Helen     (Emmy Laybourne - Mary Katherine Gallager's friend and side-kick). Her performance as the slow and aggressive basketball player, makes us think of Stan's sister on South Park (she's got the braces and everything). All in all, if you are looking for a goofy movie, or just a plain 'ol laugh, SUPERSTAR is definitely worth the hour and a half.  "},{"Title":"Fun Film","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw the advertisement for this movie, I thought it would be cute, but there would be one problem...every line would be Sometimes when I get nervous, I put my hands under my arms and I smell them like this!  But suprsingly, that only happened twice.  I thought this movie was funny and kept the audience entertained, unlike some episodes of SNL. Some skits are just so funny, while others drag.  Luckily Superstar was not a 1hr and 1/2 skit. It actually had a plot and some refrences making fun of teeny bopper movies, which I thought was hysterical because I go and see all those movies!  Molly Shannon was funny as usual, and Tom Green was absoutely hysterical in Superstar.  During the course of the movie, you start to feel for Mary Katherine hoping she wins the talent show.  It may sound corny, but its true. The movie was not just a one-liner, it had a plot and a movie-ending. All in all if you like SNL, you'll like this and I certainely had an entertaining evening.  I say it is a SUPERSTAR ) "},{"Title":"Mary Katherine Gallagher will do anything to win a talent contest, which means a part as an extra in a Hollywood movie with positive moral value and a chance kiss from Sky Corrigan","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fun movie, especially if you grew up in the 80s and can catch the references to Fame, Flashdance, and the Sister Christian video.  Not too cool references to the retards, though. "},{"Title":"I was Mary Katherine Gallagher in high school.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was able to see Superstar in a preview showing before the release date. Not being a regular Saturday Night Live viewer I knew very little about Mary Katherine Gallagher.  I love her.  I'm in love with her.  She is everything I was in high school and can now laugh about. Molly Shannon is now one of my very favorite character actresses.  I might even have to start staying home on Saturday nights and tuning into SNL.  If you are a fan of Welcome to the Dollhouse and found Dawn Weiner as wonderful as I did.  Then you will definately love Superstar and the opportunity to see Dawn Weiner on happy drugs and without the irritation of her obnoxiously peppy little sister.  "},{"Title":"Wow, it's not that bad","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After the horrible mistake that was A Night at the Roxbury, I had to wonder what on EARTH made anyone think another SNL film was a good idea.And damn them for making a GOOD film.  Had it been bad, we could have just kissed that concept right off, but no, they had to get a talented, experience director, a clever script, a dance choreographer, and a great ensemble cast, which actually made me like two people I ordinarily can't stand Molly Shannon and Will Ferrell.This film was very watchable and laugh-out-loud funny, though in some places it tried too hard.  Those were the spots where it didn't work.Of course, it helped that I saw it with 500 screaming college students.  That's gotta be the most accurate gauge of any kind of movie out there.  8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"I WOULDN'T CALL IT SUPERSTAR..CUZ SOME PEOPLE MIGHT SAY IT SUPERSUX!!","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see a sneak preview of the SNL skit-turned-wildly predictable movie SUPERSTAR!  Don't get me wrong..I love Molly Shannon. She's a terrific physical comedian and actress..I've havent seen someone so appealing since the late Gilda Radner.  The Mary Katherine Gallagher skit on in its 4 minute format is often hilarious..and it could have made into a decent movie..but this movie makes all the wrong moves..the first one working with a script from the same guy who did NIGHT OF THE ROXBURY. What ever happened to the Bonnie and Terry Turner team who did WAYNE's WORLD....This movie is beyond predictable.. It's recycled joke quotient is almost as high as THE WATERBOY.  The jokes and sight gags and physical comedy in this movie all fall flat.. I mean...watching someone make out with a tree kind of gets old after the first three times. There are jokes involving a stepdancing sequence and Jesus that are disastrously unfunny. There are cameos by a lot of talented and funny faces..but none of them are given anything good to work with.  They don't have a real script..so they just stand around and make funny faces.  Sorry Molly Shannon...I know you can do a lot better than this... ur very talented..Anyway, avoid this movie at all costs..at least during its theatrical run... and wait for it to sell pre-viewed at clearance price at Blockbuster. "},{"Title":"A let-down, but not surprisingly so","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this at a preview screening here in NYC, and I had high hopes for it because I like Molly Shannon and I like the character, but of course they were unable to get it right. It has a few funny moments (which is more than you can say for most SNL films,) and the idea of a cast of 30 to 40 year-olds playing teenagers is kind of brilliant in it's own way, but it just doesn't work. When are they going to realize that plugging SNL characters into this tired emotionally-redeeming formula just doesn't work? How many flops will it take? This film may actually be popular among certain groups. The gaggle of Chelsea muscle queens sitting next to me found it far funnier than i did. So Gay men and some women may find it enjoyable. I was hoping Bruce McCullough would break from SNL tradition, but it turns out that he was not the genius of KITH. Maybe it was Scott Thompson. "},{"Title":"The movie is so funny !","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you like comedy at it's lowest form, meaning physical and a bit on the silly side . Then watch this movie . Molly Shannon is so funny .Will Ferrell is super funny ,if you like just good old simple comedy this will leave you rolling in your seat . Especially the dance parts in the movie are so crazy . Then when the so-called tough guy turns out to be a blithering idiot , his signature brown leather jacket instead of black just made this movie all the more perfect .I laugh until I cried .Tom Green has a small part in this movie ,and just adds to the insanity that is going on. Leading up to the big talent show to fight against V.D. ,and when the preacher tells Mary that she's so special there going put her in special Ed class I just bout pee my pants . "},{"Title":"Haven't laughed this much in ages.","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, this film was suggested by a mate, I had seen loads of films with Will Ferrell in, he is a very funny man, cracks me up in this. I had never heard of Superstar so I thought I would give it a try.  From the opening scene I was in hysterics, feeling almost embarrassed for Mary on several occasions.It's a good film to watch, the script is amusing and easy to follow, the characters are funny and like-able and the dancing that goes on is well choreographed. Molly Shannon is a brilliant actress, she is a comical genius and I would recommend anyone to watch this film... Go on, have a giggle, I bet you will!.Well, after talking about this I am gonna go watch it again!.  "},{"Title":"great review","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Superstar is one of my all time favorite stupid movies. It is a deeper look at the life of SNL's Mary Katherine Gallagher played by Molly Shannon. Will Ferrel also is in this movie with such a hilarious cheesy performance. At first, I didn't think it was that great, but after watching it a second time I noticed more and more hilarious stuff! It is packed with hilarious one-liners, dances, and ridiculously weird characters. Superstar had the power to bring together a dorm hall full of girls away from home freshman year and provide so much laughter and happiness. This is my ultimate quoting movie to watch repeatedly and never get let down. Don't be a movie snob and give it at least one chance!  "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who enjoyed this?","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I laughed my butt off at this movie. I love Mary Katherine Gallagher. And I couldn't wait for the movie to come out. I had high expectations for it. When I got to the theater and watched the movie...my expectations were met...and passed. I think this is the best SNL-skit turned movie to come out of SNL Studios. It was hysterical. Even though the plot was terrible, I still liked this movie. Jaw-droppingly funny. I loved Maria Ganitisis (Jennifer Irwen). I found her character hilarious. Hysterical! "},{"Title":"Hilarious! I barely stopped laughing!","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie was definitely one of the better SNL films. Molly Shannon is great as Mary Katherine, and the movie is just filled with laughs. I'm not one for thoughtless slapstick, but, contrary to what you might think, there is almost none of that in this movie. It's better than should be expected of it, and better than most comedies in recent months. If you're looking for a good laugh, go out and see this! "},{"Title":"A Boring and Very Silly Comedy, Which Is Not Funny","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mary Katherine Gallagher (Molly Shannon) is an orphan raised by her grandmother and student of a catholic school. She decides to participate in a competition of new talents, where the winner will travel to Hollywood and may have a chance to act in a movie. She is also interested in kissing Sky (Will Ferrell), the boyfriend of the selfish Evian (Elaine Hendrix). This movie is a crap. It is a boring comedy, which is not funny. Molly Shannon is not beautiful, not funny, not charismatic and too old for the role of Mary. Her smile, showing the teeth, is horrible! I hated this trash. I spend the whole film without any laugh. It really deserves a spot in IMDB Bottom 100. My vote is two.Title (Brazil) `Superstar - Despenca Uma Estrela' (Superstar - Falls a Star')  "},{"Title":"Mary Katherine Gallagher really is a SUPERSTAR!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie in years, but I do remember that it is so hilarious!  Okay, maybe the whole Will Ferell playing Jesus thing was a bit over the top, but the rest of the movie rocked!  You ask, Why is Mary making out with a tree funny to you? I'll tell you why.  Because it just is.  Okay?  There are so many funny parts in this movie, some I can't even remember, it's hard to pick just one as my favorite.  I love the movie though, it is so hilarious.  There are so many great lines and scenes. The way she narrates the movie is just laugh out loud funny!The part where she gets on her (soon-to-be) boyfriend's bike while she's being chased (by somebody I can't remember who now) and they start playing that song Sister Christian...I love that part!  It rocks! Anyway, you should seriously go watch this movie! I give it an 8 out of 10!  Very funny, stupid stuff!  A veg kind of movie. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film on a whim and was really pleasantly surprised. I know that SNL movies  have a bit of a stigma about them, but I really thought this was better than Wayne's  World even. It's got so many great lines and Molly Shanon really escapes from the 'five  minute skit not translating to a good two hour movie' problem pretty well. If you can get  around the whole SNL thing, I think you'll find that this is worth a viewing.  "}{"Title":"Really good movie and funny!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is really great. Molly Shannon is really good at bringing Mary Katherine Gallager to life. It's got some great actors in it as well, including Will Ferrel, Tom Green, and the dude that says everything 5 times - Chuck Campbell. This film is also directed by Bruce McCulloch (kids in the hall) and he's a talented film maker. If you haven't seen it yet, just see it. It's a well put together movie.  "},{"Title":"Laughs to the End","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If your taste in movies resembles mine, than this is one to own.  Molly Shannon expresses unbelievable acting talent and is held with a cast that contains its own chemistry and charisma.  For those that do not have the same viewpoints as me you might find it a strange waste of time.  I think the key to the humor of this movie is understanding the main character Mary Katherine Gallagher.  Strange yet in many ways almost everyone can relate to her.  It may not be the tree kissing or armpit finger sniffing.  But still any person can relate to many of the things she is going through in the movie.  And with her friends it is a laugh every minute.  This was a wonderful comedy and i don't think it should be missed. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"I love this film!!!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Australia ignored this film at the cinema's. Only because we have no idea who Mary Catherine is. I wish we could make comedies like this. This is A story that we can all relate to. We all dream of becoming something great and this movie shows us how much fun it is to dream. I rate this movie 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best Rental Movie of 2000","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you hate the current style of SNL and Molly Shannon, then of course you'll hate this movie.  But if you appreciate Kids in the Hall and similar paced humor, you could learn to love this gem of a movie.  Molly Shannon and Will Ferrell are completely hilarious and over-the-top, and manage to spoof multiple teen movies and formulaic comedies.  They are masters at creating characters who are bizarre and therefore funny.  This is a movie that might not make you fall down laughing while watching it, but when repeating lines to people the next day, I guarantee you'll crack up. "},{"Title":"Gets funnier every time!","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie...I didn't really like it all that much. The next day my friend asked me what I did the night before and I told her that I watched Superstar.  The more I started talking about it, I progressed into doing imitations of the characters (I do a great Helen and Mary Katherine).  It just kept getting funnier and funnier.  My friend and I rented it that night.  After doing the imitations and talking about it, I began to notice so many more funny things!  For instance...all the cars are bugs...mostly green ones.  Little things like that just make me laugh. I'm a special ed major, so this also added a little humor to it.  I even was Mary Katherine Gallagher for a banquet we put on at school.  The sheer stupidity of this character...along with the others...is what makes this movie so hilarious!  It always makes me feel better about myself!  "},{"Title":"Funniest SNL movie EVER!","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Superstar couldn't be any better! So funny! Molly Shannon is so good at this movie. I could not stop laughing. She makes out with a tree, smells her sweat, and thinks she's a superstar. The best SNL movie. Funnier than Night At The Roxbury! "},{"Title":"Who would think?","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Who would think this movie would be so funny? I didn't. I thought this movie was going to be enjoyable but stupid. Was I ever wrong! This was seriously a funny movie! Molly Shannon did a great job and she has a great voice and dance moves. Everyone did a great job in the movie! I think you should rent it, it's awesome! "},{"Title":"Hilarious! Possibly the funniest movie I've ever seen!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'll just start by saying that I love physical comedy, and Mary Katherine Gallagher is 100% of that! This movie was so extremely funny! I laughed, at LEAST once, during every scene. Everyone in the cast (led by Molly Shannon, Will Ferrell, Elaine Hendrix, Glynis Johns, Mark McKinney, and Tom Green) did such a great job in making the audience laugh as hard as possible! Major kudos to the writer and director for making it a great comedy! *** out of ****!!!!!! "},{"Title":"its a fun movie","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Superstar is a very fun, short and sweet movie. It is a simple story about SNL character Mary Katherine Gallagher (played by Molly Shannon, of course) and it is funny. Will Ferrell is in it playing Sky (who MKG has a BIIIIG crush on) and he also plays God. The only thing I didn't really like about the movie is it kinda has stuff from Never Been Kissed (if you listen closey to both movies) and tons of bloopers. But I still give it a ten because Molly Shannon is a really cool actress who I enjoy!!  "},{"Title":"This movie is just what I expected it to be, CRAP!!!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie and I was really bad. No laughs, no acting, no nothing. The one thing I did like was when everybody gets up and does the robot. As one of the characters said in this movie said You're not a superstar, you supersuck!  So does this movie, it SUPERSUCKS! "}{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have never before felt that a movie I was watching was wasting my time on this earth.  If you enjoy pitiful attempts at lame humor, then, by all means, get this movie.  If you enjoy seeing Molly Shannon's underwear, get this movie.  If you enjoy groaning at every second of this movie, get this movie.  But if you want a good laugh, hell, if you even want to feel like you spent some quality time, do NOT waste 90 minutes on this. "},{"Title":"Don't know what I was thinking!!!!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must have been smoking something harsh when I agreed to a friend to see this movie. Before I really get into what I think I do have to say to anyone who voted above a 3 on this movie,,,,WHAT ARE YOU THINKING?I think I can sum it up into one big thought on what I thought about this film......... IT SUCKED!!!!!!!!!There was only one thing that I thought was funny about the movie other than the fact that someone thought it would make money was a line that the grandmother said near the end of the film. Maybe it was a comment she made letting me know the movie was about to end. This is why I gave it a 2 out of 10.The only reason why I couldn't get up and leave was because I didn't drive and I think I may have dozed off and woke up near the end.Save your money for lighter fluid to torch this horrible film. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie ever","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Could they have possibly done worse? The movie is shallow and without making any sense at some parts.The depiction of God in the film instead of laughs brought frowns to even the not-so-faithful ones in the theater.And what is up with the main character's obsession with showing people her panties? Is that supposed to be funny? Arousing? What?The movie was a complete waste of money and time. "},{"Title":"STAY HOME AND SAVE YOUR MONEY","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this  movie with an open mind.  I like a good laugh as well as the next person, but this movie was just plain silly.  I always enjoyed Saturday Night Live but this was more than I could take and I left the theater after just 45minutes. A waste of a good evening.  "},{"Title":"STAY HOME AND SAVE YOUR MONEY","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this  movie with an open mind.  I like a good laugh as well as the next person, but this movie was just plain silly.  I always enjoyed Saturday Night Live but this was more than I could take and I left the theater after just 45 minutes. A waste of a good evening. "},{"Title":"Superstar","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Superstar is a great film. Lots of laughs and hilarious characters. I seen it once on Sky at 3am and I waited months until it came back on again. It should be shown at decent times and more often. The characters are both believable and well depicted. This is only site I could find information on it. 10/10. Very good. "},{"Title":"So Funny!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie was hilarious and funny and i loved it.the plot was kind of stupid but the movies and casting molly shannon as the main character was the best idea for any character for a movie . I love this movie, its probably in my top 10 favorite movies of all time and everyone should go and see how good it is for them selves "},{"Title":"So Funny...","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The whole point of this film was to be cheesy and stupid. You can't knock it for that because thats the aim!  I loved this film and watching it now I still giggle.Molly Shannon is brilliant as Mary, and Will Ferrell is hilarious as Sky and Jesus.  Definately recommend this to anyone whose up for some stupid slapstick humour! "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE EVER!","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am a extreme movie lover and out of the many movies i have seen, this one is the worst. There is no point, message, and its not even funny, its just STUPID. As cool as will. f is, he definitely does not do his best in this film. oh yeah and why the F*** is a girl making out with a tree!!! I strongly suggest to go see another film instead of this one otherwise you will have just wasted anothe hour and a half of your life. This is just my opinion so reply to let me know what you think. Thx! And what is this about having to provide at least ten lines in your comment????? i am really confused. please explain this to me ASAP. -thx once again -Identity Unknown "},{"Title":"Watch the paint thin on your wall first","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am not going to say much.  This is hands down the worst comedy I have ever seen in my entire life.  If Will Ferrell was in it more, it may have been a little better.  That stupid annoying HO Molly Shannon is the downfall.NEVER SEE THIS MOVIE....EVER!!! "}]