[{"Title":"Riveting, spellbinding, and not for everyone","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"31 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In Aberdeen, a young London attorney (Headey) goes to Norway to retrieve her long estranged alcoholic father (Skarsgard) and escort him to Aberdeen, Scotland for a last visit with her dying mother. Along the way, a simple journey becomes an odyssey of discovery as the 15 year separated father and daughter get to know the best and the worst of each other. The principals in this harsh, bitter, poignant, and sincere drama bust some serious acting chops as they flesh out their characters with shades of anger, hostility, vulnerability, courage, and quiet caring. A beautiful film for those into serious no frills drama. (B+)Note - Shame on Tivo for giving this critically acclaimed audience pleaser a meager two stars.  "},{"Title":"Superlative performances, great storyline - one of the best of the year","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"29 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showing as part of the European Film Festival currently in Brisbane, Aberdeen is a strong, narrative driven movie of a daughter sent to Norway by her dying mother to bring back her father so that the terminally ill mother can see him and her for the last time before she dies.All the performances in this stellar outing are first class.  Stellan Skarsgård as the alcoholic, former oil rig working father is simply outstanding.  He plays a man losing a battle with the bottle so convincingly that it makes you seriously wonder whether he has personal experience on which to draw from for his performance.Charlotte Rampling plays the cancer-stricken mother; even though she spends the majority of the movie talking over the phone from her hospital bed she brings to the character a dignity that is totally believable.Ian Hart plays a English truck driver who stumbles across the daughter and father returning home from Norway and helps them out.  With his shaved head I hardly recognised this veteran actor - but he again puts in another superlative performance as he comes to grips with the dynamics at play in this unique familyBut the standout performance is that of Lena Headey, playing the daughter entrusted with the task of bringing her errant father to Aberdeen.  She's also someone battling with their demons - she is a drug addict, nympho and does not take to trusting people easily.  Having to bring home her father (whom she hates) to a mother (whom she also hates) is yet another thing to speak poorly of and bemoan her lack of a life.I thought Lena was a relative newcomer to the acting scene - but a cursory look at IMDB revealed a wealth of acting gigs that I was not aware of.  But 'Aberdeen' has to be one of her first leading roles; she is one to look out for in the future.She won the Silver Iris award for Best Actress at the Brussell Film Festival last year.The movie is described as a 'dark road movie'.  Now when I watched it it didn't appear particularly dark - perhaps that says more about what I class as 'dark' in a movie than the tag line writer for these movies!  It certainly is 'real', and 'gritty'.If you get a chance to see this one when the festival rolls into town (some states haven't got it yet so you may still get a chance) you wouldn't go far wrong with this as one of your choices.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fantastic acting in a movie about real people.","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a typical example of the difference between European and American film. Real people doing real things reacting like real people do. I'm little bit tired of these Hollywood feel-good films, there the ugly and shy guy always ends up with the love of his life, which always is the most beautiful girl in the world.Fantastic performance from all the actors and a touching story, makes this a film I strongly recommend. "},{"Title":"This is what acting is all about","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie In the 2001 Haifa film festival. The movie was shown without subtitles, and it was a little hard to follow at first, I admit. But this excellent movie has a way of engulfing the viewer, whether it is on a big screen or on TV.The talented actors in this movie are directed beautifully by Hans Molland, and I myself will try to catch more of his films and follow his career. Stellan Skarsgård plays the part of an alcoholic middle aged man with so much authenticity and depth, that I find myself completely identifying with the character on screen. Lena Headey gives a stunning performance herself. the reversal of roles towards the end of the movie is graceful and subtle, as the actors follow the brilliant script.The movie progresses smoothly across several layers of depth, and as the main two characters evolve in opposite directions, the audience is taken for a physical, as well as psychological, trip with them. The combined methods chosen by the script writers and the director make this an unforgettable movie, and for that I give it a solid 8/10.enjoy! "},{"Title":"Harsh reality","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A wonderfully written and acted, but depressing road trip movie.  As a favor to her dying mother, a young woman must find her alcoholic father (played by Stellen Skarsgard, who is heart-wrenchingly convincing in the role), who abandoned them when she was a child.  As they travel together, they must face both the past and present.  But don't expect a Hollywood feel-good reunion movie, this is much more harsh and real.   "},{"Title":"Heart wrenching film","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Heart wrenching film that knocks you down, then lifts you up only to knock you down again. It is tough to see the desperate alcoholism of Tomas, particularly in the scene where he is mocked, bullied, and beaten up by well dressed drunken strangers whom he approaches to buy cans of beer.Stellan SkarsgÃ¥rd is brilliant as the drunken father, and so is Ian Hart as the saintly lorry driver. This film will give you an insight into the dynamics of a family ripped apart by addiction and our need to see dignity in those closest to us.There were a couple of things that could have improved this film for me. Firstly, the principle character, Kaisas scottish accent is somewhat unconvincing. Secondly, all urban scenes in the odyssey through Britain from Harrow to Aberdeen, are shot in the city centre and west end of Glasgow. This really affected the realism and appeal of the film for me.  "},{"Title":"Every Alcoholic shoud see this one","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not always easy to watch as an alcoholic hits his bottom to go with his daughter to visit her dying mother. I was moved and just knew whoever wrote and or directed this movie knew about alcoholism, as turned out to be the case when I watched an interview after the movie on the independent channel. There is a haunting and very beautiful theme song in this movie. I just wish it was releashed on a sound track! "},{"Title":"Great film, brilliant cast","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Norwegian film in English, with a Swedish actor in a leading role. International, to say the least. Aberdeen is a touching, funny and sad film about relationships. Mainly the relationship between parents and children. Stellan Skarsgård, one of the greatest actors in the world, is as brilliant as ever. He plays drunk most of the time, but he does it in a subtle way. When his character is humiliated because he needs a beer you can feel it through the screen. Skarsgård is a wonderful actor. Ian Hart is also a great actor and I always enjoy watching him in a film. Lena Headey impressed me with a nuanced and touching performance.Aberdeen is a great film and the cast is brilliant. (8/10) "},{"Title":"reminded me of my own father","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  very touching movie..the acting performances are fabulous, 'aberdeen' is very realistic piece of film. almost shockingly realistic.it was great to see a movie like this for a change. i've seen so much of these music-video-goes-hollywood-goes-kungfu movies, that a movie really ABOUT SOMETHING was nice again..i can't say it would've been a perfect ten, for that you'd need much more originality. but very well done, and obviously the actors liked the directors, since they are giving their very best. "},{"Title":"Captivating - I was completely hooked","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I began watching the film on the Sundance Channel today and I couldn't turn away, for all the right reasons. I wanted to find out how these people would make sense of the chaos in their lives and how or whether they'd meaningfully connect. It was shot with beautiful subtlety. For all of the pain and anger evident in their outward behavior there were traces of genuine human weakness and need which gave the relationship played by Headey and Skarsgård a fragile realism.There aren't many films where a character's struggle for redemption or self-revelation appear in a realistic manner. Hearts rarely repair themselves in real life with the timely schedule we see so often in films. This film shows restraint in this area; as a viewer I was heartbroken by their frailty and delighted to see it as a creative decision. The actors did a terrific service to the story by holding true to that restraint.I wanted to watch it again as soon as it was over. "}{"Title":"Agreed - Heart wrenching film","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I came upon this film by accident while scouting for Charlotte Rampling films. Ms. Rampling is only in a few scenes, but I was so mesmerized by the rest of the cast that it didn't matter. Someone said that Stellan Skarsgård is the best actor ever. I can't attest to that since I'm learning via films like this that we don't see the best there is if we don't scour art houses. He does, however, give a performance that would be considered Oscar worthy had the film been more mainstream (i.e. if it had been seen by more people). Skarsgård's acting is unflinching, from inside the character, and technique free. We need to see more of him in lead roles.The entire cast is excellent. So much of the story is told without words - a towel wrapped around a waist instead of covering breasts, a man secretly observing his daughter's pain, a lover's halting, wordless goodbye, characters' emotions playing subtly across their faces. The story is wrenching.And in another break from mainstream films, everything isn't tied up neatly in a bow at the end - we are not told what happened ever after to these characters. We can decide for ourselves what comes next. We are treated like adults, not told what to think, not overly indulged with explication, not bashed over the head with morals or lessons. Just a study of the dynamics of a family who love each other desperately and who each show it in their own damaged way.Excellent film. "},{"Title":"Moving depiction of difficult father-daughter relationship","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an emotionally acute, well-acted, visually interesting drama. The direction and editing are excellent. The plot is compelling. There is some intense graphic violence, but it can be seen as functioning in the situation as a means of breaking down the characters' defensiveness. I was not aware that there were such severe penalties in Great Britain for possession of drugs.  "},{"Title":"Non-cliche road movie","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am not the biggest fan of what I call road movies.  This is one of those movies about the road in a metaphorical sense, with life as the real journey.  But this movie was not the typical cliched type of movie.  It was well acted and directed, a must see. "},{"Title":"A true gem!","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Aberdeen is a unique piece, with an interesting soundtrack, PERFECT acting, and an outstanding plot. As mentioned earlier, it's so very European with its realism. Slow, but rewarding. Also, I think Stellan Skarsgård is the best actor ever! Not just this movie, but his other stuff as well. Especially Insomnia and this one. He's just brilliant. I've also seen his son on Ondskan, so I'll simply try to watch every movie that has anything to do with the Skarsgård family from now on! I can only think of Rutger Hauer who might be as good as him. Lena Headey is also adorable. She's got goddess looks, and the best of acting skills. Such great actors and a nice story makes Aberdeen a wonderful movie. Aberdeen is nothing like a Hollywood movie, but despite what it seems, neither is it exactly one of those movies which are crowned by intellectual-wannabes as masterpieces just because they're boring as hell.If you like Tarkovsky or Klimov, you'll dislike this movie. If you like Hollywood, you'll hate this movie. (And it'll hate you too!) If you weren't disgusted by the superficiality  of Love Actually, you'll be disgusted by the depth of this movie. But if you're interested in the works of relatively new generation Scandinavian directors, then Aberdeen will look fine to you.All in all, it could have been much better with, say, Lars Von Trier, but it's also pretty darn good as it is. 8.5/10 - Recommended!  "},{"Title":"A long strange trip worth taking.","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's not that often that I delve into movies past to find something to watch, but I've been so impressed with Lena Headey's work in Terminator The Sarah Connor Chronicles that I've been checking out her past work. Boy am I glad I saw this one. What an outstanding film. Aberdeen is a pretty heavy character-driven drama, so I'm sure it's not for everyone, but I was pulled into this film from the start and it never let me go. Every time I thought I knew where the story was going to go next, I was happy to be wrong. And the performances alone from Stellan Skarsgård and Lena Headey really make this emotional journey well worth taking. Highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Aberdeen is an understated melodrama in the European tradition","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Aberdeen is an excellent character-driven film. It is one of the best films I have seen in a very long time (now that we have to slog through gargantuan archives of direct-to-DVD films just to get to the few good ones). Charlotte Rampling's line, Sometimes ugly can be nice captures the film's characters very well. Stellan Skarsgard, Lena Headey, Ian Hart and Charlotte Rampling are superb in this understated, European (English language) melodrama. Both the beautifully sparse cinematography and Preisner's childish score work very well subtextually. The plot is driven by destination and deadline, and this road movie uses every scenario to develop or reinforce character traits. The dialogue is equally sparse and terse, leaving the audience to fill in the blanks to diffuse the dramatic tension. I highly recommend this film, especially if you're not afraid of delving into some Scandinavian melancholy. I give it a 10 for being emotionally engaging and differentiating itself from a bevy of moribund films and/or lifeless protagonists whose goals are inconsequential; the characters in Aberdeen are tragically flawed, but one cares for them. Deeply. "},{"Title":"Raw, Touching Road Trip","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Aberdeen is a road trip of a father-daughter relationship. But with raw, uninhibited performances by Stellan Starsgard (as an alcoholic Norwegian oil rigger) and Lena Headey (with a thick Scotch brogue).Charlotte Rampling is a very effective deus ex machina mother bringing them together with a goal and a deadline, while Ian Hart is memorable as the nice, normal guy thrown into their war, helping to restore their sanity. One of the most romantic scenes I've seen in the movies in years is him simply wiping her brow, while the dad looks on uncomfortably.The route and fine details of this picaresque film are unpredictable, as they find Aberdeen and themselves. (originally written 8/31/2001) "},{"Title":"Dark Road movie","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A story of a daughter bringing her alcoholic father to her dying mother in Aberdeen. Stellan Skarsgaard (European Film Awards nominee) plays the Norwegian father to perfection, and Lena Headey also give a strong performance as the estranged daughter who's had too much life experience too young. Hans Petter Moland is moving into world class with this one!  "},{"Title":"Unflinchingly Accurate","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Addiction' as a genre of film is jam-packed with predictable content, but ABERDEEN is a cut above the rest. Stellan Skarsgards boozy downward spiral is a home-video into the real world of alcoholism. Too often the alcoholic is portrayed as if locked in some sort of heroic struggle, however, real drunks stumble, fall down, puke, and create emotional havoc in their own lives and everyone around them. This film also adds a fresh look at The Alcoholic Intervention Model. In this movie, the one who is spearheading the intervention is arguably in worse shape than the beneficiary. ABERDEEN is an unflinching look at the nature of addiction with a bold, well written abrasive script. "},{"Title":"Skarsgard is magnificent","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I rented Aberdeen because I love Lena Headey and have been catching up on her work. The fact that Ian Hart and Stellan Skarsgard are also featured only made this film more attractive. I was not disappointed.All the acting is good, including Charlotte Rampling in a difficult, passive role, but Stellan's portrayal of a wrecked man is astounding. He nails all the outward attributes of alcoholism, but never overdoes it. His eyes tell us all we need to know as his character slowly finds some piece of his own humanity buried deep inside. Astounding, when one compares Tomas to, say, the smoothly lethal Gregor from Ronin, or the monstrous Cerdic from King Arthur. Stellan is one of those actors whose mere presence on screen is riveting.The story itself is simple, but this movie is all about the journey, literally. We are all damaged in some way, but holding on to bitterness and resentment for past wrongs will destroy oneself more effectively from within than any outside force can do. "}{"Title":"Where I first fell in love with Headey...","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Isn't it wonderful how out of nowhere you can get hit with a film like this. I was hypnotized by Lena Headey from the start and i couldn't let go. I wondered where they were hiding this wonderful actress and began searching for answers.. Still haven't found any. Could hardly find anything about this movie. Blockbuster of course didn't have it and I haven't seen it played on the Sundance channel since. But no matter, it will remain with me forever...Lena by the way had a couple of movies this year (The Cave &  The Brother's Grimm ) what a waste of this interesting actress. And by the way, have you seen the movie credits of Ian Hart. Whoa! More movies than Michael Caine. Anyway, if you get a chance, stay with this one. It was worth its weight in gold. "},{"Title":"enigma","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  it's hard to describe this film....kind of slow and dull at times, and yet it definitely leaves you with an impression.  What the director is trying to get across i cannot say for sure, but what i can say is that this film conveys, almost imposes a certain somber mood upon the audience, especially with the use of color (primarily blue, gray, and everything in between).  It reminds me of another film called il mare.  But anyways, the acting is excellent.  I had never heard of Lena Headey before but she was absolutely fantastic.  It's unfortunate how acting of that quality is in short supply in the U.S.  Also, i thought it was a nice touch how the director began the film with Kaisa being the responsible, well dressed one while the father was the slovenly drunk and then reversing the roles towards the end of the film.  Although i am still thinking through the meanings.... "},{"Title":"This is what acting is all about","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie In the 2001 Haifa film festival. The movie was shown without subtitles, and it was a little hard to follow at first, I admit. But this excellent movie has a way of engulfing the viewer, whether it is on a big screen or on TV.The talented actors in this movie are directed beautifully by Hans Molland, and I myself will try to catch more of his films and follow his career. Stellan Skarsgård plays the part of an alcoholic middle aged man with so much authenticity and depth, that I find myself completely identifying with the character on screen. Lena Headey gives a stunning performance herself. the reversal of roles towards the end of the movie is graceful and subtle, as the actors follow the brilliant script.The movie progresses smoothly across several layers of depth, and as the main two characters evolve in opposite directions, the audience is taken for a physical, as well as psychological, trip with them. The combined methods chosen by the script writers and the director make this an unforgettable movie, and for that I give it a solid 8/10.enjoy! "},{"Title":"Lena Headey is an undiscovered beauty!!!","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Starting with Diana Rigg, Olivia Newton-John, Sheena Easton and Nicole Kidman, Lena Headey is the heir apparent to my list of fantasy women with British accents. Oh yeah, she is an excellent actress also.In many ways the movie was depressing. However, if the writers and directors were trying to express/display a dysfunctional addicted family... they succeeded brilliantly. In an era of man bashing the interjection of Clive (Ian Hart) as the Good Samaritan truck driver was refreshing.The ending leaves you pondering the final outcome ... ala The Lady or the Tiger. All in all, the movie is worth the time and money. "},{"Title":"Something happened on the way to Aberdeen","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting is good, the director is good, the script is ok, so it ought to be a good movie then. Some critics have mentioned that if this is a road-movie they should have met more essential people, I don't think so. It isn't the trip that's important in the film, but the growing understanding between father and daughter. The film succeeds in doing this but you'll sit wondering what the movie really was about long after the end credits are over.Maybe that the relationship between parent and child bring out the best in people, or just that alcohol is dangerous for your health.Even thou the movie is Norwegian the English dialogue works (because of the British actors perhaps) and I'd like to see more Norwegian movies doing this. Norwegian movies biggest fault is that the dialogue read right out of the script, no flow.See this movie, and all other Moland films, you'll not be disappointed. (at least not much)  "},{"Title":"the very independent","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" one of the summaries about this film states that Every Alcoholic should see this one. wow! seems just a bit too American Dream. first of all it is European and as my great anthropology professor said to me once i've never met an European that was NOT an alcoholic, but not by the objective standards! perhaps i could add, in a state of a rapid emotion and not reason (for i'm European and probably i'm already drunk), that i've never met an American that said anything smart about europeans. anyways, THIS IS NOT A Hollywood FRIENDLY FILM, or it just has very few friends in hollywood(try to realize what that word really means). maybe because of that the very creator still lies unknown, but should he be forgotten? a story made for people and not their imitations. i am aware that most of the viewers would rather enjoy terror of war in special effects, laughing and cheering in their joy - dude! somehow natural became abnormal to them, and it's not so entertaining anymore. a simple beauty of a woman's breast seems not proper, becomes obscene, and eventually is censored in order to protect their young ones - yes! just buy them another play station and let them educate themselves.aberdeen is my #1 and so is Hans Petter Molland. i see in it the very human beings in their faults, sins, their downfalls as well as their resurrections - vision of, non-the-less, us (you and me). for point to me a perfect man and i will name a god after him - you can quote me on that) enjoy "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I looked up this movie after falling under the spell of Lena Headey's acting (I'm not ashamed saying it, apparently it's a very common phenomenon).I have to say it's one of the best movies I've seen in a long time. Stelan Skarsgard is disturbingly natural in his role of drunken piece of s...t , and Lena does a great job impersonating his screwed up daughter.The storyline is nothing out of the ordinary, but what touches you is the cruel reality exposed before your eyes. I still don't understand how, by putting two very flawed characters together and by showing them living their ugly and sometimes disgusting life, you can end up with such a beautiful and heartbreaking story. I can't believe this movie is practically unknown! Lena is right to be proud of it. Hats off for her performance! "},{"Title":"Planes, Ferries, and Automobiles","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Didn't realize Norway was so close to England did you?Hottie hotshot London lawyer flies to Norway to fetch her boozehound Dad to take her to Scotland to see the Mom, who's rapidly dying of cancer. Filling this dying request for her Mom proves a lot harder than it sounds. The Dad is a total mess, completely ruled by drink and incapable of even boarding the airplane before he smashes his booze bottle all over the ticket counter, and earns them both an airline ban.  The movie here gathers steam, as the two make alternate arrangements to get to Aberdeen. Along the way, they rediscover each other after their 15 year estrangement. Pretty powerful in spots. I was really taken by this film. More really the action and scenery than the plot, which was just a little too much of a contrivance. And maybe I'm messed up in the head, but there was an incestual undertone to their relationship that bugged me. But the performances are stellar and character development expertly done.  I happen to think Norway is one of the most beautiful places on earth. I'd happily watch a Discovery channel special on the Fjords. Getting this rare opportunity to see a film using Norway as part of the backdrop was a decided treat. Getting the opportunity of seeing Lena Headey for 2 hours wasn't too bad of a deal either. Good late night flick.  "},{"Title":"This tiny film leaves a huge mark. Phenomenal acting and a gut-wrenching story bind this emotional powerhouse into a indie masterpiece.","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The relationship between a father and a daughter is too complicated to comprehend. In Aberdeen we are united with perhaps the most dysfunctional relationship in independent film history. Kaisa, a successful, drug addicted young woman who sleeps around with various guys, is requested by her dying mother to fly to Norway from Scotland and pick up her alcoholic father and bring him to Aberdeen before her mom dies. Not only do the father and daughter hate each other, but they can't get along for one second. What's really brilliant that directer Hans Peter Molland does is make you care for these two people no matter how terrible they may seem. He points out the flaws in people, and examines how complicated family relationships can be. The true prize of the film is Lena Headey and Stellan Skarsgard for portraying two broken people who have to deal with each other for an entire trip. It's great to see Headey as a young actress in a small film before becoming Cersei Lannister on Game of Thrones. You see how emotional she can be as an actress, and it is impossible to make you not care about her character. Skarsgard plays the drunk better than anyone in movies. He shows the physical and mental damages that alcoholism does, but more importantly, what it does to others. Aberdeen delivers us into a world of hatred and dysfunction, but finds room to fix all that with beauty and growth of a failed relationship that isn't forever damaged. "},{"Title":"fascinating characters and performances","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kaisa (Lena Headey) is a drug-addicted independent woman with parental issues. She get a call from her mother (Charlotte Rampling) dying of cancer to bring her father (Stellan Skarsgård) from Norway to Aberdeen. It's been 15 years since they separated. He's a drunk and she resents him. It turns out that her mother called a few weeks ago to propose to him. His drunkenness and her anger get them banned from the airline. They go on a journey of self-discovery and forgiveness. On the way, they are befriended by trucker Clive (Ian Hart).These are two wonderful actors in two compelling roles. They are doing some power-acting in this stripped down road-trip movie. There are some funny moments and some poignant moments. Mostly, these great actors are simply inhabiting these roles. "}{"Title":"Honest yet non-conclusive drama...","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1st watched 12/31/2009 &#x96; 4 out of 10(Dir-Hans Petter Moland) Honest yet non-conclusive drama about the reconciliation of a separated family brought about by the dying wishes of a mother with cancer. This is a well acted movie and doesn't try to fluff up anything to make it look better than it is, but there was no real punch to affect the viewer. Basically, the story is about a daughter who accepts the mother's wish to bring her alcohol-addicted father to see her in the hospital. Her real hope is that the father and daughter will reconcile during the trip but this is a hard pill to swallow. The father stays drunk thru most of the trip and the daughter expectedly stays hard-nosed and her negative side is revealed thru their experiences. They meet up with a helpful truck driver whom the daughter eventually beds and learns to respect as he sticks around long enough to help them get to their destination. This side story is nice and there is the other issue as to whether the father and daughter are really biological father and daughter which adds some twists as well. All in all though, there is a lot of pain in this story that never really gets resolved --- so it's hard to like the movie. The makers really work hard to make you sympathize and to me this is very obvious. All in all, this is an OK movie but it didn't give you much to hold onto in it's entirety. "},{"Title":"Watch for the story, not for anything about Scotland","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A friend recommended this movie to me to get a glimpse of what modern life is like in Scotland. After watching it, I must say I wouldn't give the same recommendation. Very little of the movie has much to do with Scotland (probably because it was made by Norwegians, according to other posts) and the part it did show wasn't particularly flattering. It mostly left me wondering just how rampant gangs of clean-cut hooligans really are in Scotland.The title Aberdeen is a throwaway too. Yes, it's the final destination for the father/daughter combination, but virtually all of the movie takes place elsewhere. However, I was at a loss to suggest a better title. Redemption or Reconciliation are just as vague and even more bland.Several elements peg Aberdeen squarely as a foreign movie. First, there is a lot more nudity (both sexual and non-sexual) than a similar American movie would warrant. Second, the pacing is much slower than many Americans have the patience for. Finally, the ending has such a wrinkle that I felt relieved that I hadn't wasted a night watching this thing. I include this as a foreign element only because there had to be a reason for importing this movie here, outside of appeasing Stellan Skaarsgard fans.I won't reveal anything about the ending, since the surprise of it was the entire reason I enjoyed this movie. Had I already known what was coming, I probably would have enjoyed the acting and character development, but mostly felt like I wasted a night watching a really slow movie. "},{"Title":"Stellan makes the whole movie!","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Boring story, great acting...The acting makes the movie well worth seeing! Stellan shows the audience that he´s one of the best swedish actors through all times! (Watch out Stormare!!) The ending is wonderful! (Probably because I´m swedish) The story messes up the rating, I give it a strong 6 of 10! "},{"Title":"it's Breaking the Waves all over again","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As I was watching this film, I was berating myself for my carelessness. I was sure Aberdeen was another movie by the director of that film I hated Breaking the Waves. Stellan Skarsgard, sordid Scotland, etc., these two films have much in common. Hans Petter Moland clearly admires Lars von Trier's earlier film. Aberdeen is an ambitious film but Moland is too inexperienced to provide the imaginative counterpoint the story requires. Occasionally, scenes seem clumsily attenuated, or awkwardly deflated, I kept waiting for the film to find its rhythm. It never does.The performances are good, but Lena Headey can't do for Aberdeen what Emily Watson did for Breaking the Waves, that is, make it worth watching. "},{"Title":"What a waste of talent","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent performances, excellent craftsmanship wasted on a terrible script. The story goes nowhere and after half an hour you're just waiting for it to end (which it doesn't for another hour and a half of utter boredom). "}]