[{"Title":"the best man's wedding flick !","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this five years ago on DVD and grabbed it the other day in the video store wanting an oldie/goodie. So tired of watching homogenized films about stealing the groom from the bride; cheating on the bride-to-be while on a road-trip in wine country; the sad/depressed bridesmaid/maid-of-honor tragically gets dumped by her escort; blah-blah-blah. What this film offers us instead is something in the eyes of four Af-Am buddies who get together before one of them ties the knot. And there are no race cards pulled. The film does not zero on one of the characters and their drug/alcohol problem, or gang-related problemos, or any stereotypical stuff like that. No- what Malcolm Lee did instead was deliver us with an ensemble cast who just happen to be black, mix in a smooth R & B soundtrack with it and a give us a fun premise.It's simple Harper (Diggs) is on the brink of publishing his first novel with characters loosely based on his friends from college. He flies to New York to get together with his buddies before attending his friend's wedding. During that time, he encounters an old flame that got away; the changes in ideology and values with others. But on the night of the bachelor party, Lance (Chestnut) gets his paws on a copy and reads it, puzzling together the composites while blaming Diggs for cheating with his fiancée.Taye Diggs, Nia Long, Morris Chestnut, Terrence Dashon Howard, Harold Perrineau, Monica Calhoun, Sanaa Lathan, and the rest of all the cast get the fattest props because without their acting, this would've been a train wreck. What makes these characters so unique and human is that they're not stereotypical caricature's and each of them all evolve their own style. Taye Diggs is the quiet pragmatist of them all, yet he's no dork. Morris Chestnut is Lance the football player/groom-to-be. Harold Perrineau is the hopelessly, pathetically whipped brother-man with heart and Terrence Dashon Howard (from this year's Crash)steals every scene he's in as the cynical but cool cat musician buddy. Nia Long is the former flame of Taye Diggs with Sanaa Lathan as his girlfriend.Yeah, the story is a little predictable. Yeah, it's a little lewd and sexist (the scene at the poker table, but I love those lines Bite it!, Grow it!). The very ending is something we've seen before, yet it's funny anyway. Only problem was that this film was probably labeled as a black film at the time and that was probably why it received such poor box office (a'la Waiting to Exhale, Boomerang). Perhaps Hollywood wasn't ready to see that and preferred a movie about a suburban, white, dysfunctional family instead. Oh, and gave it Best Picture, too. "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was surprised to see how little attention this film garnered, despite it's amazing cast and intelligent script.  Character based scripts walk a delicate line, but somehow most seem to reap in undeserving praises (St. Elmo's Fire, The Big Chill).  Not to sound like a self-righteous broken record, but I truly believe The Best Man was passed over because it happened to have an African American cast.  It was instantly labeled a black movie, before anyone bothered to watch more than the trailer, which is a crying shame, because what everyone missed out on was a fine film.The characters range from classic (Morris Chestnut's Lance) to surprisingly fresh (Terrence Howard's Quentin), all with very distinct personalities, yet believable connections.  (Am I the only one who is so sick of using the went to college together excuse for why some film characters are friends, despite the obvious fact that in reality the cool rebel doesn't hang with the prudish nerd and so on.)Not only does the film have refreshing takes on the inter-dimensional relationships of characters, it's not afraid to face the characters honestly, to show each individual's flaws...they have depth, soul, contradictions, much like REAL PEOPLE!  Amazing! The themes are universal; friends, love, mistakes, forgiveness.  The dialogue is witty, yet not overly done to sound like movie dialogue that no one in the real world speaks.And though the race of the characters does not matter in this movie, I applaud Malcolm D. Lee for writing a film featuring black characters that are all successful, independent and intelligent.  No one is rapping or drug dealing, no one is blaming the man for setbacks.  The characters actually represent the MAJORITY of the black community, just regular people, living their lives. How refreshing from the Hollywood stereotypes, believed by suburban white America, that every successful black man is a rapper or a basketball player and every other one a criminal or janitor.  It's a shame this film didn't make for money,  perhaps then we'd see more of this trend, movies based on script rather than race.Though I loved it, this film probably won't change your life.  It's not one that will ever be considered one of the best films ever (though I think it took bold steps in closing the race gap in film).  And I'm not saying it's an absolute must-see for everyone.  But for discerning viewers with perhaps some taste and hunger for something a little different, I recommend you treat yourself to something that you probably haven't seen in a long time a simply good movie.      "},{"Title":"Very well done.","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Verrrry nice.  I think this is the first good black movie I have seen that didn't need to be but simply was.  Well-known, medium-powered Black actors and actresses in a movie that didn't focus on the Black experience.  The BEST part... the whole movie was done with thought-out class.  The story wasn't about brothers from the 'hood trying to make it in the White Man's world or some racially-charged Spike Lee joint.  Think of a great episode of the Cosby Show re-written for an adult audience, bearing a PG-13 rating and you know how you'll feel when you leave the theater.  It's about time. "},{"Title":"Malcolm D Lee's great start","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Best Man was one of my favorite films of 1999. The ensemble cast which includes Taye Diggs and the very sexy Nia Long are all good. The film reminds me of a urban The Big Chill which is cool. Morris Chestnut also makes a good return to film in this heartwarming film. I can't wait to see again and again. "},{"Title":"The is a great movie with excellent cross-over potential.","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Best Man was a very exciting, fun, and enjoyable movie-going experience for me.  As a 30 year old African American male, I thought the movie did an excellent job of exploiting the young, college-grad, working class African American.  This movie has the potential to appeal to a very diverse audience of males.  Conservative females probably will not like this movie that much because of the strong sexual content.  However, the truths of the issues addressed were so accurately portrayed, that it shouldn't be a total lost for the conservative female.  Also, the entire cast did a great job.Nevertheless, I most pay special homage to Terrence Dashon Howard (as Quentin).  He gave a top-notched, award-deserving performance.  If anybody in that movie deserves and award or any kind of special mention, it is by a long shot, Terrence.  He made this movie-going experience for me that much more enjoyable.  I can't wait to see what he does next.  I've never been before, but I am definitely now a Terrence Dashon Howard fan.  Furthermore, the entire cast was beautiful; particularly the women.  I don't ever before remember seeing so many fine women on screen before at one time.  Once out on video, this movie will definitely go in my video library collection.  "},{"Title":"flawed but rewarding film","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `The Best Man' is a flawed but generally rewarding romantic drama, featuring a first-rate cast of likeable, talented actors.  The film tells the tale of a handsome up-and-coming writer whose first novel has just been published on the eve of his best friend's wedding.  The problem is that much of the material in the book has been drawn from autobiographical sources &#150; and now, as old friends gather for the ceremony, the author and best man, Harper Stewart, has to face the fallout from some of the less than flattering portrayals contained therein.  In addition, the novel contains the revelations of a few hitherto well-guarded secrets, some of which bear directly on the principals involved in the wedding itself.Ironically, the primary strength of the film also emerges as its overarching weakness.   The movie provides so richly textured a depiction of the interrelationships between and among the wide assortment of characters that it alternately straddles the line between fascination and tedium.  On the positive side, writer/director Malcolm D. Lee is not afraid to give the characters their due, to allow them to reveal their many-layered personalities in scenes that play out in real-time tempo and rhythm.  One appreciates the fact that we are not being rushed along from one highly dramatic moment to another without time to really get to know the characters as people.  The counter effect of this, however, is that the film often seems too talky, self-indulgent and dramatically flat, a fact not helped by the excessive 122-minute running time.  In addition, the whole novel-publishing aspect of the story seems both unnecessary and contrived, not to mention lacking in credibility since it becomes a bit difficult to believe that, if he were so terrified about his friends discovering his true perceptions of them, Harper would have written the novel in the first place.  Moreover, when we hear voice-over recitations of a few sections of the novel itself, we are struck dumb that so badly written and trite a work could be so critically lauded and commercially successful.However, the film's virtues do, ultimately, outweigh its imperfections.  The actors and actresses turn in uniformly fine performances and the film deals intelligently and sensitively with the age-old issues of the fear of commitment and the two-faced attitude many men have when it comes to female infidelity.  Lee, within the context of his characters, confronts these issues with subtlety rather than heavyhandedness and the last half hour or so of the film turns into a very moving celebration of the qualities of acceptance, commitment and sacrifice necessary to make a relationship truly work.  `The Best Man' may require a little patience at times to get through, but the reward for those willing to give it a try makes it worth the effort. "},{"Title":"Finally done right.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was very impressed with The Best Man.  As an avid moviegoer, this was the very first Black movie made in recent decades that was done right.  As a first major endeavor for Malcolm Lee, my hat is off to him for portraying young, successful, upper-middle class African-Americans in a solid storyline that was at once heart-warming, funny, serious at times, but light at others.  Overall... simply very well done.  The character's development was executed eloquently and, at times so subtly, I nearly missed some things.  The cinematography, costumes and sets were all as they should be  done with class.This young, successful, upper-middle class African-American says thanks for finally doing it right. "},{"Title":"Appealing entertainment","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Best Man is a very entertaining romantic comedy.  The ensemble cast clicks and clashes with one another at just the right moments.  Taye Diggs's character, Harper, is charming and charismatic, but WHY would he write a book that causes pain to those close to him?  Is it to enlighten his friends or to reveal his own frailties?  Perhaps, a little of both.There is a good mix of very funny and also intense emotional moments and the audience is captured; cheering some of the cast and hissing others.  It's quite uncanny that transformation occurs for certain characters especially when it's needed.  Terrence Howard's character, Quentin, is a prime example.  At the beginning of the film Quentin is basically a guy who lacks direction and propriety in his behavior.  Over the course of the film, he becomes the voice of wisdom and the glue that holds it together for those closest to him.Malcolm Lee's directorial debut is quite admirable in this well paced, universally appealing film.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Uneven Black, Younger Big Chill with Very Talented Cast","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Best Man is my first buppie (i.e. Black Urban Professionals) movie. Taye Diggs alone is worth the price of admission -- he is charismatic and captures the screen -- and unlike the choices Sidney Poitier and Denzel Washington either had to make or chose to make he is definitely sexy; this is almost a Chick Flick but it's actually about four guys.The movie was written and directed by a cousin of Spike Lee, who produced it, and oy did it need editing and trimming. Every scene in what is in effect a black, younger Big Chill dragged on too long and was mostly too straight-forwardly directed. There is a writing talent in there that needs help in a collaborative art form to be shown to best effect. The flashbacks didn't make musical sense (except one excellent use of a Stevie Wonder song) or hair style changes so I found it unspecific about time period or college we were flashing back to.The black audience laughed along with the male/female portrayals so I guess they weren't annoyed by the trash-talking guy who automatically called his bro's n----r or the acceptance of double-standards such that strong black professional women with active sex lives are sentenced to be old maids while only submissive or otherwise un-together black women are worth marrying. The cinematography was rich, particularly lingering on beautiful, chocolate-colored skin.It felt like a first movie the way first novels do -- but that was part of the theme as it's about a first-time novelist writing a roman a clef. But all the cast and the writer are clearly up and coming talents.(originally written 11/14/1999) "},{"Title":"Quentin","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ****MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS**** This movie was great. I never get tired of seeing it. I really like Quentin's character. He stole every scene he was in. I kind of wish they had made a spin off with his character because he was really interesting. I would have liked to have seen the relationship he had with his father because from the way him and Harper talked it seemed his father was always on him about choosing a career and the last thing he needed was for Harper to be doing that to him. Like he didn't need another father figure who didn't approve of his lifestyle. With the way the movie ended I think it would have been good to develop a story between him and Shelby. See where that would go. Also show him in his playing ways and also show him playing the guitar a lot more like he was working on putting together a record, the way he played was tight. But if they were to make a movie on just his character only Terrence Howard could play him and only Malcolm Lee would be able to pull off a great job directing it. "}{"Title":"The Best Of The Best","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE BEST OF THE BEST This movie is fast becoming a classic. It was well written, acted and the cast was beautiful. Though the cast was of African American actors, this is movie for all ethnic backgrounds.It tells of a group of college friends that reunite for a wedding, but the wedding itself is not the story, its a semi-fictitious book written by one of the friends. Why is the book so paramount? Its actually a true account of events that had occurred between the friends when enrolled in college. The movie also gives an accurate depiction of quality of the up and coming African Americans in the entertainment industry. Everyone did a masterful job! I could not imagine anyone else playing in their roles. The directing was great and the ending was expected but moving. I cried!Terrance Howard should have been nominated for an award for best supporting actor. He made this film as realistic as your reunions with your families and friends. Don't miss this! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but uneven","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    It's always a pleasure to see a film with an all-black cast which is well put together and actually about something.  The story line of this script -- an author's revelations about his good friends in his first novel, and how potentially damaging they can be -- was plausible and enjoyable.  The personality of Quentin, arguably the most complex and fascinating character, was a bit of a tease, and like some of the other viewers, I was hungry for more of him! Nia Long always turns in superb performances, and this one doesn't disappoint.  The weakest link in the film was Taye Diggs, whose acting is about as animated as a cigar store Indian . . . but judging from the female audience reaction every time he took off his shirt, acting ability may be irrelevant to his career. On the whole, it's a great date flick, and you'll leave the theatre with a big grin on your face.   "},{"Title":"Emotional drama! 5/10","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Review I done the stupid thing by watching the sequel to this movie before watching the first part, which I enjoyed much more. I couldn't really get into the sequel because I didn't know that much about the characters, but now that I've watched this movie, I totally understand the relationship between the childhood buddies and there relationships. All of the actors put in great performances which were very real and emotional in parts. Terrence Howard's character really made me laugh and the individual storyline's were well written. I must admit, I did watch the sequel straight after watching this movie and I still prefer the original. Anyway, I'm sure that most people have seen this movie before as it did come out in 1999, but I still enjoyed it. Watchable!Round-Up Most of the actors in this movie have become major stars so it's great to watch them before there prime. Terence Howard has become the biggest star out of the bunch, with his brief major role in Ironman and other big movies like The Butler and Dead Man Down.   Morris Chestnut is mostly known for his part in Boyz 'N The Hood but he hasn't really blown up since then. He's had small parts in The Call and Identity Thief but he's yet to become a household name. Harold Perrineau is known for his character in Lost but he's yet to take on a leading role. Out of all of the make characters I did think that Taye Diggs was going to be the biggest star, but his career also seemed to have gone a bit flat. Anyway, the chemistry between the characters was great but the movie did seem to drag after a while.Budget $9million Worldwide Gross $35millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there urban relationship movies about a group of friends who are brought together for a wedding. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Nah","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You know, it's hard to follow the movie's purpose when you can't actually visualize it. In The Best Man, we're given a relatively fast paced story, but without any elements that make you feel like there's something interesting to be going on. There are lots of conversations between the characters-- males mostly--, but the story feels too contrived. It lacks fun, engagement or surprise. In my opinion, it felt boring from the first ten minutes and never got back-- at least until 50 minutes, which is how much I tried to enjoy it before turning off. There are much better movies involving a black cast out there, and I suggest you 1999's The Wood and 2001's Baby Boy, which are a thousand times better than this one. "},{"Title":"The Best Man","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have been looking for the overnight bag Morris Chestnut had at the bachelor party in the movie. Someone please help me find it!!!! The movie was a must have on video and the cast was excellent! Nia Long was gorgeous!!! No matter how many times I watch it it's like the first. Are there anymore black  films like this coming next year? Did this film receive many awards? How old is Nia Long in this movie? The female that slept w/ Terrance Howard was gorgeous also. What are her next movie project?What is her name? The girls at the party was fine!!!! Does the director have anymore projects pending? I give the entire movie an A+!!!!!! "},{"Title":"a good movie about relationships","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this movie. The film well depicted interpersonal relationships in life. All of the guys were different, yet complimented one another. Although the movie was about four Afro-American college buddies, however, I think that everyone could relate to the episodes that often lead up to the wedding. Some are hilarious, and some can be disastrous! The female stars were good, as well. I enjoyed the last scene...everyone could finally exhale and truly have a great time dancing. Nice movie! A lot of fun! Reminds me somewhat of my sister's last wedding! It was 15 years ago, and the event is still fresh in my mind. The actors are a great group of young stars to be. Hope to see more of all of them in films. "},{"Title":"Just plain enjoyable","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was the first time in as long as I can remember where the lead characters, though African-American and male, were not tragedies. No drugs, alcohol problems. Each man had a job, neigh a career. It really reminded me of my friends. I know someone that represents each of those characters. Not too long out of college and working our way towards making it. It really sent the message that African-Americans are able to achieve without a rap video and we certainly don't all sell drugs. It was not a typical black movie. It was just a movie about a group of friends, irrespective of the color of their skin. We have brains and know how to use them. This is a more accurate representation of us anyway since what the media shows is a very small percentage. Great job, Spike! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm all about movies that uplift the Black society in general. We're not all from the ghetto trying not to get shot. It was about educated Black folk with successful careers trying to be normal. Everyone did a great job in their respective parts. Apart from the fact that Harper was stupid to publish the book so early, I could see why. In his own way, he was apologizing when they were at their happiest and little could be done about it. Everything about the movie made sense and I liked that. No holes were left. *SPOILER* When Harper proposed to Robin, that was a little too cheesy for my taste. You propose at someone else's wedding? Tactless much? Nia Long was riveting as Jordan, seriously. She had the part on lock. Everyone was messed up in some way, except outside characters like Robin. Great movie to add to the Black Movie List. Catch it when you can! "},{"Title":"Outstanding Cast Makes it a Winner","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Best Man has one of the most visually attractive female casts that I've seen in recent years.  Not only are they eye-candy, but also strong female roles played by excellent actresses.  Often hard to find is a film that presents both so well.  Equally impressive was the bond between the main four male characters who, while different, are all intellectual and successful men.  The combination of the two gave me the real feeling of quality characters.As a big fan of Sanaa Lathan and Nia Long, I heavily looked forward to seeing them together in a film, but I was surprised by many other outstanding actors and actresses who really gave the film its boost.  Morris Chesnut was excellent as the groom-to-be, Monica Calhoun excellent as the bride-to-be, and Taye Diggs did a very nice job with a softer and more reserved character than many of his other roles.A very interesting script, a quality soundtrack, and well played roles made this film a winner for me.  In some ways I was almost disappointed by parts of the ending of the film, but it did not really affect my overall enjoyment.  Great movie - 8/10 "},{"Title":"Sometimes your action has lasting consequences.","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Taye Diggs makes a second dazzling preformance.  He is the real deal. Morris Chestnut enterance was one of the best on screen.  Nia Long shows why she has few equals. Terrence Howard gave a stellar preformance as Q.  The cast performance was stunning.   The only film that I never wanted to be an end to.  Hopefully, Malcom Lee will do it again.  A must see film in an industry full of lilly white trash. "}{"Title":"What a waste of BEAUTIFUL black people....","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Here is a film that read like a High School soap opera.  I felt myself constantly exclaiming you're kidding me!  Everything was forced.  Even the characters' names seemed to be orchastrated so deliberately that I expected the next few character names to be Scout, Champ, Sport, and Regan. Luckily the film ended before that could happen.  You would think that the writer of the script got a cramp in his arm and had to stop before he could resolve the plot. The plot A critically aclaimed author leaves his girlfriend at home to attend his football star buddies wedding to a woman whom with the author is secretly in love with. The aforementioned novel, however, is a chronical of an afair had betweent the author and the football players current innocent fiancee. The entire film is spent on the characters running around trying to figure who does and does not know the actual connotation of the book. Let me get this straight  a football player and his buddy beat one another crapless, wrestle, and argue with each other for the effection and honor of a sweet innocent woman when both men previously mentioned are whores. Wait, let me get this straight the author leaves his girlfriend, tries to hook up with an old friend, maintains a strong love for the fiancee, and proposes to his girlfriend at the films end.  There really needs to be a sequal to show how al lof these people are in rehab or on Jerry Springer or maybe seeing some type of counselor.  I know I'm seeking professional help after the viewing of this film. Watch it.  I shouldn't have to suffer alone. "},{"Title":"Naaaah!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film stinks. I know there are lot of people giving it praise because it portrays middle-class black people. Well hey, 'Eyes Wide Shut' portrayed the lives of middle-class white people and it was still terrible! I think people need to get some perspective, imagine if everyone in this film was white instead of black, would you still think it was a good film? Would there be anything worthwhile about it at all?It's junk. The resolutions are so pat and ridiculous. I would call this film average instead of terrible if it hadn't been for the 'hooker with the heart of gold' storyline. Bleeugh! Thank god that the ambitious black woman got put back in her place eh? This film is a step forward alright (!). Watch 'The Wood' instead, touching and genuinely funny.  "},{"Title":"One incredible film","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is full of great characters, who are rounded out into real people,and despite any flaws in them, they were all still likable. It was nice to see all of the cast interact with each other as if they haven't seen each other for years. It's a just a great movie, and its replay value is above a lot of other movies out right now. Malcolm Lee has done a fine job with this film. Go ahead and see it! Now! "},{"Title":"A good Movie, but not as good as it was cracked up to be","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It seemed too slow, but I watched this movie after watching The Wood, so you know.  It was slow, like a Love Jones, and I liked that movie so I don't know.  I thought that it is for the type of person who liked that movie Love Jones.  It went a little slow, and I don't think it was all that.  "},{"Title":"This one has to be a part of my home video library!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At first I thought maybe it would be an OK movie... everyone kept saying it was better than Waiting to Exhale & How Stella Got Her Groove Back - but being a skeptic I didn't believe them.  But that Mr. Chestnut!!! Oh My Gaud! Since what was that movie Boys in the Hood and that Patti Labelle show - he sho nuff grew up didn't he!  And of course my girl Nia Long Hey! All the actors put on great performances.  I expect to see some stars rise from this film.  "},{"Title":"A good black people movie","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I never can find that many movies about black people.  The  ones I find are about black criminals or black people acting stupid.  This is one of the first movies that I have found that are about black people being successful, and it was funny too! "},{"Title":"What can I say, absolutely brilliant !!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the one of the few movies that I've ever enjoyed in my life. The cast is absolutely brilliant, the sound track is good. I bought the sound track, the song by Marc Nelson & Beyonce fits perfectly in the movie. Great one ! "},{"Title":"What were the Critics Thinking","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After hearing what a great movie this was I was looking forward to watching it.  Not only did the movie fall far short of what the critics promised I found most of it to be unwatchable.  We ended up fast forwarding through the movie to find out what happened.  Definitely a movie to be skipped. "},{"Title":"Defies Stereotypes","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I actually got the opportunity to see The Best Man several months before it hit the theater. Perhaps I got the rough cut. Well, rough cut or not, I was impressed with this movie. I wasn't alone. The audience howled! What I was most impressed with was Lee's creation of characters. They were all very distinctive and well-acted. I was especially impressed with Morris Chestnut. Terrence Howard also stood out. It's interesting to me that the site recommends Steel Magnolias, if you liked The Best Man. I, however, recommend love jones, another movie that presents to the viewer young, black, professionals. "},{"Title":"Must See Film","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a relief after the deluge of gravity-defying and morally reckless athletes that careen through commercials and the evening news.  What a release from the exploitative and predictable portrayals of African-Americans in films such as Black & White, Any Given Sunday, I Got the Hookup, and Next Friday.  Finally, An intelligent thoughtful film about articulate, intelligent, upwardly mobile black people.  A romance with enough sparkling humor to have me laughing aloud though I watched the film alone. In the vein of Waiting To Exhale but vastly superior to that film, we have young African-Americans struggling with love and friendship.  Lee is able in elegant fashion to fulfill the greatest promise of film, which is to present a captivating fantasy that teaches us something about ourselves.  There were believable performances in every major role with Howard and Lathan leaving the pack. Beautifully directed and moving until the end, I can't recommend this film highly enough.  "}{"Title":"Great Date Movie!","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was warm, funny, sexy, and smart.  Mr. Lee's directorial debut was a success! The dialog was delivered perfectly and the actors were made for the roles.  I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants to sit back, relax and have a good time with the one they love. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First, I like to go to a movie and be entertained. This movie was one of them. Acting was great. I like sexy Nia long and Taye diggs. Terrance howard is pretty . Sometimes skeltons come back to haunt you. Music was great too. "},{"Title":"A nonsensical ensemble buddy film that falls flat.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While watching this film, I kept wondering how this ever made it past the pitching stage.  I keep seeing the writer in the room saying, But this really happened, for the plot appears to be a lame adaptation of some post-college celebrity's life experience.What actually happens in this movie is unclear, and not made any more clear by the jagged, amateur editing and directing which (maybe for the best) distracts us from the first half hour of the film.  Thence on, the viewer is subjected to a reunion of college buddies getting together for the wedding of a famous friend.  Doubt and betrayal appear and disappear magically, as in all buddy-wedding films, but instead of adding to the cliched plot, Best Man takes away from it, destroying the charm and levity of the original. What is left is nonsensical anger, contrived forgiveness, and a waste of time. "},{"Title":"A great movie with actors that made the characters real.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed the entire movie and all of the characters.  But I have to admit...I went back to see it two more times (so far) because of Terrence Dashon Howard.  What can I say...those eyes and especially that smile! Oooooh, that smile!  I saw the movie for the first time less than two weeks ago and saw it for the third time tonight.  I'll be waiting for when it goes on sale.  Please hurry!! "},{"Title":"This movie is a great movie to see with your significant other or a group of friends.","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Malcolm Lee hit the nail right on the head with this movie. The casting was perfect, everyone did a beautiful job with this movie. Taye Diggs was able to show more of his dynamic acting abilities. Nia Long who played as Jordan Armstrong acted the part as though she lived it every second. Nia is definitely a work of art. Morris Chestnut really impressed me. He is a very talented actor, and after this movie he should be offered a wide variety of acting roles. So, go out and treat yourself to a well produced movie, you'll definitely leave out feeling happy and satisfied that you did.  "},{"Title":"It was the best dramatic film I've ever seen since SoulFood.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was the best movie that Malcolm Lee produced. Nia Long, Taye Diggs, and other supporting actors and actresses have performed their roles so excellent that should be a part 2 to this film. If you haven't already, get the soundtrack to this film it sounds wonderful. "},{"Title":"A very good movie with a great cast and excellent story line","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very well written and acted out.  Taye Diggs does a wonderful job as does Nia Long and the other supporting characters in this cast. Malcolm Lee's directory debut is a good one.  I was surprised at how good this movie was. Definitely worth the money to see this one.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent movie.  Well written, directed and acted.  One of the few movies well worth the price of admission. See it, and enjoy... I have no idea how a movie such as this could receive ratings of 1.  Which account for 10% of the total votes, obviously these people did not actually see the movie, and must have a hidden motive behind such a rating. "},{"Title":"A Turning Point in African-American Cinema","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Best Man was a good film.  It was very enjoyable to watch.  It was refreshing to see very beautiful African-American people on screen.  They were not only intelligent, educated, goal-oriented and purposeful, the films portrayal did not conform to the typical white romantic comedies.  The film has been criticized by some as being too black or ethnic.  The film has been criticized for using the term n***ger.  I found the style of communication among the gentlemen in the film as cool and laid back.  There was something very eloquent in the way the characters carried themselves. I believe the film would have lost it's integrity if it had conformed to a Notting Hill like appeal.  It would have made the film seem very artificial and pretentious.  Rather, the fact that the film did not assimilate to a mainstream romantic comedy genre should be considered a credit.  It shows that African-Americans can be intelligent and purposeful in life  and yet remain integral to black culture.  The film included humor, sentiments, and expressions proudly exemplified in black America.  But then again some people like pretentious and artificial films.  Finally, I think this film is more important for white Americans then black Americans.  For black America it finally provides some equality to how the black American experience is being presented on film (not one gun or bag of cocaine). However, mainstream American society has an internalized and very limited view of what it means to be an African-American.  And anytime an African-American escapes outside of the box (as this film graceful did), it holds he or she under scrutiny.  Hopeful for white America the film will help de-internalize the mal-depiction of African-Americans in Hollywood and society.  And then maybe through these films both blacks and whites can find some common ground and truly co-exist with mutual love and respect.  I hope this film creates a standard for black film making.  It looks like Malcolm Lee has started off on the right foot.  I apologize if my comments sound too political.  I know its just a film-)   "},{"Title":"I thought it was a wonderful movie.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I watched the movie I could relate to some people I know.  It seemed as if I was seeing some of my own friends in the movie or friends of other people.  I had just attended a wedding the day before I saw the movie and it made me wonder if anything like that applied to any of them.  "}{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a story of love, lust, imperfection and redemption.It was very funny at times, a tear-jerker at other times. Well acted. Reminded me a bit of the 1998 film Woo though this film was a LOT better. The story remains unpredictable throughout the movie.Definitely a fun date movie.  "},{"Title":"Very realistic and honest","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie realated a lot to the group of friends I hang out with. It depicts actual events that occur in the lives of friends, very real and honest. Honesty hurts but it counts. A movie that makes you feel good but makes you think about what your friends have done. "},{"Title":"Ignore skin color and see this film","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For a few weeks now I've expressed interest in wanting to see The Best Man.  As a white male, when I said this, most people gave me a look as if I just said, I'm thinking about investing money in 'Phat Beach II'!  There seems to be a belief that The Best Man is not a movie for me because I'm white.If you were skeptical about seeing The Best Man because you're not black, ignore those fillings and go see the movie.  It's slow at points, and yes, it does have some tired cliches in it, but it was nice to see a movie where people talked and developed relationships, regardless of their skin color.The Best Man is not a black film.  Yes, it stars black people and was made by black people, but it's more a film about one's friendships and how they develop as one grows older.  Don't miss it because you don't think it's meant for you. "},{"Title":"To love and to watch from this day forward.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To say the least, Malcolm Lee's The Best Man is the most respectable African-American oriented movie to be released since Soul Food and Love Jones.  The movie portrays it's characters in such a way that people of all ethnicities can go home with the satisfaction that they may know someone exactly like someone in the film.  It is a great movie that leaves viewers with a great feeling, and provides hope that the African-American film genre has risen above sophomoric story-lines of Boyz in the Hood. "},{"Title":"This is more of what Black America is looking to see...","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  This is more of what Black America probably wishes to see.  These are the types of movies that keep it real for African Americans and it allows dreams to come true.  We see enough of fake Black America on the news.  This was one of the best movies I have seen in a while.  And I go to the movies a lot. Kudos to Malcolm Lee and his thoughtfulness. "},{"Title":"Positive presentation of Black Men","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film because it showed the Black man from a variety of angles. It reminded me of the kinship of the Black women in Waiting to Exhale. What impressed me the most was that these young Black people had successful careers and were very focused on what they wanted out of life. This despite their human frailties (primarily sex and getting more sex!).Usually Blacks, especially men, are portrayed in demeaning, stereotypical roles, but not in The Best Man. I believe the most defining moment of the script was when Harper mentioned that Lance, now a professional football player, had graduated Summa Cum Laude in his class! Now that is a profound statement that goes against the perceptions that Blacks can achieve in sports but not in academics!Nuf' Said!!!Robert "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films that I have ever seen.  The entire cast was excellent, but as I have seen others note and from various comments I've heard, the character of Quentin really stood out.I have read a couple of reviews that stated this movie showed an unrealistic portrayal of African-Americans, in that they were too affluent.  This movie was very real in my opinion.  You had an up-and-coming writer, a lawyer, a pro-football player, a drifter and Nia's character worked at BET.This will be a classic and I look forward to things to come from Malcolm Lee. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In a society where there are so many negative impressions of African Americans, this film is a welcomed addition to the annals of great film making.Get ready to be totally engrossed in both the characters and the film. The cast is sublime.You will leave the movie with a smile on your face.If this is an example of the kind of movies that Malcolm Lee will be making then I can't wait for more. "},{"Title":"Humorous, sexy, and serious","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the best I've seen all year. The movie was extremely well written. The character development was outstanding and the plot was enjoyable.Humorous, sexy, and serious.I got a kick out of Quentin (Terrence Dashon Howard); his honesty was comical, blunt, and purposeful. This is a great movie for the 20-30something crowd. "},{"Title":"Funny and very true to life.","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This comical drama was one of the season's best. Most will be able to find several characters you've actually met or known. Each actors was very believable in his/her role.  A well casted movie.  A must see for all, especially engaged couples. Beware. "}{"Title":"Loved it!!!!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a middle aged, white widow, who could not find anyone to go with to this film.  It is definitely their loss!!What a great film.  All the performances were right on the mark. This movie is for everyone.  It is thought provoking, funny and it felt real.I understand that the director, Lee, is Spike Lee's cousin.  Well I guess the talent runs in the family.  Congratulations, Malcolm, on a terrific beginning!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  It was refreshing to see some intelligent, hard working, young African Americans viewed in a positive light.  The movie looks at the dynamics of friendship from a male perspective.  But more importantly, how these characters viewed the women in their lives.Bottom line  Honesty is the best policy but at what cost???? "},{"Title":"The BOMB!!!!!!!","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has been one the best movies of all time.  I went to see this movie alone and it was hilarious.  I laughed and cried.  This movie really did hit home.  I understand, and I would recommend everyone to see this movie.  All of the actors and actress was tremendous.  Diggs, Long, Chestnut, Calhoun, and all the leading stars were just beautiful.  I am definitely going to see this one more than twice. "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was excellent!!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie, everything from the cast, clothing, writing (I think you get my point), everything was great.  I think the character Quentin made the movie funny, not meaning to knock any of the other actors.  I hope to see all of these actors in a lot more movies in the future.Congratulations, Malcolm Lee!! "},{"Title":"A Breath of Creative Air!","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Best Man was such a pleasure! Although the concept has been done before (friend writes book using real experiences, and upsets other friends) it was presented and executed more creative than ever. Good job Malcolm, you've got a fan over here! P.S. Not all of us Christians are conceited hot heads, keep up the good work. "},{"Title":"catalyst to entertainment evolution...","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  if you want to see a great movie... one of the best ive seen... you have got to check this joint out... dialogue...direction...acting...cinematography...tight...dont not see this...these are some of the things i told the cats i know after i saw this movie...i thought it was outstanding...great cinema...natural acting flow...laugh out loud funny...you would be hard pressed to find a better romantic comedy better than this... and thats the truth... congrats to malcolm lee...its good to see you veering away from the soul food/in too deep...lack luster type movies that get props just for being black... we need more...we need more...we demand more... it needs to keep changing...and growing... "},{"Title":"What's Truth Got To Do With It?","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WARNING SPOILER COMMENTS FOLLOW......I've have to say as enjoyable as I found 75 percent of this movie, the ending spoiled it for me. It  fails to address the very serious issue of dishonesty and infidelity that were very much a part of the relationship between the bride and the groom. The groom never even sat down to talk to his bride about what he had found out about her and his best man. He never addressed the fact that she lied to him about being a virgin. I particularly found it really disturbing for the groom to be standing in the church taking his wedding vows and imagining his woman in bed with another man. I mean what are we supposed to take from this faith in God will conquer all, forget about the importance of good and open communication between man and wife? Just party and dance your problems away? Pul-leze! Are we to believe that this stuff wasn't going to be an issue between the two of them  in the future? That it wouldn't be the first thing he throws in her face? I know folks will say it's just a movie, but it's a movie with a message and I think the message got badly garbled in the end. There are a lot of young people out there in general  -- and especially African-American youth -- who have a very romantic notion of what love and marriage are supposed to be about. Hell, there are a lot of 30, 40 and 50-something with overly romantic notions. If you're going to tell a story about faith, love, honesty, fidelity why not address the tough stuff, too? I'm all for a romantic, happy ending. But there are all kinds of ways to get there.That said  My 20 year old niece who hears wedding bells with each new boyfriend just loved the film. Ate it up, poor ending and all!! "},{"Title":"Too Perfect","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films and black cast ensemble in awhile.  I can't believe the chemistry of the cast and script, this movie is destined to be a classic in African American cinema.  See this movie.... more than once! "},{"Title":"Smoooth, Classy, Funny","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was smoooth, classy, and funny.  It was the funniest film I have seen in years.  The actors did a brilliant job.  I would not be surprised to see an oscar nomination for Terrance Dashon Howard.  Malcolm Lee did an excellent job for a first film.   "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, I'd see it again.","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was near-excellent. It started off a little slow, but when it started rolling, there was no turning back. It has something for everyone, and it's worth the trip. For anyone that's ever loved someone, had a best friend, made mistakes with both, and lived to tell about it, you can relate. It was exciting and moving, and you can find a bit of yourself somewhere in it if you watch long enough. A definite Go See. "}{"Title":"Well-Written Plot","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed seeing this movie.  Visually it was quite beautiful, and it was an extremely well-conceived plot. There were aspects that were subtle and didn't hit you over the head with their obviousness. The plot touched on many thoughtful aspects of life taking chances, honesty, karma, living life to the fullest everyday, that almost everyone can identify with, male or female. Every character was fully developed with both poor and redeeming qualities.  Because each character had something really worthwhile and by contrast some large flaw, it was hard to really like any one person more than another.  Luckily the acting was superb by everyone, which made for a balanced ensemble. Furthermore, the clothing was great, made me want to run to the shops. And Lastly, that rose-petal bathtub scene was worth the $7 alone!!!  I would definitely recommend. "},{"Title":"Great Ensemble","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well done. Great ensemble, script and film. I have always enjoyed Nia Long, Morris Chestnut and Terrence Dashon Howard's work.  Taye Diggs is a promising newcomer.  Who doesn't love a love story especially when there's a good, strong and refreshing plot. "},{"Title":"A very funny and smart movie worthy of seeing","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie at a screening in Los Angeles.  I had high hopes and expectations, and they were all met.  It was very refreshing to see a movie with an African American cast that was not insulting or that pandered to the lowest common denominator.The Best Man was smart, funny, original, real.  The audience enjoyed it . What makes this movie enjoyable is that you care for the characters.  T. Diggs, does a great job at making you want to applaud him as well as smack him in the head.  The rest of the cast did an awesome job, everyone gets a chance to run with the ball - they take their turn, and pass it off back to someone else.Tech and photog. were also very well done.  A wonderful film.  "},{"Title":"Friends & Old Passions Reunite...","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hilarious & heartwarming, Lee's film is a great, feel-good movie; college friends reunite for a weekend wedding and discover new & old truths about themselves.  This movie will definitely have you in tears--of pain and laughter!Thanks to Lee for a much-needed improvement in this genre. "},{"Title":"Strong ensemble cast","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Enjoyed film.  Strong, young cast.Touching at times.  Hilarious at other times.Well written story.  Excellent first direction for Malcolm Lee.Audience at TIFF reacted well to the film.  The director was very gracious in responding to questions after the presentation. "},{"Title":"Far from novel and far from the best.","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Taye Diggs plays Harper Stewart, a writer who is just about to release a new book full of uncomfortable similarities between himself, his friends and the characters contained within. Can he stop people recognising the thinly veiled truth as he prepares to be the best man at his best friend's funeral or will past betrayals finally be brought to the surface at the most unfortunate of times? On top of that, his friends have their own problems and neuroses and Harper has to decide if he is finally ready for commitment with his girlfriend, who he loves very much but seems to keep distant from in certain areas.Yes, it's a romantic comedy-drama full of moments that we've seen done before and while unoriginality is not a cinematic sin (or, good grief, we would rarely see any film released in cinemas) it isn't a good thing when everything has been done BETTER than the movie you're currently watching.The cast is appealing enough (Diggs is fine, Morris Chestnut is very good, Nia Long is lovely, Terrence Howard is a standout and Harold Perrineau is great as the one whipped male of the group) and even the supporting members do well (Regina Hall is cuter than she's ever been and Sanaa Lathan makes the most of her limited character . . . the girl that Diggs should realise he wants to keep hold of) but this movie limps along thanks to a dull script and flat direction with nothing to really immerse you in the movie's environment.A romantic comedy-drama with unfunny comedy, romance you don't care for and drama that starts to unfold before you even get to know who's involved in it all. When the ball does get rolling you can already see how things are going to end up. A poor show.See this if you like Brown Sugar, The Brothers, Morris Chestnut. "},{"Title":"A sexy and stylish variation on THE BIG CHILL","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE BEST MAN is a hip and sexy re-thinking of films like THE BIG CHILL and RETURN OF THE SEACAUCUS SEVEN, this time with an African American cast. The film centers on a group of college buddies who are reuniting for a wedding. Things get sticky when one of the group has written an about to be published novel, where the characters are just thinly disguised versions of his friends and how revelations in this book alter and shake the foundations of these relationships. Taye Diggs is attractive as Harper, the author of the book and the best man at the wedding; Morris Chestnut plays a professional football player and the groom; Nia Long is sexy and funny as Jordan, a TV journalist/Oprah wannabe who hopes to rekindle a romance with Harper at the wedding; Harold Perrineau plays a grade school teacher caught in a stranglehold of a relationship with an emasculating female (Melissa DeSousa); Terrence Howard steals every scene he is in as this group's voice of reality; Sanaa Lathan plays Harper's fiancée who can't get Harper to commit and Monica Calhoun is the bride who is at the center of the explosion caused by the book. There's nothing terribly original here, but the cast is charismatic and works very hard at making the material fresh and appealing. It's predictable, but still fun is to be had here. "},{"Title":"Decent wedding flick","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As far as I am concerned I've only seen one decent wedding flick in my life and that is Four Weddings and a Funeral. But after today I think I can count The Best Man as another decent wedding movie. It's nowhere near as good as Four Weddings..., but it is still a rather entertaining film. The cast are also great. "},{"Title":"A good story, well-acted and directed, a real gem of a movie.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Best Man is a very under-rated movie, and it doesn't look like it had a vey extensive audience.  What a shame, because it is better than 90% of the recent movies, so I give it 9 of 10.  I saw the DVD version, which has some great extras on the actors and director.The lead character, an author,is going to NYC to be best man in his college friend's wedding.  However, that's only the initial meaning of the title.  The deeper meaning is embodied in the soundtrack becoming the best man that you can.As the movie unfolds you learn about the interesting characters and begin to really care for each one. The movie has a lot of laughter, a good fight scene, and scenes that bring tears to your eyes.  The acting is uniformly superb across the fine cast.  Direction and editing likewise are superb. "},{"Title":"Channeling the best of Raymond Carver","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Best Man is the closest thing to Raymond Carver's work that I've seen on film, and that's a great compliment to pay. Coincidence or not, the main character of Harper Stewart (Taye Diggs) is a writer as well, and references to Hughes and Wright are in the film. Harper has just had his first novel published, has a beautiful girlfriend (Saana Lathan), and seems to have it all together. He's nervous about commitment and the reaction to his book, which serves as a fictional interpretation of his young adult life. Harper is certainly justified in his worry, as he doesn't pull any punches, and once the real versions of his characters read what he's written about them, he has to face his mistakes and be, literally, the best man he can be.The film centers around one whirlwind weekend that has the four main characters reminiscing in advance of Lance Sullivan's (Morris Chestnut) wedding. Lance is a pro footballer, engaged to Mia (Monica Calhoun), who has stood by him despite his egregious lack of fidelity. My guess is that Mia doesn't even know the half of it. Lance is a classic alpha male- he's so strong in body and belief, but cannot make the connection between his steadfast conviction and keeping it in his pants. So, like many men, he's a 'dog'. Harper is a 'dog' in a different way- he's sneaky in his selfishness, and takes those that love him for granted. Quentin (Terrence Howard) is a knowing, world-weary 'dog'- he's been around the block, has known his share of disappointments, and brings balance to this group of friends. Howard's turn here (the first I was exposed to him) lends gravity to the film- he's the one who knows what's going to go down once the dirty laundry is aired, because he's already gone through the maturation process that the other three haven't. Murch (Harold Perrineau from 'Lost') is the spineless 'dog'. He clearly lacks the confidence to stand up for himself, and therefore doesn't have what he really wants.As I mentioned before, Carver's influence is present, intentional or not. It's never more evident than the poker game our main group shares, and the way the characters interact. What is said during this particular scene provides deep insights into gender roles, relationships, sex, religion, honesty, and loyalty- all within a 10 minute scene. The men may talk crudely, but the truths are clear. These men are good, caring people, but have done selfish things. No amount of aggression can keep the powerful truths from coming out, truths that Harper's book give away. It says something for a film that might be seen as a traditional rom-com that instead says something about really becoming a man.Without giving away everything, let's just say that eventually it hits the fan. By then, we're so invested in the characters that the reactions from all involved seem justified. Lance must face the music in the most powerful way- in the moment that should be his greatest, he's finally humbled for his indiscretions. Perhaps it's Morris Chesnut's performance, or maybe the script is that good, but in that moment I felt both a satisfaction and a sadness for his character's punishment. Quentin is finally rewarded by the film for being the 'cool, level-headed' one that leads the characters towards the truth, Murch grows a pair and gracefully moves on from his overbearing, confidence-sucking girl, and Harper? He's forced to be self- reflective, to recognize the good in his life, the need versus the want, and to not take things for granted. All of the character arcs, including the females, make sense in their conclusions. It's something that can only happen when a filmmaker cares enough about the characters. Most adults have been through similar life events and the emotions that go with them; this movie respects its audience enough to challenge them with specific thoughts about manhood, relationships, change, and the like. It's rare for that to happen, but it's what Carver's book did, and what this film does as well.Sure, there are some problems with the film. For whatever reason, the script requires these characters to have the most bombastic and presidential names, insisting that they say those full names over and over for the first quarter of the film. It's overtly obvious that Malcolm Lee thought it necessary to establish these people as successful, professional, driven individuals to distance this film from others released in the same vein. Unfortunately it comes across as awkward; they're the kind of names little girls give to tea party guests. Harper Stewart. Jordan Armstrong. Lance Sullivan. Julian Murch. Shelby. Robyn. Mia Morgan. Candace. There's something&#x85;off about that. As well, the perfunctory and impromptu proposal by our lead seems oddly misplaced, especially considering his apparent understanding of the situation; I'm not sure that a humbled character like Harper should be leaping back into the fire he just escaped.Obviously I forgive the film that minor slip. It's important to note that this cost 9 million to make in 1999. Considering that many of the cast members have continued working since then, many successfully, and considering this film's appeal why not revisit the characters? It's a good opportunity when it normally wouldn't exist for a romantic comedy, and I'm looking forward to seeing how these characters have progressed 15 years later when The Best Man Holiday comes out. "}{"Title":"Why cant reality be this much fun..","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved the feel-good factor this movie extolled. I love the blend of comedic situations with the 'yes it happens..' drama. I give special props to the role of Perrineau, for his character mirrors my innermost fears which are smoke-screened by spineless bravado. I want a drop dead gorgeous lady in my life to infinity, and would give all I have to get her! I'm so impressed with Terence Howard's successes since this release, and in hindsight admit, he'd be my chosen alter-ego.My final thought is for Sanaa; Reality would never demean your personal qualities to 'hoping' you make the cut from any man's proverbial wish- list, so your in-character presenting was very very good. Well Done Mr Producer. You nailed it. Now get the Corp big wigs to release this worldwide. "},{"Title":"The Best Man is the equivalent of Terry McMillan for guys.","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Classy romantic comedies about African-Americans that neither deal drugs nor go on booty calls were unusual fare for Hollywood in the pre-Tyler Perry era. Waiting to Exhale (1995) charted this change of attitude in the depiction of blacks that caught on in later movies like Soul Food, Eve's Bayou, Love Jones, and The Wood. Director Malcolm D. Lee's witty, sophisticated, but dramatically well-rounded yarn The Best Man is the latest to capitalize on this trend. Despite some profanity and raunchy sexual allusions, The Best Man endorses marriage, fidelity and religious values. Nobody gets shot, stabbed, or coked up the nose. The characters qualify as intelligent, positive, upscale role models and stereotypes appear conspicuously absent in this seriocomic account of a weekend college reunion before a classmate's wedding.Happily, The Best Man shuns racism either as a political issue or as a narrative theme. Actually, this lighthearted but occasionally down to earth comedy of errors looks and sounds like something Oscar Wilde or George Bernard Shaw might have penned. The point is that The Best Man emerges as a polished mainstream comedy where the characters are first and foremost people with all of the foibles and frailties of mankind. A strong ensemble cast headed by charismatic Taye Diggs, who won over audiences in When Stella Got Her Groove Back, distinguishes writer Lee's accomplished directorial debut. Unlike his famous, more often controversial brother Spike Lee, Malcolm sticks to the story and avoids tangents.Chicago author Harper Stewart (Taye Diggs of Go) has just written his first novel. Appropriately entitled 'Unfinished Business,' Stewart's about to be published story has been picked up by Oprah Winfrey's book club. Life couldn't be better for the novice novelist. The froth of Harper's success fizzles when he learns that his ex-college flame, BET-TV producer Jordan Armstrong (Nia Long of Friday) has circulated an advance copy of his semi-autobiographical effort among his close chums. When Harper arrives in New York City for the weekend festivities surrounding the impending marriage of football star Lance Sullivan (Morris Chestnut of Half Past Dead) and Mia Morgan (Monica Calhoun of Love & Basketball), he finds himself up to his ears in hot water.Naturally, Harper's friends have perused his novel. They bicker about who he used as models for his fictional characters. Things come to a boil when Lance suspects the worst. He believes that his sweetheart Mia may have bedded down with Harper, the guy he chose to serve as his best man. Reluctantly, Harper confesses, and the once philandering football star blackens his eye at their stag party and then threatens to throw him off the balcony. Lance calls off the wedding without warning Mia and then storms out of the party. Harper realizes grimly that he must patch things up. The next day everybody shows up at the church in their finest garb, but poor Mia has no idea why Lance is tardy.The Best Man is the equivalent of Terry McMillan for guys. They form a closely-knit group of friends who have achieved success of their own right after college. Predictably, their reunion sparks old rivalries and bitter jealousies. Harper finds himself in trouble long before he arrives in the Big Apple to celebrate with his friends. Just as his publishing career is gaining momentum, Harper's girlfriend goads him about a commitment that he balks at giving. Quentin (Terrence Howard of Iron Man) is a cynical career drifter who cannot find a woman for himself but who doles out advice to Julian Murch (Harold Perrineau, Jr., of The Matrix Reloaded) about how to deal with his prima donna girlfriend Shelby (Melissa De Sousa of Biker Boyz). Finally, Lance has decided to settle down now that he has inked a $5-million contract to play for the New York Giants.The Best Man towers as a four-star romantic comedy in the tradition of The Big Chill with characters who never get short-changed and an ending that is agreeably believable. "},{"Title":"Another Buppieploitation Film.","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Handsomely produced but ultimately shallow movie that is part of a fast-burgeoning genre the buppieploitation film.  Get a handful of the most insanely gorgeous Black actors, set the movie in a popular metropolitan city, add a trendy r&b soundtrack, get plenty of promotion on BET and Vibe magazine, and--voila!--you have a box office hit in your hands.  These movies may smartly dodge ghetto stereotypes, but they resort to the same chick flick chiches that you'd find in a, say, Julia Roberts or Meg Ryan film.  Taye Diggs is Harper Stewart, a struggling actor who flies to New York to be the best man of his college buddy's wedding and just completed a novel called Unfinished Business.  The book, as well as Harper's shady past, causes all sorts of friction between his friends and his love interest Jordan, played by Nia Long.  I'll be a good sport and I won't risk revealing any spoilers, but even if I did, it wouldn't be a big deal.  Not only is the plot predictable, but the characters do not possess not an ounce of realness or believability.  I don't know what kind of book deal Harper Stewart has, but it must be a lucrative one considering his GQ wardrobe.  Nia Long isn't required to do anything more than look pretty and act feisty, while Morris Chestnut remains a promising actor trapped, yet again, in a poorly written role.  The only character I liked was Shelby (Melissa De Sousa).  The script makes her look like a total drama queen, but if I were always in the company of such shallow status-conscious people like Harper and Jordan, I, too, would be agitated as Shelby was.  Don't get me wrong; The Best Man is a well-produced movie.  But the gloss is there to trick you into thinking that the film is way better than it actually is.  The discerning viewer will notice the con job right away. "},{"Title":"The #1 black soap opera","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   A friend (Harper) travels to participate as the best man at his friend's wedding. In which he leaves behind his girlfriend (Robin) till the day of the wedding. He publishes a book about his experiences in college and mentions that at one point he slept with the bride to be.  Due to an old fling who (Jordan) wanted a preview of the book for her job.  She wanted to have sex with him till the day he arrived in town. The groom to be (Lance) thinking no man has ever touched his woman was furious after he got his hands on the book. He beats his boy (Harper) senseless at the bachelor party. Now why didn't he (Lance)  ever confronted his fiancee about it? Instead of almost calling off the wedding. This is strictly a drama movie the infidelity,mistrust and the heart-break the downfall of most black relationships. Morris (Lance) played a brilliant dramatic actor thumbs up to that brother.  "},{"Title":"An amusing and effective film.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The last movie I can remember that kept me smiling throughout was `Notting Hill.'  What `Notting Hill' and `The Best Man' have in common is that they are well written, sweet and funny romantic comedies with charming performances, the two best of its genre to come out this year.  `The Best Man' wasn't as good as `Notting Hill,' but that doesn't matter, I still loved it.  The film stars Taye Diggs, who has been a very busy boy lately.  He has been in four movies in the last seven months and I hope he doesn't suffer from overexposure because he is a very talented actor.The film was directed by newcomer Malcolm Lee, cousin of Spike Lee, one of the most innovative, powerful and underrated directors in the industry.  `The Best Man,' oddly, reminded me of Woody Allen's 1997 film `Deconstructing Harry,' which also has a plot about a novel's account of personal relationships of the author.  Its portrayal of African-Americans is very positive and direct.  Hollywood often makes the terrible mistake of making black people drug-dealers, gangsters, pimps and slaves when they can be just as well adjusted and normal as white people.  Interestingly enough, I wouldn't even call `The Best Man' a black film because the turmoils the characters face in this film are universal and can relate to anyone.  Part of the picture's strongest features is how it discusses and deals with relationships and how business and pleasure should never collide.  This is one of the year's best films. "},{"Title":"Another Wedding Movie - with a Zing!","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE BEST MAN doesn't try to invent a new concept in comedy, it doesn't attempt to be a 'great movie', it simply entertains on every level as another look at the interpersonal challenges that happen in the heightened atmosphere of a wedding. This time around the cast is African American and for once this is not a Blacksploitational film. Yes there are plenty of in jokes and idiosyncrasies that perhaps not everyone in the audience will 'get', but the story works well and the cast is one of the best collected on film.Four very handsome men - Taye Diggs, Morris Chestnut, Harold Perrineau, and Terrence Howard - are the male side of wedding party, the very beautiful women being Nia Long, Sanaa Lathan, Monica Calhoun and Melissa De Sousa - and these beautiful actors immerse themselves in a story with many twists and lessons and appear to be having the time of their lives doing it. Taye Diggs has the lead and continues to show his growth as an actor. But it is the pleasure of seeing the now famous Terrence Howard in one of his many early roles that makes the film truly worthwhile. Not a great movie, but a film of sound production and some of the most appealing actors around! Grady Harp, January 06 "},{"Title":"Great Ensemble","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a pretty good film.  Even though the plot has been seen hundreds of times, buddies getting together for a wedding and long simmering secrets come bubbling to the surface.  However, the thing that helps make this film better than what it could have been is the great ensemble cast headed by Omar Epps, Morris Chestnut and Nia Long.  The three of them had great chemistry and really made this film a treat to watch. "},{"Title":"Boring and predictible","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all, it's great that we have an all African-American cast in a drama that doesn't involve guns or drugs.  Also everbody looks great--men and women.  That's about it for compliments.  The Best Man involves a bunch of college friends getting together for a wedding.  However, one of them has just written a thinly disguised book about his college years and reveals some secrets that shouldn't be revealed.  Naturally all hell breaks loose.  Plotwise, that's nothing new--also the characters are nothing new.  All the men are afraid of marriage (I'm SO sick of that being used as a plot), all the women are ready for it.  These characters have been done before and this movie offers nothing new.  They keep talking and talking and TALKING about the same things we've heard before.  None of the characters are likable--there isn't one person in this movie that I liked or found believable.  The plot moves very slowly, and the same events are talked over again and again.  As the main character Taye Diggs is (suprisingly) bad.  Everything else I've seen him in he's been good.  So why is he so terrible in this?  All the other actors are OK.  Also, is it possible to have a movie with black guys that doesn't have them calling each other n****r constantly AND swearing a blue streak?  If these were urban youths I could accept it, but these are college-educated men!  Also there is extremely sexist dialogue (against women) and they're portrayed as either witches or sex objects.  Don't even get me started on the script--it's boring!!!!!  I kept dozing off during the endless talking.  Nothing wrong with lots of dialogue, but make it interesting!  Let's have more movies like this, BUT with better scripts and better actors! "},{"Title":"Women beware NEVER use your brain","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is disgustingly misogynist. The only women who end up happy in the end are the stripper, the woman who accepts her fiance's infidelity even though he expects her to be a virgin and the woman who has to win her boyfriend (the best man) back from a strong, independent woman by helping him to save the aforementioned ill-conceived marriage, and by being a fantastic cook. Any woman who dares to think of herself as equal is doomed to misery. "}]