[{"Title":"A lesbian midsummer night's dream","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, what can one say about this film? You could just agree to all the bad critics that have been written about it &#150; that Better than chocolate is nothing more but a cliché and an unrealistic fairy tale. Fairy tale's the word What is cinema supposed to be if not a fairy tale? It's unrealistic; it helps us forgetting our daily troubles and allows us to dream and to bathe in romantic feelings. And these are exactly the reasons I recommend Better than chocolate and think that it's a splendid movie, a hilarious comedy and a love story so sweet you just get enchanted by it.It's a classic The sweet princess, Meggie, just quit university and preferred becoming part of Vancouver's gay scene, performing in a gay bar (and she's so great in it!) and working in a lesbian book store. Things seem to go pretty fine until the day when Maggie's Mum Lila calls and informs our princess that she just left her current husband and wants to move in with Maggie, bringing Maggie's teen brother Paul with her. The problem is Mum doesn't know (or doesn't want to know) that her little daughter is gay. Things get even more problematic when one night, after her performing at the club, Maggie meets her knight, who does not wear an armour or ride a white horse, but who is an attractive, tough and cool girl named Kim, rides a funky van and lives on the road, earning her money with drawing portraits. When all the characters mentioned above finally find themselves living under the same roof some days later, things become chaotic and almost grotesque cause it's so obvious that Kim and Meggie are a couple but Lila is simply blind for it.Mind you, the movie also deals with other interesting characters. We get to know Frances, the neurotic owner of the book shop Maggie works in. There is also Judy, who once was Jeremy, but now is a woman and hopelessly in love with Frances. And don't forget Carla, whose favourite pass of time is sex, who seduces almost every person crossing her way, is an expert in the newest *toys* and digs on Maggie as well as her brother Paul.Of course it's one or two clichés, I mentioned it before. But if you see how lightly and heart-warmingly the story is told, if you hear the hilarious jokes and one-liners, follow the soft filming of the camera you just can't help forgetting about those clichés and falling in love with this movie. For in the middle of this colourful chaos the love story between Kim and Maggie is the calm and comforting pole, it's told in silent pictures and gentle sounds (which become a bit louder when it comes to &#133; well, the making love part). And this beautiful love story has highlights of its own, and I don't want to reveal even one of them. I can only say that much A lot of colour and &#133; goddesses ;) (everyone who's seen the movie of course knows what I'm talking about) There is also something else I love about this film Although it's a fairy tale and most parts of it are simply utopic, Better than chocolate can be inspiring and show possibilities The possibility of an alternative life style and that you can be comfortable with it, no matter what others might think, the possibility to break out of certain expectations society burdens us with and the possibility to love differently. For example when Maggie quits her finance studies to live her dream of being an author. So, besides allowing us to dream, this film also gives incredible hope and this might be its greatest strength.A word on the cast which is simply &#150; brilliant. And before concentrating on one of the protagonists, who in my opinion stood out, I'd like to compliment the others. There is this young actor playing Paul, who up to Better than chocolate has had no acting experience but is very good at what he's doing. There is the sex-ridden but likable Carla. The neurotic Frances &#150; Canada's currently probably most famous lesbian actress and author Ann-Marie MacDonald (and according to director Anne Wheeler the only openly gay actress participating in this movie). The icing on the cake in this film are two profound Canadian actors &#150; Wendy Crewson as Lila and Peter Outerbridge as Judy. Wendy (who is probably most familiar as Harrison Ford's wife in Air Force One) is just outstanding as the confused, sweet and clueless Mum with a weakness for chocolate. Peter Outerbridge is just incredible as Judy and you really have a hard time to believe that this is his first transsexual performance &#150; he's so great in this role and just a beautiful woman. And now let me point out the person who impressed me most with her performance Christina Cox as Kim. She's hot, she's sexy, she's tough and cool but at the same time so soft and feminine. I think only few actresses can add so many different facets to their role. I mean, she could have easily played a simple butch, but she adds such charisma and dignity to her character &#150; it's just amazing. There, enough said, she's just great. The movie's soundtrack is a highlight of its own &#150; Sarah McLachlan with Ice Cream for example &#150; and perfectly mirrors the film's young spirit, it's modern, it's sexy, it's dreamy and it rocks. And with this I'd like to give Better than chocolate three thumbs up &#150; a summer movie with heart, soul, humour and a lot of love. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can honestly say that I have never seen a lesbian move that really made me feel all warm and snuggly. I just thought the whole plot was perfect. I have nothing bad to say about the actual movie itself. I really thought they picked the perfect people to play the main parts. Having good actors and actresses really make the whole movie more enjoyable.Better Than Chocolate certainly was one of those movies where you could sit back and relax and just enjoy it. A true romantic comedy. I personally have not seen a movie that shows what life is really like for lesbians and well, this one certainly does. I would definitely recommend this film to anyone. Old and young alike. "},{"Title":"Better than double fudge!!!","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought I should start closing my blinds at night, since the character of Frances IS me! I was extremely impressed by the two leads, Karen Dwyer and Christina Cox.Their love making scenes were utterly realistic, a tribute to the acting ability of these two lovely ladies.(unless, of course, they are truly lesbians) But for me, the supporting cast was equally amazing. This is a group of great Canadian actors, who have proven once again that Canada can hold her own when it comes tothe arts. Outstanding performances by Peter Outerbridge, Anne-Marie MacDonald andWendy Crewson. I loved every one of you. I think anyone who feels the need to dis this movie is taking life way tooseriously!(Nothing like a dyke with an attitude, eh?)  "},{"Title":"Not the best lesbian film","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie. It wasn't the best lesbian film I've seen, but it's quite sweet.I'll get the bad points of the movie out of the way first. My main problem with the film was that the characters weren't really deep. You couldn't really relate to them much as the makers only skimmed the surface of their personalities. I felt the same way with the plot, too. It needed a few viewings before I could really get into this film.On the other hand. Although a little bland, the characters where still quite sweet. And funny. My favourite being Judy, the loveliest drag-queen ever! If you like romantic little stories, and are a fan of gay cinema - then you should see this movie. "},{"Title":"The problem with Canadian cinema...","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The problem with Canadian cinema is that most of the time it is pretty good, pretty different from those ugly Hollywood formulas. Another problem is we don't have the chance to see these movies in Canadian theatres, because it is filled with USA. Director Anne Wheeler is from west Canada. It's the third of her movies I see  Loyalties (1986, with fantastic Indian actress Tantoo Cardinal) Bye bye blues (1989) These two have a Canadian cultural edge to it. Not this one  it is universal, but set in Canada. What the three movies have in common is the FEELINGS! They are also very feminine. This one is a romantic comedy, with good acting by Christina Cox and charming Karyn Dwyer. It's fun, human, intelligent. Did I have to say this is a movie about lesbians? Not really  it's just a pretty good romantic comedy. I'd like to see more of Anne Wheeler because I'm sure she's a great talent from Canada. By the way, I'm sure that Canadians from the west don't really know about Quebec's films. Very sad! We make a pretty good lesbian picture too  Revoir Julie. Thanks to miss Wheeler and all the cast. "},{"Title":"It's Never Too Late For Love, Even If It's Battery Operated","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Better Than Chocolate is a Canadian film about the relationship between mother and daughter which turns out to be a lot closer than we're originally led to believe. As the mother, Wendy Crewson appears to be oblivious to the fact that daughter Karyn Dwyer is a lesbian.At least that's how it appears when she drops in unannounced on her daughter and a recent new girl friend, Christina Cox. The pretext is that Dwyer has dropped out of the university, but Crewson wants to check out more than that.Acting honors in this film go to Peter Outerbridge who plays the transgender woman Judy, formerly Jeremy. Outerbridge in his own way is playing a role as much a pioneering effort as Hillary Swank in Boys Don't Cry. Had this been a major American film, we might have been talking Oscar for him.Outerbridge is a wise old soul who's seen life from a few different perspectives. She's been cast out by her family, kind of like Michael Dunn is Ship of Fools. Just as Dunn's parents didn't want a dwarf around and gave him spending money to constantly travel, Outerbridge's parents by him a flat precisely so he can live away from them. It's quite a scene when Judy discovers that the flat is really a kiss off. Crewson and Outerbridge aid each other in their moment of crisis.If nothing else should have tipped her off that Dwyer was not living the 'normal' life those battery operated sex toys should have said something. Of course Crewson finds they have their uses and she who has said that sex is now being sworn off for chocolate finds that even battery operated love is better than no love at all. Better Than Chocolate is funny and sweet and endearing all at the same time. A triple threat on the emotions from Anne Wheeler in Canada. "},{"Title":"A beautiful celebration of life, love, and diversity.","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie rich in both love and life. Maggie, a worldly yet closeted twenty-year-old runs into her new girlfriend Kim, a similarly aged artist-on-the-road, the day before her mother and brother come to live with her and romantic adventure ensues. Maggie's mother, Lila, believes the only pleasure left in the world after her divorce is chocolate, but soon finds there still is more to life. This film covers all the bases of the LGBT spectrum and, while occasionally using stereotypes, is a beautiful way to celebrate diversity. This is one of my favorite movies for the subtle humor and beautiful theme of the movie and I, personally, give it an A+! "},{"Title":"Sex","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, this movie shows just how tastefully lesbian sex can be portrayed on the big screen. It's hot. Super hot. If I saw something like that happen in real life, I think I would explode.Not hardcore or anything like that, just creative and beautiful. The girls aren't even 10's, but they totally make it work.Sex aside, this movie actually has quite a good story, is pretty funny, and I think just about every character is likable in some way. But you definitely have to be open minded to enjoy this one.I wanted to watch this one for all the wrong reasons, only to find out that it is actually a very good movie. I'm glad I watched this one in its entirety... with the sound on. "},{"Title":"a dirty movie that's worth watching","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is that rarity, a sexually explicit film that's actually good. Chelsea Clinton-lookalike Karen Dwyer is a college dropout whose family doesn't know she's gay. Just as she's beginning her first serious relationship with beautiful Christina Cox, her mother (a hilarious Wendy Crewson) and teenage brother come for a visit. While Maggie (Dwyer) attempts to hide her relationship, her mother befriends a pre-operative transsexual and her brother makes time with a beautiful, sexually promiscuous bisexual. The movie gets bogged down in politics toward the end, but for the most part it's quite entertaining. Crewson displays an enormous comic talent as a middle aged woman rediscovering her sexuality and the sex scenes between Dwyer and Cox are beautiful and romantic. This film is aimed primarily at the gay/lesbian crowd but should appeal to quite a few straights as well. If you think Canadians are dull, rent this film and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting a pleasant bit of romantic fluff, but instead found this movie to be hilarious, hot, poignant and well-acted. The humor is all about the difficulties we face in communicating with each other, fears of coming out, of taking risks. The romantic content is passionate and believable. And the ultraviolet Julie Christie number is not to be missed. "}{"Title":"Poor characters.","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had high expectations going into this movie. I've heard such good things about it, and saw that it won those awards. About a quarter of the way through, though, I realized that it wasn't so great. Most of the characters were pretty one-dimensional. From the over-bearing, life-invading mother, to gang-raping skinhead men who randomly roaming the streets of Vancouver. Also, there's the transwoman who has a lame, self-introducing musical number about being a transwoman. Every antagonistic character was portrayed as fairly Neanderthal-like. Such as the belligerent lesbian trying to kick the transwoman out of the ladies' room, and the men who apparently react to a gorgeous naked woman with ARSON (seriously, WTF). Anyways, it had some delicious erotic scenes, and some nice romantic sappiness, so it's really not to unbearable to watch, if you don't think to hard. "},{"Title":"Like a Leonard Cohen song","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BETTER THAN CHOCOLATE is just like a ballad by Leonard Cohen it starts of slow, seems to be going nowhere, then inexplicably arrives at a place of romantic power and beauty.  Everything, from the performers to the script to the direction get better and better as the movie progresses.  5/10 for the first half of the film, 9/10 for the second half. "},{"Title":"Who Could Not Enjoy This Movie?","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Better than chocolate was a sweet, funny and tender film that explores the lives and loves of a disparate group of people. Maggie and Kim, Francis and Judy *who was once Jeremy* and in the middle of it all is Lila, Maggie's rather naive mother who with her teenage son, moves in with Maggie. The scenes between the neurotic Francis and Judy are wonderful and the scene where Francis confronts a customs officer that is holding up her books is priceless. But most importantly, it shows that love comes in all shapes and forms.You don't have to be a lesbian to love this movie. Just grab a big bowl of popcorn, sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Surprise surprise","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, the drama category is not really my cup of tea but i got stuck when this came on the other night and am now glad that i got stuck.It's actually not A love story but more like love stories. We have the lesbian couple, the lesbian book store owner who is loved in secret by the transvestite, the main characters brother who meets a bi-sexual girl and more....It deals with many of the issues people have with sexual multitude, even amongst the lines of people who are not straight. We get to see how these people experience both joy and anger, frustration and satisfaction.This is a real little gem and everybody should see it. It has a very playful atmosphere and even the sex scenes has that same playfulness to them. It doesn't feel forced or dirty but more like you go with the flow and follow a natural beautiful progress of the relationships. I especially like Karyn Dwyer's effort, natural talent at it's best. It works on many levels and is really clever and well made.Why not give it a try? "},{"Title":"Easy to shoot down.. yet easy to enjoy","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I see that a lot of people didn't like for reasons that I can agree on. But somehow I never speculated on the stereotype castings and the unrealistic lesbian love. It's the first time I watched a gay movie anyway.How to enjoy this movie Watch it as if it was a Disney movie, and smile at the fact that this Disney movie actually hails alternative living and unamerican politics. I fell in love with this movie. The whole vibe was really sweat, it made me smile a lot, exactly the way that Almost Famous did. "},{"Title":"Delight in the Peripheries","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before you see Peggy Thompson and Anne Wheeler's Better Than Chocolate, ask yourself if you want to see yet another lesbian film heavy with issues.   I, unfortunately, get easily irritated by movies weighed down with a political agenda, but, fortunately, this one had enough funny charm and emotional content to keep me interested.  The framework of the film is your typical girl meets girl, girl almost loses girl because she can't come out to her parents scenario.  The very involved subplots, however, create the film's promise.Lila (Wendy Crewson) is the betrayed house-wife going through a divorce, and mother-cum-roommate (and she's not the only character we get to see cum in the film) of the movie's central character, Maggie (Karyn Dwyer). Aside from the artfully sensual (yummy!) love-making scenes between the main character and her new girlfriend Kim (Christina Cox), the friendship formed between Lila, and her daughter's transgender friend Judy (Peter Outerbridge) makes for some of the movie's most delightful moments.One character who isn't given nearly enough screen time is Carla (Marya Delver), a gorgeous omnisexual (as described by Maggie) feminine biker babe who works at the bookstore that serves as the dramatic hub of the film. She is flirtatious and outrageously forthright with her sexual appetites. Carla seduces Maggie's seventeen year old brother Paul (Kevin Mundy) into exploring new possibilities (after all, boys like toys, too.).   I couldn't help thinking, however, that the writer was, at times, poking gentle fun at her, though with no real disrespect intended.As an interesting side note, the film steps outside  the realm of gender and sexual politics to touch on other sensitive issues.   One of those being the role of the artist.   Almost all the film's characters are artists in one way or another.   From Maggie's window installations, to Lila's forsaken Opera career, to Judy's fantastic nightclub acts, to Kim's paintings, the arts are heavily addressed.  In the dialogue between Lila and other characters we see that, as filmmakers, the writer and director have a real grasp on the difficulties of being creators.  What is fascinating is that coming out as an artist, in the film, is nearly equated with coming out as a lesbian. Aside from the annoying in-your-face rhetorical quality typical of many gay and lesbian films, Better Than Chocolate is warmly amusing and appealing to those of any gender or sexual orientation. "},{"Title":"i wouldn't say it's better than chocolate, but it's a start!!","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" in my opinion, better than chocolate is not the awesome movie that some people call it on this site, but it is also not an absolute failure. it is a typical love story between two lesbians. the plot seems very recycled as well. the mother and teenage brother of one of the girls decides to move in because of her recent divorce, and, of course, the mother doesn't know that her daughter's friend that is also living with her is really her lover.of course, there are a few side plots in addition to this. for example, maggie, one of the girls, works in a bargain bookstore that sells mostly sexually explicit-type books. the owner of the bookstore ordered some books and the shipment is held at the border by customs because of the pornographic material.there are also some love stories on the side as well. for example, a bisexual friend of maggie's falls in love with her teenage brother that moves in. also the lesbian bookstore owner starts having a relationship with a transsexual. he is getting ready to have a sex change operation to turn him into a woman.i also thought it was funny when maggie's mother finds the box of dildos underneath the bed and uses one of them (no nudity shown here). as far as the nudity and sex scenes go, i don't find that much of it too explicit so if that is all your looking for, look further, but i definitely do not think it is for children because the few sex scenes that are in this movie do get somewhat hot.overall, the movie was good but nothing special! "},{"Title":"Superb work with strong universal appeal","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Of the more than one thousand productions I have seen during my lifetime, this is definitely among the top three.It is strong in almost every respect, from its cinematography to its background music.To me, its highest appeal is its unqualified universality of emotion. How many of us have not had a parent step in at some supremely inopportune moment and ruin something valuable in our lives? How many of us have not been hated by someone who sees the world differently? How many of us have not instantly fallen in love? It is almost irrelevant that the production is set in the gay section of Vancouver or that the main characters focus on same sex love. It is emotions common to everyone that give the production its extreme appeal. I was cheering the girls, and would have been very hurt if they had not gotten back together again.I might add that this is the only DVD I have seen in which I enjoyed the director's comments as much as the production itself.Both of the young actresses displayed an amazing variety of facial expressions. The shot focusing on Cox's deep blue eyes while Karyn is unable to confront her mother with the truth is priceless, as is Cox's gesture half hiding her face and half saying so what as she flees the applauding crowd after the bathroom scene.The film's only weakness, in my opinion, is that everybody found someone in the end, at least at the very same instant. Life is simply not that generous.In summary, few viewers will be leave this experience feeling worse than when they began. "},{"Title":"Very Nice Film","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being straight, I think I might have seen the film a little differently. Loved the way the lesbian sex scenes were shot.  It was graphic without getting even CLOSE to being obscene.  The camera work on the brother peeking scene was excellent.  Felt like I was really there walking around that curtain.Wendy Crewson(Harrison Ford's wife in Air Force One) with the box of toys is a delight.There were stereotypes...mostly though of the straight characters.   Have a few G/L friends but never been to a gay bar but I'm assuming that since they didn't have ONE style of lesbian....all the lesbian characters were different...that they couldn't have done much stereotyping there.No surprises in this movie and it's not for the prudish but was enjoyable and I didn't think too loaded down with political content. Treated lesbians as normal people.  And really isn't that what everybody wants? The list of books in the book banning sequence is pretty realistic of what happens when those that know what is best for us start trying to help us out.I bought it. "},{"Title":"this movie was awesome!!!","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay so many people think this movie was sappy and sucked or was just cheesy. well all i have to say is until you have lived as a lesbian and watch pretty much every lesbian movie on the market you can't say a word. this is the best lesbian romantic comedy to date and the truest portrait of what it's really like to be in love. gay or straight you can relate to this movie. it has enough sexual feeling to keep the movie going but the movie is fully supported on it's own. if you have anything else to say to me about this then say it already..... mischad21@yahoo.com please type in the subject line...better than Chocolate "}{"Title":"Not Very Good","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie just bounced between embarrisingly lame & cliche to simply boring.  There have been better movies dealing with homophobia, coming out (seeing as 80% of mainstream gay movies are about coming out), and lesbian romance.  This movie sails through as if it's the first to deal with either three topics, with thin stereotypes for characters that make the slapstick comedy easy but the dramatic moments quite unengaging.  Apart from the lead role, which is played well, the rest of the talent has a hard time not playing as if they are in a sitcom, which this script would be far better suited for minus the poor attempts at fleshed out drama and social commentary. "},{"Title":"gay life exposed!","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Finally a movie FROM the GLBT community FOR the GLBT community, ABOUT the GLBT community!! The ways in which this film explores issues of love, family, identity and the constant fight to have basic human rights (to love and be loved) are a rarity to find, especially in any form following Hollywood film. For once the gay character in a movie isn't the laughing joke of the film, instead the straight person(Maggie's mom, filled with ignorance and anger)is. This movie might be hard to watch if you are caught up in the heteronormative society in which we reside, where minor forms of gay bashing are still acceptable, but will give you a perspective that unless you are part of the community, you have Never thought of. What a great movie! "},{"Title":"An excellent movie with great characters","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a really good story about the trials and tribulations of two young women in love. Complex issues like pornography and censorship are dealt with intelligently. Also a very good portrayal of a transgendered character nightclub performer. "},{"Title":"Good lesbian movie--an oxymoron?","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before Wheeler and Thompson set out to make Better than Chocolate, they interviewed several lesbians about what they wanted to see in a film. Disregarding the fact that the number one response was sex toys (?!), this method here points up the major problem with the film--in trying to be the ultimate lesbian film, it doesn't succeed as a narrative film at all.First of all is the problem of the romance between the two main characters. In a typical romantic comedy, which this tries to be, regardless of the atypical gender roles, you have a series of problems keeping the couple apart. Here this is not the case--like many other lesbian movies, Better than Chocolate suffers from the misconception that when two lesbians meet, they immediately fall in love. Add to this the fact that neither character has any distinguishable personality traits, and you wind up with a serious lack of plot. No tension here, and no reason to particularly care.The next problem is the rest of the story (sorry, guys). For whatever reason, in promoting a positive image of lesbians, Better than Chocolate feels the need to stereotype each one of its other characters. So you've got the repressed bookstore owner, repressed transsexual, the repressed housewife, and the omnisexual bisexual. The one story line that did seem to go somewhere was the friendship between Lila, the mom, and the transsexual character. But, unfortunately, it took second place to the love story, so no luck there.The final flaw here is in the censorship subplot, which really has no place in the story--it just feels like the writer had a desire to make a (muddled) political statement.  Like the rest of the story lines, it appears out of no where and we never get the feeling that anything is at risk. As a result, the final, dramatic blow up at the end, feels tacked on--an attempt to give the film a dramatic quality it was lacking all along.Over all, Better than Chocolate has been received pretty well. That its rating on this website is much higher than I believe it deserves seems once again a perfect example of the lesbian population's need for a good, representative film. Trust me, I'd like to see one just as much as anyone, but Better than Chocolate hits way below the mark. It's a shame more lesbian films aren't made because if this movie can do so well, it's a clear example that there's a hungry market out there. "},{"Title":"A bit far off from chocolate /","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Seeing this movie made me think that this would be set in a stripper show but then it was more then that since Maggie was rescued by artist Kim. I honestly thought some of the songs I think were sloppy and unflattering. Even though 1999 is the past but if they stuck more to songs that were in the charts that time, it would've made this movie have a better soundtrack taste. I found the mother Lila extremely annoying and frustrating to look at. I suppose that's how the script shouldve been double checked! I have no doubt that Wendy Crewson is a bad actor but I think her character should have less scene's which is not her fault.The only characters that appealed to me in this film is Judy and Frances. I thought Frances was like that person who knows what she's doing and knows how to get around things as a quiet person. With Judy, she is just lovable and is like that person that would cheer you up if your sad. Hats to you both Ann-Marie MacDonald and Peter Outerbridge D "},{"Title":"Quirky, Touching, and Provocative all in one!","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my all-time favorite movies. I still remember watching it in theater with my friend, Ndelea, and all the rush of emotions that went through me the entire time I was watching it. The cinematography is excellent and makes you feel as if you are actually there in person, like a fly on the wall.Peter Outerbridge's portrayal of Judy is superb. When Judy sings I'm not a F**king Drag Queen, despite the fact the song is very humorous, the pain that Judy feels over not being accepted as a woman is felt with every word. It is by far one of the best moments in the film.Another classic moment in the film is when Lila, portrayed by Wendy Crewson, discovers the liberation of masturbation. Lila is a woman who has no friends, is suffering a divorce, and has found herself disconnected from her daughter. When she finds the box of toys she is at first confused but curiosity takes control and she learns that she can pleasure herself and let go of all that baggage. As she approaches orgasm she is compelled to put down the chocolate she had been obsessively eating. The scene is spectacularly set to classical music and you are lifted up with Lila as she reaches her climax.The lives of these characters are so complex and their stories are told so well that you become swept up in their pain and struggle to be themselves, to find love, and to be accepted. "},{"Title":"Soft centers, hard centers. I like ALL the chocolates in the box.","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Those looking for some hot lesbian sex scenes should go elsewhere because that is not what this great film is all about. It is a fantasy and a love story and a story about tolerance and courage and, yes, it is also about lesbian love and transgender love and tantric love, and, of course, about hate.Maggie (Karyn Dwyer) is just scrumptious as a 19-year-old who left college to find out what life is all about. Circumstances put her in the path of Kim (Christina Cox), an artist, who awakens the passion inside Maggie.Just when they are starting to get to know each other, Maggie's mom (Wendy Crewson) shows up with her brother (Kevin Mundy) after she catches hubby in an affair. Maggie is trying to get her life together and mom is starting over. Makes for a funny and interesting mix, especially when mom finds the box of toys under the bed.Judy/Jeremy (Peter Outerbridge) has her/his own problems trying to be accepted as she pursues Frances (Ann-Marie MacDonald). Carla (Marya Delver) is just after anything that moves, and introduces Paul to butt plugs.There is enough laughs to satisfy anyone, there is romance aplenty, and there are issues to make you think about pain and acceptance. It is truly an outstanding film. "},{"Title":"watch it for kicks","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen a lot of movies with two girls in my life. Typically they are composed of two ending options death or happy ever after. This movie was the second, and thank god for that.I can't tell you how many times one of them dies at the end and I freak out and give up all romance movies for months. The acting was superb oin both on everyone's role.I was shocked to find the mother character having a dominate role.She did great. I have to admit, for someone as young as myself, there they overdid the nudity just a little bit, and I did feel the nudity should have started 30 seconds after the movie started, instead of 2.But overall effect was great for a midnight viewing.It kept me up at night when the younger ones were asleep. There's a chance I'll see it again, but ...who knows.Overall Don't look at it as a movie to dominate your romance feelings and make you feel great forever. Look at this movie as a temporary doorway into the homosexual world of ....forgot the state. But really...WATCH THIS! "},{"Title":"a fine fling outtake on lesbian life","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Generally lesbians are considered to be more boring than gay men. (And now I'm not referring to the blond w**k-off-lesbians that are depicted in bad pornos) But in this movie the two young leads are far from boring. They have a very healthy sexdrive as it seems and they are more free and highspirited than overtly political (even though politics become an issue toward the end of the film it is merely means to get the estranged mother and daughter to reach a common platform).The film is both charming, quirky and serious underneath its screwball surface. The most burning issue in this film is as in gay-themed movies in general to live your life without restrictions and being accepted for who, not what you are. The best means in conveying this message lies in the formidable portrayal of the transgendered Jackie and her moving love interest in the neurotic (and quite hilarious!)bookstore owner Frances. This not only shows that love indeed has no boundaries, it also makes it obvious that identities of sexuality and gender is not as static as we would like to believe. For Jackie isn't a homosexual in womens clothes. She is a lesbian.By the way the sex scenes in this movie between the girls were hot due to chemistry. Kim is one hot piece of dyke.The portrayal of the concerned mother somewhat prone to hysteria was done in both amusing and sensitive manner. its not perhaps the best drama around but for being a film with such high spirit and many laughs it has indeed tried to give some of the characters depth beyond genre convention.  "},{"Title":"Sexual liberation, general acceptance.","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just saw Better than chocolate. ***spoilers***. So, mum doesn't know her daughter is a lesbian. In the process of reaching that knowledge, and accepting it, she gets a trans sexual lesbian for a new best friend, reactivates her latent sexuality with an electric device and loses her son to a bi-sexual girl with a motor bike and a buttplug. Oh, and she also deals with her bottled up rage with the help from a few cans of paint and even more bottles of wine. All this, without being in an environment more depraved than the one the rest of us lives in. That was the movie, seen from the mothers eyes which is the best way to see this movie as far as I'm concerned.  "}{"Title":"a wonderful movie","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie rocketed to number one on my favourites list immediately upon seeing it. It is an awesome depiction of young lesbians. While all young lesbians may not have to go through exactly the same problems Maggie (the main character) does, it does show some basics being in the closet, outing/being outed, relationship problems, and sadly, homophobia and transphobia. The movie portrays almost every alternative sexual lifestyle, sans perhaps one, though one the directors gives valid reason for this in the dvd's commentary.In my opinion, the actresses did an admirable job with their characters- especially the characters of Judy and Kim. While the character of Lila is the stereotypical clueless mother-of-a-lesbian, she comes through it quite nicely, without coming off horridly homophobic. The ending is fairly odd, seeing as the situation it ends on, but the rest of the movie more than makes up for it. The 'updates' on the characters' lives after the time portrayed in the movie is nice as well, as it doesn't leave the audience hanging to wonder what happened to the characters they fell in love with. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Amusing","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a heterosexual, I think it's an entertaining and a very amusing movie. There are some nice sensual parts (the best part is when the two lesbian girls splash themselves in paint). Mostly I think it's a funny movie and the subjects are treated lightly. Therefore, I even recommended it to my teenage daughter. "},{"Title":"Better while eating chocolate!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie in my opinion... it's funny, sexy, sweet and uplifting.  It's not an overly deep film... but it's very visual and for women it's fun to watch while eating chocolate!  Whether you're gay or straight this movie can be appreciated for the love story and gender issues it presents.  And for women like me who can embrace the beauty of two women together, we like to watch this movie with our boyfriends!  "},{"Title":"How Funny!  How true!","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I laughed at the misadventures of the characters.  The second time I watched it, I really got to enjoy the story, and compare it to how I found real life.  I remember trying to hide my way of living from my mother, while living with her.  I remember the way people acted who didn't want to bother to understand a type of lifestyle different from their's.  And, of course, censorship to keep people from the types of media entertainment that they enjoy.  Basically, I just found the movie to be a terrific, and sometime tragic, reminder of myself at Maggie's age.  "},{"Title":"fun!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What this world needs is a little more comedy.  Just for fun, mind you. Do all films featuring gay characters have to be depressing like Philadelphia or have some sort of social psychiatry like the Crying Game?  Not that I did not enjoy both of those masterpieces of film, but sometimes, you need a laugh and a little silly romance, don't you think?  If so, watch this film. I found it well worth my two hours.   "},{"Title":"Fantastic !!!!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie late one night, (March2001) I was awakened and couldn`t get back to sleep.It was just coming on and I decided to watch it.I was laughing so loud about midway thru that I was afraid I was going to wake everyone up! Great acting and the characters were so true to life.Good going Canada!!!   "},{"Title":"This movie changed my way of thinking","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched the movie and I can say that it changed my mind, on the way I used to look at lesbians and canadian movies.This movie is really for women about women. I think the acting was great and the love scenes were very convincing ,it takes talent to do that. This movie says it all because it is about love, not barriers. "},{"Title":"","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie more than i thought I would.  It was very interesting and sexy.  I loved the transsexual the most.  The mom was good too.  It was a wonderful ending and I'm really glad i rented it.  I will be looking for more films about the gay community, especially lesbian films.  Go fish was also good. "},{"Title":"YEAH!!!!!","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Movie is tender and sweet, Mild and wild! I loved it! The Mother was so humerous in her naivete. The relationship between Her and Judy is sweet. Kim and Maggie are both loveable charecters and you feel for both of them. This movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"not perfect but worthwhile (subtle spoilers)","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an enjoyable and, for me at least, eye opening movie.  The acting was good (especially Peter Outerbridge) and I could empathize with the characters.  The humor seemed to flow naturally from the situations, usually a sign of good writing.  Unfortunately the ending came off as being cliche'd and tacked on.  It seemed more of a quick way to resolve a bunch of plotlines than as a natural part of the theme, almost a cliche.  At least I'm hoping it's a cliche.For me though, the real strength of this movie seems to be it's light-hearted, without being sugary, nature.  Without the burden of a heavy message it seemed more free to allow the characters to have a variety of nuances and quirks without relying too heavily on stereotypes.  It was nice seeing a Canadian production actually set in Canada too. "}{"Title":"Girl meets girl, girl deals with family...","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maggie, the woman at the center of the story, lives in Vancouver and works at a gay and lesbian bookstore. The story begins with her meeting Kim as she is passing through Vancouver. A romance quickly develops, complete with some rather hot, though discreetly photographed, love scenes. Things get more complicated when Maggie's newly-divorced mother, Lila, decides to come to town, bringing along Maggie's younger brother as well.There's a lot of good stuff going on here. Maggie and Kim are fun to watch together; they don't always get along, but it's clear that there's a strong core of affection there. Maggie's family gradually gets introduced to her lifestyle; their personal growth as they are confronted with people and situations outside their past experiences is a real strength.The main weakness of Better Than Chocolate is that it sometimes tries to do too much. With all the characters and their interactions, plus a subplot involving the bookstore, things get muddled at times.The bisexual woman is a mix of good and bad. The bad she plays to the stereotype of bisexuals as sexually aggressive omnivores. The good the film doesn't believe that this is a bad thing! "},{"Title":"Finally somebody got it right!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was wonderful.  I will even go as far to say that it is my favorite lesbian film ever.  Yes I know...there is not much to compare it to, but it is head and shoulders above what is out there.  The sex scenes are erotic and surprisingly very realistic. As for Christina Cox, the woman looks good enough to eat!  Definitely better than chocolate. I noticed that women have ranked the movie significantly higher than men. This is probably because this isn't a movie that fits the male fantasy of lesbianism.  Another plus in my book!  )  This is a must-see for all you dykes out there! "},{"Title":"One big word-YUM-MY!","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  LOVED this movie!! Two of the most adorable lesbian actresses I have ever seen. I would have killed to be in the middle of some of those love scenes! Threesome, here I come. o) Great movie. Great portrayal of lesbian life. KUDOS on that. Touches on range of emotions. Great passion between the women. (In the unrated version.) Very funny scenes! Not to give anything away, so I won't, but..vibrator scene...HILARIOUS! See it! Own it! Watch it! "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy that I have seen in a long time.","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that I was a bit skeptical when I rented the film Better Than Chocolate.  Many of my straight friend said that it was little more than an erotic film which lacked substance and was completely plotless.  To our surprise, Better Than Chocolate is actually a good movie.  It is rather easy to connect with the characters portrayed in the flick.  Unlike other lesbian films (sauf Bound), where the characters are rigid and it almost seems as though they are uncomfortable with their lesbian roles, the actors in this film seem relaxed, funny, and most importantly real.  I cannot say enough about this film--so I guess that you will have to go see it for yourself. The soundtrack is pretty good too. "},{"Title":"Great picture","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Better Than Chocolate is easily one of the best movies I've seen this year. It is well casted, well directed, and the movie itself is simply fabulous. I'm glad to see some quality queer cinema out there and I'm hoping that Better Than Chocolate is going to be a springboard for LGBT actors and directors. If you haven't seen this movie, go see it. If you have... isn't it great??? "},{"Title":"True to life.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Better Than Chocolate is closer to real life than most of the movies in this genre.  It shows how love can happen and how hatred is truly displayed in today's world.  If anyone has the chance to see it, do not hesitate. "},{"Title":"cute, one-dimensional fluff","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  if the movie weren't about lesbians, it would be boring as hell.  most of the characters don't develop (with the exception of judy the transgender and lila the mother), and most of the dialogue is uninteresting.  the political situation (a gay bookstore being targeted by customs for importing pornographic materials) is the foil for nearly all of the funny moments, while the relationship between maggie and kim, the two main characters, doesn't really develop.  i wonder what ended up on the cutting room floor. "},{"Title":"Simple but sweet","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I admit my main reason for seeing this movie is that I have a little crush on Christina Cox (who plays Kim, the love interest) and I wanted to see her in a REAL movie, not just that horrible FX Series.  The trailer on the website made it look like a pretty generic lesbian coming-of-age movie, so my hopes weren't too high.Although it didn't change my life, I was definitely pleasantly surprised. Basically it's a lighthearted romantic comedy that just happens to be about two women.  A ton of colorful characters are introduced, and each of them get a few good scenes (pretty much every scene involving Judy the transsexual is priceless), and at the end you get the vague impression that everyone's a little better person.If the filmmakers were trying to speak volumes about the gay community (there's a little subplot with Canadian customs treating gay literature as pornographic) I don't think they succeeded.  The characters learn a little about themselves and their sexuality, but none of the world's problems are solved.  This movie is a sweet, honest love story with a great ensemble cast, and viewed as such it's one of the best of its kind.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"the best lesbian centered flick i've ever seen","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Better than chocolate was hysterical and i loved the way it touched on every character's issues... the mother, the brother, the couple, the transgendered woman, the frightened lesbian...it was amazing!  i highly recommend it as a lesbian date flick. )  lots of beautiful sex scenes...mostly at the beginning. "},{"Title":"fantastic portrayal","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read the reviews about this movie, and was attracted to it because of the subject matter.  I am a transsexual, and as such wanted to see how transgendered people are treated in this movie.  I'm happy to say that I am VERY impressed with the whole movie.  The subtleties of the plot & the humour is incredible.   The portrayal of Judy (by Peter Outerbridge) is amazingly realistic.  I'm curious to know if mister or perhaps miss Outerbridge is a transsexual.  If not, he's to be commended for the portrayal he does.  If she is, then kudos for the courage to do such a fantastic job.   The passion between the characters & the way the plot intertwines makes this a must see movie. "}{"Title":"Better than many things, but not chocolate","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had real charm in places, especially the scenes involving the Italian businessman's relationship with his lesbian bookstore tenants. But many of the other relationships depicted in the film were entirely unbelievable. Most problematic was the daughter-mother relationship and the manner in which the two protagonist lesbians first got together. I viewed the film with some lesbian friends in Boston, and though they agreed that the film was at least a positive portrayal of the lesbian lifestyle, they also found it implausible in too many ways to consider it a real breakthrough film. "},{"Title":"A movie that will leave a smile on your face!","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  The only complaint I have is that it did not develop the story between Kim and Maggie enough.  Besides that flaw, the movie progressed you through a story about love, infatuation, and with a great comedic presence that you could definitely leave the theater with a smile. That was, to me, a good enough reason to see it again.  As for the acting, I thought was excellent. I hope to see more of these actors in more films or shows.   "},{"Title":"Better than mainstream","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a delight!  This show really had it all  character development, tremendous acting, fab script.  I went not knowing what to expect and came out so happily surprised.  Could Hollywood please take a hint and produce some quality shows like this one?  Not for the homophobic, it represents non-stereotyped, realistic gay lifestyles, sometimes graphically.  Excellent work.  I sincerely hope these fine actresses (and Peter Outerbridge!) get work in many films to come. "},{"Title":"Go for it","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Go for this wonderful movie. Christina Cox is the best. The best lesbian movie beside When night is falling. All people had so much fun watching this movie. I have seen it 2 times now and I will go for another. Angie "},{"Title":"Delightful & Thoughtful Comedy","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw the film at the SF Lesbian and Gay Film Festival.  As of today, (6/21) it is my favorite.  Wendy Crewson is incredible.  All the characters in the film grow in one way or another by the end of it.  An asset that all films should have.  Though I had a little problem with the look of the film, (too shadowy for the content) the acting is very good, and the message well executed.  Any sexual identity should enjoy the film. Though if you are uneasy about two women making love, you'd best avoid this one.  The film makers aren't coy about showing lesbian sex.  Hope the film gets some recognition. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had the pleasure of seeing this film at the Inside Out Gay & Lesbian Film Festival Gala in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.  It was the funniest, most intelligent film I've seen in years.  You get close to all the characters, you laugh with them, you hope for them, and you never want the film to end. It's a good feeling to laugh at a movie's intelligence instead of the slapstick Oh, look, I'm a comedy! genre that seems to pervade the film industry right now.  This is by far the best film I've seen all year. "},{"Title":"Kudos!","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had the opportunity to view this film at the berlinale film festival, and I was very impressed.  Not only was it a very entertaining romantic comedy, which received enormous public response.  It also spoke volumes on life in the lesbian community.  In my mind it could be a great crossover hit and spark interest in gay and lesbian film! This film could also open many peoples eyes to the discrimination and difficulties which face people of other sexual orientations. Because in the end we are all people, regardless of what sexual orientation we have.  "},{"Title":"A Sweet and Funny Movie  (Even if you are not a Lesbian)","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this film twice and still find it charming, funny, and touching. I would consider it in the Romantic Comedy category of movies, but a particularly good one, and including the sex scenes that most movies in that genre show only in shadow. Although I didn't find it particularly sexy because I'm not attracted to women, I still love watching this film. The characters are extremely believable. Even though it is a relatively light-hearted picture it manages to explore not only issues of sexual identity, but parental acceptance, the ability of a woman to move-on after divorce, the importance of following your dreams, and even how to deal with hate. "},{"Title":"Man what a great movie!!!!","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie shows that lesbians are just as human as everyone else.I recommend this film to everyone. Whether you identify as straight, gay, lesbian , bisexual & TG.If you want to see a great chick flick love story this is your movie! The true love between Francis and Judy was portrayed in an beautiful manner.The scene where Mom discovers the goodies box under the bed was a kicker too!The soundtrack is outstanding too, ooh sexy (dances).I want to thank all of those who brought this amazing film to us. You have done great justice for all of the afore mentioned communities. Keep um' comin', please! I would love to see more )... "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this so much, I watch it Every night when I go to bed. I'm in love with Christina Cox. she is amazing and the most beautiful woman in the whole world well her and Gwen Stefani. I'm always looking on her site to see if she's guest staring on anything. It's quite pathetic actually. It would be awesome if they did a sequel to Better Than Chocolate. That would be amazing....amazing. I don't know what they would write it about, however they are geniuses so they could do it. but yeah. I love this movie so freaking much. I suggest that everyone watch it at least 1 million times. It is amazing. Amazing. What I really liked about it is that they used such a great cast and the storyline wasn't just a regular romance. It was different from everything. I think it's because it was made by Canadians and Canadians are amazing. This movie really went out there. It showed the real troubles that we go through as glbt's. "}{"Title":"Excellent movie *SPOILERS*","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I rented this movie on the recommendation of my lesbian best friend, she recommended this, But I'm a Cheerleader and Gia, so she's been 3 for 3 with this title.This was an excellent movie. The scenery seemed bright and familiar (likely because it was Vancouver) and the movie was realistic. I know many people that cannot come out to their parents and have to hide themselves...just as there are many oblivious parents.ANYWAY.The relationship between Kim and Maggie was quite intense, and their scenes of passion were brilliant and realistically acted. I thought the painting scene was probably the most sensuous in the whole movie, I could just watch it over and over.The side stories were excellent too, from the all too real banning of otherwise routine GLBTQ books at the border, to the occasional isolation and harassment some in the gay community must feel, to the celebration they enjoy as well amongst themselves.There were some excellent scenesWhen Kim left when Maggie wouldn't admit her love, I totally felt for her. I was screaming at Maggie to just come out and say it.Lila finding the cache of dildos and vibrators was priceless, as was her fumbling for the batteries. Couldn't stop laughing.Her doofus brother spying on them...all too realistic, and their abandon continuing, just great.It also did a good deal of showing a lot of the prejudices from inside and outside the gay community...an excellent movie, just excellent.8/10 "},{"Title":"A superbly acted ensemble piece","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a feelgood film without being sickly or cloying. All the performances are complimentary without any jarring moments. Although superficially a 'Lesbian' film, the sub-plot on repressive Canadian censorship policy shows the depth of the plot. The cinematography is not innnovative, the film is a series of set-pieces, but is consistently of the utmost professionalism. Most surprising is the soundtrack which should be intrusive but isn't, the songs serve only to compliment the screen action and do not distract. One hopes that everyone connected with 'Better Than Chocolate' has gone on to prosper in their career especially the two leads who demonstrate refreshing exuberance.  "},{"Title":"smile!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie! i watched it with my boyfriend and his family and we all loved it! the relationship between lila and judy is so endearing. the whole thing was just really good!Frances was so cute and uptight, and they played shameless by ani difranco! what's not to love!? "},{"Title":"Adored it","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I knew as soon as I saw this one on the shelf at Best Buy that it would be something to remember, boy was I right!  I love this movie and have watched it at least five times since we first purchased it.  Sure, the chicks are hot and the love scenes hotter but the plot is enough to keep me coming back and the characters are lovable and memorable.I'm biased though, I have a huge crush on Christina Cox.  I'd die to be Maggie in this movie! "},{"Title":"Better than double fudge!!!","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steamy...hott...yum. Those are three words for this movie. Just watching this IS INDEED Better than chocolate. Here we're dealing with a 19 year old lesbian, Maggie, who has come out to the rest of the world..except her mother. Hours before her mother moves in with her because of a brutal divorce, she meets the woman of her dreams, Kim. Every time the two are makin love, theyre interrupted...finally..when Maggies brother spies on the two, he knocks something over as hes backing away. Kim hears and stops, but Maggie just says NEVER MIND and they finish what they started. Funny,outrageous, and steamy. The paint scene has to be one of the best scenes in the film. Will Kim and Maggie make it work? Or is there nothing better than chocolate? "},{"Title":"Just dang good","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alright this movie has some cliches, a  little regarding about gay people, but mainly in plot development. But if you can past than you'll find lots of great lines, good acting, some good characters (and IMHO good multi-level characters), some funny moments, some tender moments, and a so-so ending (not bad, but a great ending would have made this movie a classic). For people who like just a good movie and understand what the topic matter is going in, I highly recommend this film. It made me smile over and over. "},{"Title":"complimentary!!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had everything from humor to sex to emotions! It is totally a great Canadian movie for all the lesbians out there!! I will watch this movie for ever! The story line was great and the characters were totally likeable! Francis was awesome and the ending was totally unexpected (well, most parts!)! "},{"Title":"one of the best that I have seen in a very long time","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very good, the cast was excellent and so was the plot. You definitely need an open mind to enjoy this movie so I would say to read the cover before you buy it. But the movie was fantastic, funny at times yet very serious at others I liked it so much that I watched it 2 times before we had to return it, and it definitely has my 16 bucks when it comes out for sale. "},{"Title":"Great movie, encouraging romance","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got the opportunity to rent this movie with a very open-minded friend of mine, and I think it's amazing.  It's got a fabulous portrayal of romance in addition to the truth of what it's like for these characters.  I'm very glad I saw it and though it's not for the homophobic, it's a fantastic movie.  I LOVE Judy. ) "},{"Title":"Great movie, encouraging romance","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got the opportunity to rent this movie with a very open-minded friend of mine, and I think it's amazing.  It's got a fabulous portrayal of romance in addition to the truth of what it's like for these characters.  I'm very glad I saw it and though it's not for the homophobic, it's a fantastic movie.  I LOVE Judy. ) "}{"Title":"Simplicity","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite this film having all the ingredients of a complicated, erratic and sexually explicit movie,this film above all else is a testament to love and romance. One should never see this film if its expected to be a satire ,which it does very well at being.Every concept in this film is tightly wrapped in an emotionally pleasing package of love and its unexpected nature.An open mind will make the experience of watching this movie extremely wonderful. "},{"Title":"OK lesbian love story","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty god story about a young lesbian, who has to contend with her mother and brother (both who think she's straight), moving in with her while she falls in love.  Not as funny as it sounds.  It's got moments, and it's well done but some scenes fall flat, some characters who are interesting but very underdeveloped (her brother in particular), bad dialogue and some VERY poor acting (the lead actress is weak but her mother is HORRIBLY played).  Also there's a ludicrous wrap up in which everything ends happily...it doesn't matter that it's totally at odds with everything that happended before it. Still, it's watchable.  It shows promise. "},{"Title":"Love, and other pleasures","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An off-beat romantic comedy that pays off for the audience with richly drawn characters you genuinely care about.  Made on a small budget around Vancouver's Commercial Drive area, the film incorporates a number of real-life situations - a cafe that ejected two women for public kissing, and the Little Sisters' bookstore that fought a protracted battle with Canada Customs over impounded material - into its framework story, chiefly revolving around two young women in love, but also concerning the lives & loves of their friends and family members.The cast is uniformly good - the two young leads shine - but special praise to Peter Outerbridge for his touching, humane portrayal of a transgendered soul who befriends the unhappy, confused mother of one of the girls (Wendy Crewson, who enjoys a priceless scene where she experiments with a box of toys found under her daughter's bed), while longing to express love to the harried owner of a gay & lesbian specialty bookstore.The director, Anne Wheeler, is one of the most consistently interesting film makers at work in Canada, and she's in top form here; much of the credit must also go to the production team of Sharon McGowan & Peggy Thompson, who also made the very entertaining Lotus Eaters several years back.  Much of the joy in their script comes from the attention paid not just on the central characters, but all of the supporting players.  The budget may not have been big, but the production team still did an excellent job, and a great music score accompanies the film along.It's funny, different, and seriously sexy. Better Than Chocolate is definitely worth your time. "},{"Title":"Not Better Than Chocolate, But Not Bad","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is somewhat annoying because it goes out of its way to be political correct, but if one looks past that, it is pretty good if taken on its own terms. The movie has a kitchen sink philosophy of sorts by trying to toss in loads of material ... not only do we have a baby lesbian falling for a offbeat (but deep down, sensitive) artist, we have a transsexual, a mom experiencing her sexuality, commentary on conservative Canadian obscenity laws that were meant to help women but turned out harming lesbians, an omnisexual, opportunity for an offbeat romance for the bookstore owner, promotion of sex toys, etc.  You are almost overwhelmed and all done in a PC way without many surprises.All the same, the movie is enjoyable because of the very things some find problematic -- joyfully promoting all things in a cheerful way. It is basically a fun movie ... you enjoy seeing the mom come of her shell (the title refers to her chocolate habit), the joys of young lesbian love, and so on. A special nod should got to the well done performance of the transsexual (it is only fitting to note that I think drag queen is a misnomer because she wants to live a woman, not just dress up as one ... it is more than a matter of clothing and affect).The whole thing has a bit of too good to be true about it, but I applaud the sentiment. As with Bar Girls, this movie at times has better intentions than great movie material, but as with that movie (more so actually) the cast is game, and we applaud them for a pretty enjoyable effort all the same.Not quite better than chocolate, especially double fudge, but at times, equally good -- and less fattening.-j  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Romantic Lesbian Comedy movie","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an excellent romantic lesbian comedy movie. It actually talks about a lot of issues. The focus is not just on the intense relationship between 2 young women but also how gay, lesbians, and transsexuals are harassed by the today's society. The movie described how difficult it is for the lead actress to come out to her family while carrying on a romantic relationship with her new found lover. This put on more burden on her newly developed relationship. Each character is very unique and real. Everyone of these actors and actresses gave the outstanding performances. The love making scenes are intense and erotic. This movie really reaches in and portrays each character as if they were real people in life. It is very relaxing, entertaining, and funny, too. It is worthy seeing. You can watch it over and over. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not Better Than Godiva","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I shelled out the money to buy the DVD. I'm not unhappy with my purchase however it certainly isn't among my favorites. The actors who played Kim and Maggie gave an unexceptional performance. This may have been due to the awkward flow of the movie. The writing, although exceeded the talents of those two actors, wasn't very funny. The look on the brother's face when he checks out the strange noises coming from the room next door was creepy. I did find the rest of the cast gave stellar performances, especially in the budding romance between Frances and Judy. The mother was believable even if she was stuck in a time warp. Of course the paint scene is a tremendous help in tipping the scales back to even. It was better than most chocolate, but not the really good stuff. "},{"Title":"Bitter","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a wonderful movie.  Some people may be too bitter for this chocolate, but it was rather tasty.  This may just be a gay man's opinion, but for a gay man to sit through a movie about lesbians it shouldn't be taken with a grain of salt.  "},{"Title":"This is a fun movie.","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie. Even though the premise seems like a heavy subject (coming out to a parent), it was dealt with in a serious manner, but without leaving the laughs out. Some very funny parts, some good acting, and voila..... overall a nice, funny movie. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was great, being a lesbian myself I could really relate to it and I am a bit of a romantic so this touched home there too.  I would strongly recommend seeing it, in fact I have seen it 3 times myself. "},{"Title":"Not just for lesbians!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would just like to say that this is a great movie. And you don't have to be a lesbian to watch this movie. It's not just about two girls getting it on but it also has a good story in it. But if you don't like seeing two girls doing the wild thing than you shouldn't watch this movie! Greetings Nathalie. "}{"Title":"A wonderful movie","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this movie again for about the 5th time.  I love it.  It deals with young love and the awkwardness of letting your parents know. A treat for any adult age as long as you can deal with sexual nature.  "},{"Title":"loved it loved it!!!!!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw better than chocolate, I laughed, I cried, and sympathized with Francis! The movie was tastefully done, and I was impressed how the movie portrayed the GLBT community in a way that was non-demeaning. I loved the cinematography, the beautiful colors and location that the movie was filmed. When I watch the movie, the sense of community, the atmosphere, and the open minded nature make me envious of Kim and Maggie. This movie puts a humorous spin on the trials, traumas, and excitement of GLBT lifestyles. "},{"Title":"How unfortunate...","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How unfortunate that someone in a position to accomplish something great, instead fell back on the Universal stereotypes of beauty and lesbianism...In my opinion Better Than Chocolate pushes forth the ideal of the Great White Lesbian, i.e. thin, caucasion, would be cast offs from a bad eighties sitcom...Better than Chocolate was nothing more than a typical heterosexual romantic comedy with lesbians substituting the heterosexuals...There is however, nothing wrong with rehashing a story,though this viewer suggests refraining from trying to pass it off as.....original. "},{"Title":"A nice love story about people","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film lots! It has some interesting characters and I was interested in what happened to them. funny, sad, emotional, and one of the best 'coming out' films I've seen in a while... If you liked this one check out 'the incredibly true adventures of two girls in love' "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most definitely a 10!  I have rented lesbian flicks for sometime now and never have I seen one this great.  The sensual scenes...oh my my body just melts! The love that you sense between the two main characters is so satisfying! I can't wait till it is released to own!  I will surely go right out and pick it up!  Check out the soundtrack too, good stuff! "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderfully funny, touching movie. I am a Canadian and this is a Canadian production. It made me very proud, although, by the end, I thought I should start closing my blinds at night, since the character of Frances IS me!I was extremely impressed by the two leads, Karen Dwyer and Christina Cox. Their love making scenes were utterly realistic, a tribute to the acting ability of these two lovely ladies.(unless, of course, they are truly lesbians) But for me, the supporting cast was equally amazing. This is a group of great Canadian actors, who have proven once again that Canada can hold her own when it comes to the arts.Outstanding performances by Peter Outerbridge, Anne-Marie MacDonald and Wendy Crewson. I loved every one of you.I think anyone who feels the need to dis this movie is taking life way too seriously!(Nothing like a dyke with an attitude, eh?) "},{"Title":"bitter fruit","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the first sight, the first bite, the Cat's Ass, Ten Percent, wayward mom, transgendered heart, Customs banishment, oppression, suppression and rage . . .Lesbian love conquers all, even when dewily formulaic as it is here, where all character arcs end in a firestorm aftermath's embrace.Too much of this can make your teeth fall out. "},{"Title":"I'll give them a B for effort","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I caught this movie on one of the many channels I had back when I had digital cable, and I have to admit, it was rather enjoyable...the sex scenes aren't that bad either.Clichéd? Yes. Stereotypical? Absolutely! I guess the movie's major flaw was trying too hard to portray everyone in the GLBT lifestyles in a positive light. Note to the filmmakers; when you're making a film with a GLBT audience in mind, you're preaching to the choir! What works The sex scenes yes, I'll admit it, I'm a horny mo-fo. Normally, I'm one of those few guys who really doesn't enjoy girl-on-girl action, but all I have to say, is DAAAAMMMMNNN! That has some scenes I wouldn't mind trying with my own girlfriend! What doesn't work A lot of the plot elements can get a little hokey, say, for example, the angry misandristic lesbian beating up on the poor transgendered person. Or the group of Nazi Skinheads who get their jollies beating people up anyways. I guess they had to come up with some conflict, as if one of the central characters trying to hide the relationship from her mom isn't conflict enough! But I digress...Better than Chocolate is not supposed to be a thinking-person's drama, you're not supposed to dissect the plot and visuals to find the movie's meaning. That's what films are for (there is a difference!). It's just something to make you feel good at the end, which it does for me...in more ways than one! "},{"Title":"Funny and truthful","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hadn't seen a convincing movie about homosexuality since Chasing Amy. I rented Better than Chocolate with a few other friends thinking it would be terrible, but it ended up being like Chasing Amy Lite.  The social commentary, comedy, and storylines are similar, it isn't who you love, it's how.  They are both about liberating sexual experiences, and they are both good, funny films.  This being said, Better than Chocolate is the less superior film of the two, but still worth a watch.  The comedy and lessons on life should be seen by all.   "},{"Title":"Boooooring","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think of myself as very open-minded and was looking forward to an interesting piece on freedom of expression, parent-child relationships, coming out, coming of age, etc. Some hot action as in Bound would have been nice, too. Unfortunately there is absolutely no character development of the two (very pretty) lovers, which makes their love scenes almost pornographic rather than sensual. The best parts are on the transsexual (great song!!!) and the mother as she discovers the collection of sex toys. I fast-forwarded the movie to prevent more time-wasting.  "}{"Title":"Interesting, but not spectacular","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be honest, I had not heard about this movie until last week when I saw a poster advertising it as a free show at the university I work at with a led discussion to follow. I read a brief bit of it before going into it, though other than knowing it was going to deal with homosexual topics, I had no other expectations.My first thoughts on the movie was that it was like a fantasy. There were many stereotypes, and many of those were portrayed almost to an extreme. The main characters faced little to no gay opposition or hardships that would be expected. There were at least 2 subplots underlying the main plot which I think detracted from the focus. What was the message supposed to be? Was this supposed to be an artistic movie or a movie to educate, because it definitely wasn't a blockbuster aim like Brokeback Mountain.There were definitely too much cliché and stereotypes for my likes. Since it is an older film, the group I was in discussed if the time of the material was a factor. I pointed to a movie about gay men like The Wedding Banquet from the early 90s as a better movie in my opinion because it was better scripted and the plot lines weren't too diverse.Was this supposed to be an exploration of gender issues? As a romantic comedy, sad to say, I'd probably rather watch a Hugh Grant movie. However, would I see this movie again? Sure. Would I recommend it to people? Sure, if they don't mind the nudity or sexual issues dealing with lesbians. I give it a 5 because I found portions I could identify with because of my friends. Parts of the movie drew me in; I laughed, I felt pain. The acting wasn't bad, the filmography was pretty good, the soundtrack was good, the direction could have been better. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so insanely lame.  It was such a generic lesbian movie filled with typical sappy lesbian music.  How about we think of something other than 'gay person falls in love, society doesn't accept.'  The story was so weak and scattered.The lame plot goes like this  Lesbian college dropout meets rebellious lesbian artist, mother comes over and the lesbian daughter tries to come out to her throughout the whole movie, mother is so straight and just doesn't understand.  There is some undeveloped subplots mixed in, a generic 'women are powerful' message, a gay bookstore, a little T&A, skinheads, and the movie ends with people kissing in the street.  The only good part is when the token drag queen in the gay movie gets mad.The people that gave this movie a good rating are only giving it because it's a movie all about lesbians and their troubles, something that we don't get too much.  Just because it's a rarity, doesn't make it good.  Anyone that has seen a well written film can clearly see this movie sucks.  There is a reason why it plays in the middle of the night on Showtime.  What have I learned from this movie?  That Canadian lesbians are boring.  "},{"Title":"I'd rather have the chocolate","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think my one-line summary says it all. This movie was so less-than-memorable, that given the choice of eating chocolate or watching the movie, I'd only pick the movie over white chocolate. Anyone who knows me knows that I'm a serious choco-holic. "},{"Title":"Phew, what a stinker!","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Poor screwball lesbian comedy.  Stereotypical characters ( demure effeminate lead who's not out of the closet, butch bohemian artist she falls in love with, mother who doesn't get liberated until she encounters a vibrator, and everyone's white ), no laugh-out-loud moments, no character development to really care about.  Doesn't even approach Blake Edwards in his S.O.B. years, and that's saying something.  Naturally, it's only the gay or trans-gendered characters who are normal.  None of the straight characters ( except for the younger brother, a high-school kid ) can accept what's going on.  Oh, for the day when a gay character or characters can populate a movie or sitcom, and they're not constantly cracking jokes about their being gay, or being made fun of, but can just behave like everyday people.  THAT would be a ground-breaking development. "},{"Title":"could this movie be more awful?","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie can be summarized with one word awful. The cinematography, the plot lines, the beginning, middle and end were just awful. As this seemingly low-budget movie tried to take an outdated political stance and a certain pride dealing with queer issues, it fails to capture the audience of today by both alienating the unexpected viewer with pornographic images and a thin/weak theme. Chocolate presents confusing and mixed messages about women's, more specifically queer women's sexuality and politics (IE The movie over-sexualized lesbians in a pornographic way as to entice straight male viewers while trying to instill pro-queer values in the same viewers). The awfulness of the plot was all topped off with an even more awful Hallmark ending presented by these horrible actors. Do yourself a favor and avoid this movie like the plague, if anything it is a counter production of the queer rights movement. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For a long time I have searched for a movie about young lesbians that has a decent script and satisfying acting.  Better Than Chocolate is not only sufficient, it leaves viewers satisfied and happy.  It is a movie that I would watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Awful...  isn't a good enough term","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I heard nothing but how great this movie was and that it was the best real lesbian movie out there. Sad to say, this was probably close to the worst lesbian flick I have spent two hours watching. It was so unrealistic that I found it a spoof, more than anything. People in the LGBT community constantly complain about the lack of respect that is given to this lifestyle, with movies like this what are they wanting from people? Straight people have no other basis to judge other than what hate breeds in its own in society, something that there is no control over from the alternative community. So when there is something that can be controlled, like LGBT entertainment, we release ones that are completely juvenile, disrespectful and asinine. It makes the gay lifestyle look like nothing more than a congregation of narcissistic nymphos. Very disappointing on every level. "},{"Title":"Worse than cheap chocolate","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is certainly not what it's cracked up to be. The film is very boring in fact. The characters are very flat and it seems very much over-directed and unnatural. I got the impression that it's just a weak plot with throw-in-your-face lesbianism that is not erotic at any time. The story is incoherent, forced moralistic and very predictable with lots of stereotypes. I found it very hard to finish watching. I counted just three smiles in this so-called comedy and nothing more. At times this film is thoroughly irritating. In short, I can't recommend it at all. I am known to enjoy a good film with a lesbian theme and to me there is no such thing as being too explicit. But this film is just three smiles short of total crap and therefore worse than cheap chocolate. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Not Better Than Chocolate","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A long time ago, Hollywood ground out a steady stream of sappy, one-dimensional movies glorifying All-American values. Usually placed in an idealized small-town America they extolled family-values, hard work, and patriotism. They were very formulaic, predictable, and usually not entertaining. But wait, they're back. But now they're urban, 'street-smart' and politically correct.  And formulaic, predictable and still not entertaining. Better than Chocolate is typical of this new genre. Its premise is cute. A young lesbian, not out with her family, is visited by her recently divorced and distraught mother and younger teenage brother. And the live-in lover must pretend not to be the lover, and there's the repressed lesbian bookstore owner, the transgender friend and on and on. It's gay Disney, and unfortunately not entertaining. Don't bother. "}]