[{"Title":"Maybe 'Double Team' wasn't that bad in the end...","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Seeing a movie like Simon Sez is like going to the circus as a kid. For one and a half long hours you rub your eyes, not quite believing what you're seeing. It's amazing somehow, but you never quite believe it. Maybe that's not the best comparison, but can you tell me an event which makes you as speechless as such a movie?To call it a movie seems to be wrong anyway. It's a 90-minutes crazy, absolute over-the-top Rodman-thing with no sense at all.Usually I start with the story, but how could I do so with the total lack of one here? It pretends to be about some villain getting some kind of disc for some kind of weapon and to say this is more than you get from the film. Rodman plays a agent for Interpol it is said, although I'm not quite sure these are Interpol's working methods. Let's get this straight. Rodman is an agent in a french town with two monks as companions. They all live in a cellar under a church and have more crime to fight than the CIA in the whole US. Their gadgets include a CGI-fly, which can be directed in any direction and delivers an excellent view, a super-motorcycle which can drive up walls and ceilings and a lot of weapons.The two monks are obviously insane, as they sing and dance and laugh all the time very madly. One is fat, the other black. Your turn to make something of this.Rodman's other companion is another lunatic named Nick. He appears suddenly and stays without reason or explanation. Even more unreasonable is that Rodman lets him stay. Looking at this guy talking and 'acting' (sorry, but I got no other word for it), makes you wonder if there was a director who actually filmed him. In his first 10 minutes of screen time he impersonates three animals so unconvincingly and hilariously, that it's hard enough for itself. But seeing him 'doing the raptor' for about 30 seconds is just painful.There is also a woman which half of the movie fights against Rodman and the rest fights and sleeps with him at the same time. Where she comes from and who she remains a mystery.We also have a villain, so mad, it would be an understatement to call him a caricature. He always smiles, makes little jokes only he laughs about and gets scared the first time when his car is blocked by a sheep's herd. And he has maybe the first computer ever, which has not only a little animation looking like him, but this one can also talk for itself and change visually in order of the things happening around it. When the villain gets electrocuted, the animation gets to. Amazing.Which leaves us with a bunch of actors who laugh, dance and make crazy noises all the time, no story and the most unrealistic action sequences since Moses went through the Red Sea. Rodman lets himself fall down a long column, while he holds himself onto it with his legs, because he needs his arms for shooting. As I said, he also drives with his motorcycle up a wall and along the ceiling in a tunnel. And I can't forget the most hilarious sex-scene ever filmed, involving Rodman and his girlfriend/enemy, a strobo-light and a see-through bed.Movies like this leave me kind of exhausted. I'm a fan of bad movies, but bad movies are only enjoyable if they take themselves seriously. Simon Sez tries to be both a comedy and an action-flick and fails desperately at both. The classic bad movie Double Team was funny because van Damme was so damn serious all the time (not to mention Mickey Rourke). Rodman playing crazy was just an addition to the serious stuff and made this film perfectly bad. But here everybody just plays crazy. It's Batman & Robin mixed with Double Team on drugs. And when you succeed in watching the movie in full length without running away, you can be sure to feel as crazy as the whole crew must have felt to make this film. So, in a way you're get in contact with the filmmaker's emotions. There are just aren't enough emotional movies out there. Here's a new one. Who wants to cry anyway when you just as well can become crazy? "},{"Title":"Nothing good to say","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I can't find anything good to say about this movie.  The acting is poor; the plot seems to have a mind of its own (like a 2-year-old's); the fighting scenes are some of the worst I've ever seen in a movie.  They're so unrealistic, it's more like watching a cartoon.  Dennis Rodman does seem to try, sometimes.  Most of the time, he's just trying, unsuccessfully, to be cool.  Half of the characters in this thing seem to be there for comic relief.  Seriously, half of them.  It's that stupid.  Don't pay money to see this movie.  And don't EVEN consider buying it. "},{"Title":"Avoid this movie at all Cost!!!!!!!!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not only is this an awful movie, it ranks on my bottom 10 of all time.  I had very low expectations when I went in to this movie. (I had nothing else to see at the time I was there)This movie is so much worst than I thought possible.  I would rather go and watch paint dry than see this again.  The sidekick (Nick played by Dane Cook) is so bad that I think that Rob Schneider's part in Knock Off was an Oscar performance by comparison. There is not one person in this waste of 90 min of film that can act.  Yet it is not bad in the spirit of Airplane.  It is just BAD BAD BAD.  There is no plot, story or acting.  Enough said.  You have been warned.  Stay away at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Entertainingly awful low-budget production","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If you're a fan of low-budget action movies such as the works of Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren, this may be just the film for you. This is the kind of film where you don't laugh at the jokes because they are funny, you laugh at them because they are pathetic attempts to be funny. Instead of interestingly following the plot, you sit back and laugh at the stupidity of it. Also, naturally, amazingly bad acting attempts of Dennis Rodman, Dane Cook and Emma Sjöberg make this movie the complete garbage that it is.But all this is also why you would want to see this film. I was never bored while watching this film, believe it or not this film is actually packed with action sequences. The director probably realized that neither the acting or the plot would make this movie enjoyable, even for even one second. And while the action is not well done by any means, it atleast keeps you awake and steals some of your time. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This reeked of a bomb, yet I had to watch it because Dennis Rodman movies always provide that so bad it's good theme going for them. This one was no exception terrible acting, bad music, and an even worse plot are all repertory examples. This was the worst out of the 3 legitimate movies he was in (Double Team and Cutaway were slightly better because they either had better actors in it to somewhat make up for the loss or at least fairly suitable dialog). But in this the one-liners just fell flat and weren't even laughable for how bad they were. It's good I saw this so if by some chance there was another unfortunate such as myself that saw this as well we can ever so delightfully bash it together. Such a bad movie!Final put-downMovies  NO! It was released straight to video anyways.DVD Purchase  You've got to be kiddin' me.Rental  If you say so.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Get this Dennis Rodman is an Interpol agent (ha!) living in the cellar of a French monestary with two monk buddies (one fat, one black) who try to battle an evil diabolical villain who plans to use some kind of computer chip thingy to arm a weapon so he can blow up the world (or whatever it is mad movie villains like to do).This movie is SO LAME! I remember I was vacationing in Nags Head, North Carolina when Cinemax started airing ads for the film and presenting it as some kind of great film. I thought it looked like total garbage but I watched it anyway, just to laugh at Dennis Rodman.Good god, it's bad. Is it EVER bad! It's got that distinct crazy directorial style all bad movies of today have - you know, everything's all crazy and over-the-top, ranging from coloring of sets and characters to plots to dialogue to action sequences.Some of this seems fairly reminiscent of that similarly awful Rodman movie named Double Team, which co-starred Jean-Claude Van Damme (ha!) and Mickey Rourke (poor Mickey). But any movie with Rourke is at least tolerable...this is not tolerable in the least.Rodman gets my vote for being one of the worst actors of all time and this movie certainly fits his talents. "},{"Title":"Utter Drivel","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Some films are so poor that and unintentionally amusing that they become quite enjoyable (the usual straight to video nonsense starring the likes of james belushi, jean-claude van damme etc.) However, one occasionally comes across a film which is so poor that any enjoyment one might have been able from the poor script, poor acting, poor continuity and the sense of i can't believe they are taking this seriously is eroded within the first half hour.  Simon Sez breaks records on this note. After 2 minutes, i thought i was about to watch an enjoyable, if predictable, action/comedy with pretty poor acting. after 5 mins, i realised that i had found a film even worse than Carnosaur. After 10 minutes, a reverse triple summersault in the pike position out of my window 12th floor window seemed preferable to siting though the rest of this rubbish. Saving graces sealed windows, i didn't rent the film but watched it on cable...though i am tempted to unsubscribe after this, and, finally, this film got my mind back on doing some out of work reading on the financial markets. a dry topic at the best of times, but compared to Rodman, Sjoberg and that clown of a sidekick in this film, it was humorous, witty and left me feeling refreshed.So, for those of you who have read the above and ca see that i am still sitting on the fence regarding this film. i shall be explicit DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM. IF GIVEN THE CHOICE BETWEEN PAINFUL TOOTH EXTRACTION AND THIS MASTERPIECE, GO TO THE DENTIST. DENTAL PAIN GOES GOES AWAY PRETTY QUICKLY, THIS MAY WARP YOU FOR LIFE! "},{"Title":"So bad it hurts your soul","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I had the opportunity to watch this on cable. And man, it is bad.The most laughable must be the camera work. It manages to be the second worst camera work I've ever seen in my life (the worst being in Venni, vidi e m'arrapaho, a film that I believe to be from the screwiest corners of hell itself). As soon as the movie had some action -- say, somebody jumped on a chair -- the cameramen went frantic. I kept vomiting during the car chase scenes, and that's pretty bad if you consider that they were driving at 10 mph with a bored frown on their faces.Then ugh... the acting. Not one performance even came close to being decent. The script... was there even a script? It looked like there was no story and they came up with (bad) ideas while shooting. And some scenes were so idiotic I wonder how a sane brain would came up with them. I mean, at one point Nick, the good friend of Simon Sez, has a gun in his hand, and loses it because he is making fun of the bad girl by playing a tyrannosaur. This is the kind of comedy that you don't laugh at because it's funny, you laugh at it because it's so unredeemable and idiotic you literally can't believe it. By the way, him being a tyrannosaur was as believable as Rodman being an ex-CIA agent. Hell, they even managed to make the French Coast look somewhat small and crappy!Oh well... 1/10 "},{"Title":"Simon Sez cover your eyes and ears from this shitstorm...","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" (r#40)TV 3, a quality TV channel here in Sweden, recently decided to have a bottom 100-marathon and showed BOTH Gigli and this turkey during the same night. Now, I don't know any of TV3's producers personally, but it seems to me like they're torturing us rather than entertaining us. Simon Sez is a comedy so offensively stupid, it makes the Scary Movie series look like Bergman films. It seems to have been written by six year olds, for six year olds, but the foul language and violence would be too much for kids, so what was the target demographic, anyway? Oh right, idiots.Dennis Rodman, professional basketball player (which is always a good sign) stars as Simon, a secret agent of some kind. He takes part in a kidnapping gone wrong. I won't waste any more time explaining the plot because it couldn't have taken more than a few seconds to write it. Simon is accompanied on his mission by annoying white sidekick Nick Miranda (played by excruciatingly unfunny Dane Cook), who desperately wants to be Jim Carrey, and a sexy Emma Sjöberg.This is not a good movie. It's over-flooded by dumb action, hilariously retarded lines, and annoying characters. My favourite is the English/French/something villain Jérôme Pradon who wants to blow up the Eiffel Tower (Why? Because it's big and it's beautiful and I'm tired of looking at it!). Best line since Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn. Seriously.Even the special effects suck. Avoid! And TV3, how about a Coleman Francis marathon next Sunday? "},{"Title":"No. No. No. Bad film. Very bad film!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The acting is amongst some of the worst I've seen in a while, especially from Dennis Rodman. What's that Dennis Rodman a bad actor? Yes! and as hard as it is to believe his 'hilarious' sidekick Nick is almost as bad! Not to mention annoying. I'm not just talking Jar-Jar Binks annoying here, he takes it to a whole new level! The one redeeming feature about this movie is that some of the action seqences are quite well done. But good action scenes does not a good movie make.If you like bad acting, bad dialouge and wasting your time then by all means watch this. You won't be dissapointed! "}{"Title":"A good story badly filmed","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film has ruined a good storyline. The location and the action are very good but the silly charactures spoil it, by trying to compete for the main role after Simon. Anyone considering watching this film should be aware that it is best viewed whilst doing other tasks. "},{"Title":"Mindless but entertaining actioner, marred by lame-brained comic relief","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Let's face it, nobody rents a movie starring Dennis Rodman expecting it to be good. You just want some mindless, unpretentious entertainment, and on that level Simon Sez largely delivers. Of course, Rodman is not the first person that comes to your mind when you're thinking action star, but thanks to the discreet (and sometimes not so discreet) use of wires, stunt doubles and rapid-fire editing, he almost pulls it off. But the show is stolen by a female martial arts expert, played by Swede Emma Sjoberg, who fights with style and confidence. Xin Xin Xiong, in the small role of the villain's No.1 henchman, also appears to be a good martial artist. What nearly ruins this film is the obnoxious, lame-brained comic relief from Dane Cook and the two monks/agents. If they had completely written off these three characters, made the villain a little less openly gay and given more screen time to the people who were actually good at serious action, this would have been a much better film. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"RODMAN NOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is awful. It has only a few redeeming qualities, and they don't include Rodman. The man can't act worth a damn. PLEASE, HOLLYWOOD DON'T HAND ANY MORE SCRIPTS TO THIS MAN! Throughout the whole movie Rodman tries to be cool, but fails miserably. Is it me or did anyone notice that most of the people in this movie couldn't act. I could of done a better job and I've only taken one acting class.Minor Spoilers On the bright side, the 2 monks did help move the movie along. But at times their jokes began to wear thin. In addition, I liked the chick who was working against Rodman at the beginning but soon joined on his side. She spent half of the movie kicking Rodman's a** everytime she met up with him; that was enough for me to sit through this pitful excuse of a movie. Besides beating the crap out of Rodman, she did have some nice fight scenes with other characters in the movie (especially when she was fighting against Rodman and the bodygaurd to the villain in the movie). Another character that made this movie slighlty better was the boyfriend of the kidnapped girl. Sure, he looked like a pretty boy but he had some okay fight scenes. I kind of liked the bodyguard too. I gave him points for kicking Rodman's a**.The bad side to this movie is Rodman, of course, and the sidekick. What was the point of that guy? All he did throughout the whole movie was make lamb jokes and act stupid. I was glad when Rodman's enemy/girldfriend, in the movie, kicked him in the face and shut him up. In addition, the villain in this movie was lamb. Villains are suppose to be smart, charming, and kind of likeable. The villian in this turd was awful. Everytime he came on the screen I got a headache. The special effects were awful. The scene where Rodman rides his bike on the wall of a tunnel was so fake it wasn't funny. Also, the fight scene with the overweight monk was weak. A couple of times during the fight I could tell it was a thin guy padded down to look overweight.This movie would have been decent if Rodman wasn't in it, if the CGI was better, if it didn't try so hard to be funny, and if it had  focused on 3 of the characters in the movie (Rodman's enemy/love interest, the bodyguard, and pretty boy). The two guys who played the monks I have seen in other movies 10 times better than this. Hell, the Snoop Dog video that Taa-Dow (the black monk) was in looks like Oscar winning fare next to this dog. I give this movie a 3.5/10. Next time I will go rent a movie or read a book, when there's nothing on television.       "},{"Title":"Could've been a lot better","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Believe it or not, I'm probably one of the few people who actually enjoy Dennis Rodman's big screen time.  I won't call it acting, as most of his roles have been suited to and/or written to fit his personality.  However, he is quite a showman and usually ends up being entertaining.  The storyline wasn't inventive but also not too terrible.  What ruined the movie for me was the performance of Dane Cook as Nick.  His horrible acting (and OVERacting) made this film nearly unwatchable.  Had another actor been in this role, it may have actually been half-decent.  I always love to see John Pinette, having been a long-time fan of his stand-up comedy, even though his unique talents weren't put to very good use in this film.Basically, if you don't have anything else to do, there are worse ways to spend an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Dunno what all you guys complain about.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  You have a action film, one hell of a lady, and total action throughout the film. What did you rent it for.. ???? A movie with some point and relationship problems and all that kind of stuff ?? You get what you want  ACTION! And lots of it. "},{"Title":"AS BAD AS HE WANTS TO BE","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  As bad movies go, this is pretty bad...which is pretty GOOD if you're a bad-movie buff (like I am). But then what else would you expect when it stars Dennis Rodman? Surprisingly enough, Rodman is almost low-key, to the point where you could actually say he almost gives a decent performance. Almost. Still, it must be said his performance here is WORLDS better than in Double Team, that classic of bad-moviedom. Perhaps because he's almost restrained, the makers of this have decided to bypass intelligent character or plot development (a fact given away by its grammar-savvy title) and packed it with common-denominator bits that are dime-store quality even by the action genre's sorry standards. And then there's the acting...Dane Clark, as Rodman's bumbling sidekick, pours it on thick with what is meant to be comic relief, but is neither comic nor relief; at NO MOMENT is he even BARELY amusing. If THAT were the very worst, it would be borderline tolerable, but oh no -- they've thrown in the comedy stylings of Ricky Harris & John Pinette as two computer-geek-slash-ass-kicking-slash -jive-slinging monks (monks!!!) who help and/or guide Rodman (it's never really explained); John Pinette is an embarassment not only to actors, but comedians, fat people, monks and especially himself 'fat' jokes are one thing but nearly every opportunity is taken -- with his blessing and help! -- to show him eating, or shaking his bountiful belly, or wanting to eat...until, of course, at the movie's climax, when he (or, rather, a stunt double) suddenly turns kick-boxing action star. Said scene provides the single most unintentionally funny moments try holding back the laughs when it's obvious Pinette's double is only about 6 inches taller and 100 pounds lighter (despite the padding), and watch as a baddie is kicked over a bridge and actually SLOWS as he falls, thanks not to slow-mo but to the bungie cord. Oh, and then there's the, ahem, special effects. Can you say blue screen? The only member of this cast (designed to appeal to every possible international audience) that shows signs of real energy is Emma Sjosberg, who shares a thankfully-brief love scene with Rodman (she kisses him on the lips and does NOT vomit. Now THAT'S what I call 'acting'!!!). "},{"Title":"funny action dennis rocks","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  its a funny movie the 2 monks are hysterical dennis is real funny in this he did great kung foo fighting few scenes made me think he was fighting in a jackie chan flick rodmans partner was a joke anyone else would been ok buy this guy looked stupid he humped the couch and did a dinosour reenactment then got smacked out hoo ray if your a rodman fan its a definate watch double team is a simular flick but dennis didnt do any basketball jokes "},{"Title":"Action Movie With Flaws.","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" After The box office hit of Double Team(1997) Film makers thought that Dennis Rodman could do another film well. So instead of Jean Clade Van Damme and Dennis Rodman we have Dennis Rodman and Dane Cook. Thats actually not as bad as it sounds.The film is about an interpol agent named Simon played by Dennis Rodman who goes on a mission to France to save a kidnapped girl named Claire played by Natalia Cigliuti along with Simon's partner Nick played by Dane Cook.This is actually not as bad as people make it out to be. It is a film that falls in to the so bad it's good category. Dennis Rodman Is a talented actor, The fight scenes are well done and Dane Cook can provide some humor. How ever Dane cook, While funny at times in this film has a lot of dumb jokes, The 2 Cyber-monks are really stupid, and the plot is something we have seen before. Call it a Guilty Pleasure of mine. I say check it out.Rated PG-13 For Violence And Sexuality.1hr 25min/85min.***/**** "},{"Title":"Kung Fu VS The Big Awkward Basketball Player","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Simon Sez is one of the dumbest movies I've ever seen. Its another one of those monstrosities that you have to force yourself to watch only so you can brag to your friends about how you were able to watch the whole thing, and to see their shocked expressions after you say that. Other than that, there is no reason to force yourself through the consistent ineptness of this poor excuse for an action adventure.First off... It stars Dennis Rodman. That alone should be enough to turn most people away, but because I'm Mr. Open To All Movies, I put in the video and watched it anyway.Since my brain has an automated trash filter and defragger (I still run on NTFS), I only remember small pieces of the film. One scene that stood out, and shouted to me like an old woman with a bad hip, was the scene where master martial artist Xin Xin Xiong and some woman (I forgot her name) were engaging in a tightly choreographed fight. But because Rodman was the star and didn't want to be upstaged up by his co-stars, a way had to be found to bring him into this action. But Rodman can't fight. So their solution was to just have Rodman stomp into the scene like Frankenstein and claw, pounce, and push his way through the fight. And this didn't just happen once. It happened many times...Before I start cursing I'll just end my review here.Don't see this movie. Spare yourself the pain. "},{"Title":"I Only Watched It To See Natalia Cigliuti","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is BAD! However, I would watch paint dry on a wall if Natalia was standing in front of said wall. Rodman was a disgrace to professional basketball and now he's even worse as an actor. That guy doing the Jurassic Park imitation was annoying and those two monks, well I have no idea what was up with them.  "}{"Title":"It has potential, but fails","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was pretty bad.  It had a little bit of potential, except for a few things.  one Dennis Rodman.  Two that fat guy, I hate him.   There were some good fast action fight scenes, but it was one of those movies that has a decent budget because a star of some sort is in it but the budget isn't big enough to get the cool effects so they have to settle for the the other guys in digital effects.  The acting is pretty shotty,and the villain is neither funny, evil, nor intelligent.  There could have been some really cool stuff, but the bad guys were dumb.  They were high in numbers for a big body count, but that didnt save the movie either.  It was pretty much lets make a movie for Dennis Rodman to be in.  this is one of those movies I would like someone to remake and make good.  Hmm, maybe I will...PS, the other commenter needs to take some spelling classes "},{"Title":"How can you not love Dennis Rodman?","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Wow. That's all I can say about this cinematic gem. Not only does it star Dennis Rodman (as the main attraction, not a co-star like in Double Team and Cutaway), which would be more than enough, but the film then goes on to spoil us with such great masters of the craft like Natalia Cigliuti (from Saved by the Bell The New Class), and John Pinette (the guy who was robbed in the Seinfeld final episode). Sure, his sidekick guy, Dane Cook, was extremely annoying... but he was more than drowned out by the great performance by Rodman. The only thing that would have made this better for me, and ultimately this is the reason why I only gave it an 8, would have been the inclusion of Rowdy Roddy Piper. Had he been in the movie with Dennis, that would have made it a ten. Well, okay, I would have also liked to see maybe a Jeff Kober-type as the bad guy, instead of the wispy British guy they used. But for a movie that isn't Road House, it's hard to do any better. "},{"Title":"Awful movie.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so bad, it's hilarious. Acting is terrible, and there is no sript. This is really disgusting. I can't believe TV had the guts to show this drivel. I would never see this again, not even if got paid. There's not really much more to say.  "},{"Title":"I won't pretend it's a good movie...","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I won't pretend Simon Sez is a good movie, but being a fan of bad cinema, I have to admit that I really, really like this movie.  This is the kind of movie you scoff at when you see the trailers on TV for it's theatrical run. You pass it by without a thought when you're browsing Blockbuster Video on a Friday night.  But one day you'll be flipping aimlessly through your cable movie channels and that's when this movie will get you.  If you're into the whole 'B-Movie' thing like I am, then what more could you ask for?  Dennis Rodman in a leading role, a supporting cast that comes nowhere near respectability, and an absolutely mindless plot padded with a bunch of action, sex and bad stunt doubles!  If you're bored one day and feel like watching a movie that makes you cringe and laugh for all the wrong reasons, then check this movie out.  If not, why are you looking at this page anyway? "},{"Title":"Aggressively stupid but gets better towards the end","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Simon Sez is a relentlessly stupid and childish film.  Dennis Rodman's sidekick gives what may well be the most annoying performance in cinematic history.  The first 20 minutes, with its idiotic dialogue, day-glo costumes, and poorly executed action will test the patience of all but the most undiscriminating viewers.  However, while the dialogue and costumes don't much improve, the quality of the action takes a big leap midway through the film.  All of a sudden, there are imaginative shootouts, stunts and chases that are well-shot and well-executed.  Things are helped along by the scenic European coastal locales and Rodman's surprisingly serious performance.  Ultimately, Simon Sez is not a great or even a good film, but it should provide entertainment to fans of B-movies and crazy Hong-Kong-style action. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable Dennis Rodman film.","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Shows him as he wants to be shown.  Realistic motorcycle stunts and the action fighting showed his superior physical ability.  The cool electronic gadgets, like the surveillance fly.  Kept my interest throughout. Sidekicks behaved as they're supposed to, supported the star, didn't steal the show with the exception of Dane Cook, but he was the costar.  I believe that the poor reviews were caused by Dane Cook's often vulgar displays of idiocy throughout the movie.  It would appear his idol is either Jim Carrey or Adam Sandler.  The only 'silly' parts were with Micro (Ricky Harris) and Macro (John Pinette), overall there was a serious 'let's get the job done' attitude.  I didn't watch this movie expecting a '007' type of film, but that's closest to what it turned out to be, with the seemingly unrelated subplots and character introductions that appeared to have no ties, but as the movie progressed their purposes and relations were revealed.  And we've seen movies where the lead is opposed by an ex-love interest (Emma Sjoberg) and later they wind up back together.  I give it an '8' for being and doing what it was meant to be and do. "},{"Title":"Muahaha! THAT was entertaining!","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  There are some kinda movies you watch without thinking about 'is this realistic' or 'how stunning is the acting performance'. Simon Sez is definitely one of them. This is just a GREAT movie that doesn't take itself too serious. Definitely not for all kinda cinema enthusiasts, but one thing is clear this is ENTERTAINING!!! All ppl who tell me bad acting, blah blah not realistic blah blah and bad bad bad, I comment with sorry guys, but there's one magic word in the movie that is maybe not understood by everybody 'sarcasm'? "},{"Title":"The Funniest Bad Movie I've Seen in a While","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Every once in a while a very bad film comes along and renews my faith in the sport of watching terrible schlock and having a wonderful time of it.  Simon Sez is such a movie; a film filmed, acted, directed, and written with such ineptitude, you'd swear that it was made by a bunch of dumb monkeys.  It's like the Dan Quayle of movies.Dennis Rodman stars as an ex-CIA, ex-secret agent, ex-everything it seems, who becomes embroiled in a convoluted kidnapping/extortion/hijacking/computer heist.  Give these villains credit where they are due; they do know how to multi-task.I don't really have anything against Dennis Rodman, but the man simply cannot act.  He wears one expression the entire time, bemused detachment.  It's the same whether he's fighting off an army of thugs, dealing with his army of sidekicks, or riding his spiffy yellow motorcycle.  Every single thing that he encounters causes him to smirk.  I was waiting for someone to shoot him in the foot and have him smirk.  Sadly that moment never came.I mentioned his army of sidekicks; and there really are a ridiculous number of them, and they all are complete idiots.  First there are the two Monks, Micro and Macro, who help Dennis in his quest for whatever it is he's looking for.  These guys live in a church, dress like monks, have the monk hair, but have a high tech lair filled with sophisticated equipment and post-it notes (I called it the Rodcave).  I thought something about them was fishy; were they real monks or not?  Then later I was informed that monks take a vow of silence, and these gents certainly don't uphold that vow.  And did I mention one of them is really fat?  And he does kung fu?  No, really, he is.  And he does.  I didn't say he does it well though.Then there is the generic looking whiteboy sidekick, who is a stand-up comedian I've seen on a few talk shows (and who has not impressed me).  He's some sort of ex-agent, who knows from where, and he's the most incompetent idiot this side of, well, those two monks.  He does both a raptor impression and a dog impression, and fights like his life depended on his gruesome death.There's plenty more to mention here, like Simon's ex girlfriend who alternates fighting and stripping with him; the car that tilts on two wheels, but doesn't fall over; the laughable wire stunts; the bizarre tendency for almost every character to have a nondescript accent; and my personal favorite, the pole sliding scene.  Trust me, when you see it you'll know.I haven't enjoyed a bad movie this much in a long time.  Thanks to plenty of poorly made mindless violence the film rarely drags despite its stupidity.  The laughable dialogue also helps this clunker speed along towards its action packed finale.  For fans of the bizarre and big rebounding NBA forwards turned film stars.  "},{"Title":"Words cannot describe the feeling i had after watching it....total waste.","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Words cannot describe the feeling i had after watching it....total waste. This movie is totally crap. For all film students, this is an example how not to make a movie. Give me a one dollar budget and i make a better movie. This is my first post on IMDb and i read that u must have a comment longer than 10 lines. Sorry but for this movie i cannot think of more than 10 lines to fill it with. But for all of your protection. Do not see this movie. Never. Period. But if u do don't take it too seriously. I hope that when the producers shot this movie, they didn't have the intention too make a serious, good movie. Maybe they meant to shoot it as one big joke. If thats the case.... Job well done! "},{"Title":"FUNNIEST WORST FILM OF ALL TIME!!!!","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is by far the lamest hollywood film there could ever be.  This film is such crap that it comes out to be funny.  Cheap special effects, phoney love scene, and a fat monk.  Need I say more??  Why would a company put up money for something like this is beyond me.  Why not make a low grade horror film or porn.  At least more people would see it.  I know for a fact that in 20 years this film will have a cult following due to its great crapiness. There are people who love Ed Wood's films, and there are people who love bad films, and this is by far the worst of all time bar-none!!  I need one more line in order to submit this mess.  Today is Monday, April 5th.  Spring break rules all men and women. "}{"Title":"Like jabbing your eyes out with hot pokers, but less fun","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is the worst movie I've seen in a long, long time.  It's supposedly an action comedy, but the humor is less funny than puppies getting run over on the highway.  The action scenes are funnier as Rodman tries to look like he knows martial arts, but you just wonder how come he isn't getting beaten senseless by people who are obviously thousands of times better than him. No action, no comedy, only pain. "},{"Title":"?????????????????????????","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand this film. I even bought the DVD to see if there was an explanation of why it is so awful. None was supplied. I like Dane Cook, and I am sure he acted the way the part was written. I don't think he ad-libbed things like The Raptor. Only top shelf actors are generally given the freedom to over-write the writer. So obviously the awfulness was written to be performed the way it was. Maybe Dennis Rodman was allowed to ad-lib his awfulness.If I was allowed to use negative numbers I would give this film a -10 on a -10 to +10 scale. For the range I was allowed, I'll give it a 1.We need an Arabic translation of this film, so that when we capture Osama bin Laden, we can prop his eyelids open with toothpicks and force him to watch it over and over again - yes, there is a cruel and unusual punishment worse than death.  "},{"Title":"Not since Starship Troopers has there been a film this good.","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Simon Sez is easily one of the best movies I have ever seen; not because of high quality, but because of the lack thereof. With terrible acting (somehow The Worm manages to be the best actor), awful special effects (cables are clearly used to stop guys falling from bridges), and an entire cast that knows martial arts, I can't help but laugh watching this movie. It also features completely unrealistic scenes involving tunnels, jumps only Princess Toadstool is capable of, cardboard buildings, and Microsoft Paintbrush fires. This is one of the best comedies I have watched, comparing only to such films as This Boy's Life, Blue Chips, and Starship Troopers. Simon Sez is a true gem of film. "},{"Title":"A Funny Action Sequel...Sort of....","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Simon Sez stars the controversial Dennis Rodman as an arms dealer/operative who gets caught up in a rather strange kidnapping affair that turns into a rather odd game of espionage with global consequences. The film itself is a sort-of-pseudo-unofficial-sequel-spinoff of the film Double Team where he played the same character (though named Yaz...we all know that spies have over a dozen aliases) and helped Jean Claude VanDamme fight against an international terrorist (Mickey Rourke). If you didn't see Double Team, then a good portion of the in-jokes in the film won't make a lot of sense, especially the monks. Honestly, while the film is fun and the character is interesting, they would have been better off maintaining more of the elements from Double Team and working within that framework. In short, if you haven't seen Double Team, see it then watch Simon Sez again. It will improve your attitude about the movie. "},{"Title":"try not to laugh, I challenge you","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  from the first second I saw this, I laughed me teeth out -pthis kind of films rocks! a comedy and action.... the perfect combination! I love the way they bring things!They can make you laugh and one second later they can make you feel bad about it! I love this movie, it's very funny and weird -Dif you like this movie, you may consider to watch double team with Sean-Claude van Damme and Dennis Rodman (Simon) too. it's a little harder but also a great film with Dennis.hey c ya all later, Cinderella "},{"Title":"many people thought is was bad, but I liked it! Read why...","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Although most people hated it, this movie is entertaining. I especially like the sarcastic feel to it, how it just just laughs at life and drama. One really unforgettable moment is when these monks fake the comedian God wants you to do the Running Man, Nick!.... I mean that's a hilarious part, I'd rent it just for that, and replay it over and over, (probably driving my wife nuts, too). OK? This is not Orwellian, not expressionist, not text book film student. No more superior-complex-cerebrum-rambo-I-take-life-too-serious here. It's pure entertainment, and should be viewed IF you had a bad day, or want to escape your boring life for a while. Really, It's a GEM. "},{"Title":"he he he","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  well, most consider double team to be one of the best worst movies out there. it had bad acting, bad dialogue, pointless crap and above all van damm. here we have everything cept for van damm-i-suck. and thus you get one of the biggest pieces of strait to video trash ever conceived and produced. however, what can possibly be expected. not much i suppose. but some bang for your buck. when i rented this movie expectations were low, but man it was blown to kingdom come. rodman, was as bad as you can expect, and even worse. the villains were one dimensional cardboard cutouts, without a ounce of acting skills. then there are the sidekicks...i have never wanted someone to be maimed, and killed as much as the main sidekick to rodman. he was truly annoying. and killed everything, (if anything) the movie had going for it. please oh god kill him. the monk sidekicks, weren't much better, but at least they had less to do. in terms of it, it's every bad movie lovers dream, but only if you can stand the annoying sidekicks. i couldn't. it went from fun bad movie, to just plain bad. "},{"Title":"Hopeless, yet strangley amusing","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Now listen to me dudes, yes it was not a masterpiece of a film. DUH!!! It stars Dennis Rodman, what do you want??? Dane Cook is the MAN!! He absolutely is hillarious. Watch on of his comedy acts one time, and you'll know what I mean. And the MONKS OF DEATH!!! ruled! I'm sorry, but you cannot beat that. The villian, Ashton... well I still cannot come up with the words to describe this man. I'm not sure there is a word, really, but it added to this unintentional comedy. I was particularly fond of this film because my brother and I used to make really stupid cheesy films with our now busted camera. This movie is, I swear, every movie we never made. And for the fact that I've always loved movies that were hopelessly terrible. You can't watch this movie expecting anything else but crap, and it is. But man is it funny crap! "},{"Title":"Screw whatever Simon Sez. Listen to me, when I said this, this movie is stupid and I meant it.","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Why would anybody want to dig up this worm's awful dirt movie? This Dennis Rodman's movie deserve to be buried. Don't get me wrong, Dennis Rodman was an alright basketball player, known for his fierce defensive and rebounding abilities, but he should have never reach the level of popularity that he got in the 90s. He was a nightmare, most of the time. He became notorious for numerous controversial antics. I'm not talking about his repeatedly dyed his hair in artificial colors, piercing or tattoos, I'm talking about his regularly disrupted games by clashing with opposing players and officials, missing practice, and being a total ass. I guess, this 'Bad Boy' persona work for him, and he turn to films to launch him, even further. Dennis Rodman is not the worst athlete turn actor, I ever saw, surprising, but he's clearly not anywhere near the best like Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. There has only been one awesome tattoo cover, multi-color hair, black man named Simon and that's Simon Phoenix (Wesley Snipes) from the movie, 1993's Demolition Man. Sadly, this movie actor is not in that level. Directed by Kevin Elders, Simon Sez tells the story of Interpol agent Simon (Dennis Rodman) whom job is it, to gather up information about the weapons trade on the French Riviera and trying to pinpoint the man at its center. Meanwhile, Nick Miranda (Dane Cook) -- an old classmate of Simon's -- asks him for help. Nick needs to rescue his employer's daughter, Claire Fence (Natalia Cigliuti) who appears to have been kidnapped by the same people that Simon is tracking down. The pair must get to the bottom of the increasingly dangerous situation with the help of two cyber monks Micro (John Pinette) & Macro (Ricky Harris) and a feisty woman (Emma Wiklund), to rescue the woman and save the day. While, the movie can be funny with it's over the top action, the supporting comedy relief characters are just unwatchable and unfunny. I really can't stand Dane Cook with the annoying over-used animal impressions. He's overstay his welcome with the bed humping scene. Others characters that I hate, are the Cyber Monks. They should never be in an action scene, nor should they ever dance again. How come, they're not the same cyber monks from 1997's Double Team if this movie is supposed to be a spin-off? Honestly, those monks were kinda cool. Still, it seems like much more than mere coincidence that Dennis Rodman starred in two movies that feature Cyber Monks. Honestly, whom idea was it to have Cyber Monks in the first place? Those monks look like Franciscan friars, judging by their robes. Franciscan friars aren't adverse to most aspects of modernity. What's next? Virtual Amish!? It's seem really a bit of contradicted to practice their religion. Anyways, these Cyber Monks, in this film are just lame and obnoxious as hell. I can do without all the fat 'Free Willy' jokes. Even the villain, Ashton (Jérôme Pradon) hams it up. He's so cartoony in his line delivery. Clayton Day as Claire's father, William Fence looks like Robert Redford. I saw that some people mistake it for him, at the time. I really did mistake him for Redford, at the time, as well. Sadly, the movie has no season good acting. All of them were pretty mediocre. This movie is so over the top schlock, anyways. The poor literacy misspell title is lame attempt to look cool. Sez? What's does Special economic zone have to do with Simon? The half-baked plot is just as generic as other B-list action films of the time with a lot of kidnapping and looking for a disk to take over the world. There is a lots of filler scenes just to increase the run time with pointless fight scenes and stunts. Lots of awful wire-works action, with poor-time jumps and kicks. The movie suffer from poor action/reaction cutting. The impact gets completely lost. There is also a lot of fights goofs that they left in. The late 90s CGI special effects in this film are very fake looking. Scenes like the tunnel or the robot bee look so phony. Even the explosion look pretty scale down, when badly done models blow up or actors walking around in clearly no hidden blue screens. Another headache scene is the strobe light sex scene with Dennis Rodman and Emma Wilklund. I felt like I was having a seizure, watching it. Overall it's a really bad spy movie that put too much campy spy clichés in it. If you're a fan of stupid movies. Then, watch it. It does have some it's so bad, it's good moments. If you know what you're getting into, turn off your brain, sit back and enjoy it. If you're very smart. Avoid it at all cost. Trust me, I wish I didn't see this film. "},{"Title":"Owe...my eyes!","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" John Pinette, although larger than I have ever seen him was entertaining. I love Dane Cook, but if I were him, I would take this movie off my resume. Rodman should stick to basketball and the freak show, because he can not act. I won't say that this is the worst movie I have ever seen, because I have seen BloodSuckers (Michael Ironsides) and DogSoliders. But, like those movies, it is a train wreck, no matter how awful it gets you just can't stop watching it. The wire work was horrible. Rodman can't even pretend he knows martial arts, John Pinette's stunt double was more convincing than Rodman. One of my biggest pet peeves is poor movie editing. For instance, at the end of First Wives Club count how many different pairs of shoes Goldie Hawn is wearing in the last seen. I counted four different pairs. In this movie, can you count how many times Rodman's bike changes in a single scene. We counted four in the the first scene of the movie, an three in the scene where he is escaping the blast in the tunnel. Did anyone else notice that the dad in this was trying way to hard to look like Robert Redford? This movie isn't even good enough to become a cult classic. "}{"Title":"Deffintly not worth £2","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I saw this on DVD for £2 and i thought i would check it out and see if it is any good and............it's crap. Seriously this is not worth £2. It is a load of crap. They make so many mistakes. At the beginning this bike does a flip and on 1 shot he faces the wrong way but in the second shot the bike amazingly turns the right way. The acting is rubbish. Dennis Rodman can't act to save his life and neither can the others but i must admit that i found Dane Cook funny at times. The action is poor and ruined by special effects and the gadgets are just stupid. What ever you do don't watch this film. It is rubbish from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Yes, I agree, really bad","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Yes, I agree, really, really bad.Do not be fooled, action film fans; the acting, the writing, the direction - really, really bad. Confusing. Dull. Even funny if it weren't so down-right... dull.That same year, Rodman made another action film as second lead to Jean Claude Van Damme. Fortunately, despite Rodman, Van Damme did most of the work and Rodman didn't do much but rent his name to the producers. That film was occasionally watchable.But here, Rodman actually pretends to be a movie star. Why? I dunno - the haircut I guess.Why does Hollywood toss money away on this sort of crap? Well, people buy it, I guess.Fortunately, I didn't; it was getting tossed out at a video store a bock down from where I live.Gee, if you're tossing it away, can I have it? Why? - it's just really bad! Yeah, well, I had to find that out myself.You don't; trust me - it's really bad. "},{"Title":"NEVER SLANDER DANE COOK!","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, for the sake of this review i would like to first excuse the fact that Dennis Rodman cannot act...ever. But Dane Cook is absolutely hilarious. Anyone who is a fan of his standup will not be dissapointed. Anyone who has never heard of him is an idiot and should go online and download his comedy rite now. There are also some totally rad pre-matrix moves and action scenes in this film that make it thouroughly cheesy and yet very enjoyable. Go for it! "},{"Title":"Everyone missed the point on this one","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It has to be one of the best action movies I've ever seen, at last since Lorenzo Lamas' Viper. Rodman is certainly no good, especially when compared to brilliant sidekick Michael (Filip Nikolic) who delivers a slick Will-Smith type performance, and sometimes raises himself to the level of acting Lamas displayed in Viper. Anyone for a Best Supporting Actor nomination? The film itself is a kung fu showdown, with Nikolic again in the center of the action. Definitely a great one! "},{"Title":"A movie that looks exactly like its lead actor !","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Maybe the number of the people who love Dennis Rodman is few. But I'm sure the number of the people who can actually stand looking at him is fewer ! He's a celebrity who was having a fine hour in the late 1990s. So why not making movies. There are fool fans to watch, and companies to win money. Therefore let's film an action thriller named (Simon Sez) starring that walking store of earrings, that heavy bad joke, and that Madonna's ex-lover too, who occasionally plays basketball !By the way it's a Germany/Belgium/USA production. I always say be aware of the European sense of humor. Sometimes there is none. But damn. This movie has none humor, action, thrill, acting, or any kind of attractiveness at all. So who cares about the absence of humor ? The problem though is that it has nothing but an ugly time that alleges having all of the above! Think like this  it's a long video clip meets camp James Bond meets the independent B-movie crap meets any bad nightmare you have ever seen. P.S  The hero, the sidekick, the evil guy, and the girl they all belong to the bad nightmare part ! It'll make you nauseated and dizzy. Rarely to see a movie that oozes awfulness with this much. The presence of its leads gives it even more awfulness. I bet they can turn off the 2 or 3 idiots who got hocked by this movie in its start !Simply in a case of that kind I focus on the bright side; namely the lovely babies. But this movie also has zero sexiness. Or rather it exists but as a pure torturing. Let me tell you, it's not the worst movie ever made. It's one of them of course (maybe at the top 10). However SURELY it's the worst sexiness I have ever seen on-screen in my whole life. Ahhh, movies like this uncover how the bold and the beautiful is really great after all ! In the same year of 1999 there was one true Bond (The World Is Not Enough). And one Bond spoof (Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me). Now (Simon Sez) is like something in a faceless middle. It couldn't be neither. Or anything different with a good taste either. Well, to tell you the truth, this could have been good in one case; if everything was changed! It's poor, provocative, and totally detestable. I feel I'm talking about Dennis Rodman here! But believe it or not, the miracle has happened; I loved some things about it ! Yes !! It's 1) the explosions. 2) a funny take on a phrase has been said 4 years earlier in (Brave Heart). I'll let you discover it yourself (maybe according to my extreme need of having someone to share my grief over experiencing this movie alone !).Watch it only to tell your young grandchildren that you saw the hobgoblin once, yet in a form of a movie ! "},{"Title":"How to Waste 85 Minutes of Your Life in the Worst Way","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If you are an IMDb user, you certainly are a movie lover. Therefore, one of the worst things that might happen to you is to watch a bad movie. Simon Sez is not only a bad movie, but also one of the worst I have ever seen. Instead of writing a personal review, let me list some information I have collected from IMDbUser Rating (on 31 Mar 2005) 2.6 (bottom 100 # 48)Some User Comments - So bad it hurts your soul, 1 March 2001 - ?????????????????????????, 3 October 2001 - Maybe 'Double Team' wasn't that bad in the end..., 28 May 2001 - FUNNIEST WORST FILM OF ALL TIME!!!!, 5 April 2004 - The Funniest Bad Movie I've Seen in a While, 26 June 2000 - Utter Drivel, 3 December 2001 - Bad, 12 September 2004 - No. No. No. Bad film. Very bad film!, 4 July 2003 - Try not to laugh, I challenge you, 29 April 2003 - I Only Watched It To See Natalia Cigliuti, 19 February 2003 - A good story badly filmed, 8 October 2002- Awful movie, 28 July 2002 - Entertainingly awful low-budget production, 8 July 2002 - It has potential, but fails, 9 March 2002 - Nothing good to say, 28 January 2001 - Like jabbing your eyes out with hot pokers, but less fun, 29 September 1999 - AS BAD AS HE WANTS TO BE, 29 September 1999 - Avoid this movie at all Cost!!!!!!!!, 28 September 1999I believe the above information is enough to describe this crap, isn't it? My vote is one (since IMDb does not have a zero).Title (Brazil) Busca Explosiva (Explosive Search) "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of the 1990s","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If the 1990s have taught us anything, it's that basketball players can't act. Michael Jordan bombed with critics in Space Jam, and Shaquille O'Neal flopped in Kazzam and Steel. But nowhere is this theory supported majorly than in Simon Sez.This is an action comedy that serves as the second major acting credit for former Chicago Bulls player Dennis Rodman. His prior appearance was in 1997's Double Team, alongside Jean-Claude Van Damme. For a terrible action flick, it did get points for a climactic coliseum showdown, complete with Coca-Cola product placements. You're better off watching that again than this movie, in which an Interpol agent named Simon (Rodman) is given an assignment to rescue a close friend's daughter, Claire Fence (Natalia Cigliuti). Assisting him in his quest are two cyber monks and his sidekick Nick Miranda (Dane Cook).Dennis Rodman's acting is just like what we've seen from him in Double Team. In other words, it's another acting attempt by an NBA superstar. To his credit, though, he's actually the best actor in this movie. Now, it's not signaling a good performance, but it's a huge compliment in comparison to his co-star, Dane Cook. With Simon Sez as the second movie he's ever done, Dane Cook is best known as a stand-up comedian who's had more acting credits than his co-stars overall. Now, he's way better as a stand-up comedian than he is an actor. He did have some good movies like Horton Hears a Who and Dan in Real Life. However, he is totally obnoxious in this movie. His idiotic comic relief character even makes Dennis Rodman look like Marlon Brando. There are more terrible comedy acting where that came from. There's also Micro (John Pinette) and Macro (Ricky Harris) as the two cyber monks, which is actually defined in Webster's as unfunny computer nerds that spend too much time playing Dungeons & Dragons in their mom's basement. These comedic characters are all written in the most unnatural way possible. They're not just bad. They're annoyingly bad.This is an action comedy that heavily borrows from better films like 48 Hours, Beverly Hills Cop and Rush Hour, except in an agent theme. It also tries to come off as an action film when it completely feels like a comedy film. And when the plot and action kicks in, the movie suddenly goes on autopilot. They make the storyline and development so uninteresting, that it's not even on the same level as the awfulness in the first act. Although, you probably stopped caring about this movie after you're introduced to Cook, Pinette and Harris.In terms of action comedy, Simon Sez is sterile and boring as an action flick and even worse as a comedy. Dennis Rodman gives a better acting performance than he does in Double Team. Yet overall, Simon Sez is not only the worst movie to star an NBA player, but it's also bar none the worst movie to come out of the 1990s.Score 0/100Recommendation None "},{"Title":"If you drink enough rum it's funny","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" There was nothing on TV that I hadn't seen 1000 times already and had a good buzz on so I said what the F check it out. it's absolutely terrible but with a buzz you can laugh your ass off at how bad it is. But if you're looking for real entertainment look elsewhere. I laughed my ass off and made fun of it the whole time. Do not watch unless you're intoxicated. Do watch if you are. Warn your friends about it. Do not become too intoxicated or you might die laughing. If you watch it sober and like it you should consider therapy. Please you really need help. okay I have done my best to warn you and am having trouble coming up with ten lines to make this review happen. "},{"Title":"Nice try sailor.....","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Yaz from Double Team ditches Van Damme and decides to star in his own movie and change his name.And that's the only thing that differs from Double Team and this, the name, the lack of Van Damme, and nothing else.The sets are virtually the same, half the cast from the former are in this, and even the soundtrack is virtually the same.......and they are the positive things about this film.The rest is poor, but a very curioso piece of work. Rodman cannot hold a movie, he was bad enough in Double Team, but that was a Van Damme vehicle. Here, he gurns, does that really weird run he does, and spouts out pathetic one liners.The plot has something to do with a really camp bloke who wants to blow something up, but first must kidnap the daughter of someone who looks like Robert Redford, but is also double crossing her boyfriends dad too. Confusing?Dane Cook pops up, and I can tolerate this guy post 2007, but in this, he is the pits, a truly awful comic presence, with no timing, and an air of desperation around him, trying to be the next Jim Carrey.Action scenes are boring, and add a really strange sex scene, that will baffle,you get a really strange, but not boring, movie.Elders has either made a misunderstood work of art, or yet another vehicle for a has been sports star who was famous once.I'd go or the latter. "},{"Title":"So-bad-it's-good done right","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Simon Sez is the kind of bad movie you jut have to love. It is glorious in all its cheesiness. The one thing that brings it down (and I admit it's a rather big one) is Dane Cook who very nearly ruins a perfectly good corny action movie. His character enters the film around ten minutes in and after a further seven minutes I was already tired of his animal impressions and other shenanigans. His brand of humor is simply loathsome. Other than that, Simon Sez ticks just abut every box on the guilty pleasures action movie checklist; let's recap. There is a motorcycle gang doing unnecessary stunts, an over the top villain, dancing cyber monks, a not so secret secret agent in yellow motorcycle gear and a woman who likes to spontaneously fight/have sex with the protagonist. This is by no means a good movie but it definitely fits into the so-bad-it's-good category. "}{"Title":"The bad title caught my eye","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The title of the movie pretty much lead me to believe this would be a bad bad viewing experience. This movie is #1 on my list of worst movies ever made that are great fun to watch I was highly entertained at the horrible acting, silly plot...er was there one? and the two monks. I mean come on...monk side-kicks? It's just over the top. This movie tries to be a comedy and an action flick all at once..the comedy failing so miserably that it is incredibly funny. This will be one of those bad movies that you will truly love because it is so bad, or some will find it just not quite bad enough. I would compare it to Arnold's Total Recall. A bad movie with bad jokes, bad action but FUN. "},{"Title":"Yuk","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is awful. Dane Cook sucks. Dane Cook is the least funny comedian ever. I put comedian in quotes like that because I don't really think he is a comedian at all. Just like I would say Dane Cook is not an actor but an actor. He is a comedian and an actor. His stand-up comedy is horrible. His acting in this movie is at least as bad as Dennis Rodman's, and that is saying something I am sure you will agree if you have ever seen Dennis Rodman's acting. Dennis Rodman is probably as good at doing standup comedy as Dane Cook is at acting. This movie is awful. They couldn't even spell the title right. Simon Says this movie is one of the worst ever. "},{"Title":"Simon Sez","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is one of those movies where there is a minimum of one fight or chase scene every ten minutes, and if not for that there's no reason for the movie to exist. Rodman plays Simon, the man whose sezing is responsible for our title. Rodman is a secret agent for INTERPOL who has no less than TWO comedic sidekicks constantly dressed as monks in their monastery base in France. Simon is a motorcycle riding, kickboxing super agent capable of sliding down columns with his legs so that he can shoot guns with his hands. INTERPOL is apparently one of the easiest to work for secret agencies, because Rodman apparently has no mission or assignment to work on until an old schoolmate played by stand-up comedian Dane Cook, because apparently this film needs a THIRD comedic sidekick. Dane Cook is on a mission to exchange confidential military secrets for his boss's kidnapped daughter, and he brings Rodman along for the ride. The exchange goes bad and Rodman takes charge as any good action-hero does, and together Rodman and the trio of comic relievers try to track down the kidnapped girl and the most ridiculous villain since the Number 23 played itself in the Number 23.Dane Cook manages to work in his impersonations of dogs, dinosaurs from Jurassic Park, and Chewbacca into the first twenty minutes. Remarkably none of the bits that may very well have worked on stage fit into the movie and, furthermore, since they all sound virtually identical, really come off as lame. The only difference between Cook's dinosaur and Chewbacca is that dinosaurs have tiny arms. Apparently someone thought animal noises and kickboxing equaled box-office gold; of course, if that were true, Jean-Claude Van Damme's puppet show in Branson would be a bigger draw than it is now. Although to his credit Cook gives up on his impressions, one of Rodman's sidekicks (John Pinette) does a similar whale impression, which at least is tenuously related to the film because he is fat. Hilarious, no? About 1 out of 10 of Dane Cook's lines are amusing, but since 10 out of 10 are supposed to be funny, that's not a very good batting average. During a car chase where Rodman and Cook are being chased by the bad guys, and Rodman TWICE drives for an extended distance while tilted on two tires, Cook quips, These guys are like my college loan officers, they just keep coming! There is nothing better in a cheesy action movie than a scenery-chewing villain. This is the one role where it not only acceptable to overact, it is in fact mandatory by Hollywood law. When done right, the actor who hams it up as the villain can steal a movie, as proved by the likes of Robert Patrick in the horrible WWE Films The Marine or Christopher Walken in The Rundown. Our villain Ashton is doing an effeminate, impish supervillain that's so bad he'd be more suitable to battle Pee Wee Herman than James Bond. This is the kind of villain who while menacing a colonel he's extorting says, Colonel, do us all a favor and turn that frown upside down. My favorite is this exchange between Rodman and AshtonAshton Guess what we're going to blow up first! Rodman Your ego? Ashton No, but nice try, sailor! The Eiffel Tower! Rodman Why? Ashton Because it's big and it's delicious and I'm tired of looking at it!Like any other action star, Rodman gets to dive from a building before it explodes, then walk in slow motion away from the same building as it burns. Just like a real action hero! And as he emerges, his cohorts actually say, That's our Simon! Which, if you think about it, is really dialogue more suited for a wacky, 50s sitcom rather than a cheesy, 90s action flick, but that's just my (correct) opinion.While I've never seen more than short clips of Cook's comedy act and none of his recent starring vehicles, I think he at least adds a certain charm to the film. Rodman doesn't fare so well, though the ridiculous script certainly is of no help. It ain't over, Rodman growls with what is meant to be intensity. The man really doesn't possess any kind of charisma as far as I can detect. Beyond being a very good basketball player, the only reason that Rodman is famous is due to his outrageous publicity stunts like wearing a wedding dress to a book signing or wrestling in a tag team with Hulk Hogan and thereby degrading brides, books, and professional wrestling (which is hard to do).Unless you love bad action movies as much as I do, you should stay away from this at all costs. But I do love bad action movies as much as I do, and this is so bad it's actually entertaining.DJR - For more of my reviews check out film.ispwn.com "},{"Title":"Wasted Talent Party of One","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Overall, the acting is poor, the script is worse, and the stuntman would have done better to not have had a bungee cord attached when jumping off the bridge. However, there is a bit of this movie that critics tend to overlook.Where the rest of the acting is shabby and forced, Jerome Pradon (Ashton) comes out on top. Though he's been given a poorly developed character and a worse script to read from, Pradon rises from the proverbial ashes that is Simon Sez. Overlooking anything that has to do with anyone else involved in making this horrific movie Pradon's acting is as brilliant as can make do.Bottom line? I would suggest this movie if you are a Pradon fan...otherwise -go take the dog for a walk...or something. "},{"Title":"Action packed classic...brace yourself!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  'Simon Sez' (1999), whilst lacking in plot elements to some degree is argueably an incredibly exciting and action packed way to spend 85 minutes. Considering the lack of previous experience of the actors, the show incredible ability to portray their characters and present consistency in their roles. NBA player Dennis Rodman plays the charismatic yet notorious Simon alongside and incredible young cast including Saved by the Bell's Natalia Cigliuti playing the sexy and seductive Claire. Natalia shows great ability to adopt from variying roles and i look forward to seeing her on the big screen. Definitly worth the view but be warned...it is not for the fait hearted! "},{"Title":"Lazy and pathetic to the point of being personally offensive to the casual viewer","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" We all have had jobs where we are only there for the wage and have no allusion that it is a terrible job and that some day we will do better, but for now this will do. Well, I cannot imagine that filmmakers are any different and, as such, Simon Sez must have been one of the films where, eventually, everyone was just clocking in to get the job done, without any allusions about what a terrible piece of junk they were involved in. It is not any one thing about it that makes it terrible so much as, well, everything. The plotting is pretty poor to being with in general sweep down to the detail. Well, actually that is not fair because I suppose the overall kidnap plot could MAYBE have been turned into something good if every aspect of it was not so badly done. It isn't just the silly cars with parachutes built into them, or the stupid fight scenes but just how generally incoherent and cheap the whole mess feels.This feeds over into the characters which are either lazy clichés delivered in basic terms or, worse, embarrassing comedy characters that are as funny as being on fire. Of course we have all see bad films which are enjoyable because the action scenes work in big fun ways and I guess Simon Sez was never going to produce tension so this was the way to go. However it is never fun and instead the action sequences just feel so incredibly poor, like director Elders just thought pointing the camera at people firing guns or jumping around would be enough, which it isn't. The cast are perfect for this and they are roundly terrible. Rodman is a massive stiff board of a man without any of the fluid movement he showed in the NBA at his best and certainly none of the passion &#150; he is the charisma version of dark matter. Dane Cook is worse though because he tries really hard. Now, I kinda like his goofy performances in other things but here he is given sh1t to work with and he performs accordingly with an unfunny and irritating character &#150; his get prehistoric doesn't get shaken from the memory easily either it is so bad. None of the rest of the cast can do anything but one does have to give special mention to the unimaginative comedy monks who are painfully unfunny (Pinette and Harris) and the effete bad guy who is useless as a central villain.Simon Sez is a terrible film. It is not even a bad film with a bit of fun or action about it because the cheap and nasty production standards and poor ideas conspire to leave anything of value on the screen at any point. Those picking on Rodman as if it is all his fault are missing the point &#150; everyone is to blame here because nothing about it is good. Not the direction, the scoring, the stunts (terrible wire-work), the acting, the dialogue, the story &#150; nothing. It is a terrible waste of space whose only memorable thing is just how insulting to the viewer it is. "},{"Title":"...not a bad movie at all","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It seems that if the proponents of 'good cinema' had their way, an action movie, that too one with Dennis Rodman as its lead protagonist, would probably have him sit in a cubicle somewhere in Lyon, issuing warrants and handling correspondence. Now that would be realistic, sure... that would also be BORING.Simon Sez, on the other hand has some slick production values, lots of mindless action, nothing nearing a cohesive plot, it has zero character development, doesn't have a shred of realism and certainly nothing that approaches method acting... in short it's everything a fun action movie should be. The action scenes range from the good IL' gun fights to bike stunts to the mandatory explosion in the climax(though that could have done with some better CGI)...and where the action does let up, the comedy more than makes up for it. The scenes between the monks & Nick(Cook) are especially hilarious; check out the 'running man' scene to see what I mean.I remember reading somewhere that when it comes to Mr.Rodman, there are no fence straddlers...you either like him or you don't. Obviously the former don't go in too much for reviewing movies ,because a more than decent movie seems to have suffered from the lack of general bonhomie generated by its lead actor. A pity, since it is a great actioner and even manages to be consistently funny... and though 'Simon Sez' is unlikely to propel its lead stars towards any acting hall of fame, to be fair to Rodman & Cook, they've done the best with the cards that they've been dealt, talent & script wise.In the end not a bad movie at all.  "},{"Title":"Aimed squarely at stupid people...","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" ...which makes me wonder about myself! This film is horrible...no question about it. The only question is does it belong on IMDb's Bottom 100 list?. Well, I'd say no...but its inclusion doesn't bother me as it is a terrible film with very little to recommend it and it is so incredibly irritating. One one hand, the stunts took considerable talent but on the other hand this is mindless trash through and through.For the most part, the biggest problem was NOT its star Dennis Rodman. He wasn't particularly good, but he wasn't terrible. Yes, he had practically the personality of sawdust, but in this film that's a relatively good thing! That's because at least he wasn't an irritant--like his co-stars. Dane Cook, on the other hand, was about as welcome as cancer in this film. This annoying troll managed to be more obnoxious and unfunny than folks like Chris Tucker or Uncle Joey from Full House--now THAT'S bad! Nearly every second Cook was in the film I hated him and wanted his character to die. He was loud, he was unfunny and he made goofy sounds and acted like a dinosaur at one point for no reason whatsoever. The only good thing about this is that his obnoxiousness overshadowed the few times that the normally funny John Pinette was also obnoxious and unfunny. I have never seen a cast of sidekicks less funny or welcome than these trolls! In addition to totally unfunny comic relief, the film suffers from the notion that the only way to hide the fact that Rodman is no actor is to throw over the top stunt after over the top stunt into the film--sort of like 4 or 5 James Bond movies' worth all shoved into one film. Believe it or not, the stunts here are even more ridiculous than those in Mission Impossible--another movie designed for brain-dead audiences who hate plots and only want non-stop action.Normally, I would try to explain the plot and tell you more about the film but I'd rather not and just scream loudly THIS FILM IS HORRIBLE--AVOID IT LIKE EBOLA!!!!. Dumb, poorly written and childish--there isn't anything (other than a likable villain) to recommend this steaming pile of .....movie. Yuck! "},{"Title":"Y'all know about pop stars who can't act...","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Now how about basketball players who can't act? I know basketball players can act - I've seen such big movies like Kazaam and Space Jam and I think those are Shaquille O'Neal and Michael Jordan at both of their best - when they are not playing, of course! (Sorry, but this may not be accurate.) Now, let us bring in Dennis Rodman. I know him as a player for the NBA!!!!! Yes, all three are very good no matter where they are - on the court, on the street, in the cinema - yes, basketball players can act! So add the three mentioned titles to your DVD collection and start a basketball players' collection today! Simon Sez Watch 'Simon Sez!' "},{"Title":"Dane Cook as the best side kick ever!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  For anyone who loves Dane Cook (and his comedy),this is an awesome movie. Although the rest of the movie is really cheesy, Dane makes it totally worth it.  He plays Dennis Rodman's (who in my opinion is a really terrible actor)sidekick.  I don't think I've ever laughed so hard in my life.  If you're like me and love Dane, watch this movie, or do what i do....fast forward through all the Dennis scenes without Dane "}]