[{"Title":"Save judgement until the end- ****","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"46 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I was disappointed recently as I read poor reviews of one of the best films I've ever seen.  I saw this film twice at the Sundance Film Festival and was impressed and enjoyed the sensitive and comedic depiction of WW2 and populations facing war, however, you must stay to the very end, and let the final scene sink in to get the complete effect.  This is not a heartwarming story of the holocaust, but a fantasy that thrusts the viewer back into reality and the horrors of the holocaust with a final shot that is one of the most heartwrenching and shocking scenes I've seen. Don't compare it with Life is Beautiful- many have done this and they are not similar.  This film deserves better.  "},{"Title":"Wow!!!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"40 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a magnificent film. Like Life Is Beautiful it manages to be a comedy about the Holocaust but also a sensitive and thoughtful study of it. It's beautifully filmed, wonderfully acted, superbly directed. I can't think of a film I've seen this year that is more entertaining and more thought provoking. It's a comedy, it's a fantasy, it's a musical, it's a drama, it's a romance, it's an allegory and, yes, it's a tragedy. It's also wonderfully European with none of the predictable Hollywood cliches but with fascinating symbolism and revealing studies of human dynamics. But not the least artsey-dartsey.  And how I'm tempted to give away the ending. But no! I wouldn't want anyone to miss that cinematic fist in the gut. Wow!!! The whole hour and a half is crystalized in a five second closeup. You won't be prepared for it! This is one of the few films I've ever given a ten! "},{"Title":"A superb movie!","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"41 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Rarely does one has the pleasure of watching a movie that combinesmelancholy, drama, humor and insight into the human heart as this one does. A  superb cast does honor to a powerful script. All of those who loved RobertoBenigni's Life is beautiful will be pleased to know that this film treats the same  general subject with at least as much humor and sensitivity, but with more depth. I was not familiar with either the director or any of the actors. I just hope we will  see more from them, as I can't praise this work enough.  "},{"Title":"Real Jewish humour!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This film is often compared to LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL, and with good reason.  They are both comedies that take on the treacherously delicate subject of the Holocaust. Also, Benigni turned down the opportunity to make this film and then borrowed the idea of a Holocaust comedy to make his film.  Which is fine with me because in his hands, the film would have sunk into offensive silliness.  Benigni is Italian, which means he is great at Italian humour.  But he hasn't an idea as to what real Jewish humour is like.  This film is a quintessentially Jewish film.  It is about the old world Jewish experience that can only be understood and articulated by a Jew with old world roots.    Unfortunately, much of the old world Jewish lifestyle and humour has been lost to recent generations.  To some viewers, the characters in this film may seem like characters out of FIDDLER ON THE ROOF.  But despite the broad characterizations for the benefit of Jewish humour, the characters here are all quite human and honest. Jewish humour by the way, depends on flagrant exaggeration and waggish expression.  The film even uses a great analogy of this when it explains that Yiddish is basically German with a sense of humour.  Take away the exaggerated humour, and you've got basic German. The story is about the inhabitants of a French shtetl (Jewish village) who decide to deport themselves to Palestine before the Nazis come and deport them to concentration camps.  They buy a train, tailor a few dozen Nazi uniforms and flee across the continent, sidestepping real Nazis and French resistance fighters who think that the train of Jews is a Nazi train.  There is a subplot involving an outbreak of communism among some of the Jews on the train that gets a little tired.  But then that does live up to the film's title.  This train of life is a microcosm of society, with all of its pettiness and short-sightedness.This is a beautiful film that is much funnier and bittersweet than LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL without the unnecessary manipulations to pull on our heartstrings.  For those who want to taste the real Jewish experience, I recommend this highly!ADDENDUM  There are many who feel that it is sacrilege to make any type of comedy about the Jewish experience during WWll.  To make light of suffering or to drastically bend or cover up the truth for the sake of entertainment, is sacrilege.  But this film does not do any of those things.  It retains the humour and the dignity of a culture that was almost made extinct.  It provides us with a great tribute to the spirit and perseverance of those people. "},{"Title":"So its unrealistic.  So what?","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  It's amazing how many people seem to be complaining about the unrealism of this film.  Given that anyone with two brain cells to rub together can see that the film is not trying to be realistic from scene 1 onwards, the question is not whether the film tried to be realistic and failed, but whether a film about the Holocaust must try to be realistic to be any good.The trouble is that unless as part of the performance the entire audience is deported in cattle-trucks, slowly starved, and then gassed, it is rather difficult to see how any film can be realistic about the Holocaust.  So, if there are to be movies about the Holocaust at all, or if they are to do much beyond telling us that the Holocaust was ghastly (we knew that, didn't we?)they have to give up on trying to be realistic, and try to look at the Holocaust in an indirect way.  This is where I think Train de Vie succeeds, for example by the deliberate parallels between the society inside the train, and the society that helped caused the Holocaust.  I could list them at length, but if you've seen the movie and didn't notice them, you won't be convinced by anything I say, and if you haven't seen the movie, I'd rather leave you the pleasure of discovering them for yourself.I never actually thought of the film's relation to Life is Beautiful until reading the IMDB comments, after I'd seen both films.  Well it's very hard to compare the two films, but I don't think Train de Vie needs to be ashamed of the comparison.  True, Roberto Benigni does not star in it, and that is a heavy handicap for any film.  On the other hand I think I like the exuberant un-reality of Train de Vie better.  After all the portrayal of the Holocaust in Life is Beautiful is just as unrealistic as that of Train de Vie; the only difference is that Train de Vie revels from the first sceneto the last in its unreality.  If we must be unreal, let us at least enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The Romanian La Vita E Bella (Life is beautiful)","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Quote Mordechai So Shlomo, have you ever been in love? Slomo No!!! That would be madness!!OK, so there have been too many movies about the Holocaust and there are a lot of people complaining about that, but this is not necessary such a movie. It is more like one of the stories written by Isaac Bashevis Singer, and full of the same humor and sadness and irony... it may even be called a comedy, a black Balcanic humor, if people won't be offended by the association comedy - Holocaust... It is somehow the same way that Life is beautiful is a comedy, and the subjects are contiguous... It is a shame that the movie does not have an English subtitle (or at least one that I could find) but for the French speaker it is wonderful to watch in its original language. But try to find it. Give it a chance, even just because it comes mainly from Romania, and you are curious what can these guys do (check out the Awards section). And I promise you you'll be impressed. Or at least touched. "},{"Title":"Unexpected plot but plenty of laughter","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  There's quite a bit going on in Train of Life but it's worth following. The premise is that a shtetl (Jewish community) fears it will be deported to a World War II concentration camp. The village fool, Shlomo, comes up with the idea to purchase a locomotive, train some of the villagers to talk/act/dress like Nazis and head for Palestine in hopes they can fool the real Nazis. Okay, the premise is far fetched. That's a given. But for this film, it works. The close-knit village buys into the plan and sets to work creating the ruse. Shlomo rises about his village idiot persona and finds new worth. The fake Nazi commander, Mordechai, begins to take his role a little too literally. There's a subplot about some of the young men converting to Communism. And a small band of resistance workers who try to blow up the train. But the star of this film is not one person, it is the village. They've banded together to survive, which isn't lost amid the humor. There's true fear and hope. Some may feel the villagers are made fun of and lampooned, but there's a healthy respect for the Jewish customs and family closeness in this film. Watch the scene where the villagers prepare for the Sabbath during their journey and you'll see what I mean. Too many films to count have focused on the reality of the Holocaust. There's no deny that it was a horrific event that should never be forgotten. This film does not desecrate or abandon that truth. It simply adds a new dimension worth exploring. "},{"Title":"Great Movie ..","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I saw this movie on Showtime, after a late night shift.   Never went looking for it.  I found the movie reveting.I saw some comments about Life is Beautiful, and the comparison.  A more apt comparison would be, I believe to Fiddler on the Roof.  In the same sense, perhaps not as musical though, the story seems to weave through the life and times of a community facing oncoming winds of change.In a way, with the arguments of the imitation Nazis, and the revolutionary communists, the pattern of life is both touchingly human, and comically sarcastic of how men are seemingly separated with each other.Although the Jewish communal environment seeps through the wonderful story, the later union with the gypsies who are also seeking a haven, relents to truly human and comic parody of the WWII era. "},{"Title":"A Magic Realism Touch to Recall Life Before the Holocaust","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Despite a really annoying audience of noisy senior citizens I got into the spirit of Train of Life (Train de vie) (though it was odd having the shtetl residents in a foreign-language film speak French until I realized of course in Jakob the Liar Robin Williams and Liev Schreiber speak English so why not in a Belgian/Romanian-produced movie wouldn't they speak French?).It has the immediate feel of the magic realism of The Milagro Beanfields War and it no more cheapens the Holocaust than The Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge cheapens the Civil War. It is full of the warmth and love of everyday life and personalities come sweetly to life.I thought the Fool as the Seer was getting a bit much until it's made clear he's not really the Village Idiot so no heavy-handed symbolism.(originally written 11/14/1999) "},{"Title":"Very funny WWII movie","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This is one of the best humor movies I've ever seen. It's really hard to mix a war plot with nice fine humor. Some try it but the result is very bad. This movie is an exception, it's great and funny.I think the soul of this movies is it near naive humor. There is no that boring kind of intelligent and cool humor for intelligent and cool people. It's plain humor works fine.But don't think this movie is just humor because it has a humanitarian story bellow the humorous cover that touches the heart. It's about human beings doing their best to escape from death.The soundtrack of this movie is great. I love the music, it's fabulous.It's a great movie worth of seeing. "}{"Title":"Can Jew's running from Nazi's be funny?","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Answer Yes.  This film continued to surprise me with the way it handled this concept.  Some may find the idea too hard to handle but it treats the heroes with enough respect that no offense should be taken.  Watch out for the Kick in the gut ending. "},{"Title":"Marvelous fable plenty of lively comedy ,  good feeling and Jewish customs","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The village's dumb named Scholomo(Abelanski) comes running and shouting that the Jews from near little towns are being deported towards unknown locations. That same night the Jewish council of wise men (presided by Clement Harari) is reunited to find a manner to save the villagers. They determine that people will be shielded from the horrors around them and somehow finds a way to do it. Then Scholome proposes an original idea, organize a false deportation train so which they can flee the Nazis passing the Russian frontier and escape to Palestine. Some Jewish are dressed in German uniforms(Rufus) and others posing as fake prisoners. Their efforts sometimes are pure fantasy , though with ruse they pull off the feat to keep the faith on their dreams.This is a story about love, war and sacrifice , well starred and directed. Extraordinary movie with comedy upon an irrepressible group who refuses to ever give in to adversity and some moment is spoken in Yiddish and German language with subtitles. A beguiling and unique fable that celebrates the human spirit and the freedom. This amusing picture contains some of ¨Fiddler on the roof¨(Norman Jewison,1971), including violin performance , ¨Life is beautiful¨ (Roberto Benigni ,1997) and ¨The last train¨(Joseph Vilsmaier, 2006). Excellent performances by all cast, as Harari as veteran rabbi trying to preserve Jewish heritage against growing odds, Rufus as Jew posing as Nazi officer, Michel Muller as Jewish infected with the fast-spreading germ of communism, and Agatha La Fontaine as gorgeous youngster, among them. Emotive and hearty score melodically performed by Goran Bregovic, Emir Kusturica's usual. Director Radu Mihaileanu tirelessly maintains the humorous ingenuity and shapes simultaneously hilarious and haunting comedy. Rating  Better than average. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"you will laugh crying.","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  this brilliant film came out from a brilliant mind, that has a Jewish background. who shows this story is then a person who is talking about a tragedy that he indirectly lived or at least he lived through his parents tales. watching this movie you will become aware of the holocaust tragedy. however the way this movie is treated is unusual, because of its terrific irony. you will learn a terrible truth but laughing, or, to say it better, your mouth will laugh while your heart will be crying.probably at the end of the film you will feel stupid for having laughed for all its duration. if you loved Life is beautiful, well then you can't miss Trein de vie. a special suggestion is to check the soundtrack out carefully, it rocks!! "},{"Title":"Absurdly funny yet provoking","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Different people see different things on movies. This, which may be an obvious statement, is specially true about Train de vie. So let me explain what I found, IMHO, marvelous about this movie, and why I would recommend it.First of all, Train de Vie doesn't try to make a point about the Holocaust - is is just the perceived driver from which this community tries to escape. How this peculiar escape plan (with all odds against success) develops is just an excuse for portraying how war, religion, prejudice, ideologies, etc, end up affecting the life of simple people. Only that, instead of watching an emotionally-filled movie (which is Ok to me, but its not the only way to tell a sensitive story), we are presented with this in a more subtle way as a townspeople tale where each of these real-world factors is reflected - in a mocked, twisted, funny way- inside the train environment. Communist dogma, nazi's 'ethnic order', social privileges, military commands, everything from which this community was isolated is suddenly 'infecting' people on the train, of course, with absurd consequences that go against the very goal of the community, life - just the same effect the outside-train world is suffering.I'm not trying to say this is the one and only intention of the movie, yet, it is what I value the most. As for the rest of it, being a tale of townspeople, its characters are stereotyped yet intimate and natural in their motivations; from the music to the dialogs and comic situations, nothing is forced here. And you can end up laughing at the oddity of all this world, while thinking of just how tragically resembling of our own real world it is - something the ending just reinforces.Whether you choose to see all this as a marvelous tale or as an offense to common sense is up to you; but certainly, there is a lot more to be watched throughout this story than its ending or its historical correctness. And I can hardly see any antisemitism on this.  "},{"Title":"Refreshing and something to think about","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  The film Train de vie is a story about how to cope in a time of horror.  It is essential to never loose your humour and imagination even in time of war. To stay sane and alive you can turn to insanity. A great paradox but what in life isn´t. I think that we need new ways to look att the holocaust. The hole story is dependent of the end without the ending Train de vie would be rather distasteful i can admit to that. But the ending makes you stop and think and realize that everything you´ve just seen is a figment of the narrators imagination. Constructed by him for his own mental survival. I think that this is a warm and wonderful film, much because of that it is open for many interpretations. Plus the music is absolutely great! "},{"Title":"I do recommend this movie","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  What happens when a non Jew makes a movie about the Jewish Holocaust? Life is Beautiful, this is what happens. Benigni's movie had very little Jewish content, absolutely no Jewish feel to it and the author excuse was that his creation was in fact a fable. Benigni, obviously didn't understand that the Jewish experience of Holocaust is not a universal experience because of the uniqueness of the Jewish culture, for one. This is why, his movie, funny at times, failed to be convincing.I brought Benigni up for discussion because his name seems to be always associated with  The Train of Life. Both movies talk about Holocaust in a humorous way. But unlike Benigni, Radu Mihaileanu, a Jew himself, acknowledged in his movie that the way the Jews felt the war was very different than how other felt it, the Italians for instance even if some of them shared similar experiences- Benigni's fathers spent two years in a concentration camp. Mihaileanu's Jews, in their attempt to escape sure death, used Jewish wisdom, collaborated in a Jewish fashion and laughed at Jewish jokes. Yes they laughed a lot, at Nazis, of course and equally at themselves. We the spectators laughed we them. What happens when a Jew tells the story of Gypsies' Holocaust experience? Mihaileanu tried it. This whole scene was the only moment of the movie that regrettably reminded me of Life is beautiful. I am able though to ignore this unfortunate cinematic incident and highly recommend The Train of Life.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever!","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This movie is a great, fresh, original look at events surrounding the Holocaust. Mind you, this film does not look at the Holocaust itself, but at events surrounding it. It is an epitome of Jewish humor; anyone who finds this movie offensive does not understand this. The movie balances hope and honesty about tragedy beautifully, uses humor in a respectful context to make important deeper points (that is, it is not slapstick), and incorporates brief statements on love and theology. The various emotions that the movie evokes, often depending on the viewer's own mood at the time, allow the movie to be watched repeatedly and for new levels of meaning to reveal themselves. Roberto Benigni may have stolen the concept of Life is Beautiful from Mihaileanu's Train de Vie, but the films cannot be compared. Whereas Benigni glibly believes that love and laughter can conquer all, even the Holocaust, Mihaileanu understands that they can only help one survive separately from the more practical and real danger of physical death. In other words, love and laughter are directly part of the point of Life is Beautiful--ends in themselves--a somewhat offensive concept. In Train de Vie, on the other hand, they are on the side and only serve as foils, as means to ends. The ending of Train de Vie further eliminates any glib concept of easy survival that is present in Life is Beautiful. A must see, especially for anyone who has seen and disliked Life is Beautiful. "},{"Title":"the touch of the genius","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  What is a genius? someone who can get a huge result with a minimum effort. A simple zoom-out and all the story changed its mood and appeared in all its tragedy. I'm Italian and I appreciate Roberto Benigni, but I think that La vita è bella is a good film just because there is Benigni as an actor; on the other hand, Train the vie is a wonderful film in the whole. "},{"Title":"Train of Life is not for media led moviegoers!","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  All those media led moviegoers are fussing over Italian Roberto Benigni's La Vita E Bella a.k.a. Life is Beautiful! It may be a good movie but Radu Mihaileanu's Train of Life is best and much superior. I even question myself if Mihaileanu might have inspired Benigni. Their thematic is quite similar.  "},{"Title":"Fiddler on the Roof meets Life is Beautiful","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  L.I.B. got more publicity because of Begnini and it was a great film. Train of Life has an overall better plot and looks at the holocaust from a more Jewish perspective. Train of Life is a terrific wonderful film and the viewer is not distracted by big name stars. It is a must see that really gets going after the characters are introduced. It's like Fiddler because both movies concentrate on the towns' people. "}{"Title":"Bittersweet masterpiece","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Great. Only this word can describe a masterpiece such as Train de vie... a fun yet respectful satyre of yiddish commonplaces, all with a plot that's nothing short of the deed of a genius. The grim ending is unavoidable for a matter of due respect to the shoah victims. "},{"Title":"The Phantom Train","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  The Holocaust comedy may be a surprising genre for some - but I am sure many of the Holocaust victims would understand it. Humor is one of the secrets of Jewish survival, and even in the darkest times as WWII, Jews tried to cope with the situation with a mix of faith, resolution and a unique humor that survived and helped them survive the times. Radu Mihaileanu's film is a fantastic story of hope and dreams in horrific times. The idea is good and original, with an ending fifteen minutes that pay back some of the viewers hard time in the mid of the film. There are a lot of good things to be seen here, but also a lot of slow pace and conventional cinema, sometimes even bad cinema. The film is moving and emotional, but more at the abstract level. Too many of the characters on the screen belong to the Jewish (positive) stereotypes descended directly from 'Fiddler on the Roof'. Acting is good, but even the best actors could hardly overcome the schematic approach of the script. The secondary plot of the sudden exposure of the close shtetl society to the non-Jewish world is treated in a way too much similar to some of the Bashevis-Singer books and deserves much more than the simplicist approach given to it in this filmIt is always worth making and seeing films that show the Holocaust from different perspectives. 'Train de vie' is neither the best, nor the worst of them. 7/10 on my personal scale.   "},{"Title":"Funny, witty, touching, special - In hard times, it sometimes helps to see the world through the eyes of the village idiot","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" It is difficult to review this movie without giving anything away &#x96; and giving away about this movie would be a crime. If you, dear reader, have an interest in Train of Life and haven't watched it yet, I can only recommend that you stop reading now (and start watching).Shlomo, the village idiot of some small Jewish hamlet in Eastern-Europe has a vision of Germans appearing and deporting all the villagers. Under Shlomos guidance, the villager's decide to buy a ram shackled train, dress up as Nazis and rather deport themselves (needless to say, not to any concentration camp but rather to Palestine). On their way, they have to avoid many obstacles &#x96; like German soldiers, resistance fighters who want to blow up the train, the dressed up guards suffering from a form of Stamford-Prison-Experiment-syndrome, a communist revolt among the passengers and the question whether it's kosher to celebrate the Sabbath wearing German uniforms. Last but not least, a group of gypsies (whose village-idiot had a vision of Germans deporting the gypsies, who would rather deport themselves to Egypt by dressing up as Germans and stealing a train). And yes, there is a happy &#x96; of sorts.Have to admit that I hesitated to watch Train de Vie for a while. Why? Well, I'm German and there are many moments in the life of a German where he/she is simply sick and tired of hearing, seeing or watching anything about Nazi-Germany, the holocaust, etc. Yes, the war has been over for some times, yes, the Fuehrer is dead (thank god) and yes, those bastards won't come back, at least not in our lifetime and not if my generation can help it.A good friend convinced me to watch it, claiming that Train de Vie is by no means your average War-movie; in fact, it wasn't like any other movie I had watched before. So I heeded the advice, watched and, what can I say, it has been on my personal top-10-list of favorite movies ever since. To point out one highlight would be unfair; the film is full of highlights. However, my personal favorite line comes, when the deportees try to master the German language, being explained that German only copies Yiddish, albeit without the Yiddish humor (and whether the Germans are aware that their language is imitating Yiddish). This reminded me when I overheard a young skinhead chatting with his mate, complaining that there was something not kosher about his shiksa (girlfriend), who apparently went a little meschuggah at the time.Train de Vie has often been compared to either Life is Beautiful or Black Cat, White Cat. No problem with that since Begnini's film is one of the few who has dared to make a movie about the holocaust in a comedic context and Kustaricis gypsy-farce has a similar life-affirming yet almost chaotic spirit &#x96; but that is where the similarities end. Few films are capable of combining doom and gloom so well with a life-affirming spirit. The humor of Train de Vie is as warm as it is witty, and it is as witty as it is black. As if director Radu Mihaileanu had combined the French farces of the 1970's with the typical Jewish humor (if there is such a thing) a la Ephraim Kishon.Last but not least, let me point out the excellent soundtrack by Goran Bregovic (who also composed the score for Black Cat, White Cat. I love the soundtrack of Black Cat, White Cat but here Bregovic has outdone himself. Not an easy feat.Remember in the end, the entire story is true &#x96; as it happened through the eyes of the village idiot.One of the rare cases when I give a film 10 from 10. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a surprisingly good movie. Great idea, great cast, sometimes very funny. There are some really unreal scenes or ideas, that made me think they were used just to move the plot forward, but the ending destroys every disappointment I have had during the film. Still, the acting could have been better. Vote 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Life in train is so much beautiful","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a really great movie, full of color, full of everything a different way to see the holocaust, great script, the director offer the paper of Shlomo to Roberto Benigni before he make Life is Beautiful, but he rejected it, some people said that Benigni stole the main idea of the movie, but whatever, this picture is so much better than the other, cause it is not based just in one person experience is based in an entire town of jews, with a lot of important characters that make the movie, and no one is better than the other. All this with something so much cinematographic like a train.  "},{"Title":"How to make a Holocaust film...","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Mihaileanu was disappointed with both Spielberg's (Schindler's List) and Benigni's (La vita e bella/Life is Beautiful) portrayals of the Holocaust, although he does credit Spielberg for admitting that he thought that his effort was a failure.The Holocaust poses a monstrous challenge to film makers - how can one make a film about the Holocaust without insulting the memory of those who perished?Rather than attempting the arguably impossible task of realistically portraying the gloom and horror of the Holocaust, Mihaileanu uses humour with great effect.  For example, viewers will be surprised at how amusing they find an orthodox Jew acting as a Nazi officer, complete with a tinge of Yiddish accent.Despite the use of humour, Mihaileanu does not fail to import the gravity of the Holocaust.  He achieves this through a delicate yet powerful mechanism that cannot only be experienced by seeing the film.Occasionally the humour is a little trying - perhaps this is cultural, and it would have been more rewarding to see the film in the local language rather than French.  Otherwise, the film is excellent.JB "},{"Title":"favorable","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a very interesting movie, very well-acted and with a good and unique plot/story.  It's hard these days to find a movie with an original idea, and this is one.  It's funny, with serious ideas and overtones thrown in. "},{"Title":"I hated it until the ending made it great!","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Without giving away the totally surprising ending, I will say that I really was turned off by this film until the ending wrapped up everything very clearly. The acting is excellent and the basic plot is unique and very interesting. Too bad in real life, those tragic human beings slaughtered by the Nazi regime didn't come up with this idea a thousand times over. A comedy about this horrific time of the world is sometimes difficult to deal with. The people involved are not painted in a positive light, yet like I said, the ending makes everything as clear as clear can be. The film can drag at times, but the acting saves it. Not sure if this film will appeal to an overall general audience, because it can be over the top and even distasteful. I would rate the ending one of the most surprising and shocking in the history of cinema. Train of Life is the dream to escape the nightmare of the brutally of man. Thought provoking to say the least. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"admirable   work","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" not a film about war but a great exploration of a community force. not a film about Shoah but one of wise trips in the heart of beauty of an special universe. traditions and stories, precise- delicate characters and the big idea, a travel, a challenge, meditation about the origin and about the best solution. a film who reminds the spirit of Central Europe in inspired manner. it is not easy to define it. it is not Life is beautiful by Benigni. it is not a kind of parable. only a film about life. out of definitions or frames. a film in Mihaileanu's spirit about small and fundamental pieces of existence. nothing real surprising. nothing only seductive. only a support for reflection about the ingenuity and human force of survive. "},{"Title":"De-railed","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" There is a very fine line that you walk when you are trying to make a comedy about a subject as difficult as the holocaust. Roberto Benigni walked that line with Life is Beautiful and never stepped wrong. He knew how to have the trickiest balance between humor and the darkest horror man has ever known.One can imagine how Benigni could have gone wrong. But for an example there is Train of Life, a shameful exercise in filmmaking whose premise is intriguing, whose script is embarrassing and whose ending is a kick in the face.Here is the intriguing premise In 1941 the people of a small Jewish community become aware that Hitler is killing Jews in Europe. Fearing that they could be deported, they decide to fake their own deportation by stealing a train, making Nazi uniforms and heading for Pakistan, thereby deceiving the Nazi and saving their lives.The embarrassing script gives us a cast of cartoonish characters who spend 90% of the film squabbling. There is no tension in the scenes where the train in stopped by the Nazis because the Nazis in this film are so dimwitted that they would fall for anything! Now for the ending The ending (which I won't give away) I suppose is supposed to be poignant or funny or touching but found it to be shameful. With so many denying that the holocaust ever happened, we don't need a film this trite. The movie takes this subject and grinds it down to a rather unfunny sitcom. "}{"Title":"Train de vie. A very special movie","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" When my philosophy teacher recommended this movie to the class, I was rather skeptical about it I thought that it was one of many movies about the Holocaust, and that one day, perhaps, I was going to watch it. But when I actually found myself watching it, I had to notice that it had nothing similar to any other movie I have ever seen, especially about the Holocaust. The cinematography, the production design, the screenplay, even the plot every element makes this movie very special. About the ending, not to spoiler anything at all, I am just going to say that it is beautiful and terrible at the same time, unlike any other ending of any other movie. I do not like rating movies, because I think a vote is like a box that never actually expresses the true quality of a person or of a thing; here on IMDb, however, I found myself rating every movie I watch, as in a sort of ritual from which I can't escape. But, until I watched Train de vie, I never felt a movie to be worth a 10, not even my favourite ones (which are not, to be clear, Disaster Movie or Gunday). Right after the ending of this movie, nevertheless, I didn't even have to think about all the elements which could make it worth a 10 I just knew it. So I grabbed my mobile phone, opened the IMDb App, and, not without a sense of guilt towards all my favourite movies, led my finger on the vote 10. "},{"Title":"Avoid the film unless you like sentimentality","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I had heard this film to be better than Life Is Beautiful I write the word better in scare quotes, because whether a film is better or worse is something subjective according to me, so it was very surprising to me the film marketed as a better humorous take on the Holocaust. I am afraid, in my opinion, not only it is a worse film, but it is also a film that reminded me of those mindless Hollywood musicals like Carousel, etc. If you like that genre, you will like this film; if you fall for some exaggerated humour at Jew avarice, then you may fall for this one; if you like shapeless characters playing roles of bumpkins and dolts, then you may; otherwise, there is nothing here, least of all to even take its name in the same breath as the great Benigni film Life Is Beautiful.I would have forgiven the almost-universal bad acting and the long drawn-out scenes of this film had the film made me laugh, being supposed to be a comedy however, the film failed to manage even a single laugh (!) during its whole course. And the same was the case with the audience packing the hall around hundred people not even managing one single guffaw between them in this grindingly boring film. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"An Absolutely Amazing Movie!!","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This movie is one of my favourite holocaust movies ever because it combines so many aspects of life humour, despair, political turmoil, sexuality, prejudices...etc. It's funny, sad, hopeful and above all makes you feel honoured to be part of the journey along with the characters. From the very beginning I fell in love with the characters, this movie has a certain small town fiddler-on-the-roof quality to it that enables you to relate to everyone in the village in some way. Like Fiddler inside the village there are also many special types from it's town fool to the rabbi. I highly highly recommend this movie to anyone who has a heartbeat. it has a very dark sense of humour, much like Life is Beautiful but I believe it hasn't received the acknowledgment that it definitely deserves. "},{"Title":"A fable of survival","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This is an earlier film by the French/Romanian/Jewish writer and director, Radu Mihaileanu, than his two great masterpieces LIVE AND BECOME (2005, see my review) and THE CONCERT (2009, see my review). Although this film, like all Mihaileanu's films shot in French, is readily available on French DVD, and even with German subtitles, the only version released with English subtitles is an old NTSC video, which has never appeared in DVD or even in PAL format. It is thus very difficult for an English-speaker to see this wonderful film. Unlike the two later films just mentioned, this film contains broad elements of comedy and whimsical Jewish humour, although the context of the story is deeply tragic. The story concerns the inhabitants of a small rural Jewish village in Transylvania known as a shtetl. The European Jews had lived primarily in these shtetls for centuries, ever since they became dispersed more than a thousand years ago with the destruction of the Khazar Empire, at which time more than two million Khazar Jews, later known as Ashkenazis, took refuge wherever they could from the Caucasus to the Rhine and tried to keep low profiles to avoid the endless pogroms and persecutions which threatened them from that time on. This time it is the Nazis who are in the next valley and making their way towards this little shtetl, with the inevitable deportation to the death camps which will follow. And so the village idiot, who is not the idiot he seems, comes up with a brilliant idea the Jews will deport themselves instead of sitting there and waiting to be deported by the Nazis! They will sell off as many possessions as possible to the locals and buy an old train, which they will refurbish with fake swastika signs and fresh paint, and put themselves into cattle cars and drive the train towards the Russian border where they may be safe from the Germans. Those amongst the Jews who can speak German have to impersonate German soldiers and sit in a luxurious train car up front with leather seats, barking out harsh orders from time to time and behaving sadistically. The tailors in the village make all the necessary fake Nazi uniforms with no trouble. This desperate attempt to escape is treated with full humour, and there are many laughs. We see a charming view of shtetl life of a small Jewish community who have always lived in the middle of nowhere, as self-sufficient as possible. Eventually the train is ready and the entire shtetl population gets into the train cars and goes forth on their madcap mission of self-salvation. The driver is an engineer who has never operated a train before, and we have many funny scenes where he tries to pull levers based upon the operating manual which he holds in his other hand. A tremendous number of harrowing adventures take place on the journey partisans want to blow up the train because they believe it is genuinely a Nazi train. Then the train is stopped by real Nazis, whom the Jews outwit. They keep running out of food and wonder where to find it. It is a raucous odyssey. The film is done with great sensitivity and skill, which is no less than we would expect from Mihaileanu. This film won 12 international awards, and is a classic of its kind, although there are certainly not many of its kind! "},{"Title":"Don't compare it with Life Is Beautiful/La vita e' bella","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I see most of the commentors compared this film with the one with Benigni. I don't think the two movies can be compared. La vita e' bella is half comedy, half tragedy, while Train de Vie is a comedy from the beginning up to the end. The former is rich in mostly visual gags, while the latter has a more verbal humor (for example, when the fake soldiers are taught how to speak like Nazis German is like Yiddish you just take the humor away). This movie is also filmed in lush, solar colors, while Benigni's, in the tragic second half, is mostly dark, black and white.  I don't know if it is right to make comedies about the Holocaust. Ernst Lubitsch's To Be Or Not To Be is one, but it was filmed before the horror of the extermination camps was fully discovered. I feel this last movie is a better comparation for Train de Vie (it also includes impersonation of Nazis by the fleeing Jews).  "},{"Title":"Epic storyline, yet fun to watch","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This movie is a comedy, no doubt about it is has comic stereotypes. It's romanced. I laughed. But this film also has epic dimensions, even if they are imaginary. Over the millenia, we are the witnesses of a new Exodus. God leads His people out of harm's way once again. Moses is now a young lunatic, but in his madness he is wiser than all others. The fate of the Jews links at one point with that of the Gypsies. It had to both are known in history for their thirst for freedom, both had their Exodus(from Egypt to Canaan; from India to the far corners of Europe), both died heavily in the Nazi concentration camps. For all of them who died in the death-camps, this movie is a prison break it is their share of freedom post-mortem given. They deserved to escape and to reach the Promised Land, but history allows this only in our imagination they died in Auschwitz-Birkenau, Bergen-Belsen, Dachau, Buchenwald, Ravensbrück, Sachsenhausen, Natzweiler and in many other. Everyone has the right to try to reach a Promised Land, or a Moby Dick to hunt, or a Holy Grail to find because they were denied such rights in reality, this imaginary Exodus brings justice even if it's late. This is the main idea of the film justice for the innocents. "},{"Title":"A French Hogan's Heroes ?","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Once again, the WWII experience is portrayed as it was on that long  running TV show - inept Germans, miraculous escapes, ridiculous stereotypes.  The return to reality ending doesn't make up for this train ride "},{"Title":"Mock holocaust","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Yet, another sugar-coated attempt at making the holocaust look easy and the Nazis look dumb.  Come on!  No one's going to buy that!  Admittedly good cast, but the plot is riddled with holes and underlying dimwittedness. 'Life is Beautiful' did this kind of material far better. "},{"Title":"Good in principle, I suppose","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I now admire Roberto Benigni all the more.  I don't know exactly what happened, but I suspect it was something like this Benigni saw the Train of Life script, thought to himself, great idea, lousy script - I can do better ... then he went away and DID better, making a completely different film based on an completely different idea that must have looked, on paper, far less promising.  The films are so different that further comparison is silly, except to say this much as I watched Train of Life I thought to myself, I sure hope this was written and directed by Jews, because otherwise it's in extremely poor taste; as I watched Life is Beautiful, no such thought occurred to me.  It didn't matter.  A film as good as Benigni's justifies itself.Maybe there's a kind of Yiddish humour here I'm not getting, or getting and not particularly liking.  The latter is more likely, since I can see how this would work if it were a printed or spoken story.  As a film, the nicest thing I can say is that done properly it probably could have amounted to something valuable.  Two things prevent it from doing so.  One we're never as impressed as we should be by the villagers' ingenuity.  Take the communists, who are impossible to take seriously, yet who seriously endanger themselves and everyone else with their random squabbling.  Are we really meant to sympathise with people so stupid?  I  wanted them to survive, but I'd have had an easier time doing so if they'd had some sense of self-preservation themselves.  And two I'm surprised that something with so many close-up shots with a wide-angle lens and such monotonous editing was released in cinemas at all.  It was as if Mahaileanu was determined that no detail would be lost when the film played on television.  Alas, I think he succeeded.(It was also a mistake to substitute French for Yiddish - yes, I'm aware that films produced in the English-speaking world are guilty of greater crimes, but that's no reason to pardon this particular one.  At one point a character tells us that Yiddish is German spoken with a sense of humour, which is a great line - but our ears tell us that Yiddish sounds nothing at all like German, and quite a lot like French.)Although the film is a poor one, its plot ideas are good enough for sheer good will to carry us through.  And the surprise at the end has the required effect.  I'm not sure if I approve of this surprise.  It served a more worthwhile purpose than a similar surprise in a 1990s film I can't name - you'll know what I mean if you've seen it, but it was just as much a cheat. "},{"Title":"escape from Nazi Hell to Soviet Heaven","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I am sick when I see such scenario -- Nazis bad, Bolsheviks good. Riiiiight -- it looks like in Western Europe nobody really cares that people were murdered in Soviet Union, and not in one or two death camps. There were established whole lands of death camps.Nobody would survive the escape, because people coming from German side were treated as spies (even prisoners of war). I realize that the move is a fiction, but it should not insult the memory of the people who died in Soviet Union.Soviet reality ordeal still waits for its director brave enough to make a movie showing that Stalin, Trocki, Kamieniew, Dzierzynski, etc. were not just politicians, but insane monsters beyond imagination. That there were a lot of Jews in Soviet authorities but also Jews were victims (for example Anti-Fascist Front Leaders, murdered on an order by Stalin).There is well known story about two trains full of Jews meeting in Brzesc (German-Soviet border in 1939). One train was going from Germany to Soviet Union, the second from the Soviet Union to Germany. And Jews from both trains were escaping and both were laughing of stupidity of the others.The plot was easy to fix -- train going to Switzerland instead of Soviet Union, believable, more historically accurate... So another attempt of Soviet glorification or just a stupidity of the director? "}{"Title":"Only a easy comedy","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This film is good, but I really prefer La vida es bella by Benigni. I think that El tren de la vida is a movie that became the jews in idiots and ingenues people. I know that is not easy to make a comedy in the frame of Holocaust, but making films like this, I never hope that improve. "},{"Title":"Barely decent and rather pointless","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Unartistic/mainstream, unfunny, pointless. This film has more in common with standard modern Hollywood than French filmmaking; over-structured and over-timed, and lack of atmosphere, emotions and charm. The cinematography is mediocre; ok but nothing to be impressed about. It has some interesting twists, like Jews becoming Nazis and communists, and, perhaps, a hidden irony over those ideologies. It's not getting anywhere though. It's not an art film and I wouldn't recommend it for family entertainment either. Overall, it's decent, but not worth seeing in my opinion considering the supply of other movies.2/5 "},{"Title":"anti-semetic","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Totally anti-semetic. The Jews in the village are seen as being idiots, liars, and squabblers. The comedy for the most part is dull, the directing rather unclever, the emotions nil, the character development less, and worst of all it even seems to harbor, intentional or not, resentment against Jews, even though it was written and directed by a Jew as i have already mentioned the Jews are seen as children,but the exploration of guilt of pretending to be the enemy is barely, almost tacked on really, explored. At one point a character even says Our Nazis are better than the other Nazis. Our Nazis are beautiful. It might have been the writer/director realized how anti-semetic the script was and threw in some heavy handed symbolism to fix it, but failed. But the worst thing isn't the movie, but the fans. When you dislike a movie like this they tend to label you as corporate shill, as uneducated about film, as falling prey to Life Is Beautiful and its fake, emotions. Sad you can't point out how bad a movie is when it's lesser known or underground, because so many nowadays fall pray to the belief is it's less known, it's somehow better. I have news for you, that's practically the same mentality of thinking the bigger the budget the better the script. They are both equally shallow, just the former philosophy is harder to criticize because everyone wants to be a rebel and be underground. So say what you want about Schindler's List or Life Is Beautiful, you don't have to love them, just don't be think this is a masterpiece in comparison.  "},{"Title":"Highly Over-rated","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is very possibly the most anti-semitic film I have ever seen.There wasn't one three-dimensional character in the whole mess.The entire village is portrayed as being run by a bunch of old men who don't have the combined intelligence and common sense of a six-year old.Except,of course for the guy who dons the Nazi uniform,who is portrayed as having all the answers.Everything about this film looked cheap.The cinematography,the editing,the sets,the casting,and the music.I am surprised to hear that the director of this film is himself Jewish.After watching this film,I was sure he was probably the grand-son of an SS guard. "}]