[{"Title":"A potent translation","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"38 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  With his stunning new vision of the most revered of Shakespeare's plays, director Michael Almereyda has effectively transposed many of the enduring themes of that classic work to our contemporary hi-tech era. Even if you are not very familiar with Shakespeare's plays or have always been confounded by his verse, one can still appreciate this film for the tremendously inventive ways by which Almereyda has interpreted the core scenes of Hamlet in the context of corporate America. His visually striking translation of scenes like Ophelia's drowning and Hamlet's famous `to be or not to be' soliloquy are a delight and true brain candy. The cast is all around superb, with the classically delivered lines from actors Liev Schreiber (Laertes) and Sam Shepard (Ghost) nicely counterbalancing the very contemporary style of delivery from Ethan Hawk (Hamlet), Bill Murray (Polonius), and Julia Stiles (Ophelia).There will no doubt be much comparison between this film and Baz Luhrmann's flashy modern remake of Romeo and Juliet. However, whereas Luhrmann's film ultimately fails in going beyond the boundaries of its visually striking presentation, Almereyda's Hamlet proves to be far more than a mere spectacle for the senses. In fact, this is the serious flaw that plagues most of the films coming from young, talented independent filmmakers these days all style, no substance. Well, this Hamlet has both. By setting the film deep in the heart of a very real and very modern steel and concrete American jungle like New York City, which is infused with the relics of the mass media and cold capitalistic consumerism, Almereyda powerfully enhances for the audience the sense of the desolation of his characters that results from urban isolation. This is a theme that Hong Kong director Wong Kar-Wai has so masterfully examined with his films Fallen Angels and Chungking Express. In Hamlet, we get a powerful dose of both Kar-Wai's visual flair and the sensitive, crumbling heart that it sheathes.  "},{"Title":"The Film's the Thing","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"38 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Is this Hamlet? Depends on who you ask I suppose.There are some who would require the plot and drama a son whose inheritance is interrupted, so who may be imagining the murder of his father; a vapid, doting, hedonistic mother; a loyal, by the book counselor, his earnest son and brilliant daughter, she smitten by the prince. A scheming king -- wheels turn and everyone dies.Some would consider the language the essential element. This is the poet's most convoluted, and heavily annotated metaphoric fabric. Shakespeare is most often celebrated for his layering and interelating of mental images, and certainly this work is his most globally elaborate (sorry).But just as the language rides on the drama, the ideas of the play ride on the metaphors. These ideas are life-altering in their starkness Reality, thought, creation, intent, the cause and validity of unnatural action, relationships among cocreated internal worlds. Much of this is developed in frightening and challenging terms. To my tastes, the ideas are what is important. Too many Hamlets (notably Olivier's)faithfully include the first two and never touch the third. I'd buy a complete abandonment of the first, but cannot see how one could get to the third without most of the second.Now. This film. They have preserved the plot well enough for a film, I suppose. And they have kept the language, about one third of it anyway.The badBill Murray is lost in Polonius, utterly lost. The production quality is poor -- that fits the film school motif (see below), but there is no excuse for the many boom mikes sticking down. They repurposed so much to fit the new setting, so why stick with swords at the end?The biggest complaint is that they missed all the ideas, the big ones. The central example is at the end of the first act, where Hamlet says `there are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.' Hamlet, and Horatio are students of Wittenburg philosophy, which audiences would have understood as that of the magi Giordano Bruno, martyred by the Pope. (His book is the one Hamlet quotes when asked `what is the matter?,' and Bruno is also quoted in the northnorthwest and hawk from a handsaw lines.) The play has much to do with understanding Bruno's questions of thought and action. When Hamlet differentiates himself from Horatio, the play really starts. In this film, though, the `your' becomes `our.' Why?The GoodThis Ophelia is wonderful. I don't know her other work yet, but it includes two other Shakespeare adaptations. She certainly was helped by the woman director, who amplifies the female roles in emotion if not screentime. She even transforms Marcello into a Marcella, Horatio's girlfriend. Rather nice. Also well done is the staging of the Rosenkrantz and Guilderstern dialog.The central device of the film is rather clever, if not original. The play is deeply self-referential. All the rich text about introspection is what is usually cut in the name of modern impatience, and that is the case here. Also gone here is the sharply self-referential scenes of Hamlet lecturing the players. What we have in its place is self-reference about film, and filming. Hamlet and Horatio, indeed R&G and Marcella are all film students. He thinks in film (actually video), and all his ruminations are cast in visual terms, often in the context of video, even a Blockbuster store. The final chorus is in video, and much of the action is seen through surveillance cameras. The play-within-the-play is a homemade video, with clear film-school effects.This is not as clever as it could have been in the hands of a master. (Or when the goals are exceedingly simple as in `American Beauty.') But it is an honest attempt to cast the reflexive depth of the play in cinematic terms.Sam Shepard is the best King Hamlet's ghost I have ever seen. He is a solid blessing.This is a respectable effort, and deserves to be viewed if not celebrated. "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Nearly four hundred years after his death, Shakespeare continues to be the best screenwriter in the English language.  This beautiful, moody, stylish adaptation of his greatest play is no exception.  Another wonderful thing about the Bard is how his drama seems to elevate any actor willing to take on the challenge.  I especially enjoyed Bill Murray as Polonius his performance was all the more delightful because of the necessity of restraining his comic genius here; he appears always on the edge of cracking a joke, and of course doesn't, adding even more tension to an already extremely taught production.But what I loved most about this movie was how it departed from the usual staging conventions (medieval costume, stone castles) to get at the heart of what the play is really about a kid coming home on a college break and discovering that his uncle has murdered his father and is having sex with his mother.  Ethan Hawke does a fantastic job in the role, giving us the brooding, confused, lovesick, and ultimately self-destructive adolescent that Shakespeare intended.  If I were a high-school English teacher, this is the Hamlet that I would want to show my students.   "},{"Title":"Either Almereyda or the Miramax really missed the boat with this one.","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ethan Hawke, Kyle MacLachlan, Sam Shepard, Diane Venora, Bill Murray, Liev Schreiber, Julia Stiles, Karl Geary; directed by Michael Almereyda, loosely based on the play by the Immortal William Shakespeare This is not your father's Hamlet, and really not your Hamlet either.Set in modern day New York City, this adaptation by director Michael Almereyda attempts to blend the all time classic with a modern day lifestyle, while retaining the traditional speech and lines of the play. Unintentionally comical for those familiar with the piece, it actually is able to combine the two worlds of twentieth century New York and sixteenth century Denmark quite well.However this is also the movies downfall, as only with a working knowledge of the classic are you able to understand the modern work, otherwise it is completely incoherent, with vital cogs of the plot missing.Denmark is no longer a country but now a corporation, Cladius (MacLachlan) not a King, but now a CEO. Computers and video are now the norm, as this is how the movie begins. Polonius (Murray) is both the best character and also probably miscast, as he would have done much better in a cameo as the gravedigger, a scene that is deleted entirely! This gem and other scenes were deleted in order to pare down the length of the film, while attempting to preserve all major known lines. Yet, as earlier mentioned, for those who do not have a strong background in the classical work, you will be quickly lost. The so-called 'fluff' that the producers thought Shakespeare used actually made the tale so brilliant, relevant, and understandable. The modern work is none of these, only an ancillary piece for those with a vast Hamlet knowledge.The major scenes are also greatly adapted to fit the environment, mostly to no effect. Most of the movie occurs in high-rise apartments or board rooms, giving it an awkward type of feel. With Hamlet (Hawke) and Ophelia (Stiles) being constantly watched in a city such as New York, i thought I was observing a Mafia film, as indeed that is what the Denmark corporation felt like, killing of Old Hamlet and all. Maybe that adaptation could've been a better fit, for the reduced length also makes the piece less-watchable, and much more bland with none of the intrigue. The murder of Polonius in the laundromat, Old Hamlet being seen on a security camera, and Ophelia committing suicide in a Guggenheim fountain just does not have the same feel, something is definitely missing.In all this film likely misses both it's core audience and lacks the mass-market appeal that it was trying for. If a full four-hour version was released word-for-word of the original work, it would likely be a cult classic, as it has the makings of a strong work. In all honesty, how can such a great work like Hamlet be lacking if shown in its entirety? In the attempt for a higher box-office, the two hour version has no soul. If you find yourself in Blockbuster and face the same question as Hamlet, of whether this version is 'To be or not to be' showing on your TV that night, most likely it is not to be. However, if you are a teenage girl and enjoy looking at Ethan Hawke, or a Shakespeare aficionado who wishes to laugh at some unintentional humor, this could be the ticket. A shame that more did not come out of such a great cast, interesting premise, and mother of all base material in Shakespeare. Either Almereyda or the Miramax really missed the boat with this one.  "},{"Title":"Uncomprehending...","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, this is a beautiful film. It does however, have many weak points. It is very reminiscent of the Leonardo DiCaprio version of Romeo and Juliet; but somehow it is not as powerful. Ethan Hawke bursts of adequatulence as Hamlet, but nothing more. Although he says his lines with true emotion, it doesn't seem like he understands what he is saying. The only true Shakespearin actor is Liev Schreiber (you'll recognize him from Scream. His portrayal of Laertes helps the viewer understand what is going on in the film; while the other actors manage only to confuse. It doesn't help that a great portion of the play; including the famous graveyard scene; are left out. Unlike Romeo and Juliet, modernization of Hamlet doesn't work well, at least not in this adaptation. Switching from swords to guns changes the plotline too much. For someone who hasn't read Hamlet, or seen another version, it might be hard to understand the plotline, especially becuase the audio tack is poor and muddled by traffic and background noise. On the other hand, those that are familiar with Hamlet may be disappointed with the performances and with the editing of the play. Although it may be a little long, I would recommend the Kenneth Branagh version of Hamlet to someone who wants to see a true vision of what Hamlet could be. "},{"Title":"Nice try, but not the words don't all come trippingly from all the actors' tongues.","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"22 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Here is the first film version of Hamlet to come along in modern New York. The director's use of New York is fun to watch for this native New Yorker, although how a limo can quickly move from 42nd St. between Broadway and Eighth Avenue to 48th St. and Sixth Avenue is beyond me.But asisde from that, all we care about when we see Hamlet is how is the text handled, by both the director and the cast. The director, Michael Almereyda, has cut into the script and most of the film runs surprising lean for something that runs one hour, fifty-three minutes. His use of short films in the background, speaker phones, TV's and the like run the gambit from ingeneous to Give me a BREAK!The casting however is inconsitent, for which we can certainly blame the director. Ethan Hawke, in the title role, has drive and energy. But if anybody remembers the TV show The Critic, when they had Keanu Reeves doing Hamlet, then you know what I'm thinking. The words Dude and Whoa seems ready to break into Hawke's speeches at anytime. The complexity is replaced by a whiny I'm in pain, but I'm cool attitude for the bulk of the film and it doesn't really work. The mumbling of at least a fourth of his lines doesn't help either. He works better in silence, brooding.The silence works even better for Julia Styles as Ophelia. When quiet, the pain of abandonment and loss is heartfelt. Then she opens her mouth, and the lack of a developed character as well as an appalling lack of command of Shakespeare's words is obvious. Ophelia, never mind getting thee to a nunnery, get thee Beverly Hills, 90210, GO!Bill Murray veers form earnestness to his Lounge Singer's act from SNL when doing Polonius. I know the role was suppose to be for comic relief. But after a while, everything Murray says is funny- intenionally or otherwise.Kyle McLaughlin, as Claudius, doesn't fare much better. There is little distinction in his line readings, and in the end, he just comes off as a one-trick pony. Diane Verona is marginally better as Gertrude. The attitude is there, as is the pain, but her line readings lack a freshness to them.The standouts are Sam Sheppard as the Ghost, Steve Zahn and Dechen Thurman as Rosencrnatz & Guildenstern, and especially Liev Schrieber as Laertes. Schrieber in paricularly as the energy, clearity, and believabilty that makes you wonder what if he played Hamlet instead of Schrieber. We probably would have had a better movie. "},{"Title":"Innovative film","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Shakespeare has arrived in the moneyed world of New York, and I think he likes it.  What particularly struck me about this film was some of the imagery and devices.  Reflections are everywhere, not just in Hamlet's soliloquies  glass windows, mirrors, water, even the video screen.  If we exist only in the eyes of others (J-P Sartre), then everything in this film is granted existence, even Hamlet's madness, because we see it through so many media and reflections.  Hamlet's play within a play becomes a film, not something ephemeral, but a strip of celluloid that will last past his death, just as this play has survived so many centuries after Shakespeare's time. "},{"Title":"excellent!  One of the best movies I've seen this year!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hamlet is a truly exciting movie.  I took and nine year old and seven year old to see it, and afterwards they retold me the basic story and COMPLETELY understood it.  Mad props to director Almereyda for having such strong visuals that also told the story. It is a great introduction to Shakespeare for young people who just can't dig the old British f***s in tights doing Shakespeare. The acting was terrific.  I hope old stodgey Shakespeare fans will open their minds to these refreshing and innovative takes on the characters, such as how Bill Murray did Polonius. I totally agree with Elvis Mitchell of N.Y.Times in his review of Bill Murray. Ethan Hawke was perfect as Hamlet.  Julia Stiles was really engaging, especially her flip-out scene at Guggenheim.  Sam Shepard and Dianne Venora were brilliant. A must see. "},{"Title":"Well, okay, it ain't exactly Olivier, but...............","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" any movie that attempts to bring the Shakespeare canon to a new audience has to be allowed fairly wide latitude...so in the age of Clerks, only right and fitting that we get a taste of Hamlet as a Kevin Smith-type community college slacker...filming from a severely truncated version of the play, this Hamlet still manages to provide some clever moments of originality...the to be or not to be monologue set in the action section of Blockbuster; an Ophelia who betrays Hamlet; the use of speakerphones and faxes to deliver dialog, in lieu of actors on screen...yeah, it's gimmicky...but if this is what it takes to get the Bard to the x and y-genners, then so be it...Joseph Papp would have approved...that said, there's some interesting takes by Julia Stiles (Ophelia), Diana Venora (the Queen) and Bill Murray (Polonius) on their respective characters...it ain't all style over substance...so come on, folks...you gave Mel a shot at this, didn't ya? give it a go... "},{"Title":"Shakespeare's tragedy of a son's vengence for the murder of his father, the king of Denmark..","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this film was absolutley brilliant.  Almereyda, so captured Shakespeare's profound insight into human nature and motivation.  I have NEVER liked modern productions of Shakespeare, either on film or the stage. But this vision was extraordianary in illustrating that Shakespeare's observations are truly timeless, and he knew far, far more about human nature than Freud or Jung or any modern psychologist!Almereyda's direction was superb.  His Hamlet was so contemporary .... so the sulking, modern, slacker, malcontent, and it captured the spirit of Hamlet beautifully (as did Ethan Hawke's rather astonishing performance). In addition, every word Ophelia uttered, sounded so like an overwrought, emotional, girl of this age....and yet not of word of The Bard's was changed. Almereyda's use of video, modern branding and icons, were also brilliant....and he used the wonderful Carter Burwell to score his film. There is so much more to say, but, you get the picture.  I loved it, as did my 13 year old son.  And, as brevity is the soul of wit, (Polonius) I will end by simply saying......bravo Almereyda! "}{"Title":"The best filmed version of Hamlet yet.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot recommend this film enough. Although I can see where the abridged text might put purists off of this very stylistic modern interpretation one of the bards most famous plays, I found it to be the most poetic and honest cinematic Hamlet yet. Ethan Hawke plays hamlet much like he plays his other roles, with  over sensitivity, intelligence, and a strong sense of futility. His talents are aptly used in this version of Hamlet where instead of seeming like an ancient warrior prince Hamlet seems to be a fairly normal, if rich, art student caught up in an impossible circumstance.The acting overall is worth noting as is the ingenious use of technology. However since the films praises have already been well sung on those counts by others, I'll mention how the film felt. It took me a little while to suspend disbelief. As the film establishes itself with mentions of Denmark corp. and Elsinore condos it leaves you very aware that you are watching an unusual production of the famous play. Likewise, at the begining of the movie I found myself identifying all of the actors like a tourist, That's Bill Murray, Hey is that Kyle McLaughlin? etc... but it didn't take as long as one might think to become totally caught up things. And I did become completely caught up even though I'm fairly familiar with the play. The best way I can describe it is to say that in other versions of this and the bards other plays one is often more familiar with the speeches and the poetry than with the characters as living breathing people. Hamlet 2000 made me feel genuine hatred for Claudius and sorrow for Hamlet. The Elizabethan English with American accents and cadence seemed more natural to the ear than the bold theatrical speak that most Shakespearian films seem to think is a requisite.I think the people who take their literature like medicine because it is good for them will be sorely dissapointed by how enjoyable this movie is but in my opinion it is an excellent balance between the beauty of Shakespeare's text as text and the exciting story contained within.  "},{"Title":"Hamlet 2000?","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is Hamlet 2000..... Yes that's what its called. This is basically a modernization of the classic William Shakespeare play with the same title. Sounds like a.....good....idea? Well though it can definitely get pulled off BUT much like the modern day Romeo and Juliet the dialogue is identical to the play from 400 years ago. So there is old English and it doesn't fit at all with the modern day setting. It's incredibly distracting and unfitting. Modernizing all the dialogue not even a little bit just doesn't work and you better don't give me the business as a excuse to keep this movie timeless because it's already 15 years old and incredibly out of date. There are fax machines, VHS tapes, and hilarious early 2000s outfits scattered out throughout the movie, it already doesn't hold up.Unlike the Romeo and Juliet (96) which had a ton of stylized cinematography and pacing Hamlet 2000 is mundane, grey and not fun to look at. The setting is in some generic apartment building witch isn't visually stimulating. Though there is occasional creative shots here and there, they are far and few between. But to be honest Hamlet 2000 was pretty low budget and it shows its measly 2 million dollar budget in the lack of visuals and couldn't get close to the epic scale, beautiful shots, from the Oscar nominated Hamlet 1996Little skill was used in the directing as most scenes were people sitting around barely moving. Acting for the most part is wooden and unconvincing. Half the lines are barely audible and most people speak in mumble. I felt like the actors had no clue what they were saying. I barely knew what they were saying. The casting wasn't that good either, Ethan Hawke as Hamlet; Bill Murray as Polonius? What? That doesn't sound right and they just phoned in every scene. Julia Stiles's character Ofelia has a scene where she screams in fear comes off as unintentionally hilarious because it looked like she didn't care at all. One take seems like most they ever did and it makes the movies genre to be a Thriller to be underwhelming.The respect for the source material could be taken as offensive. The famous To Be or Not To Be speech is filmed in a blockbuster while Ethan Hawke has the goofiest outfit imaginable. Nice product placement there buddy! Then all of a sudden you see Hamlet 2000 watching the actual Hamlet on TV? Wh-what?! How does that even work? Just imagine if its Back to the Future 2 and in it the main characters are seen watching Back to the Future 1 on television. It shouldn't even be in the same universe. The play Hamlet puts on is changed to a pretentious The Ring like VHS tape though I kind of like that scene. Sound mixing is muffled a bit though it could've been the VHS copy I was watching. But there was barely any music in the movie when there was it was incredibly generic. There's a scene that takes place in a party and the characters are still mumbling to each other while blaring music is playing. How do they hear each other? This could be the fault of some mediocre editing which has some flashbacks or visions that don't really add to the film at all.This is one of the shorter Hamlet movies to get released just running less than 2 hours which is definitely useful if you wanted a quick summary of the story. And its not a horrible film its definitely watchable and its pretty innocent experiment. When it was released it was well received surprisingly reaching a 70/100 on Metacritic it hasn't aged well however. Hamlet 2000 is still fun to poke at with a group of people. But still there are tons of other adaptions of Hamlet that should be checked out like the 1948 and 1996 ones. Hamlet 2000 gets a 4/10 "},{"Title":"There is not a single ray of hope for this Hamlet","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hawke's Hamlet is suffering from major clinical depression, and the film reflects this, meaning that watching it gives you some symptoms of major clinical depression, such as exhaustion, loss of willpower, and desire to end it all and just go to sleep. While the film was objectively excellent and the tone incredibly well conveyed, I feel it was the wrong tone for a movie this length. It made it difficult to finish, because it was so utterly hopeless and depressing. The adaptation itself was good, however. The overall sense I got was not so much a scenic update (Denmark to New York) as a cultural one. Ethan Hawke's Hamlet is American; were he transposed to modern England he would be different, and different still if he were French (most obviously by a clearly improved sense of fashion--that hat needs to go). One of the reviews on Netflix described the movie's Ophelia as a brooding adolescent rather than the classical indecisive waif. I found this description to apply to the movie as a whole, and not just Ophelia. Ethan Hawke's Hamlet is angsty, and there's no way around it. He's petulant and selfish and the very picture of the modern American adolescent male. He cares only for himself, and is insane in the sense of being so depressed he's lost touch with reality. He spends hours upon hours watching and making bad-quality videos (as a side note, why are movies in movies always so pixelated with ludicrously bad resolution, and why are they always strongly tinted green or blue? Don't any fictional characters have HDTV?). Holed up in his room with his own little mind in place of a world, it's no wonder he goes off the deep end and starts trying to kill people. It was hard to feel any empathy for Hamlet; while he was doubtlessly suffering, he used this as a license to wallow in self-pity. I actually found myself siding with Claudius and his mother. Hamlet and Ophelia's relationship, on the other hand, was very well done. I wish the movie had expanded more on it. Overall, this is a well-done film, but slow and difficult to stick with. As a final note, I felt the R-rating was undeserved; the only justification I could find for it was the relentlessly depressing tone. "},{"Title":"What a terrible film!","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Really. This is a load of crock. The only market I can see for this is perhaps high-school students who really can't get a grip on Shakespeare's text. If you're hoping for a movie that stands on its own merits, or, alternately a Shakespeare text done well in feature film format you're bound to be very disappointed. In fact, you're bound to be disappointed no matter what. Unless of course, you have an all-blinding respect for one of the many famous lead actors. Maybe, just maybe, then you might have enjoyed it. As I'm sure many have. Perhaps a more apt title for this film might be Hamlet - the guy who really got upset because the action section at Blockbuster was simply too limited. "},{"Title":"ambitious, but ultimately disappointing","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Despite a solid, understated performance from Shepard (I'll echo that his is one of the best Hamlet's Ghosts ever), and some clever innovations with Shakespeare's play, this version is woefully lacking...mostly due to the sub-par acting from otherwise solid performers. Do NOT, as others have suggested, show this to your high school students -- unless you hope to pander to their level of media-induced mediocrity. I showed scenes from it to my freshman comp students and they laughed in all the wrong places....even more so than the Mel Gibson (Zeffirelli) version.Ethan Hawke...whom I've admired in other films...just does not have the chops to carry such an important role. And whatever team decided to cast Bill Murray and Julia Stiles as Polonius and Ophelia, respectively, must've been seriously deluded with the idea that they'd cast a wider net to lull an unsuspecting audience to their lackluster production.I expected Murray to play Polonius in all its campy potential, only to be sorely disappointed at his taking the role way too seriously. He wasn't successful. As for Stiles, every time I see her in any film I wonder how she manages to get any sort of acting gig. Her Ophelia is so wooden and boring that she becomes a laughing-stock in every scene...not what we should expect from such a tragic heroine. Her Ophelia's descent into madness becomes a silly, drunken Guggenheim art-party rant rather than the telling evocation of her frailty and vulnerability and is, as a result, diminished to the point of absurdity. While we can blame the director more than the actor for that decision, after seeing her scene earlier with Murray when he advises her not to pursue Hamlet, we ultimately realize that Stiles couldn't have carried that scene no matter the direction. She's just bloody awful.I kept hoping the movie would get better, and it just never does. All the clever, well intended innovations the director tries to bring to the production just fall flat without the necessary cast to carry them. "},{"Title":"A good film... but not necessarily good Shakespeare!","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I consider myself a bit of a Shakespeare purist and so put off seeing this film for quite a while. I really wish I'd seen it sooner. All the other comments here about the mangling of the language, cutting of the script to an almost incomprehensible extent, the kind of grungey contrivedness of the whole thing etc etc, are all true, but at the same time the film has little glimmers of something more. The film must be one of the shortest Hamlets ever, and moves along at real speed. The cinematography is beautiful and the juxtaposing of modern images with the text (eg Hamlet's soliloquy being performed whilst he watches James Dean, the rebel without a cause) throws up (almost in spite of itself) some interesting ideas of how the director considers Hamlet. The modern feel works surprisingly well (although it *does* occassionally jar), and throws up a lot of the themes in Hamlet as being particularly relevant today.The acting is all okay, with a few amazing exceptions -- Liev Schrieber as Laertes really stands out, and Julia Stiles is good too. Kyle Maclachlan makes a very sinister Claudius, and Ethan Hawke is okay, although I couldn't work out whether his Hamlet was pretending to be mad or really was, but this film really belongs to the supporting cast who are all pretty sound.Good, if you're in the mood for it. If you can't bear the thought of anything being cut or reinterpreted in a hit-and-miss way then avoid like the plague!8 stars (if you like this kind of new Shakespeare) 2 stars (if you believe Hamlet should be done formally, lengthily and in tights) "},{"Title":"Sadly a mess","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There has never yet been a Shakespeare movie that took place in the present day which worked well artistically and aesthetically. In opera, modern productions frequently work well, but it's harder with Shakespeare, because he is so poetic that the surroundings need to reflect it, lest they undermine the poetic integrity. The milieu can't be pedestrian, and the words can't be casually and mumblingly delivered. In Almereyda's Hamlet, everything is pedestrian. There are great actors on hand, but they are never given the opportunity to shine. There is no depth of either intellect or comedy here (as Stanley Wells has remarked, Hamlet is the most comical of all the tragedies), and as others have mentioned it is particularly ironic to cast Bill Murray in the role of the play's comic relief character and then have him be serious throughout. Sigh. There is occasional decent acting from Schreiber, Styles and Venora, but I have nothing good to say about the rest. They can do much better, but the director must have failed to inspire them.The movie is a mess. All right, so it is trying to make some analogous points about a struggling film-maker, but it doesn't work well. To replace the medium of the play with the medium of the film as the thing in which the king's conscience will be caught is not a very interesting point, as plays and movies are so similar anyway.There were a couple of things I liked. I liked having the To be or not to be speech in the Action aisle of the video store, because that speech really is much more about action than about death. I also liked how Julia Stiles made it very apparent that the cause of Ophelia's madness was her powerful love for him, which he didn't requite. I don't think this is necessarily the best interpretation of what happens, but at least it is a clear one.But a main reason the movie is a mess is that the text is so chopped up. Omissions are inevitable lest the movie runs 4 hours, but it should be done with great care. Using the text selectively, and moving it around, always runs the risk of seriously undermining Shakespeare's points and messages, and one therefore needs a tremendously detailed understanding of the text (and its best interpretations) in order to edit it sensibly. Sadly, Almereyda does not possess such understanding.The movie is not completely awful; it is watchable, but most things about it just aren't very good. The characters often don't speak clearly, which debases (yes, debases!) Shakespeare's language, and the modern surroundings tend to be dull, dull, dull. Of the twelve different Hamlets I have seen on DVD, I'm afraid this one is nothing less than the worst of the lot.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"people were not harsh enough on this movie","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" its been a while since I've seen a movie that would qualify to be one of the worst that i have i ever seen. that was until i watched this movie in my English class. without having previously read the play i would not have known what was going on. Hamlet speaks his words so quickly and quietly without emotion that someone unfamiliar with the play would have a very difficult time understanding the plot. key scenes are taken out from the play, and the modern setting does not work in many circumstances. sadly, the best actor in the movie that played Laertes, was not in the movie enough to quite save it. this is not the most coherent or descriptive review, but i suppose that sticks with the theme of this movie. simply put, please save your time and do not watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Good theory, Bad follow through","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" For the most part, I didn't like this film. As a Shakespeare scholar, I find it admirable trying to bring Hamlet into contemporary times, since it is a very complicated play.To be fair, this adaptation does have some strengths. The monolithic coldness of Manhattan set off the isolation and intimidation of the storyline wonderfully. Gertrude and Claudius's affection is just shocking enough without being over the top. And Liev Schreiber's performance was quite good, but that's about where my praise stops. This movie is quite choppy, not only in mixing around the order of the scenes, which isn't really that big of a problem, but also in transition between scenes. Hamlet and Ophelia are almost comical in their sheer moodiness and I didn't believe either character as an art student. their angst made me not care at all about what was happening and Hamlet's filming was quite distracting. The acting is generally horrible, especially Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, who are really just cringe inducing. Many of the characters seem to be miscast and Claudius can't get through a scene without smiling a little multiple times.Thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Hamlet is an underrated masterpiece!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  An enthralling modern retelling of the Shakespearean play Hamlet. Hamlet captured me into it's stylish storytelling convincing me it is the best of the 4 modern retellings I have seen(10 things..., Othello and Romeo+Juliet). It quickly became a favorite of mine, flashed onto my favorites list as soon as the DVD snapped into the DVD case secure. Ethan Hawke, the guy fit the role. You love him as you pity him in his distraught but then you want to avoid him, hes got anger issues. Overall though you relate to him. Hes the underdog fighting money hungry parents. A minority but in love, he kills his love not directly but through his actions. Hes hopeless and lost it all. Ethan Hawke portrays this all in rival of Kenneth Branaugh. I had no bother to find flaws with this film. Product placement, reciting the most famous line in a Block Buster, are poor tries at any discovering any of the issues the film could contain. I just aboanded the thought of having to look for any flaws, I was too into it. Sucked into it. Sad that another great film will have be bumped off my list. But then vibrant with the thought of sharing this most beautiful work. A masterpiece. 10/10  "}{"Title":"Interesting modernization, mediocre acting, bad sound","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This modernization does a superb job of convincing the viewer that the story could take place in modern times; it was less than 5 minutes into the film that I  was comfortable with Shakespeare taking place in NYC. What failed, however, was the delivery of the dialogue by actors who didn't seem involved.  Hawke especially seemed bored with his character and does nothing to convince us that Hamlet was tortured with his father's death, his mother's remarriage, his  love for Ophelia (which is never explained), and his own mortality. Instead he  comes across as a spoiled brat overwhelmed by his trip to the big city and his  inability to have things his own way. That such powerful dialogue as Hamlet's  To be or not to be soliloquy was so lost is not a compliment to the filmmaker.  We simply can't identify or sympathize with Hamlet, so the story loses most of its  impact. Surprisingly, it's Bill Murray's performance as Polonius that steals the film,  making us wish he had more scenes. Julia Stiles is also convincing as Ophelia.   But their efforts aren't enough to save this film. It is also true, as others have written, that this film's audio transfer to tape was  poorly done; you will find yourself adjusting your TV's volume frequently. The  lack of enunciation by Hawke and Shepard doesn't help either. (Also, Shakespeare shouldn't be performed over a speakerphone.) Give this film a try if you're a fan of the bard who wants to see an interesting  interpretation, but be ready to provide your own enthusiasm motivation for the  characters who won't do it for you.  A 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Thank God I'm not alone","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  As I shut this movie off half way through I had a feeling that perhaps Shakespeare was a bit over my head and I was missing something that others would have gotten.  I guess my feelings mirrored many others as I read through the user comments.This movie was horrible.  The entire tone of the movie is a depress fest and all of the comic relief scenes which are vital to the original work are omitted.  I was expecting to see a Hamlet who was mad in the crazy sense of the word much like portrayed by Mel Gibson.  Unless I missed it during my intermittent naps during the first part of the film I don't even think Hamlet talked about putting on a mask as to appear mad to the others like he does in the original work.  Instead he is just a depressed, whining, toque wearing movie junkie that is a complete bore.Liev Schieber in his limited time on screen was dynamite and I was hoping to see that kind of fire out of Hamlet instead of the hum drum attitude that he possessed in the time I wasted on this film.To give you an idea of how bad this film was....I actually said to myself less then half way through Turn it off, this is painful to watch  and 30 minutes later that's just what I did.  A total bore. "},{"Title":"It didn't work for me","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  New York, 2000, and Polonius telling his daughter Ophelia that Hamlet istoo princely for her, while Laertes goes on about her 'chaste treasure'?Far better to have set it in the real Denmark, say 20 years or more ago.Still, Maclachnan, Venora & Shepard acquit themselves well and JuliaStiles is an extraordinarily moving Ophelia (and I've seen dozens). Thefinal duel is a mess and a muddle, but the presage of Ophelia's suicidein the swimming pool is masterly. I've no idea how Hamlet, Rosencrantz &Guildernstern got to England - did they use the QEII? -  nor how Hamletescaped thence, though of course it would be dead easy these day. TheBaz Luhrmann 'Romeo & Juliet' worked for me, but not, alas, this but asa Shakespeare completist I had t "},{"Title":"Hamlet-Lite","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Director Michael Almerevda wanted to make Hamlet more accessible by relocating the play to modern corporate America.  By necessity, he is forced to cut the subplots which make this such a rich play.  What is left is less than what you get reading Cliff Notes.The performances range from the uninspired to simply amateurish.  Ethan Hawke has his moments as Hamlet, but overall puts nothing into the role.  The same can be said of Kyle MacLachlan's Claudius.  As Polonius, Bill Murray acts as though he is reading his lines from cue cards.  As Ophelia, Julia Stiles acts as if this were a high school production.  Only Sam Shepard in his brief appearance makes an impression.My recommendation for Hamlet is that you stick with the Olivier and Branagh versions.  "},{"Title":"I didn't like it","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I only liked two things about this film 1) The performance by Kyle McLachlan as Claudius and 2) The play within the play.But first, let me say from the outset that on the whole, this version of Hamlet was flat and uninspired. Ethan Hawke practically croaked his lines all the way through which rendered much of the poetic dialogue in the play as dull and meaningless. Secondly, the director tried so hard to be creative with the modern surroundings, and yet it did not gel in this movie. WHY in God's name would Hamlet and Laeters duel in a swordfight in a modern day setting? WHY would a country such as England execute two innocent citizens due to a message in a laptop? And why is it that in practically EVERY Hamlet movie I've seen, including this one, does Horatio just stand off to the side with a disinterested look on his face and not show shock and emotion when Hamlet is dying? Everyone just seems to stand around staring at the dying character.Reciting To be or not to be in a blockbuster video shop completely misses the point. Sure, in this movie it was Hamlet's world of movies and violence, but it failed to really show what was going on in his mind. We rarely get to see his anger or his confusion or his sharp intellect which was the essence of Hamlet, instead we get this grunge brooding portrait ala Reality Bites type character.Kudos should go to Kyle McLachlan for not falling into the trap of delivering his lines without meaning - he delivered every line flawlessly and made it sound so convincing in a modern setting. His version of Claudius as the charming yet smarmy businessman with devilish like intentions was probably the best version of Claudius I have seen for a long while.  "},{"Title":"Hamlet","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Michael Almereyda made an interesting attempt at a Shakespeare with his 1996 adaptation of Hamlet. Ethan Hawke stars in the titular role, with Kyle MacLachlan, Bill Murray, and Julia Stiles also starring. Hamlet is called home to tend to the death of his father, who he quickly believes to have been murdered by his uncle. Death and uncertainty are heavily explored in Almereyda's version set in modern-day New York, bringing the Bard's work into the 21st century.Hamlet (Ethan Hawke) experienced a vision before he returned to New York after the death of his father, CEO of Denmark Corporation. The vision makes Hamlet believe that his father was murdered by his Uncle, Claudius (Kyle MacLachlan) who is now the CEO of Denmark Corporation. Hamlet's mother, Gertrude, (Diane Venora) has changed her status of widower quickly after marrying Claudius. In order to determine if the vision was truly Hamlet's father warning him of Claudius, Hamlet makes a video about a tale of murder that resembles that of Hamlet's father in order to gauge his uncle's reaction. Once convinced of his guilt, Hamlet dedicates himself to avenging his father's murder. While plotting revenge, Claudius now realizes Hamlet has figured him out and is now a threat to Claudius' new empire and simultaneously plots against the young man. A tangled web of murder plots abounds in this intricate Shakespeare tragedy. This film was a mixed bag of good and bad. First the good; it was enjoyable to hear faithful Shakespearean dialogue in a modern New York setting. This decision on the part of Michael Almereyda was a wise one to engage both fans of Shakespeare and those that would otherwise forgo an adaptation of his. Those familiar with Shakespeare's original Hamlet will be happy for the faithful dialogue juxtaposed against the different setting. The quick cuts throughout the film were exciting and kept the audience engaged through the slower moments as the story unfolded. The bad; Bill Murray reciting faithful Shakespeare dialogue. The only bad part about the faithful dialogue was that no part of Bill Murray is Shakespearean in my mind and listening to him recite old English was an odd combination. The acting in this film was very cardboard. Ethan Hawke in the titular role came off incredibly unbelievable and stiff. Almost ever actor in the film, in fact, came off stiff and reserved. Kyle MacLachlan's Claudius was the only actor who seemed to take on his part with some enthusiasm to create a dynamic role. I'm not sure if the rigid acting was a directorial decision or not, but it was one that I still didn't understand, even as the film ended. Death certainly takes center stage in Hamlet. Once he learned of his father's death, Hamlet became obsessed with the idea of death. The reality of death consumed his being and he obsessively thought about and filmed about death while he was uncovering the possible murder of his father. He ponders the existential ideas concerning death, and the possibility of an afterlife. Death is continuously tied to issues throughout the film and the uncertainty death brings is Hamlet's primary focus. Thinking so much about his father's life and his untimely death causes Hamlet to consider his own death. In the famous To Be Or Not To Be soliloquy, which takes place within a Blockbuster in this film, Hamlet is plagued by the idea of suicide which is expressly forbidden in his Christian faith. Dealing with an unexpected death so close to him results in Hamlet not being able to shake the shadow of death which follows him throughout the film. Michael Almereyda's Hamlet is an interesting version of Hamlet that is one to see at least once for devoted fans of Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"A challenge for purists, but worth watching.","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I've read over the comments of other IMDB users and I have to say that a Hamlet which doesn't provoke disagreement and controversy is a rarity indeed...The cast is solid but, for the large part, not very memorable. Hawke glooms and mopes his way through the part, but doesn't seem to have any particular insight - or even opinion - about Hamlet's motives. I understand Kyle MacLachlan has his roots in Shakespeare, but even he wasn't particularly stellar. The applause for Bill Murray is, I think, a waltzing bear situation - it's not how nicely the bear waltzes that matters, but that it waltzes at all... Ditto for Liev Schriber, although I thought her sullen Ophelia was a pleasant break from the traditional reading of Ophelia as a prissy schoolgirl. Overall, a competent cast, but not a breath-taking one.The overall adaptation *is* a challenge for the purist. I'm one, myself, and it took me most of the first act to relax and accept Almereyda's vision. But if person is going to watch another person's interpretation of a play, then the viewer must be willing to accept that there might be a difference of opinion 'twixt themselves and the director.I wasn't entirely happy with some of the decisions made when it came to cutting the text and presenting certain scenes - I'll agree with some other users' comments that the final scene, in particular, seems careless and rushed - but it's an unfortunate truth that to keep Shakespeare accessible to modern audiences, some cuts have to be made. Purists will gladly sit through Brannagh's 240 minutes of uncut melancholy-Dane, but not everyone is a purist - far from it.The surprising strength of this adaptation was the complete use of cinema in telling the story. Critics might call some moments coy - soliliquies to video journals and bitter messages left on answering machines instead of true dialogue - but cinema exists to take such things as a centuries-old play *beyond* the stage - rendering it more accessible to a contemporary audience.  Yes, the occasional quick-cuts and abrupt scene shifts mean you have to pay attention to the visuals, whilst relishing the language but... cinema is a visual medium. And, surely, Hamlet deserves close attention?Providing you are willing to concede that Hamlet is a flexible enough story to be told in a truly cinematic way, then this production can be enjoyed.  "},{"Title":"uhhh...different...","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Alright, I can say that at least this wasn't much like any Hamlet movie I've ever seen. The whole Blockbuster and Pepsi One thing were all pretty different, but not really in a bad way. At least it wasn't a copy-cat of every flippin high-school play we've ever had to sit through (or worse star in). Julia Stiles looked the part more than she actually acted it; seemed like she's too inexperienced and didn't really understand how to sound convincing with the Shakespearean language. Ethan Hawke did okay. Bill Murray was surprisingly awesome in such a serious part. The best performance was Laertes; this actor knew what he was saying, what it meant, how to act, how to speak, how to make it his own. I noticed that this Laertes was a bit more reserved, compassionate and grief-stricken than how he is usually portrayed in plays. Anywho, I'm not going to tell anyone to go out of their way to watch this; it was marginally decent. I was bored. It took up time. Mission accomplished. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Transferring Shakespeare into the 20th century ... it's been done before with varying results. Baz Luhrmann's 1996 take on Romeo + Juliet was an over-the-top disaster brimming with unique ideas lost amid the chaos of lousy craftsmanship and ferocious visuals. 10 Things I Hate About You minus the bard's own dialogue, stuck only to basic plot principles and reworked The Taming of the Shrew into an intelligent and thoughtful high-school comedy. Now comes Michael Almereyda who takes Hamlet by storm, setting the play in modern-day New York City, deleting large portions of the text and creating a truly exciting adaptation. Kenneth Branagh and Zeffirelli are two recent filmmakers who tried re-imagining this play, but neither took the chances that Almereyda does, and his final product is the best version to date. The use of Shakespeare's original lines mingling against the monuments of New York creates an atmosphere of mystery and claustrophobia, like time gone haywire -- a haunted game of chess, the characters old phantoms left floating through office buildings and museums to recite their tragic monologues.  Ethan Hawke does some of his best work as the hero, his words laced with menace, with acid. A portrait of a young man not only betrayed by his family, but by fate itself. Kyle MacLachlan is positively frightening as the greedy Claudius who seduces Diane Venora's equally manipulative queen. Bill Murray and Liev Schriber are extraordinary as father and son, one provoking weary wisdom, the other quiet and vengeful.Karl Geary, too, is noteworthy as a Horatio torn by the loyalty to his friend and the confusion in the face of madness. Also outstanding was the casting of Paula Malcomson, a woman playing the role of Marcella.The best performance though, is offered by Julia Stiles as Ophelia. She does not simply play the role, she inhabits it, dwells in it, displays not only the doomed girl, but the frightened adult just beginning to emerge - Stiles conveys the longing of a love that cannot be, the blossoming of a woman who will never be, and the insanity that destroys it all. She is not only talented, she is heartbreaking. "},{"Title":"Video Version Has Lousy Sound","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this in a theater in Monterey the sound quality was quite good. But both I and another friend rented two different video copies of it, and the sound was muffled and the dialogue extraordinarily difficult to follow. At least some of the video copies either were engineered very poorly or got accidentally passed through some kind of demagnetizing equipment which destroyed the sound quality.  "}{"Title":"To Be Moody?","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Or not to be?  That is the question.  This updated version of HAMLET offers much in the way of cinema.  It is directed skillfully, full of eye candy to watch and substance galore.  Many cuts were made to fit the vision and most of them work. This movie is moody, to say the least.  So the cuts are wise.  A four hour version of this movie would have been overweighed with mood.  The acting, for the most part is sublime.  Sam Shepard, Liev Schriber and Bill Murray score serious points.  Diane Venora lends her talents to another complicated and much debated Shakespearean woman (see her Lady Capulet in Baz's ROMEO AND JULIET....she is very enjoyable.)  Ethan Hawke plays his part with gusto and scores for the most part, with heavy emphasis on the melancholy part of the dane. Many transpositions work well.  Setting in Hotel Elsinore and making everything big business really fits well.  The commonly viewed theme of Ophelia as a pawn come into frutition well in the get thee to a nunnery scene by using Ophelia as planted agent tapped and wired.Some falling point in this movie lie in several moments.  Many of the cuts leave much needed dialouge missing.  In the aforementioned nunnery scene Hamlet, in a full-text version, really shows his tempestuous side letting Ophelia have it with all four barrels.  In this version, you are never sure, at first, if he is castigating or seducing her. Julia Stiles attempts Ophelia well but comes up lacking.  Much of her dialogue had been cut and was left to give mournful glances and forced to play love torn.  The to be or not to be speech works to a point, but never reaches quite the effect that it could.  That speech should pull Hamlet in every direction.  He is contemplating suicide and decides that his mind will not decide.  So Hamlet reasons not to kill himself at that moment. That much needed motivation is missing in this movie.  I believe Ethan Hawke's Hamlet could kill himself at any moment and the ground would not shake much. As a whole, the film works, beautifully filmed and visually stunning.  But sometimes too much mood...weighs a film down. "},{"Title":"The update was shear genius!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The screenwriters and editors of this classis Shakespeare tragedy displayed shear genius in their ability to preserve the original play, plot and characters yet update the setting to modern midtown Manhattan.  Ethan Hawke displayed a consummate stage acting skill as the troubled Hamlet.  Except for Bill Murray, whom we thought was miscast in the role of Polonious, the rest of the troop delivered a superb performance.  Our only suggestion would be that, if like us, it has been many years since you have read Hamlet, you do a quick memory update of the play before viewing this video. "},{"Title":"Well, the plot is good","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hamlet 2000 (as it is called by Direct Ticket) is one of the worst translations I have ever seen of this play. The visuals of Hamlet making his film, and the idea of having Ophelia spiral into madness in the Gugliheim are engenius but everything else seemed a bit flat.To Be or Not to Be in Blockbuster? I am not expecting it to be done in tights and in as a huge soliloquy but at least give it a little class. The teasers during the film of Hamlet doing the speech during his film to expose Claudius would have been brilliant, but unfortunately that idea falls flat.Another thing that bugged me about this film was the calmness and nonchalantness of Hamlet when he sees his father's ghost. Hello!! If you saw the ghost of your father who has been dead for 6 weeks wouldn't you be a bit more excited and/or scared?As everyone else has mentioned the biggest thing wrong with this movie are the key scenes deleted. some of the best lines like Very well sir, you are a fishmonger and the gravediggers and Osric (the three funniest characters of the play) are gone, leaving all the comedic weight on the shoulders of Bill Murray's Polonius. This film is so heavy and depressing that even his humorous lines become uncomfortable to laugh at. If the whole film is depressing, how can we tell that Hamlet is the one who is supposed to be depressed?If you see one film version of Hamlet, let it be the full length 1996 Kenneth Bragnah version. Its 4 hours long but you will get the full effect of what Shakespeare is trying to say with this play. Leave Ethan Hawke and his Melancholy Misfits to the gimmick buffs. "},{"Title":"The film is out of joint","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  HAMLET (12) Director Michael Almereyda Starring Ethan Hawke, Kyle MacLachlan, Bill Murray, Julia Stiles *** (three stars)`New York City, 2000'. That's the caption that greets us at the outset of Michael Almereyda's 'Hamlet', the latest big-screen outing for Shakespeare's most famous rebel. `Aha!', we are expected to shriek delightedly, `this is radical! Shakespeare? In contemporary America? What will they think of next?' So assured are the makers of this movie that such a reaction will be achieved, it seems that everything beyond the central concept &#150; that the characters work for Denmark Corporation and visit the Elsinore Hotel for press conferences &#150; is somewhat neglected. At 111 minutes, this has to be one of the shortest Hamlet's ever, but the basic story does at least remain intact following the death of his father (the CEO of the corporation), amateur filmmaker Hamlet (Ethan Hawke) is visited in his apartment by the ghost of his father (Sam Shepard) and told of the `murder most foul' committed by his Uncle Claudius (Kyle Maclachlan). Hamlet aims to take his revenge, and meantime falls in love with glamorous rock-chick Ophelia (Julia Stiles).  There certainly is potential for all this to work fabulously, but much of the casting is woeful. Hawke displays admirable dexterity in affirming his cheekbones and moodily slouching around, but he has neither the acting ability nor the oscillating charisma needed to play this most tricky of tragic heroes. There is, in his performance, none of the is-he-mad-or-not negation that typically defines the role. And the inherent self-awareness of the character, so brilliantly captured by Simon Russell Beale in the most recent London production, is limited to his filming himself with a camcorder.Bill Murray, however, is always a pleasure to watch, and it's fascinating to see him bring his trademark sardonicism to the language of the Bard. But Bill Murray will never escape being Bill Murray, and, although Polonius is not an entirely serious character, Almereyda underplays the audience's tendency to laugh whenever he's on screen, which renders many of his scenes uncomfortable. Maclachlan makes a suitably sleazy Claudius, though, and Julia Stiles (most famous for '10 Things I Hate About You', a far looser but more charming Shakespeare adaptation) a fine Ophelia.With the shadow of Baz Luhrman's superb 'Romeo + Juliet' (1996) hanging over him like the Empire State, Almereyda rejects Luhrman's sheer cinematic punch for a flatter, more traditional style of cinema. Modern adaptations need modern visualization, and Almereyda's direction is flat and uninspiring. One does have to marvel at his occasional audacity (he sets the `To Be Or Not To Be' soliloquy in the Action aisle at Blockbuster Video), but there's no real sense of ground being broken. All this said, there are some nice ironic touches, and the film does pass the time (which is somewhat inevitable, considering the source material). The claustrophobic New York commercialism does effectively convey the notion that `the time is out of joint', and die-hard Shakespeare fans will find the symbolization of the story attractive (both James Dean and Brandon Lee make appearances on background TV screens). But a &#145;New Shakespeare' movie (especially one which aims to be as hip and young as this) should win over new Shakespeare audiences, and, as such, this has to be considered a wasted opportunity. It's watchable enough, but at half the length of Branagh's recent interpretation, it's twice as boring.  "},{"Title":"Get Ye to another movie","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Usually contemporary updates of Shakespeare make me sick, but I had read good reviews on this one, and so I walked into the theatre with an open mind. Oops. There is so much wrong with this film that the bard would spin in his grave. 1.) Too much is left out of the original script. The whole graveyard speech, including the comedic gravediggers, is left out,and there is no insight into Ophelia's fate. 2.)Too many liberties taken. Bullets are hardly a substitute for poison. 3.)Although Hawke performs capably as the prince his character is overly somber. Even in his fits of maddness, at least somewhat humorous in most adaptations, Hawke barely cracks a smile. His pain is evident, but way too overdone. 4.) Steve Zahn, one of the best comedic actors on screen today, is wasted. As Rosencrantz, hailed as one of Shakespeare's most humorous characters, Zahn could have stolen the show. Instead, many of the character's lines are either cut or delivered facelessly over the phone. 5.) I won't even begin to discuss the artistic quality if Pepsi One, or (Although the scene was cool) Blockbuster Video. The commercialism was way too abundant. The list goes on and on. No disrespect to the actors. All perform capably, with top honours to Bill Murray for stealing the show as Polonious. However, muffled symbolism (what does a jet in a blue sky have to do with ANYTHING? and The Crow City of Angels? Two bad movies on one screen?) and sloppy direction sink this well conceived yet poorly executed boat. Stick to Branagh. "},{"Title":"Oh my sweet Lord.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is easily the worst translation of Shakespeare's work to film that I have ever seen. In this pointlessly, ineffectively, and inconsistently updated re-imagination of Hamlet, determinedly, overly hip cardboard cutouts do battle within themselves and with one another, using the text of Hamlet as the basis for their acts in a literal sense, but without even a hint of the humanity and insight that the original work gave us or that a new one could attempt to give. I have no issue with resetting classic works, nor do I care if an adaptation is somewhat unfaithful to the text; what I do have an issue with is if a movie simply doesn't work. At least Romeo + Juliet had some kind of emotion behind it; this version is altogether too detached to care about its characters and too clueless to remember that the story just doesn't work if we don't care.Good points Bill Murray as Polonius, and Kyle Maclachlan's Claudius, apparently digitally superimposed from another, better movie.  "},{"Title":"Confused (w/Spoilers)","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Julia Stiles was good.  That's all I can really say about this.  I had nearly no knowledge of this play whatsoever.  The only thing I knew about this play was from a random comment on an episode Third Rock From The Sun about how Hamlet resembled the Lion King (give me a break, I'm only 15).  I really should've thumbed through the Cliffs Notes before heading off to see this.  I figured out most of what was happening after a while, but I still don't get I didn't get why Bill Murray hated Hamlet, and I don't get why they put all the microphones and stuff on Ophelia (to make sure that she broke up with him?)  Parts of the Ophelia storyline seemed severely edited and completely confused me.  I guess you were supposed to pick most of it up in that scene where her brother steals her hair clip?  I can't grade this movie, due to the fact that I didn't understand it.  A note to the editor and director How is it that you probably watched this movie a billion times before it's release, but you didn't cut out the boom mikes?  I bet everyone in the audience noticed the one in that scene before Ophelia's death. "},{"Title":"Skip it","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I did not like this movie.First, I liked the style.  The style with a super-slick movie look on a steely cold ultra-modern blue, and digital equipment was great.  It had some flaws, such as returning 15 movies to Blockbuster, having two shelves of Blockbuster movies with no covers, and check the movies on the shelves.  They put comedies on the Action shelf.  I would never shop at that Blockbuster.  But I guess that the covers were chosen for their look.  **SPOILERS****SPOILERS**  There are spoilers in this review of a well-known play.  I did not like the fact that they chose guns rather than a poisoned tip.  It wasn't cruel, wily, or poetic enough.  It was straightforward and blunt.  Second.  I liked the cameo by the late, great Paul Bartel as the person who held the foils in the end.  Bill Murray was perfectly cast.  But Ethan Hawke was too young for a middle-aged man.  Check the eliminated Gravedigger scene for his age in the real play.  Third.  They eliminated the grvaedigger scene.  That was the core of the play because it was just so hilarious, then the next scene was the most emotionally-wrenching scene of love.  Two extremes clenched together.  But it is not there, so I did not feel nearly as bad in this version.  Not to mention the Mouse Trap was hilarious. I was laughing out loud.We all laughed out loud at the anchor scene in the end.  The news report.  You will see what I mean.  In other words, this could have bee a lot better.  And it should be down-dated to the latest time when suicides were not buried so the gravedigger scene could be back in the movie6/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting version...worth seeing","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This Hamlet really has its very good points and very bad points. I'll start with the good.  Ethan Hawke and Julia Stiles were great in their roles as Hamlet and Ophelia.  Better yet, I love how this movie paid attention to and portrayed their relation.  The development of Ophelia, combined with Stiles' acting, in this movie is the best I've seen.  Ethan Hawke is a wonderful brooder, an essential trait to play Hamlet.  In addition, I like how they interpreted some of the scenes.  For instance, after Hamlet kills Polonius and is berating Gertrude, he finishes the dialogue from the scene in a phone call.  Other recognitions  The ghost is well-played and appears at appropriate, albeit not necessarily scripted, times.  The abandonment of the English accent is welcome and is of great assistance in trying to following Shakespeare's script.  And the incorporation of modern times w/ a play written for a setting of the 16th(?) century is well-done, although it is a little overdone.As for my complaints, there really is too much script that is cut.  First and foremost, although I recognize the need to avoid a trying, 5 hour sleep session of a movie, attempting to squeeze Hamlet into 111 minutes is impossible without butchering some of the play....I mean, geez, just go ahead and make the movie 3 hours before you cut too many important scenes.  It seems as if everyone has to have either a 5-hour or 2-hour version.  There's a happy medium there, use it. If they wouldn't have cut so much, I would have loved this movie.  Second, I believe Bill Murray was badly miscast as Polonius.  He failed miserably to portray Polonius as the laughable oaf that he is.  Third, advertisements were about to make me puke.  One minute the ghost is there, the next, you're focused on nothing but a Pepsi One vending machine. Hamlet gives his To-be-or-not-to-be speech with nothing but Blockbuster videos in the backround(although it was in the Action section which was a nice touch), how inapprapriate is that blatant advertising.  I missed the entire speech cause I was so ticked about the backround.  Admittedly, these ads might be placed to emphasize the consumerism of our society, but please, it's still way out of place, destroying the mood for their prospective scenes.  And finally, the final swordfight scene was unconvincing.  Perhaps the modern setting fails at this point, but couldn't they do better than a fencing match.  How intense is that?!I've been critical, but overall I think this movie is an extremely original take on Hamlet and is a must see for any Shakespeare fan.  7/10. "},{"Title":"Alas, poor Hamlet, they slew him well...","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hawke's Hamlet is self-indulgent and humorless. For example, rather than toying with Polonius, Hawke is just plain nasty to him, disdainful and sneering; he seems to miss the point of Hamlet's methodical madness entirely. Hamlet as digital auter feels completely right for *this* Hamlet but, when you look at the stuff he's producing, he once again seems to be painting himself into the w***er's corner. On the other hand, what's interesting here is that Hawke is an active Hamlet he makes several attempts on his uncle's life, both mistimed and abortive, and the effect is to highlight those parts of the text that speak to human diffidence in the face of moral responsibility.As Hamlet's father, Sam Shepard is all wrong. Even making allowances for his current lot (the murdered king spends his days being burnt to a crisp in hell and his nights wandering the lonely balconies of corporate Manhattan) Shepard gives us a relentlessly dour ghost. Like father, like son, you think, Sure. But they're both jerks. Shakespeare made sure to give us glimpses of the great human that Hamlet so admired, but not here. Claudius, in contrast, seems positively lovable. Compare to Paul Schofield's ghost in Mel Gibson's Hamlet; your heart breaks for the poor bugger, and thus for Hamlet.Bill Murray makes a great Polonius. The only alternate timbre in an otherwise emotionally monochromatic film, his delivery is the sharpest, the most knowing and the closest to natural speech. Hugging Laertes, he manages to convey parental tenderness with an amused despair that sons the world over will ever understand what fathers mean by to thine own self be true.Julia Styles gives a deeply affecting performance as Ophelia. Michael Almereyda, the director, makes a smart choice in allowing us to see Ophelia's suicidal thoughts develop as her father betrays her to the king for his own ends first she begins to walk along the edge of a pool, then sees herself jumping in and, once underwater, covers her face in shame.Liev Schreiber didn't work for me because Laertes' misguided passion, a vital counterpoint to Hamlet's considered inaction, was not ultimately tragic. Morally, he should flower in the final showdown but, here, he's given only a cursory line of plotspeak (the King's to blame) and comes across like a whiner. Oich.Compared to Derek Jacobi's Claudius in Brannagh's Hamlet, Kyle MacLachlan's Claudius is a marvel in underachievement. He's the right build, handsome, looks good in a suit, but his face is smooth and it never betrays any real feeling. I didn't feel a thing for this Claudius.In yet another character assassination Diane Venora plays the queen as an alcoholic tart.Other points...The Mouse Trap is a complete disaster, witless and self-indulgent. Charlton Heston and Judi Dench brought the play-within-the-play to life in Brannagh's Hamlet but, yet again, Almereyda sacrifices the potential for emotion in favor of cold cleverness. To wit...The to be or not to be soliloquy is too clever by half. I was so wowed by the staging that I lost track of the speech. Hawke looked like he might burst out laughing at any moment. The technology is superb. The handling of telephones, fax machines, email and security cameras is seamless. On this level, the film succeeds brilliantly. This, Polonius and Ophelia are the big kicks.In Denmark, the country, imprisoned by his blood, how can Hamlet escape? But Denmark Corporation is just a building. Why doesn't he bugger off to the west coast to find himself? Why doesn't he get himself a nasty little first floor apartment on the lower east side and write some bad poetry? And can we really believe> in a Manhattanite Hamlet that *isn't* seeing a therapist?So many things are out of whack with the characters in this production, the only theory I can come up with is that the director put character second to mood.  "}{"Title":"...inexplicable dumb-shows and noise...","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hamlet is one of my favorite plays, and, as I was buying the ticket for Hamlet 2000, I felt simultaneously the expectation of seeing the movie and a strange reservation about the alterations, which, as I watched the movie, blossomed into full-fledged despair.Entire scenes from the play; in my opinion some of the best in the entire work (e.g. I,i, the most Polonian parts of II, i, many of the major monologues have been clipped---and the GRAVEDIGGER scene!), were cut out, ostensibly for purposes of streamlining, but the cuts did the WORST things to the work as a whole. Instead of being a transcendent, symbolic unfolding of events validating a worldview, it becomes, instead, merely the groanings of a moody, spoiled adolescent. The focus is so rarely taken off of Hamlet that I got sick of looking at Ethan Hawke. His character is transformed from a student into a slacker, from an intellectual into a pretentious cinemaphile. (Perhaps so many of Hamlet's self-referential lines are cut because they don't refer to the debased character portrayed.)The film takes itself, plot-wise, much too seriously to be enjoyed.As another reviewer noted, the New York corporate setting has SO MUCH potential! But the director goes in for flashy visuals over meaning; the surveillance aspect of Claudius (which could have been so brilliantly updated by the more-obvious use of security cameras) is used only once as an excuse for Polonius to make an aside. Claudius is transformed from a totalitarian, lecherous tyrant into something akin to Wall Street's Gordon Gecko, which simply isn't enough for this film.Acting-wise, this film suffers from a schizophrenia. Ethan Hawke's Hamlet appears to be on some sort of medication, drowsily murmuring all his lines (with the exception of the scene before The Mousetrap, where his merriment is strange indeed---and totally forced). Gone is the passion with which one expects a number of the soliliquoys to be delivered, making Hamlet the central weakness of the film. Claudius and Gertrude were both adequate, but in my opinion not entirely convincing. They shouted when they had to, whispered when they had to, but were not at all impressive. Julia Styles had her moments as Ophelia, but her scenes at the Guggenheim (esp. the first) really turned me off from her. I much prefer Kate Blanchett's quiet, tearful turns in Branagh's cinematic Hamlet.The two stand-outs in the film are Sam Shepard as Old Denmark, whose startlingly aggressive portrayal of the Ghost breathes a fresh wind into the usual doomed spirit portrayal of the character. My only real nit about Shepard is that the scene where he first reveals himself to Hamlet is supposed to take place just before the dawn (But soft! Methinks I scent the morning air!), but the film oddly portrays it around twilight, the night coming on fully after his visitation.The other stand-out performance comes from Liev Schreiber as Laertes. His mellifluous voice and unpretentious character are a refreshing change from the flash of the rest of the movie, and his more standard delivery puts the weakness of Horatio and Hamlet to shame. (It's ironic that, around the time this movie was being made, Schreiber portrayed Hamlet on-stage at the Public Theater in New York)One last remark about this travesty---did the director not notice the NUMEROUS times the boom comes into view???? Look at the reflections in the chrome at Polonius' house, the scene in the Guggenheim when Laertes confronts Claudius, and later, when Laertes and Claudius speak of revenge at the King's house.All in all, this film is a mess of nonsensical cuts changes, lifeless acting and botched intentions. If you're in a masochistic mood, rent it some time next year. "},{"Title":"Powerful and Moving--with flaws of course","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Just saw the Almereyda/Ethan Hawke Hamlet last night. Really brilliant in some ways--the teenage characters (Hamlet, Horatio, Ophelia, R&G, Laertes, etc) do in fact add the incredibly emotional intensity that I thought they would--with all the unattractiveness that teenagers have to them. Hamlet insolently walking around his family's corporate suites with this sh***y looking ski cap on. Like that.Bill Murray as Polonius makes Jack Lemmon look like a master. This performance was spectacularly awful. Really stood out  against, for instance, Kyle McClachlan as Claudius, who was kind  of spectacular. Put across all the menace that I've always  thought his character should embody. Really scary.  Gravedigger scene cut. Fall of a sparrow/Let be speech run through quickly with little emphasis. Swordfight scene bare bones. So Act V a disappointment for me.But overall, does things with Hamlet that are rarely done right.Very powerful  "},{"Title":"At least the audience laughed....","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  One doesn't have to be a purist to dislike much of this oversimplified version of one of the greatest dramas in the English language. ROMEO+JULIET was exciting, RICHARD III inspired, and Traymor's TITUS visually and dramatically impressive.  Modernizing Shakespeare is nothing new--Orson Welles did a modern dress JULIUS CAESAR over fifty years ago, for Pete's sake.  But this revamp is simply overly clever, replacing substance with style.  But what else can you say about a movie with such obvious product placement?The burden of the play falls upon whomever plays Hamlet, and Ethan Hawke just isn't up to the role.  Does he even have a clue as to what he's saying, in some scenes (the Blockbuster To be or not to be in particular)?  The supporting cast is better, particularly Kyle MacLachlan as Claudius and Leiv Schrieber as Laertes, and Julia Stiles occasionally rose to the challenge. But this is obviously meant to be a showcase for Hawke, and he just doesn't have the power of most of the earlier Hamlets, including Branaugh.Anyone remotely familiar with the original stage play (or even most screen versions) will wonder at the absence of whole scenes and hunks of dialogue. But I guess they were excised to make room for the footage of the motorcycle trip into the city.  The cuts, and the director's interpretation, leave us with not much more than a basic revenge play, eliminating the subtleties that make HAMLET such a magnificent work.The audience (an older crowd) snickered when The Ghost exited via a Pepsi One machine, so we got some pleasure out of the movie.  For the most part, however, the audience squirmed in their seats, and my attention wandered regularly.  If you want to see HAMLET, rent either the Olivier or Branaugh versions.  If you want to see Shakespeare as spectacle, see TITUS.  If you want to watch Ethan Hawke watch videos, see this HAMLET. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare wasn't an idiot after all","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Never before has Shakespeare's word sounded so plausible.  I have had to read other Shakespeare plays for school, never fully understanding, but here not only did I understand, I enjoyed.  Ethan Hawke is an amazing Hamlet. The director did a fabulous job.  He even made us never question a Shakespearian scene next to a row of driers.  Julia Stiles and Bill Murray (yes that guy from Groundhog's Day in a Drama) both turned in excellent preformences.  A perfect 10, I loved it! "},{"Title":"Dynamite","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  What a wonderful modernized version of Shakespeare, and  of Hamlet. I was taken to see it by my family on father's dayof all days, and all four of us loved it.  I was riveted to my seat, and I know the story line well and  many of the speeches and soliloquies, but it was different,  more intense with a modern twist, with a modern location,  with modern equipment of the digital age. The modern things made the emotion stronger, as the  Romeo and Juliet modernity brought out gang warfare  intensely but the traditional play has trouble doing.  We have friends who hated it, that famous familiar parts of  the play had been sliced out, but we really don't need  another stage version of the play, we have many. A new, a creative version such as this is art, not a movie about art.  "},{"Title":"A '2000' written next to something does not necessarily make it good.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Even before I went and see the film, I said to myself that as far as I am concerned, Franco Zefirelli and Kenneth Branagh have done it all...and I was right. Hamlet has been shot twice recently and the newest one just proves that that was quite enough. It is not that you should not go and see it, but you should do yourself a favour and rent the other two Hamlets from your video-store afterwards (and NOT before). It is my opinion that you will enjoy them much more, and for less money. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised at how well this film pulled off the task of bringing Ol' William to the modern day. This film was successful because of the tremendous acting and the striking visuals. The flair of the visuals (which has an art/euro film feel to them), along the reduced running time (about 2 hours), will hold the attention of even the worst Shakespeare-phobe. On a side note, it is interesting how the director chose to combat (what many scholars see as) the homosexual undertones of Hamlet and Horatio's relationship by giving Horatio a girlfriend, a character that is not in the original play, and a character that has no lines in the film. "},{"Title":"Stylish, inventive, intruiging.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is my third time seeing Hamlet on Film.  The first was Franco Zeffirelli's wonderful 1991 version with Mel Gibson; the second was Kenneth Branagh's complete 1996 version.  This version of Hamlet doesn't have the angst and physical impression that Zeffirelli's did, nor does it compare to the polished Branagh version.  It is, however, very interesting and inventive, full of style and impression.  Hamlet (2000) cannot compare to the other two, and it should not be.Hamlet (2000) is modernized, set in nocturnal New York, 2000.  Denmark is a corporation that is facing a hostile takeover by Fortinbras after the death of its CEO, Hamlet's father.I have seen two other modernizations of Shakespeare, the first being Ian McKellen's fantastic version of Richard III, which was set in 1940's fascist Britain.  The second was that confusing punk-rock, too-hip-to-be-Shakespeare version of Romeo & Juliet by Baz Luhrmann, which starred hopeless posterboy, Leonard DiCapprio.  Unlike the Luhrmann version of Romeo & Juliet, Hamlet (2000) has style, but keeps most of it toned down as a vehicle to aid and assist the presentation of Shakespeare's play.  Lurhmann got carried away and let style overshadow Shakespeare; here, Hamlet (2000) lets the words speak for themselves; this is still Shakespeare's Hamlet - just in New York.Ethan Hawke is actually pretty good as Hamlet.  He presents Hamlet as a soft spoken, video/computer nerd, but later warms up to the role.  Julia Stiles' Ophelia is better when she goes insane, and Bill Murray (Polonius) proves that he's a much better actor than everyone gives him credit for.All in all, Hamlet (2000) is interesting.  One must take it for what its worth, which is just another way to present a centuries old play. "},{"Title":"The sum much less than its parts","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Since the early '90s, there have been several attempts to bring Shakespeare's plays to the screen, updated to our postmodern age and addressed basically to a teenage audience. After Men of Respect, Romeo+Juliet, A Thousand Acres, My Own Private Idaho, 10 Things I Hate About You, Romeo Must Die, the upcoming O, Michael Almereyda's Hamlet (in this case, the mother of all Shakespeare's plays) is the latest attempt.Although one should give this film credit for succeeding in its parts, it does not adequately capture the essence of Hamlet. My first complaint is the actors' diction of Shakespeare's words almost no one in this film makes any effort to articulate or pronounce them in an urgent manner. It's as though the plot has replaced the poetry of the lines. Some actors are even incomprehensible Sam Shepard's Ghost, Horatio, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, are all examples of this, especially the messages the latter leave on the answering machine. On the other hand, one should give high marks to Julia Stiles' Ophelia never in recent memory was there an actor who said so little yet conveyed so much on film. She is excellent! So is Liev Schreiber, whose Laertes bristles with all the right emotions. As Hamlet, Ethan Hawke is fine because he looks so sullen and morose all the time. Kyle McLachlan is menacing enough as Claudius, but I thought Diane Venora's Gertrude looked a little too young to be Hamlet's mother. Finally, Bill Murray all the reviews I've read of this film praise his acting, but I didn't see what all the fuss was about. He was good in one scene (Brevity is the soul of wit), but then almost everyone is good in one scene or another in this film, and that is what makes the film watchable most of the time. Hamlet's scene in Gertrude's bedroom, for example, works, but the fencing scene at the end does not, because it is difficult to imagine anyone settling a bet in this century in this fashion.That said, the use of electronic media in the film is effective and clever, because video and computers are so much a part of our lives. For this reason, making Hamlet a filmmaker was ingenious, but changing Denmark to a corporation and Elsinore to a hotel??? We are not told the corporation's business, what's at stake, or why should Claudius want to kill his brother (lust for Gertrude?) Why do these people live in a hotel? Why is this film set in New York? Except for some aerial shots, the Guggenheim Museum, (another scene that works well, by the way), the city is almost nonexistent as the setting of the film.The choices made by the filmmaker leave unanswered questions. As a result, individual scenes are good, but the sum of Hamlet is much less than its parts. "},{"Title":"Mixed Review","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I found Hamlet 2K jarring. It was a novel idea, I suppose, to place Hamlet in the 21st Century. Polonius as a company yes-man was a brilliant choice.Julia Stiles' Ophelia was the most moving portrayal I've ever seen.On the downside, I was distracted by seeing a corporation that I didn't know what it does, and a CEO who did no business. The king, in his castle, can go about having parties and such. But a CEO has business meetings and stuff.Alas, Horatio, our scene's been cut! I've seen full versions of Hamlet, and some can be cut with little loss. But the gravedigger scene? The scene with the players before the play? That was too much cutting for my taste.PRODUCT PLACEMENTS!!!! Hello, and welcome to AOL Movie Phone! Marlboro. Pepsi. I paid 9 bucks to see the movie. And, I guess, for the privilege of being marketed to. "}{"Title":"I have lost all my mirth","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  While this latest version of Hamlet features some fine performances by supporting players and the modern setting creates some inspired moments, the film fails in my estimation in one main area - Ethan Hawke's monotonous performance.  Here is a Hamlet utterly devoid of humor.  He does not jest with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  His biting remarks to Polonius are undercut by his castaway delivery.  The gravedigger scene, tantalizingly started with Jeffrey Wright glimpsed singing All Along the Watchtower, is abruptly omitted.  One wonders is he truly had any mirth to lose.  He spends more time pondering over Ophelia than his father.  He does not search for his place in life, as Shakespeare's character does, he is simply a Eurotrash would-be filmmaker not fitting in the corporate world of mommy and stepdaddy.  Hawke plays the role entirely absorbed in a morose, angst-ridden sulk.  He is as depressed prior to meeting his father's spirit as after. Polonius' meeting with his aunt-mother and uncle-father describing madness seems out of place when Hamlet's behavior has been exactly the same throughout.  Add to the lack of madness Julia Stiles' petulant Ophelia. She merely looks like any gloomy teenager (which is probably the point of the director), she has no tenderness towards her father, even imagining drowning her sorrows before Polonius' death.  This extraordinary insert, while striking, effectively undercuts her death and her madness seems motiveless when she had shown no feeling towards her father at all.That said, the surrounding actors are quite good.  Kyle MacLachlan and Diane Venora are strongly effective as the king and queen, though MacLachlan's character is reduced too much by the cutting.  Bill Murray is splendid as an ineffectual corporate suit, talkative yet poignant.  Liev Schreiber speaks the dialogue far better than Ethan Hawke and his Laertes commands attention when on screen.  Sam Shepard is marvelous as the ghost, lending his iconic prescence to the proceedings, lurking the corridors of the Hotel Elsinore.As with most updates of classical works, the modern touches are a mixed bag. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern calling in their reports via speaker phone is a nice bit.  Ophelia the photographer dropping pictures of flowers instead of real ones works well.  Claudius' opening press conference and the entire corporate setting feels to fit the action of the play admirably.  The placing of Claudius' confession in his limo is well done and the potential revenge there creates tension - though Hamlet's lines are frustratingly absent.  The Moustrap as a film was effectively done - translating the power of the original quite nicely, and the only hint of more range in Hawke in the entire film.  Possibly the most inspired business is Hamlet's rumination O what a rogue and peasant slave am I done to the image of James Dean, a modern romantic ideal of disaffected youth is ever there was one.  Some items are thrown in our face harshly - Ophelia listening to Moviefone, the ghost vanishing through a Pepsi machine, and Hamlet wandering aroung Blockbuster.  The effectiveness of the to be or not to be monologue is absolutely lost.  With some prior abortive starts to the monolgue all impulse is lost.  The Blockbuster setting is merely a distraction, Hamlet just wandering the aisles making no connection with any of the great words he utters.  The ending is hacked so much that the tragedy of the deaths is lost entirely.  No feeling is generated, just surprise and momentary shock as the characters simply are gone.  Instead of Fortinbras' impressions, we are left with a nondescript newsman whose monotone effectively undercuts any emotion we may have felt towards the proceedings.  All this may be the point, but if it is, the ability of the play to engender our feeling towards these unhappy souls has been bled out in favor of mindless deaths in rapid succession.It may be a sad afterthought that this Hamlet may be the most widely scene for the present young generation.  Shakespeare's character presented with the most primeval responsibility a son could be charged with - avenge his father, pauses to reflect on the very meaning of human existence.  In his pursuit of his proper role in life, he considers humanity in all its greatness and imperfections.  Ethan Hawke's Hamlet does not take us on a journey except to the muddy gloom of his own angst, hardly encompassing the meditations of love, death, humor, joy, and tragedy that Shakespeare's character is meant to contemplate.  It is ironic that this first major Hamlet of the twenty-first century should contain a glimpse of the late John Gielgud, on a background monitor showcased in his own performance (holding Yorick no less).  Sadly this Hamlet had the sound off on the screen, he could have learned a few things listening to Gielgud's masterly delivery.  "},{"Title":"Boring; Ethan Hawke lackluster.","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this was a pretty boring rendition, except for Bill Murray's performance perhaps. I found Ethan Hawke's performance somewhat lackluster. And, hey, what's up with that goofy-looking hat he wore? I prefer Mel Gibson's version and the one with Nicol Williamson. And, I'm sorry, but I'd rather see all the words spoken out loud. No more interior monologues, please. "},{"Title":"Hamlet (Pow, Pow, Pow)","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I would first like to applaud director Michael Almereyda,  producer Amy Hobby and actor Ethan Hawke for being possibly the first people to make a film inspired by a Birthday Party song.  Secondly I would like to say that, if I should ever find myself in the position of teaching a high-school English course,  I would definitely screen this adaptation of Hamlet while covering the play.  That is not to say I find this the best rendition I have ever seen, but it comes pretty near close and I would rank it far higher than Branagh's film.  A lot is made of the modernization of the play and how it provides some sort of metaphor for contemporary America or international corporate culture.  Rubbish.  The play is, as always, about people.  I don't know why anyone would be so amazed that this play seems so appropriate in a contemporary setting.  What I find remarkable is that it ever made as much sense during the time of its initial production.  Shakespeare was not only ahead of his time, he was so vastly ahead of it that he was quite out of fashion, in most parts of the civilized world, for some period after his death (Racine and Corneille were considered the real guys).  One can only imagine what an Elizabethan audience would have made of such a conscience stricken protagonist.  In those days any prince worth his salt, faced with such an uncle as Claudius, would have hewed strictly to a 'shoot first, ask questions later' policy.  If Almereyda's film seems so perfect, it is not that his execution, as good as it is, is so fitting of the material, it is that the material is so fitting of the execution.  Expanding upon this I would like to say that the cast, for the most part is wonderful. Yes, even Mr. Hawke, who one doesn't think of as the strongest of actors, was finely suitable as a confused, young man of grave burden.  Bill Murray was wonderful as Polonius, giving the character an ruefully comic twist that only he could provide (there were moments, when he was opining on Hamlet's madness, that I almost expected him to say, The Ham-Man, that nut!).  Sam Shepard gave the most doleful and bitter performance of the The Ghost I have ever seen, Karl Geary provided a wonderfully warm Horatio (why has this guy not been in more films?) and Liev Schreiber, Diane Venora, Steve Zahn, etc. were all marvelous in their respective roles.  The film is beautifully shot, the settings are perfect and I enjoyed each and every little in-joke I managed to catch (was that a clip of The Crow at the Blockbuster?).  All in all a great introduction to Shakespeare's world (our world), a fine first Hamlet for anyone to see and an all-around damn fine picture!     "},{"Title":"I liked it... I really liked it!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Being a member of the lowly masses who has more than a little difficulty deciphering pentamic diameter (sp?), I went into a special showing of this film wondering if I was going to get lost yet again while trying to understand what the hell these people were talking about.Even though the production appeared to stick very closely to Shakespearean dialogue, I was still pleased and delighted to find I could understand not only the plot, but the character motivations... their demons, their pain. Not since Zefferelli's Romeo and Juliet have I had such an easy time of following a Shakespearean story.The updating and placing of the story in New York City, into the ruthless environment of big business in the new Millenium worked very well - and special kudos should go to the location manager.  New York is always photogenic, but the treatment of the big apple in this production is a particularly compelling.Only complaint goes to the soundtrack - the constant funeral dirge, in it's many flavors, started getting a bit annoying.  Nonetheless, the play's the thing, and if you like Shakespeare's storys, but have some trouble with his way of speaking, check this out.  It's not a light nite out at the movies, but it's damn good and it'll stick with you. "},{"Title":"Very Good Adaptation","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Everything but the language of the play felt modern -- and the script was very faithful to the original.  Ethan Hawke was a little weak in the lead role, but he did a reasonably creditable job in a very difficult role.  Bill Murray was an absolutely wonderful Polonius.  The strength of the script and the smoothness of the adaptation make this a very fun movie to watch.  The neat little tidbits scattered throughout the movie -- trivia items related to tragic figures -- will be particularly delightful for those into that sort of thing.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly brilliant","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I really didn't expect much after I saw the disastrous modern adaption of Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet in 1996. In fact, I've been hesitate to watch this Hamlet for a long time. Now I'm just so glad I didn't miss it. Of the 4 versions of Hamlet I've seen on film, this is by far the most accessible and inspiring one.It revolves around this brilliant idea that the problems of Hamlet are universal and you don't need to be a stage guru to articulate them. The acting style suits the idea incredibly well with all the dialogs spoken in a natural and unaffected way. The scenes are carefully chosen so it's much tighter and easier to follow than the full-length play. My highest praise goes to the first half of the film for its pitch-perfect rhythm and intensity. The second half, however, seems a bit hasty and awkward at times, especially the grave scene and sword-fighting climax.It helps when you have a great ensemble to do a proper Shakespeare film. Diane Venora, Sam Shepard, Kyle MacLachlan and Liev Schreiber are all veterans who have tackled Shakespeare on stage. As for the actor who plays the title role, I agree with the conventional wisdom that there's no Hamlet, only the actor who plays it. So if you can enjoy Ethan Hawke as Hamlet, you'll pretty much like everything he does. "},{"Title":"It works, but just barely","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I've always been a fan of Hamlet but I find myself always searching out a version that isn't either 4 hours long or starring Kenneth Brannagh (sp?) or Mel Gibson. So, seeing a version set in New York circa 2000 seemed like an interesting (if not questionable) choice. And for me it works for the most part. While I'm sure Shakespeare purists would cry foul, and maybe rightly so, the simple fact of the matter is that Shakespeare needs some new fans and the best way to grab a younger audience is to present it in a way that doesn't seem antiquated. So long as that's done with respect to the source material, I see no problem with that.The only real problem I have with this version is some of the casting choices. Obviously the script is the same as about any other version and only the setting and time period change...but Bill Murray as Polonius? Not that I don't like Bill Murray, but I've never seen him doing Shakespeare (and still don't, really). Steve Zahn as Rosencranz? Seriously? I thought Ethan Hawke would totally bomb the performance, but he did well enough. And Liev Schrieber as Laertes was surprisingly good...especially given the last thing I saw him doing was playing Sabertooth opposite Hugh Jackman. Not exactly high quality material.All in all this isn't a fantastic adaptation of what is arguably Shakespeare's most popular work, but it's definitely a good effort and a bit of a shot in the arm for what many people believe is an outdated style of writing. I've never really understood that...just because you need a moment to process the meaning of something doesn't mean it's bad. It just means you're using your brain. But in any event, I would put this up against Mel Gibson's Hamlet any day of the week and twice on Sunday. Especially for the younger audiences. "},{"Title":"Horrendous!  Not so much ill-conceived as poorly implemented","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I only give this 2 instead of 1, so that another may attempt a worse rendition of this play.The whole thing is like 90's slacker meets shakespeare meets typical modern use of little stylistic clips - to substitute for proper cinema meets artsy modern garbage.I particularly loathe Ethan's performance - uninspired, pretentious, and melodramatic. It's not that he can't act - he was great in Training Day. But the material with this format certainly doesn't suit. The cast in general has loads of great people, and the script is proved -) So ... the director really screwed this up. Lastly, Bill Murray - Love him - but this is not the role for him.Save your time - truly - this version is not worth your time. "},{"Title":"Bland, indeed","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I think this movie might have been good if it was just more involving. During the final scene when Hamlet and Laertes were fencing, I found myself thinking, Is this movie already over? For some reason the events just kinda passed before my eyes and the words went through my ears and none if it really seemed to soak in. It was bland, that's all I have to say. This movie seemed to have so much potential, but it fell short of the mark.However, there are a few bright spots. Laertes was one of them. Gertrude was also interesting to watch. The moment when Polonius picks up Ophelia's foot to tie her shoe while he lectures her is the strongest memory I have from the whole film. I found it funny. "},{"Title":"Luhrmann rip-off","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This version of Hamlet uses the exact idea of Bazz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet. A William Shakespeare play, presented in our decade, with all modern things interfering or completely changing scenes. All but the dialog, who remained as close as possible to the original.  Ethan Hawke and Kyle MacLachlan are both very good, but unfortunately Julia Stiles destroys her scenes, with her flat and inexpressive appearence.Still it's an interesting watch, but only if you're a big fan of someone involved in this picture. Vote 4 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Boring, predictable and hideous","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Simply hideous!This version is a pure vehicle to watch Ethan Hawke walk around with his standard beaten puppy-dog look, wear an incongruous children's winter hat (no doubt to demonstrate Hamlet's conflicts), and murmur Hamlet's piteous, soulful dismay, while always looking like he has chlorinated pool water in his eyes.It's like a caricature of how the character Hamlet is regarded.Hawke plays a Hamlet that would inspire the audience to nothing more than blurting out, Oh, get OVER yourself already, for heaven's sake!Don't bother, unless you love wallowing in your own inertia.  This is the perfect film for that. "},{"Title":"To be, or not to be--  Well...  (4/10)","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  One of Shakespeare's greatest plays gets modernized and transported to New York City in the year 2000, with Ethan Hawke taking on the role of the brooding Prince of Denmark.  This version of `Hamlet,' written for the screen and directed by Michael Almereyda, initially holds much promise, with what appears to be an outstanding cast through which Almereyda can present his vision of this oft-told tale of murder and revenge.  That `vision,' however, turns out to be somewhat clouded, and though the basic story remains intact, it comes across as something of a `Cliff's notes' rendition that is less than satisfying.  And by the end we realize, too, that not all actors-- even good ones-- are cut out to play Shakespeare.Hamlet's father, the King/CEO of the Denmark Corp. has died, and within a month his mother, Gertrude (Diane Venora), has married his uncle, Claudius (Kyle MacLachlan), who has also taken over the company.  Hamlet, now ensconced in the Elsinore Hotel, grieving for his father, is appalled by the marriage of his mother to his uncle, and moreover, with such haste; but it is done, and there is nothing he can do about it.  Soon, however, Hamlet discovers that his father was, in fact, the victim of murder most foul, and vows to avenge his untimely demise.  Immediately, he sets a course that will bring the perpetrators to justice; but it is a course that must necessarily end in tragedy for Hamlet, as well.With his screenplay, Almereyda has retained enough of the basic story that even the heretofore uninitiated will be able to grasp Shakespeare's original intent, at least in regards to the plot.  The presentation, however, falls entirely short of providing the full impact of the tragedy.  Almereyda's approach is altogether too solemn and lacks the energy needed to truly bring this film to life.  And while it's true that the story is inherently introspective and melancholy, the director fails to explore the many possibilities available to him-- especially with the contemporary setting-- that could have made this vibrant and exciting cinema, such as the way writer/director Julie Taymor brought Shakespeare's `Titus' to the screen so successfully.  Add to that the fact that Almereyda's adaptation of the play is terribly wanting; the character development is lacking, and though the language of the play remains, Almereyda's judgment of what to keep and what to lose in making the necessary cuts to bring a four hour production down to just under two, are questionable.  Hamlet's famous soliloquy, `To be, or not to be,' for example, is truncated into oblivion.  In the final analysis, this was a project perhaps too ambitious for Almereyda at this point in time; knowing what `happens' in the story is not the same as knowing what it's `about,' and in some of the choices the director makes, it's obvious that the `essence' of the play has simply eluded him, much to the detriment of the overall film.As far as performances go, they range from outstanding to the downright laughable, which is disappointing but not surprising, considering the eclectic nature of the cast.  Liev Schreiber, who has one of the best voices in the business and the elocution to match-- custom made for playing Shakespeare-- is nothing less than exemplary in the role of Laertes, and among those assembled here is in a league of his own.  A tremendously talented actor, Schreiber has not yet achieved the acclaim he so richly deserves, languishing too often in forgettable films like `Kate and Leopold' and `A Walk On the Moon,' though he was perfectly cast as Orson Welles in the made-for-TV film, `RKO 281,' in which he was brilliant.  Without question, with his masterful interpretation of the material and his natural eloquence, he is the saving grace of this film, in which, alas, he is afforded a less than propitious amount of screen time.Only two others in the film even approach Schreiber's level of excellence, the first being Kyle MacLachlan, in his portrayal of Claudius.  MacLachlan, at least, finds the rhythm and flow in his recitations that make his character believable and convincing, and his scenes with Schreiber are the most interesting aspect of the film.  The only other actor in the film who can stand alongside Schreiber and MacLachlan is Diane Venora.  Unfortunately, in this offering, Gertrude has been reduced to a role of silent observer in most scenes; when she does speak, however, her words are well spoken and meaningful, and it's a shame that she is so grossly underused here by Almereyda.Then there are the performances that fall into the `acceptable' category, but are far beneath the capabilities of the actors involved, respectively  As Hamlet, Ethan Hawke adopts a brooding attitude that is effective, but he fails to achieve the commanding presence necessary to make his Hamlet viable.  Sam Shepard, as the Ghost of Hamlet's father, is simply unconvincing.  And Julia Stiles, as the doomed Ophelia, seems to be grasping at straws in a vein attempt at finding her character, and of the three mentioned here, her performance seems the most strained and unnatural, though it is so with both Hawke and Shepard, as well.  All of which points up that, again, not all actors can play Shakespeare.  It's difficult; and those who make the attempt should be commended for it, even if the results are less than noteworthy.     Make that `most' of those who make the attempt; because in the case of Bill Murray, someone should have put a stop to it right out of the chute.  Murray is arguably one of the best comic actors the screen has ever known, and that is not something to be taken lightly; comedy is one of the hardest genres to master, and Murray is one of the best.  But his portrayal of Polonius is embarrassingly laughable; there's no other way to put it.  And it's one of the many reasons that make this version of `Hamlet' forgettable.  There's just no magic in it.  4/10.         "},{"Title":"Avoid like the wine","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, Branagh's Hamlet was a brilliant and accurate adaptation of the play, but it was missing one very important element  The Moviephone guy.But I get ahead of myself.In Michael Almereyda's update of this Shakespeare classic, the trials and tribulations of a young prince bent on revenge are transplanted from Denmark of old to modern New York.  Our hero Hamlet is portrayed by Ethan Hawke who, thanks to exciting technological advancements, doesn't talk or change facial expressions at any time during the film.  Seriously.  When we do hear Hamlet's voice it's almost always as an internal monologue dubbed in later. It doesn't really matter, though, because Ethan delivers the Prince's lines so unconvincingly that one wonders if he might have accidentally grabbed the Los Angeles phone book by mistake.  The lovely Julia Stiles takes on the role of Ophelia, but with one slight variation  No lines.  Yes, Almereyda brilliantly took an already sparse but important character and reduced her to a mute.  The poor thing struggles so hard to get her character's motivations out without words, that she ends up looking like a French mime who's trying to tell Hamlet to steal third.  And her brother's worse. Liev Schreiber's Laertes is inexplicably the only character in the film with a British accent.  Well, not a British accent per se, but that kind of pseudo-Shakespeare-speak adopted by folks who have no earthly idea what they're talking about.  This is compounded by his taking even the most light-hearted of his lines and adding a grim intensity previously reserved for Jack Palance's character in `Cops and Robbersons'.  Then as a finale, he stares off into space in such a way as to indicate he may be playing an improv game in which he imagines himself to be reading his lines from the side of a distant moving bus.  Don't get me wrong, I actually like Liev Schreiber, I just wish he was in the same movie as the rest of the actors. As for everyone else, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern do an excellent impression of Bill and Ted, Claudius and Gertrude are weak at best, Horatio is unintelligible, and the Gravedigger and Fortenbras are essentially absent.  Last, my personal favorite, Bill Murray as Polonius.  I know Polonius is a funny character, but not Bill Murray funny.  Murray knows it too, but he can't find his footing, so he hops from ultra nonchalant to so bored out of his skull he's not even listening to himself.But was it at least adapted well?  Nope.  Since Hamlet's an amateur filmmaker rather than an amateur playwright in this version, his famous soliloquies are typically presented as gripping scenes of Ethan watching himself on a monitor, completely undercutting the drama.  Good idea taping the rehearsals, bad idea putting them in the film.  As for the `to be or not to be' speech, Almereyda chops off the stirring opening lines and replaces them with some barely related file footage, then he tacks on the rest of it a few scenes later as Hamlet wanders through a Blockbuster Video.  Product placement?  Gee, I guess so, because it sure didn't lend itself to the film. Neither did the big, gaudy Pepsi One machine that the Ghost disappears into, or the appallingly gratuitous insertion of the Moviephone guy into the background of another scene.  Another obvious botch occurs when Hamlet begins to go crazy despite the fact that his `I'm going to pretend that I'm crazy' speech has been cut.  So we see the sequence in which Hamlet calls Polonius a fishmonger, obviously feigning mental instability, yet because the explanation is absent, Ethan Hawke gets lost.  So he plays it like he may be just insulting Bill Murray, or is perhaps actually crazy.  A few scenes later Polonius drags Helen `Ophelia' Keller to a pool where the King and Queen are lounging so he can give them the scoop on their nut-ball son. Murray's delivery is so uninteresting, however, that Ophelia spaces out and has a surreal foreshadowing daydream about drowning in the pool.  So when the time comes, does she drown herself in that very pool?  NOPE!  That would make sense.  Instead she's found face down in a two-foot deep decorative office fountain.  How embarrassing that must have been as executives walked by.  `Need help?'  `No, I'm almost dead, just give me a second.'  Of course her lame death enrages Liev who luckily came back from France just in time to look more intensely confused than ever.  So he challenges Ethan to a rooftop duel.  However, because this is modern fencing, Hamlet and Laertes are decked out in padded outfits preventing either of them from getting hurt!  Liev gives a knowing glance to Claudius to confirm that he's picked the sword with the poison on it, yet this NEVER COMES INTO PLAY.  No one is even scratched until the film hiccups and Laertes just pulls out a gun and shoots Ethan, managing to off himself in the process.  Gertrude who's given no indication she's even still in the movie, drinks the poison wine, and Claudius takes a slug from Hamlet, almost flips off the roof but thinks better of it and just dies.  The play winds down and Horatio delivers his most famous words which, unfortunately, no one can understand.And did I mention that Claudius' super secret plans to kill Hamlet are in the form of an email on Rosencrantz's laptop that has the subject `Plans to Kill Hamlet'?  What about the fact that Hamlet wears a goofy snowboarder hat the whole film?  Have I told you about Bill Murray turning into a short Mediterranean guy right after dying, or the long introspective shot of the boom mic?Bottom line, if Shakespeare had written and directed KFC commercials.no that's too harsh, his commercials would have been better than this.  It's Branagh all the way, baby.  Or if you're pressed for time, Mel Gibson. But please, friends don't let friends watch Hawke.  "},{"Title":"Sorry,but...","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"   Everybody thought that the Hamlet adaptations would finish with the imortal Kenneth Brennan one,but there are some systematic directors who enjoy to bring those same stories back to life.  This movie is extremely boring,I was so bored that I had to go out of the cinema in the first 40 minutes.I was disapointed with Ethan Hawke performance,he is just lost in this character,but I think it wasn't his fault,it's just that showing Sheakspeare stories in nowadays doesn't work.You can see the terrible Romeo+Juliet.  	It's just a waste of time to watch this piece of `art' or whatever they tried to do.I was laughing when the ghost appeared in a Pepsi machine or when Hawke's character was philosophizing about his existence in a Blockbuster. The only person who saves in this movie is Bill Murray ,very funny!!!The rest of the cast...4 out of 10  "},{"Title":"It's High School All Over Again","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I'm glad to see that IMDb users were not fooled by Almereyda's ultimately empty, though pretty, adaptation of Hamlet.  In reading press for the film, visions of mass delusions and payola danced through my head.  This is a lush, beautifully paced film that fails miserably, because the director forgot that you must make a movie do more than look good.I've read that the director did copious research on the play, watching other adaptations, etc. before embarking on his own journey.  Apparently he didn't watch closely enough.  His script relies heavily on a viewer already familiar with the play, and cuts or rearranges some of the most important scenes.  The bulk of the scene between Polonius and Hamlet which begins with Hamlet calling the elder a fishmonger is gone.  The final scene is so chopped up to fit Almereyda's modern conceits that it is virtually unrecognizable.  That scene is also hastily and sloppily filmed.  When does the King poison the wine?  A viewer who does not already know that it is poisoned is lost.  As was this production.Problems with Almereyda's ham-handed script and spotty direction aside, the real problem here can be reduced to three words acting, acting, acting.  I haven't seen Shakespeare handled this badly since high school.  Kyle MacLachlan shines above the rest in his role, and Diane Venora and Leif Schreiber are passable and sometimes even good in their roles.  Steve Zahn appears to have the best handle on how to effectively play Rosencrantz as a modern day drinkin' bud, but unfortunately Almereyda has cut most of his role. But aside from them, much of the rest is embarassing and laughable. Julia Stiles comes off as a rank amateur; the cringe factor in her readings is off the meter.  The coup de grace is the scene when she fully goes mad and goes cross-eyed as she's flinging polaroids about.  She looks more like she's trying to approach a slapstick approximation of drunkenness than a despair-filled descent into madness.  Bill Murray, who I love, and who I think is one of the most underrated actors around, is completely out of his depth.  Afraid that by playing Polonius too funny, people will accuse him of putting his stamp on it, he plays it dry and manages to rip all the laughs out of the funniest character in the play.  Polonius is a clown, and should be played as such.  Ian Holm's definitive performance in the less-than-definitive Mel Gibson Hamlet is the high watermark, and Holm plays him like a proper court jester.  Even Sam Shepard seems a little lost. Granted, Shakespeare isn't really his area of theater, but one would have thought he'd have a better handle on it.  And then we come to Ethan Hawke, who I generally think is a very talented actor as well.  But his sullen, brooding Hamlet is a one-note prince, and a pretty tedious note at that. While the much-talked about To be or not to be speech is wonderfully conceived in that monument of indecision, Blockbuster, with the not-too-subtle Action signs passing by our mirthless heir, Hawke reads the speech without ever getting out of first gear, without ever giving a hint of meaningful inflection.  In my Brit.Lit. class in high school we had to memorize and recite this monologue...there were better readings in my class than Hawke offers up here, and his entire performance pretty much follows suit.  His jovial, consoling advice to Ophelia to get thee to a nunnery is laughable, and while he hits the right note in the also well-conceived, but displaced finish to the scene, leaving the rest of the speech on her answering machine, we're still so busy laughing that the rage loses it's power.This Hamlet is style lacking substance, as Almereyda tries to bind the limitless space of Shakespeare's text within a nutshell, only to find that there's nothing left inside when he's done. "},{"Title":"No car chases","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised to see so many negative comments here. The movie wasn't perfect, but it was well-played and the NYC settings and media involvement gave it some visual interest that is lacking in more traditional versions. The liberties that were taken with the script didn't really bother me very much.Things I especially liked were the excellent soundtrack and Bill Murray's Polonius. Murray can be very hit or miss for me but here he was spot-on perfect. Kyle MacLachlan was also quite good. He was suitably threatening as Claudius, yet still handsome enough to make Gertrude's interest in him plausible.All in all, an interesting variation on a classic and an entertaining way to spend a couple of hours.I mean, let's face it. These days any movie that doesn't have a car chase automatically gets at least a 5 or a 6 from me.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Let's preface this by saying  I adore Shakespeare.  The language, the pageantry, the story lines. . .the man was unquestionably a genius in all ways. Many people have panned Luhrman's R&J for being too loud, too flashy and untrue to the text.  I say that Shakespeare might've taken a little offense to the cutting that was done of his script, but the story itself was intact, the language reasonably well-maintained, the world carefully constructed, and the spectacle likely what a modern Shakespeare would have approved of. Shakespeare did not set out to write art.  The man was trying to put food on his table, same as any other artist.  The fact that he created art in the process does not diminish its beauty or integrity.  Luhrman's R&J is a success because it does just what Shakespeare intended, in my opinion it entertains, it tells an intact story, and if it gets a group of surly teenagers to read a little bit, I say use Leonardo diCaprio, regardless of his line reading. Now, on to this adaptation.  Adaptation is a kind word for what was done to this play.  Butchering might be a more appropriate term.  Some on this message board have said that they were bothered by the juxtaposition of Shakespearean verse against a modern backdrop.  This did not bother me, save one choice.  I am all for modernizing Shakespeare when it works. However, the trouble here is that no one seems to have thought out the full ramifications of the choices made.  Having the To be or not to be speech set in a BlockBuster Video store. . .  The worst choice I can possibly imagine!!  I spent the entire of what should be a lovely and tortured moment thinking that he was reading off video titles.  There are three movie titles which have been borrowed from that speech and I just giggled (or would have, if I hadn't been so disgusted) every time our surly hero uttered one of them in BlockBuster (the titles, in case anyone missed this reference are _Outrageous Fortune,_ the one which bothered me most 'cause I spent most of the soliloquy thinking of Bette Midler and Shelly Long hanging from a cliff by their fingernails; _What Dreams May Come;_ and _The Undiscovered Country._) Secondly this modernization doesn't work at all for one simple reason it's not important.  Hamlet's choices don't matter.  Ok, so Claudius killed King Hamlet to gain control of his corporation.  Fine.  Who cares?  The scope of the story is so much wider and more important to a large group of people. Here we have a scenario of brother killing brother to gain financial control.  Great.  Think Bill Gates' brother kills him to gain control of Microsoft.  Is this of national or global import?  No, not really, not unless you're a stock holder.  But imagine if our beloved George W's brother Jeb killed him off to become president and you're getting a slightly closer idea of the stakes in the original story.  The story told in this film is important only to those whom we see portrayed in it.  Shakespeare wrote a story which is truly a tragedy because of the untold and unseen millions of people which it impacts, the subjects of Denmark. Further, there were ideas that when introduced, I got excited about, but which simply didn't play out.  I loved the idea of everyone being on camera all the time.  Fabulous!  That makes a statement!  Also, I really got excited when I realized that Hamlet's play was actually to be a film. And I wasn't quite sure how I felt about his soliloquy about the player being about James Dean (actually I thought WWJDD, but beyond making me giggle, I was ok there).  But I wanted to see Hamlet making the film, using real people, and talking to them about what he wanted.  I love the Player King scenes. I also got excited when I saw foreshadowing of Ophelia's death. ..but again, no payoff.  I wanted to see her throw herself into Claudius' pool, perhaps with something belonging to Hamlet tied around her to weight her down.  But instead we see her think about it, but not do it.  And I wondered about having her drown in the fountain. . .semi-interesting, that was where we saw her spurned by Hamlet the first time, yes, but it made me wonder, since it was such shallow water, if someone had done it to her, rather than she herself. Finally (and I'm actually leaving out a lot here, but this is far too long as it is), I despised much of the final duel between Hamlet and Laertes. Killing Hamlet with a gun?  Nope, sorry.  The sword/foil needs to be poisoned.  This continues to implicate Claudius, ties us back to King Hamlet's death, and makes Laertes' complicity more passive.  Here, Laertes makes a choice, ostensibly on his own, to shoot Hamlet, which is a very different thing than having Claudius poison his sword/foil, making the smallest scratch lethal.  Also, Claudius must be killed by his own device, the same one which killed Gertrude, or you miss so much drama.In short, I'd have been a lot less upset about this film if the Shakespeare had either been left in it or out of it completely.  Either use the text and drama or dispose of it, but the middle ground chosen here is simply that mediocre. "},{"Title":"Excellent cast and an interesting version of this classic","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This version of Shakespeare's Hamlet has one of the better ensemble casts I have seen...Kyle McLachlan, Ethan Hawke, Julie Stiles, Bill Murray and Sam Sheppard all provide excellent performances.The update on the story was fantastic...the dialogue was kept exact to the original play but the trappings were transposed to the 21st Century.Hopefully, this film will be a vanguard for similar retellings of classic English literature.I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Mostly Dragging","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was view by me on 4/26/2001- There are only a few good things I can say about this version of Hamlet.  It had good cinematography; the soundtrack was surreal and at times touching, and only a good few scenes, such as the Ophelia's madness scene inside the Guggenheim Museum.  But overall, this movie mostly just drag. It's only 113 minutes and I felt it was longer than the Branagh's version. Ethan Hawke did a pretty poor job portraying the doom prince.  A few times, he was okay, but mostly he just seems to say the lines without any commitment or emotion.  His To Be or Not To Be scene in a Blockbuster store did not seem to convey a young man's contemplation of suicide.  Bill Murray portrayal of the corporate yes-man was just awful.  His halting way of saying his lines almost had me screaming.  There were way too many unnecessary scene such as Hamlet calling is mother right in the middle of dragging Polonius's body and telling her not to let the bloat king tempt her again; few too many uses of the speakerphone, pixelvision, and other gadgets; and way too many voice-over.  Now what really bother me are Micheal Almereyda's choice of including Fortinbras but not having the character say any line or have any scene which show what threat he pose to the Denmark Corporation except at the beginning; his choice of having Hamlet and Laertes duel in a fencing match (a boring one!) which apparently the plan is to get Hamlet to drink a cup full of poison wine but it end up in a shooting spree (It would been easier to give him a poison cup during a homecoming celebration); and his choice of eliminating any line or act which might explain why Hamlet cannot bring himself to take revenge.  The saving graces for this turtle-pace movie are Sam Shepard's seething portrayal of the Ghost; Kyle MacLachlan's cool manipulative portrayal of the king; and Liev Schreiber's scathing portray of Laertes.  Both Diane Verona and Julia Stiles did a fairly okay job as the unsuspecting queen and the love-torn young woman gone mad, respectively. If you want to see a fairly good modern-version of Shakespeare, go See Baz Luhrman's Romeo & Juliet.  It had pulsating energy and pretty much kept to the overall content of the storylines. Hopefully, if Mr. Almereyda wish to do another update of version of Shakespeare he would take the time to make sure his story is consistent as it can be, his actor and actress know how to say their lines and carry the role.  Otherwise, he should just forget ever doing it again. Oh yes, one more thing, I know this story take place in NYC, but I swear it could have taken place in any city.  If a story is going to take place within a city it should show some of its landmark for crying out loud. "},{"Title":"More awkward than surreal","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The advantage that Kurosawa had, when doing Ran, was that he didn't have the baggage of the English language to deal with. So, he didn't have to preserve the brilliant flowery prose of Shakespeare's King Lear. Instead, he could tell the *story*. In my opinion, the best place for the original prose is sitting in the Globe Theater back in 1600, when the streets had open sewers, people bathed infrequently, and the only perfume available was the language. At least, with Branagh's Hamlet, the words were spoken as clearly as the original, with crisply enunciated syllables. With the 'Noo Yawk' version, with the slurred indistinct pronunciation, is was like listening to a bunch of blues musicians attempting to play Bach. No thanks! Why go halfway?Of course, going halfway could add a touch of surreal quality. But it wasn't surreal enough, in this version. The locations were familiar enough to be distracting but too mundane to add grandeur. The scene with the ghost, in Hamlet's apartment was a joke! Completely unbelievable. Why not choose a setting in keeping with the etherial quality of the original play? The Guggenheim after hours? A subway tunnel? A sped up times square with a slowed down 1 on 1? I don't care! Anything but a normally lit apartment with clutter to distract the attention.Speaking of clutter, what's up with the all the camera's and video equipment? Is this supposed to pass for an inside joke? Some kind of smug self reference to modern times? To me, it was a distracting gimmick. This reminds me of what a soundtrack composer said about his use of bagpipes. He was scoring a TV show with a a really bad actor. So, when the actor appeared on screen, the soundtrack would drop in bagpipes. That way the audience would be thinking hey! those are bagpipes! as opposed to hey! this actor really sucks! Back to Hamlet whenever there was a staging of cameras, I was thinking about the gimmick -- not the story. With all the gimmicks, I found it nearly impossible to suspend disbelieve in this movie.The sound design was also distracting. I could care less about the ambient noise; I want to hear the dialog! It was bad enough that the actors were speaking ancient English with modern American accents. But I had to pick it out of a wash of street noise, as well. It turned into a hearing test; very irritating. My assessment is that the director used a classic story to create compelling visuals -- as opposed to using compelling visuals to tell a story. Acting and staging came in a very distant second. Considering how hard it is to botch Shakespeare, I give it a 2 out of 10. "}{"Title":"We've been here before derivative with atrocious acting, especially Bill Murray.","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Would the word derivative be redundant when speaking of this film? We've been here before with the most recent film adaptation of _Romeo and Juliet_. And the acting is so atrocious, it is painful to behold. Bill Murray as Polonius? Watching him mutilate Shakespeare in this film was almost as agonizing as watching dear Jack Lemmon quack like a duck in his attempt in Branaugh's _Hamlet_. The actors in this _Hamlet_ are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb shows and noise.  "},{"Title":"A palpable hit or merely a touch?","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seemed inevitable Hi-tech HAMLET.  Too bad it got muddled by poor direction and such severe editing of the text.  Slaughtered like a casino showroom OKLAHOMA!, there's more text on the ground than blood, come film's fadeout. The loss of such scenes as Swear! Swear!, advice to the players, the gravedigger's scene (poor Jeff Wright is muted), and tons of great dialogue is unfortunate.  Like the equally dismal version of GREAT EXPECTATIONS a few years previous to this, cutting so much plot and character development from such a rich and dense story puts unbearable strain on the remaining material - one the movie can't withstand.  There's some visual cleverness here - Hotel Elsinore, a limo pulls up in front of THE LION KING, a bus obscures a neon sign that ends up reading -MANIA, Ophelia's pool premonition - which divert us for a bit.  But there's silliness, too.  Sam Shepard's ghost dad looks like he came back from the dead for a Pepsi.  Gag confusion between who's Rosenkrantz and who's Guildenstern just don't work when they're phoned in.  And don't get me started on the ending!  What a mess!Ethan Hawke is moderately better than a handsaw but he never really catches fire and could have used some capable direction or just a suggestion from mom Venora, who played Hamlet in drag for Joe Papp much better than Hawke could dream.  Paul Bartel must share his role as Oscric with a fax machine (while his cap scene gets cut).  And - just in case this boys club is too homo for today's teens - Horatio is butched up by giving him a wife!  Even with a pretty Ophelia in tow, the only bit of affection found is when clubhound Guildenstern rests his pretty head on Hamlet's shoulder.  Liev Schreiber is stilted in tongue though fierce of spark as Laertes.  But only Steve Zhan as Rosencrantz manages to truly survive the bloodbath that is HAMLET.  Tis a pity she's a bore. "},{"Title":"Good idea, bad execution","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Shakespeare is, among other things, the father of dramatic writing. But for all the quality work an artist inspires in others, there's always bad work that comes out of it as well for instance, the soap opera. Your average daytime drama is really nothing more than an ultra watered-down Shakespeare play, the same way, say, hair metal was nothing more than a misinterpretation of Led Zeppelin.Michael Almereyda's updated version of Hamlet is of higher quality than a daytime drama, but not by much. The idea of a modern-day Hamlet as an artist trapped in the corporate empire of his family is a good one. But given that this Hamlet is a visual artist, I had hoped for a more visually interesting film. What's apparent is that Almereyda's Hamlet is more a version of Almereyda than he is a version of Hamlet. Let's just say it's fitting that Hamlet is an amateur filmmaker.I don't believe that Shakespeare's plays were meant for film. I haven't really liked any of the films I've seen that are based on the Bard's works (except Shakespeare In Love, which really doesn't count anyway). Hamlet is probably the worst I've seen. The acting is either completely stiff or overdone. Take Ethan Hawke as Hamlet for instance. Most of the time, I found the performance boring--until he started screaming at someone, at which time it just becomes annoying. Hawke is only cast because he's always good at playing the directionless loser. They try incorporating Bill Murray's usual mannerisms to his role as Polonius, but it just doesn't work. Then there's Ophelia, played by Julia Stiles with only slightly more personality than a garage door. She always looked like she was nodding off. This ruined the suicide scene, at which time I thought, she's not dead, she's just sleeping. Finally. My favorite performance was Sam Shepard as the apparition of Hamlet's father. I think it was supposed to be an Irish accent, but in all honesty he sounded like the captain of a pirate ship (aaay, shiver me timbers!) Like 1996's updated (and not to mention superior) William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, Hamlet is about actors stretching their acting muscles while convincing the audience of nothing. They seem to measure their performances by how much spit comes out of their mouths while delivering their lines. Grade D  "},{"Title":"No special providence in fall of this sparrow","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps in an attempt to make up for the lack of roles for women in Hamlet (and Shakespeare in general), the producers of this version of Shakespeare's play have decided that the minor character of Marcellus should be made female and be seen with much greater frequency.  And while it sounds good on paper, it actually compounds the problem of a lack of strong women, especially since she is made out as Horatio's girlfriend  Suddenly, Marcella (as she is now called) has no purpose.  As a man, he was in maybe two scenes, and after Horatio is established as Hamlet's only confidant, he ceases to matter.  Now, however, she repeatedly appears in scenes where she has nothing to do except stand dumbly by her man; because her character does not appear in the script (and because the filmmakers never came up with a justifiable reason for keeping her) she still doesn't matter.  Only now we are painfully aware that she doesn't matter, because we continue to see her. This sort of careless revision that ultimately sacrifices story and character (two of Shakespeare's strong points) for gimmick does much to contribute to the downfall of the movie.While I fully support a naturalization of Shakespeare's words in the mouths of modern actors, much of the cast simply mumbled what's left of the text without ever embodying the rich meaning behind the words.  Case in point Ethan Hawke's best delivery of his dialogue comes when he is forced to raise his voice to be heard over the dance music in a club.  The rest of the time he's pretty much content to murmur to himself without ever actually letting us inside his head.  Julia Stiles' Ophelia isn't much better off when it comes to projecting real emotion (big problem for almost everyone), but she is at least partially redeemed by her quite brilliant mad scenes. I think this is actually the best handling of those scenes it has ever been my privilege to witness, especially her reunion with brother Laertes (Liev Schreiber, on his game yet again).  And despite an exasperatingly pause-heavy delivery, Bill Murray actually manages more genuine warmth is his handling of Shakespeare's language than most of the leads.Aside from that, the most interesting scene in this modern adaptation of Shakespeare's play, both for its clever updating of the text and its cool factor was the chase after the ghost of Hamlet Sr. through the back stairways, complicated elevator systems, and up to the roof of the Hotel Elsinore.  Unfortunately, it never happened.  It was set up just right Horatio, Marcella, and security guard Bernardo are anxiously awaiting the young prince's arrival upon the platform where they watch (an empty hall of fancy elevators) while they look for signs of the ghost's activity on their security monitors, when Bernardo calls Hamlet on the phone and wakes him. But he never gets him on the phone  the ghost in this version is considerate enough to come right to Hamlet's room without having to separate him from his comrades (although Sam Shepard does give an engaging performance as the elder Hamlet).But Shakespeare was smarter than that.  Again, the filmmakers have tried to justify their tampering with the script by introducing new gimmicks, but I wonder how they expect a surprising tweaking of the text can ultimately make up for the excitement of human interaction upon the platform of which we have been deprived.  (The end sequence suffers most heavily from this careless cleverness.)  In fact, in spite of the reasonably skillful butchering of the text, the movie moves along at a surprisingly dull pace. What the recent Romeo and Juliet may have lacked in acting skill, it made up for in spectacle, thereby assuring a satisfying ride.  This Hamlet never quite makes it.  The music, for example, although annoyingly incessant, rarely helps to push the action, as it did very well in, say, Lola Rennt (Run Lola Run).  If you make the choice to disregard the unbroken rhythm of Shakespeare's text, you'd better be prepared to offer us something else that moves the action along just as efficiently, which these moviemakers have unfortunately failed to do.Nor is there any attempt made to cash in on the significant humor of the script; even Bill Murray's Polonius rarely comes off as funny, and we are cruelly teased with -and then robbed of- the gravedigger scene.  Indeed, the only laughs when I saw it came just as the King was revealing his crafty grand plan (ho hum) to the enraged Laertes, and only then because a boom microphone was momentarily seen hanging over their heads as the camera angle changed!The movie is not a total loss.  It has its share of clever ideas and nice moments (from Polonius tying his rebellious daughter's shoe, to Ophelia's early contemplation of suicide) and scores high points with its updates of Ophelia's handing out of flowers, and Hamlet's carefully crafted video he calls The Mousetrap.  It also has a handful of strong performances, although with such a disappointing Hamlet, no one could have saved the movie.  But ultimately, as the climactic duel reaches is feverous intensity, and motives and resolutions are inexplicably struck from the text (and new improbabilities are added &#150; why is the last shot of the security guy his sudden awareness of a threat, if we never see him again once the bloodshed starts?  Why does he not even try to stop the attack?), it becomes painfully clear that the movie is literally falling apart under it's own bloated cleverness.  And their safety net &#150;Shakespeare's text, presumably, since nothing was offered in place of it- has long since been filled full of irreparable holes.  "},{"Title":"not a bad contemporary version","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  i expected not to like it - it is hard to make shakespeare's beautiful language work in the modern world.  but i thought they gave it a pretty good shot and i was entertained.  some good acting & the pixelvision footage was very nice.  ethan hawke was ok though a bit too tortured (i know, i know the role IS tortured but i just felt it was too much - it is possible to have some fun with shakespeare - look at bill murray).   "},{"Title":"When everything feels like the movies, you bleed just to know you're alive","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"      Michael Almereyda's Hamlet is worth seeing, while not the sort of drama that leaves you smiling or crying.  This adaptation is candy for the brain rather than the heart outside of engaging scenes between Gertrude and Hamlet, and Claudius and Laertes, it lacks the tension and emotional connection of drama.  Hawke especially brings no dynamism to Hamlet, who is brooding, melancholic, and uncaring.  This take makes perfect sense- Hamlet, as a character, dwells on big issues, and in his royal culture as in our corporate one, such thinking is inefficient, unproductive, and as the upright Claudius (Kyle MacLachlan) puts it, Unmanly.  (Note how Hamlet gets on this anxiety of Claudius' by kissing him right after being walloped in the stomach.)  At the same time, Hawke does not bring a sense of Hamlet evolving from thought to deed, merely one slowly, blindly reacting to evils around him, like Tom Cruise in Eyes Wide Shut.  (Actually, the two actors seem near identical to me here.)     Hamlet is able to order Rosencrantz and Guildenstern's death without a second thought; he wafts between love and hate for Ophelia as if living in a dream.  Hawke makes his Hamlet all introspection as he tells his mother from the start- he knows not seems and the shadings of emotion.  He doesn't ACT OUT- he can hardly commit any acts at all until the end.           The thing that brings this adaptation into the 21st century is the use of consumerism, both in the corporation and in pop culture.  Hamlet is, very self-consciously, a character realizing his role.  Smile- you're live on security cameras, your girlfriend is miked, your picture-perfect mother and new father are on all the covers and all the news shows, and you live in image-saturated Manhattan.  Everything is an image of an image of an image- Ophelia hands out Polaroid photos of flowers, and a photo of Fortinbras in the media is slowly taking over, though ripped by Claudius.  Hawke's Hamlet is aware of this, filming everything he says and does, watching himself incessantly even in death, he sees his life flashing by on a video screen.  He is a pop culture addict, a Blockbuster customer finding himself with the means and the motive to be the action hero and the rebel, like James Dean and the Crow. In embracing that genre of videos that beckon and surround him calling ACTION, ACTION, ACTION, he finds a sense of purpose and vision that the other characters lack.  His ability to kill and bleed provide his liberation through conformity to a genre.  This may all sound like nonsense, but if it does, it's because I only get it from Almereyda's directions and visual cues and not from Hawke's performance he never escapes brooding introspection.   The biggest problem in Almereyda's adaptation is the lack of emotional connection and dramatic tension Laertes and Ophelia are driven to grief, rage, revenge, and suicide by the murder of their father, yet while Polonius lives, his children couldn't care less about him.  Hell, Ophelia ALREADY wants to drown herself when she hears him lecture!  I expected the flowers scene to be one of Ophelia's utter jubilation at her father's murder, a joy which would of course make Claudius and Gertrude think she was utterly mad.  Her suicide seems totally random.  Stiles disappointed me as Ophelia, though she does what she can with the part.  The others fare far better Steve Zahn briefly rocks as Rosencrantz, Bill Murray brings humanity and joy to the part of Polonius, Sam Shepard a sense of the torture of the afterlife in the Ghost, and Liev Schieber demonstrates the conflicting rage and propriety in Laertes without overacting as Branagh's actor did.       The best here are Venora and MacLachlan, but they're not given nearly enough time.  Kyle MacLachlan's Claudius is a fiendish picture of clean-cut 21st century corporate power steeped in corruption- he plays it seductively and to the hilt.  I had a great joy in seeing him wallop Hamlet in the gut.  Diane Venora, who I admire more with every performance, broke me more than Hawke ever could with her lament, If words are made of breath and breath of life, then I have no life to breathe the words that thou hast told me.    Almereyda's Hamlet is perhaps the exact opposite of Branagh's version- it is fun for the head not the heart, and it is as self-conscious as its title character.  Almereyda directs with visual flair, but he has yet to mature as a director of actors.  Despite its flaws, Hamlet is probably more provocative than any other film coming this summer.  Finally, it cannot be ignored that a play written hundreds of years ago has been transported it seamlessly to modern Manhattan, an achievement I think the Bard would be quite proud of.                                   "},{"Title":"Close, But...","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It was very exciting to FINALLY have someone more age appropriate portraying Hamlet. The modernized setting intrigued me. But there are just some things that do not transcend to the modern world - avenging a father's death, a prince getting away with multiple murders and Get thee to a nunnery..., for starters.This is a strong cast that was hampered by the direction, screenplay and editing. Ophelia was too childish, Polonius too silly, and Hamlet too unimpassioned.If you're a Shakespeare freak, give it a whirl. But this is NOT the one to show in English class! "},{"Title":"Abominable","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It is hard, even after having SEEN it, to conceive of a movie version of Hamlet worse than the one Mel Gibson perpetrated. However, this travesty pulls it off--employing actors who could not play a period role if their lives depended on it, destroying every line of some of the greatest dramatic poetry in English. Nonexistent diction, nonexistent brains, nonexistent timing, delivery, movement, vocal training, or any other sort of rudimentary acting technique... It is possible to schtick one's way through the kind of movies Ethan Hawke usually appears in , with no talent; it is not possible for him, or his fellow criminals here, to say one line of Shakespeare without mortifying himself and exposing his utter imbecility, inadequacy, and uselessness. The line readings are so dreadful that one wonders if he knows what these words MEAN. Even Kyle MacLachlan and Diane Venora, who are not completely devoid of talent, embarrass themselves; Julia Stiles is of the same toneless, unskilled school of 'acting' as our hero. Everything about this movie is ludicrous to the point of being parodic; what made this director and these 'actors' think they could **** with Shakespeare? "},{"Title":"Hawke","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Not a very good version of Hamlet - yet certainly one of the most fascinating I've seen in a while.The inspiration of the film is actually a Finnish version of the play that has become notorious among fans of Shakespeare films, for being a post-modern black-comedy (Hamlet's family runs a rubber-duck factory). As a film (perhaps even as a Shakespearean film) the Finnish version is better; but one of the qualities we need from a Shakespearean film is that it raises anew questions we long thought settled - and this certainly does.Bill Murray's is not the cruelest Polonious I've seen, but his relationship with his daughter Ophelia is so devoid of adequately expressed parental love that her later insanity becomes wholly understandable. And Ethan Hawke does very quietly convince us that Hamlet the confused young college student is gradually becoming Hamlet the Avenger as the film progresses.The central problem of the film - and there was nothing to be done about it - is that in Shakespeare's day people grew up real fast, whereas in ours, adolescence (a concept foreign to the Elizabethans) seems to take forever. Shakespeare's Hamlet dies wizened and wise (probably at age 20) - and Hawke cannot convince us that his 21st century adolescent can do the same.Well, but the 21st century is still young - A noble effort, worth viewing (and I like the music, too). "},{"Title":"something rotten in the interpretation","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I love to see modern adaptations of Shakespearean drama; I think the texts are more accessible to the general population when they are put into familiar situations/contexts. This setting of Hamlet, however, missed the mark. In the first half of the film, most lines were spoken in flat monotone--the absence of inflection made the plot harder to follow. Making Denmark an American corporation rather than a political state was also unsuccessful, for the continued use of the terms king, queen and prince did not fit the new setting. Also, Prince Hamlet's film The Mouse Trap, which is crucial to the original drama because it seals Claudio's guilty conscience, cannot serve its function in this film because it has been modified from a drama reenacting King Hamlet's murder into a bad montage of random student-filmmaker camera shots which one can scarcely connect to anything in the plot. Those who are familiar with the Hamlet text will be able to make a connection, but if the benefit of modernization is to familiarize those who are unfamiliar with Shakespeare, then this film fails in its office. "}{"Title":"Avoid at all costs...","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I've watched many adaptations of Shakespeare and Hamlet. I am no hater of bringing Elizabethan drama into the modern world, but... this is one of two movies I have ever walked out on. The acting is horrible, the sets are bleak, and the direction stilted. My GF and I found ourselves laughing at first, then groaning.Don't watch it, even for free. You'll regret it. "},{"Title":"Lifeless and boring...","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this version of Shakespeare's Hamlet not long after seeing a stage adaptation by the RSC in London. Night and day! The movie felt easily as long as the four-hour stage production, but completely lifeless. It IS possible to do Shakespeare in a contemporary setting. But in order to do him justice, you have to let the dialogue and acting carry the show. This film fails to do that. Without studying a play beforehand, it is hard to understand some of the lines Shakespeare writes, but a good actor can make them come to life. Ethan Hawke reciting to be or not to be in monotone was certainly not doing that. It felt to me like he was reading them instead of speaking them!I won't go into more detail about the problems I have with the movie. They've all been addressing in previous posts. I'm glad I saw this on TV instead of dropping the bucks to rent it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film Version. 8/10","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hamlet may be the single greatest piece of English literature ever written. This modernized version of it proves that. It also proves that a modernization of a classic play is not at all a bad idea. Romeo + Juliette was just undone by overdoing and poor acting. This Hamlet is very well performed. It actually proved to me the acting talent of two whom I had considered under-average previously, Julia Styles and Ethan Hawke. Both are very effective. Also effective is Bill Murray as Polonius. The only actor who fails is Karl Geary as Horatio. He made a great character seem rather impotent. His accent makes his iambic pentameter difficult to understand.The only other problem the production has in general is the copious amounts of product placement. Marlboro cigarettes, Pepsi, and, in the most painful instance, Blockbuster Video make appearances. Hamlet speaks his to be or not to be speech at Blockbuster, which is, if you know the play, a contemplation over suicide. If there's anywhere that makes me want to commit suicide, it is Blockbuster video, so I guess it fits in all right. "},{"Title":"The language is English, it's Shakespeare's and it works.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Multinational corporations as kingdoms. Seems too obvious, but it is about time someone saw the quintessential rotten kingdom in today's world. The popularity of Shakespeare's work as movie material is encouraging. With remakes ad nauseum and rehashes of old plots, why not go way back to where so many of these universally human conflicts and situations were first so successfully put into a popular medium. William wrote to succeed, so he wrote for real people. He also knew how to entertain and use popular culture.This film entertains, the language is English, it's Shakespeare's and it works. Ethan Hawke with his Spin Doctors wool cap still makes one wonder if Hamlet is really mad, or just angry and vengeful. He may be right about the conspiracy, but he still could be crazy. Bill Murray is almost touchingly ordinary as he gives Laertes the to thine own self be true speech. Kyle MacLachlan, and it's good to see him, is as cold and heartless as any Gordon Gecko from Wall Street.Even though much had to be cut, so much is inserted through use of multi-media within the film and within the story. Very well done, and the language did not falter in the modern setting. The editing in this film is marvelous. Sam Shepard as the ghost is brilliant casting. All your favorite Hamlet characters are there, as well as all that killing at the end along with the commentary. Well worth seeing and not a dull moment. It moves. "},{"Title":"Somber, brooding update of HAMLET","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This version of the classic play uses video to allow Hamlet to talk to himself -- an innovative version of soliloquy. He is absorbed in his own thoughts, hiding himself in his computer nerdiness and private video world.There are interesting uses of video for other elements in the story also -- James Dean as the anti-hero that Hamlet seems to be, and the late John Gielgud's own movie of HAMLET. Carter Burwell, who composed the music for AND THE BAND PLAYED ON and GODS AND MONSTERS, gives us a meditative score that underlines Hamlet's inability to jump from thought to action -- a fact that is amusingly symbolized in the To be or not to be speech which takes place as Hamlet meanders through the ACTION section of a video store.I liked the translation of Shakespeare's durable tale from monarchy to corporate America. Some people look down on such updates, but these people forget that Shakespeare was in show-biz and knew that you had to bring the audience into the theater.Ethan Hawke does an excellent job of personifying the overly thoughtful, gloomy and obviously depressed hero who dooms himself through his inability to decide. The rest of the cast is also strong.This isn't your father's HAMLET, but it is an interesting 21st Century update. "},{"Title":"Couldn't even sit through it without being bored.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I love Shakespeare and watching old as well as new versions.  Although I tend to like older versions.  I keep an open mind to both types.  I rented this movie after much debate because it was recommended on a whim by a friend.  I took my chances on it and watch maybe the first half hour and was utterly bored with it.  I didn't feel that the casting was right and everything thing seemed to be spoken in a monotone.  None of the actors were enjoyable and none stuck out in my mind.  It was boring and I'm disappointed I spent the money to rent this film. "},{"Title":"Poor adaptation of a wonderful play","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  William Shakespeare was a brilliant man.  His words still ring true today. That does not mean, however, that it is appropriate to put his words into completely modern context as this movie has done.  It is absurd to call the head of a corporation King, his wife Queen, and their son Prince.Additionally, the directorial decision to bring down the character of Fortinbras took away an entire element of the play.  It is as though the director didn't even entertain the idea that Shakespeare intended Fortinbras as anything except another possibility for the fate of Denmark. Fortinbras was originally intended as a parallel to Hamlet, but this movie completely removes that dimension of the play.Also, there are many Shakespeare plays that can survive when taken out of historical context--Romeo and Juliet, Much Ado About Nothing, Othello, and a few others.  Hamlet is not one of them.  Nor are King Lear and Macbeth. There are just some things that don't hold up in modern context (like Claudius' first speech--this warlike state seems silly unless talking about a country).There were, however, three things I liked about this movie, and only three. First, Ethan Hawke.  I truly did not expect him to be able to play Hamlet, but he surprised me.  Second, Julia Stiles.  She makes a great Ophelia, but for heaven's sake, put the characters back into context.  And third, the portrayal of Gertrude in the final scene (to those who haven't seen it, you'll see what I mean).In my opinion, this movie is pretty much a waste of time.  If you want Hamlet, pick up Kenneth Branaugh or Mel Gibson.  Their directors know how to keep a play in context while still connecting with a modern audience. "},{"Title":"Strange interpretation of Hamlet","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I didn't like this movie for many reasons, there really wasn't any excitement in the film, Ethan Hawke's character seemed as if he were on Valium, hamlet's character was enraged, Ethan hawke wasn't. Although Ethan Hawke is my favorite actor and his presence on screen is mystical, but i didn't like this film. I preferred previous hamlet versions, i.e., Kenneth Branagh's hamlet and Laurence Olivier's. I've noticed that Diane venora likes to play Shakespearean characters, well, she graduated from the Juilliard school. I would have loved to seen Ethan hawke play a more enraged hamlet, which would have made the film more exciting to watch, and the other characters too. Well, it was a strange interpretation by Michael Almereyda. I wouldn't recommend this film. "},{"Title":"The worst version ever...","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This must be the worst modern interpretation of a Shakespearean play that I have ever seen.  As with most film versions Fortinbras was glossed over. Bill Murray's Polonius, while a good try, just was not up to it.  I kept seeing visions of SNL.  Ethan Hawke's Hamlet left much to be desired. He reminded me of the Ricky Fitts character from American Beauty, with his video camera recording every aspect of his life.  Over all it was not worth the $3.50 I spent at Blockbuster. "},{"Title":"An ungainly modernization that opts for a picture collage when it has all the tools for a groundbreaking film","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Michael Almereyda's Hamlet gets one major thing right and that's being a near-perfect representation of its respective time period - the 2000's. The film looks like most of its props were donated from a closing down Circuit City, as tube Televisions, Polaroid cameras, video rental cases, VHS tapes, and other odds and ends of technology populate the film almost as ubiquitously as beloved characters like Ophelia, Gertrude, and Claudius.Watching Hamlet, often billed as Hamlet 2000 for good reason, in the present day is fun because it seems like the direction Almereyda wanted to take got lost in the mix of keeping Shakespeare's original play dialog in the screenplay. From the opening minutes of the film, where Hamlet sees the ghost of his father on closed-circuit Television, it's almost as if the film is playing the story of Hamlet like a technological thriller - an undoubtedly subversive move for the anthologized play. The problem with this is because Shakespeare's original dialog is kept as the screenplay, Almereyda muddles any kind of concept and believable modernization potential this story had.The same sort of bastardization took place with Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet, which had actors like Leonardo DiCaprio and Claire Danes spouting Shakespeare's original play dialog whilst holding handguns and driving cars glossed with candy-colored paint. The concept was intriguing, but the fact that no attempt was made in efforts to modernize or alter Shakespeare's original words to mesh with the appropriate time period and perhaps add a clearer focus on the story's themes resulted in a frustrating and ultimately lackluster slog through dialog that frequently seemed impossible to discern and follow during much of the film's action.Hamlet makes the same mistake; when reading Shakespeare, one can stop and reread and go back and analyze what exactly is being said, something even I, a committed English major, have difficulty doing in one sitting. Watching a play of Shakespeare's acted before you helps showcase character emotions better than if you just read the words to yourself, but watching a film that makes an attempt to subvert the material while making you sit through and analyze the film's classically written dialog and multitude of character relations is a frustrating chore on part of the audience.Because of this, one can't really appreciate the obsessive brooding of Ethan Hawke, who plays Hamlet here in a way that is defined by slicked-back/unkempt hair, black sweaters, and a bitter, unforgiving facial expression sustained throughout most of the film, nor can they really admire the sinister Claudius played by the underrated Kyle MacLachlin. The relationship between Hamlet and Ophelia (Julia Stiles) is also criminally shortchanged, to the point where the famous nunnery scene doesn't even seem to hold waterweight because of the sterile dialog that doesn't fit the time nor the setting.Certain moments of Hamlet more-or-less send sputters of originality, especially when the technological side plays into the story. The storyarch made to connect Hamlet with the year 2000 is how Claudius took over Hamlet's father's and his brother's company, Denmark Corporation. Just from that detail, combined with an increasingly technological landscape often appearing to haunt and toy with Hamlet's psyche, one would expect a biting tech thriller defined largely by Hamlet's deteriorating mental state in the face of complex equipment.While that theme is certainly embedded in Almereyda's film, it's practically smothered underneath the frequently impenetrably delivered dialog and stunted performances. Bill Murray's Polonius and Liev Schreiber's Laertes are brutally miscast and seem to be struggling at delivering the period-specific lines of Shakespeare in a retelling of Hamlet that is largely defined in reference and depiction by the year in which it takes place. The result is a misguided rehash of one of the most beloved stories in history, succumbing to traditionalism rather than pushing boundaries of complete and total revisionism; it's like having everything from a camera, a quality condenser microphone, a boom, and some of the nicest sets to shoot a movie and opting for a picture collage with no audio-track instead.Starring Ethan Hawke, Kyle MacLachlan, Diane Venora, Liev Schreiber, Julia Stiles, Bill Murrary, Karl Geary, Steve Zahn, and Sam Shepard. Directed by Michael Almereyda. "}{"Title":"Hamlet in 2000 (Ethan Hawke's Hamlet)","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hamlet (2000) was adapted to the screen and directed by Michael Almereyda. This Hamlet is set in contemporary New York City, but Almereyda has retained Shakespeare's language. Naturally, this makes for anachronisms and awkward moments. However, the transformation from Denmark as a nation to Denmark as a giant corporation worked for me. (Normally, I like Hamlet to be set in medieval Denmark, Romeo and Juliet in Renaissance Verona, etc. However, this particular leap over the centuries was interesting and effective.)For example, Hamlet's soliloquies work brilliantly on the stage, but they're a daunting challenge to a film director. Almereyda solves the problem by having Hamlet speaking into a video camcorder, so that we can hear him, although he's literally talking to himself.Ethan Hawke as Hamlet was excellent. He's a talented, solid actor in any movie in which he appears. He's even better in Hamlet--sullen and disaffected, with scorn for his mother's corporate lifestyle. Kyle MacLachlan plays Claudius, obviously a no-nonsense executive. With his cold demeanor and Cary Grant good looks, you can understand why Gertrude was drawn to him.To my mind the acting honors belonged to Julia Stiles as Ophelia. Stiles was 19 when the movie was made, and she was able to combine the eye-rolling behavior of an adolescent at one moment with the hurt, betrayed feelings of a young adult at the next moment. (One decision that Almereyda made didn't make sense to me. It looked as if Ophelia lived alone in a rough tenement building, which doesn't fit Shakespeare or NYC in the year 2000.) However, Stiles, with her exotic good looks, carried off her role like a seasoned professional.I greatly enjoyed this movie, and I was amazed to see that it has a truly dismal IMDb rating of 6.0. Why? In my opinion, the film's much, much, better than that. My suggestion--rent or buy the DVD, see Ethan Hawke as Hamlet, and then judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Middling Shakespeare Adaptation","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Following the death of his businessman father, Hamlet (Ethan Hawke) is deeply offended by his mother's (Diane Venora) swift marriage to her brother-in-law Claudius (Kyle MacLachlan), who in turn takes over the business. Hamlet faces the challenges of his family while struggling with his own personal demons. The only other big budget modern day adaptation of Shakespeare's work that I have seen  Baz Lurmann's Romeo+Juliet, which was a visceral, complex film with the same script as the play and the same violence we see today. There are few comparisons to make between these two similar films, however. Hamlet here is a much more middling, even unimpressive film with barely half the energy of it's predecessor. Ethan Hawke muddles along in a role that starts uninspired and manages to pick up later in the film, but by then it's too late. Perhaps he thought the film would be a good idea until he started filming it. He's a far better actor than this film would suggest, to which I would suggest Hawke fans turn a blind eye. Shakespearian language is a constant blend of rhyme and reason, and sometimes the lines he wrote hundreds of years ago don't translate well to our modern setting. It manages to work, but not without an all too often pausing and looking up the script, especially with the lack of energy from so many cast members. Julia Stiles can't seem to leave her scenes fast enough. She runs through her lines as if they were held up behind the camera, and is vastly inferior to someone like Liev Schreiber, who probably turns in the best performance here. Sam Shepard, as the ghost of Hamlet's father, is as powerful as he always is, but not enough to save the rest of the cast. The scenes of New York City and the power that is related with it are barely made into what it should be a character in and of itself. That theme, if it had been so, would likely have kept me watching with more than a passive interest. All in all, Shakespeare would be better to watch the Lurmann film instead of this take on his work. "},{"Title":"Words, words, words","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There are a number of things I like about this adaptation of Hamlet. The setting in yuppie New York works well, and a couple of the performances are strong. The play with technology -- the lines coming over answering machines and phones, the wire on Ophelia in 3.1, and the play in 1.1 with security cameras was clever.But in the end, Shakespeare is about language, and that's what sinks this film. The cast's enunciation and diction are so weak that they sap the life out of the play. The worst at this, hands down, is Bill Murray as Polonius, who has no business in a show like this (he's great in his own idiom, and this is not his idiom).I recall that when Joseph Mankiewicz cast Marlon Brando as Mark Antony in his splendid Julius Caesar (1953), he had Brando work for weeks with John Gielgud (who played Cassius) to get his diction in order. The actors in this film needed some coaching of the same sort. "},{"Title":"Stylish rendition","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed but wasn't bowled over by this version of Hamlet set against glitzy New York City, my adopted hometown.The city looked great; the principals less so. While Diane Venora and Kyle McKlachlan were wonderfully convincing as the middle-aged lovebirds, Ethan Hawke was merely OK as the sweet indecisive prince, and Julia Stiles, so wonderful in Luhrmann's William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet, was a bit drab as his suicidal flame. I enjoyed Bill Murray in a rare serious role as the tragic pedant Polonius. Liev Shreiber, great in movies such as Defiance, merely phones in his depiction of boring protective brother Laertes.The play within a play segment was exceptionally well-done; I thought making Hamlet out to be a kind of avante-garde film student was a very creative way of handling this critical piece of Shakespeare's masterpiece.Given how creatively that part of the play was handled, it seemed unimaginative to have Hamlet's and Laertes's final scene be a traditional fencing duel. With Denmark having been modernized to the Denmark Corp., a sword fight seemed anachronistic and lazy.In all, however, this wasn't a bad way to spend an hour and 55 minutes. "},{"Title":"Nice try","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hamlet, like all the great Shakespeare's has been done numerous times on film, the most recent Hamlet before this one being Kenneth Branagh's version which was fiery and charismatic. By complete contrast, this version from director Michael Almereyda, is cold, dry and artificial. It is not unwatchable, but it has no soul except for the spirit of Hamlet's father.Hamlet here is relocated to present day New York. Denmark is the name of a high profile media corporation, and Hamlet himself is not a prince but the son of the corporation head. I am assuming that anyone who is reading this is doing so because they are interested in the movie, and has subsequently read the play. Hamlet 2000 is in a bit of trouble to begin with. The decision to maintain Shakespere's tongue in the 21st century America demands a suspension of disbelief which feels unfair to the audience. we become forced to examine not so much what the actors can bring to their roles, but how convincingly they deliver Shakespearian grammar. Given the contemporary setting, Hamlet 2000 is kind of demanding on the actors too, in the sense that it requires a merging of both film and theatrical acting (not one or the other). It is no surprise then that the best performance is turned in by Sam Shepard. Being a play write himself, Shepard knows how to act in the style of both.As for the rest of the cast, I'm not super impressed, but I'm not super annoyed either. Ethan Hawke filling Hamlet's shoes does his best. His delivery is okay, but he doesn't quite convince.I think part of the problem is that the movie sort of restricts his potential by using not the actor to sell emotion but rather the existence of video technology. The famous to be or not to be speech is delivered as the character wanders through the aisles of a block buster video. Almereyda asks us to focus here not on entirely on Hawke, but on a dramatic movie being run on one the stores TV monitors being inter cut with the speech. From a designers point of viewer, (and this too is in contrast to Branaghs film) Hamlet 2000 looks and feels quite clustered. All the indoor scenes take place in very small quarters Tiny screening booths, tiny apartments, tiny offices, even the cabin of a large jet plane looks about as spacious as a Prius. Camera work is minimalist, in part because of how all the sets are build, giving the camera crew not much space to move around in. This is all clearly intentional.Something else that Hamlet 2000 could use is a more spectacular finale. This movies take on the climactic duel feels contrived. Lemme ask you this Who has a fencing harness rigged from a room's ceiling on the top floor of their office building? The duel itself looks like it was improved, or as if a sword master was not hired. By contrast Hamlet as told by Branagh successfully recreates swordplay in Errol Flynn style, and is far more epic and satisfying. Seeing a pistol being fired at point blank range has nothing on watching a sword being thrown across a ballroom, and into a man's chest (even if it is a little unbelievable)Hamlet 2000, when all is said and done, qualifies as a good try, but not quite good movie. It is the product of an interesting vision but when translated to the screen it feels rather lacking in presentation, emotion and credibility, making it somewhat tricky to recommend. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully creative and accessible 'Hamlet'","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A terrific updating, using Shakespeare's language, but set in modern corporate New York City. Beautifully shot, on a shockingly low budget for it's lush, complex look, with amazing use of New York locations. Hawke is very good, and most of the rest of the cast, including Bill Murray (to my surprise, doing Shakespeare), Kyle MacLachlan, and Diane Venora are first rate. More important this is a re-telling that really uses the film medium, and makes us re-think a classic in a new way, while being terrifically entertaining along the way. It makes the simple humanity and complex ideas under the Shakespearian poetry as clear as any production I've ever seen, on stage or film.Obviously controversial, and not for purists, but well worth seeing to decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Gets better With Time","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Originality counts for much when presenting a 400 year old play. This movie has freshness and originality in abundance. The direction, photography and above all casting are innovative.The real star is the city of New York with its nighttime magic and varied neighborhoods from the tenements of the East Village where film student Ophelia dwells to the luxurious high rises of the rich and well-insulated.For once, the roles of Ophelia and especially Hamlet are played by age-appropriate actors. Ethan Hawke was nearly thirty but looks and sounds like the college student Prince Hamlet was intended to be. That he does not employ the pear-shaped tones of the accomplished Shakespearian only adds to the freshness and realism of the film.As the ghost, Sam Sheppard is just outstanding, magnetic even when absolutely silent. He delivers his few lines in an intense burst such as never seen before. Diane Venora's eloquent performance as Gertrude, Hamlet's mother, shows the intelligence of a mature actress and credible sex appeal sufficient to drive a man to murder his own brother. Liev Schreiber is solid and does have a Shakespearian's voice, Kyle Maclaghlan acts with feeling and range, and Bill Murray shows a side of him previously unseen--comic yet touchingly fatherly in his scene with Ms. Stiles. "},{"Title":"Truly great film","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Snagged this from the video store where I work on VHS at random and I was totally blown away. Ethan Hawke does an AMAZING job at hamlet. Really, really brilliant cinematography. I wasn't a fan of Julia Stiles AT ALL though. I cringed in all her speaking roles unfortunately. And some of the actors seemed like they were just reciting lines. Bill Murray was actually delightful as Polonius. You could tell he was really acting and building a character, as apposed to just reciting hamlet lines. Like some of the actors were doing. Also I thought the soundtrack was perfect. The final scene and then that song greentone during the credits blew me away. I just ordered the DVD off amazon. Truly underrated movie. Even though it's spoken in old English, it still kept me entertained for the entire time. That really is a success, no question. Despite its few minor flaws, I for one love this movie. "},{"Title":"a great Hamlet in it's own way","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Why should you see this?When you are modernizing a Shakespeare, You have to be Careful and Thoughtful. You can't just rush through it without giving it some descent thought. How should they dress? How far can we take this? a sword or a gun? Can this scene even be modernized?The cast; A new look, yet still giving the image of the characters Shakespeare had in mind. Ethen Hawke, showing a totally new Hamlet, one with more physical showings of his emotions rather then with nothing but dialog. Julia Stiles, also giving new light to her character, rather then portraying a little, shy girl in her madness, she is loud and tear-jerking. See the scene set in the Guggenheim. Liev Schreiber; of course, giving a great performance as Laertes. Giving his character the rage and misdirection that it needed. In the sense that the death of his father, and the madness of his sweet sister leading to her tragic death, drove him to go to any lengths to avenge them both. Bill Murray giving a very believable Polonius, with the showing of his characters love for his children by constantly babying them both.The cast, the time setting, the sets themselves reflect what modernizing is. A job that only a perfectionists could pull off. This Hamlet is worth watching, simply for the kick it gives on the one of the most famous stories of all time. "},{"Title":"Um...really weird","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing Bill Murray try to do Shakespeare is like watching Laurence Olivier try to do stand-up comedy; it doesn't work.  If there was ever a really, really ridiculous version of Hamlet, well, then this is it.  The ONLY thing that saved this film was Ethan Hawke's portrayal of the doomed Danish prince.  I enjoyed watching Hawke emulate Shakespeare's tragic hero in many forms such as going to a video rental store(visiting Blockbuster Video in the Action section...very symbolic), contemplating suicide (i.e. Mel Gibson in Lethal Weapon), and other things.  It's strange for me to think of Denmark as a corporation rather than a country and what not but being more traditional than some Shakespeare aficionados, I just can't take it. "}{"Title":"Has one major obstacle","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The big problem with modern day New York being the setting is that everyone KNOWS that no one speaks like the characters do in this movie. That means we KNOW that the people are acting and thus the illusion of a living breathing reality is shattered. However if the viewer has the mental discipline to overlook this, he/she will find a quite entertaining and, yes, moving film adaptation of the classic play. Although I have read that some viewers had reservations over some of the performances, I thought they were for the most part uniformly excellent. Bill Murray, especially, impresses by demonstrating his range. Since I love the artistry of Shakespeare's language I can overlook most any of the faults and can rate this film a very solid 8/10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Adaptation","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A friend of mine who loved Ethan Hawke and Romeo+Juliet rented this and forced me to watch. I, being a teenager and having a dislike for Shakespeare as a whole, was wary about this choice, amazingly it clicked with me. I'm not sure why, but I enjoyed it. Although Bill Murray makes his character very difficult to take seriously, everyone else in the cast delivered their lines very naturally. All in all definitely worth a watch. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Amazingly better than expected","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I snootily avoided this in the theaters, expecting the conceit of it to inexorably render the execution choppy and pretentious (a fate it does not altogether escape), but the work holds together surprisingly well (unlike this sentence).Bill Murray is the best Polonious I've seen.Ethan Hawke in his hat looks mopey, dopey and drugged, but having him moon about at Blockbusters during his soliloquies was inspired.Julia Stiles also turns in a very creditable Ophelia, and Kyle MacLaghlin is wonderfully adept with the language.More of it works than doesn't.  Recommend. "},{"Title":"Speak English!!!","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was recently forced to sit through this movie for 110 agonizing minutes in my English class.  I had absolutely no idea what the h*** any of the characters were saying, why didnt they just do the movie in Latin for god's sake? From what I got out of it, there was a major corporation,(Denmark?) something about two young lovers and a CEO. Perhaps if they had made this film in its original setting, it might have worked, but they just can't make it work in modern day. I think it is because modern people don't speak like they do in the movie. I guess maybe I should have learned Shakespearean language beforehand to derive any enjoyment from it. I could tell that the actors were talented, it's a shame that they wasted it on something like this. **/10 "},{"Title":"The Tragedy of Almerayda's Hamlet","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The plays of William Shakespeare have been adapted for screen countless numbers of times, with many successes, (Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet, Kenneth Branagh's Henry V, and Julie Taymor's Titus) and many failures (Laurence Olivier's Hamlet, Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet, and Taming of the Shrew adaptation, Ten Things I Hate About You).  Almerayda's Hamlet fits comfortable in the bottoms of the latter category. This celluloid disaster brings new meaning to the word 'tragedy.' The film fails on so many different fronts and levels, that it becomes increasingly painful and embarrassing to watch. Some of the most pressing failures in the film are in its acting, setting, adaptation, direction, and its general execution. How could someone so thoroughly ruin one of the greatest works of mankind? Let us discuss this, and find out. One of the most prominent failures of the movie is the acting, because it is what conveys to us the story, most directly. So many horrible performances are turned in, that one must wonder how much better a high school play could have outshined these asinine attempts at Shakespearean acting. First, Ethan Hawke's portrayal of the melancholy Dane is, in a word, uninspired. His delivery is so contrived and emotionless, that it totally defeats the inherent character of Hamlet, which is natural and emotional. His delivery of the To be or not to be soliloquy is so mellow and unshaken that one wonders if this person is contemplating suicide or which action movie to rent (one of many unforgivable instance of outright product placement). This carries throughout the film as does Hawke's pathetic little I'm-a-depressed-gen-xer strut, in his ridiculous two-eared toboggan. As Hawke shuffles about his mortal coil in a nihilistic trance, so, too, does most of the remaining cast members. Liev Schreiber's interpretation is limitless in its stupidity. One wonders if he actually knows that his words have meaning. I am usually a fan of Liev's work (Scream 2, Scream 3, and the wonderful gem of a performance in Mixed Nuts), however this was just completely meritless. Julia Stiles might have actually pulled off her part if she had been given any lines! This pivotal role has been edited down to mute facial expressions and emotionless body language. Nonetheless, I did appreciate Stiles' approach to play an already unstable Ophelia, even before her fathers' death. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern here seem like (gasp!) stock characters from an assortment of recent films, rather than the developed minor characters that they truly are. As for Claudius, I am a huge Kyle MacLachlan fan, lauding him for his genius in David Lynch's Blue Velvet, and the monumental television series Twin Peaks. Yet, his Claudius does not seem to give off enough arrogance in the first half of the play. Instead of sympathizing for Hamlet, I felt myself siding with Claudius, feeling that he had been misjudged by an impudent little punk. Also, I simply feel that MacLachlan was miscast for the role of the uncle. I feel that, even with his age, he would have nailed the part of Horatio. Diane Venora's Gertrude is passable, with no real problems. I did feel that she played the knowledgeable Gertrude (Gertrude who knows the cup is poisoned) fairly well. I disagree with this, but it is not her fault that the play took that direction. Perhaps the only highpoint of the film is Bill Murray's interpretation of Polonius. While Polonius is either played as the fool or the detached schemer (Richard Briers interpretation in Branagh's production), I felt Murray brought with him a fresh synthesis of the two, creating a Polonius that is both humorous and knowledgeable (someone even commented on the vast library seen in his Manhattan apartment). I found myself eager to see the next scene with Polonius and how Murray would further bring new edge to this underplayed character. Though many of the above problems come from an actual lack in the actors' ability (i.e. Hawke), the root problem lies in Almerayda's atrocious direction. While a director's objective is to work as a liaison between the writer and the actors, Mr. Almerayda seems absolutely clueless as to how he should have conveyed the characters' motivations. Some of the dialogue is so stale that one must wonder if the director simply said, Now, act depressed. Good, now you're upset. Excellent. That's the impression that I got from the performances, and that's where the proof should be for fine direction.Setting is another problem that I could not get passed in this version of the play. Once again, Hamlet's To be or not to be soliloquy should be more concerned with the words, and not the visual image of him walking down the action aisle at the local Blockbuster. The decision to have him walk down that specific aisle shows the pretension that was behind the movie. It is as if the adapter mentally thought, Look, I made a modern day connection. I rock. For me, this absolutely ruined the most introspective and brilliant speech of the play. One element that I did like was the confession scene in the limousine. While it does lack the religious power of the church, it actually works, albeit to a smaller degree. In general, I have major problems with setting Shakespearean tragedies in modern day settings. Whether it would be New York City, Los Angeles, or Kalamazoo I simply feel that, as relevant as Shakespeare is, it should be reserved for period pieces. The clash of modern day laundromats and Old English Thys and Thees simply does not work for me. One absolute failure is the adaptation of the play. They could have failed on all other counts, and have adapted it well, and still come out with a decent product. Nonetheless, this is not the case, and Almerayda decided to stray from Shakespeare's words, and he did so to his doom. The most pressing and unforgivable flaw in the entire production was the deletion of the antic disposition statement made to Horatio. With this edit, the entire context of Hamlet's character was destroyed and the rest of the play became a confusing mess of gritty images and prolific editing. How are we supposed to interpret the fishmonger comment to Polonius? With the antic disposition theme, we would see that he was probably feigning madness in addition to insulting Polonius. But without the scene, Hamlet seems to be a brazen ass, as arrogant as he is rude (much like Hawke himself, so it must not have been a stretch for him). In addition, the decision to make the Mousetrap into a video was logical because of the setting, but it just did not work. The players add such a level of urgency, and that was lost with this ploy. In addition, it is so much more meaningful to have a play within a play, because we the audience almost get a mirror image of ourselves. Ophelia's death was another faux paux on for the director. After setting her up to jump in the privacy of a swimming pool in Elsinore, she decides to take her life in a public fountain, where someone could have saved her. What would that dialogue have been like? Need a hand? No, I'm just about finished drowning, but thanks for the offer. It simply does not make sense. Finally, the decision to have the duel on top of a high rise building was fine in itself. However, it was totally unfathomable that they would have Laertes pull a gun and shoot Hamlet, and consequently shoot himself. Also, what motivated Laertes to admit that the king was to blame? He shifts from shooting Hamlet one second, to siding with him the next. In the text, each of the characters' death is felt with emotional weight. In this production, the deaths feel like mercy kills. They are merciful for the characters and merciful for us as an audience. I have many other objections to this film including the downplay of Horatio, the absence of fear in the characters, the total deletion of Fortinbras, the outright product placement during emotional scenes and the gritty cinematography to name a few. While there are some elements that work in the film, chiefly being Bill Murray's shining performance as Polonius, the entire production is totally lost to a mundane, ignorant and amateurish interpretation and adaptation of the play. While I was hoping for this film to be a solid introduction to Hamlet, that would at least be accessible to newcomers, I was sorely let down with a self-important, pretentious, emotionless disaster that actually took itself seriously. The bottom line is that the overriding theme of the film seems to a nihilistic comment of life (come one, Ethan, you are actually supposed to mean that man is actually a piece of work!), without illustrating Shakespeare's vision of redemption in the sight of incomprehensible grief.  "},{"Title":"An Unweeded Garden","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This was the worst adaption of Hamlet I have ever seen.  Ehtan Hawke's pseudo-intellectual persona is tired.  During some scenes, it appeared that he was reading off of cue cards.  Tim Conway would have made a more believable Hamlet.  This attempt to put a contemporary spin on a classic was presumptuous and poorly implemented.  The Kenneth Brannaugh version is much more worthy of your time. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but ultimately fails","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I really wanted to like this film, as there are some really good aspects about it. Unfortunately the bad aspects out way the good, but I'm going to tell you the good things first to ease my conscience.Good things1. The performances from some of the cast are excellent and translate well to the modern day surroundings. Julia Stiles plays a good victim and endears well to the audience. I heard that Kyle Maclachlan is a terrible actor, but here he makes a wonderful, modern and complex villain. Overall the cast are good.2. Almereyda for the first half looks like he is having tremendous fun with the modern day surroundings and comes up with some fantastic sequences. The 'to be or not to be' scene is great and 'get thee to a nunnery' incredibly tragic. The first act has a lot of vibrance and care, which is pleasing to see.Bad things1. The performance by Ethan Hawke is good for the most part, but as an audience member you do not believe for a second that he is mad. The great question of the play is whether Hamlet is sane, in this version there is no question at all. The scene when Polonius interrogates Hamlet is ridiculous and pointless in this adaptation. This bad aspect destroys the great mystery of the play.2. The humour is completely lost in this production, which you need due to it's length. Bill Murray's Polonius is solid, but is NOT comical! His character is supposed to be tremendously funny, but he just looks run down and boring!3. (I could have ignored all the other bad points if it wasn't for this.) Almereyda entirely looses it in the 2nd half, all the care is completely gone as he hacks his way to the devastatingly ram shackle finale. It seems that he sees the modern surroundings as a burden, due to the lack of ideas! In the last scene when everyone finally gets slaughtered, Almereyda rushes through it all, giving Claudius a quiet and unjustified death.This whole production really annoyed me, as it could have been excellent. Watch this if you still want to, but be prepared for a massive disappointment.   "},{"Title":"I liked it------so there!","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I had read unfavorable comments, so I was happily surprised!It did get off to a very slow start. It took time for my mind to adjust to the present day setting coupled with Shakespearean language but since I was the only spectator present at this afternoon showing, I felt I should tough it out and I am glad that I did! After my mind adjusted, I merely heard what they were saying, not how they said it! This presentation has a sense of reality about it that I have never felt in the traditional play. These are REAL people, with big , real life problems. It keeps the spirit of the original. I think Shakespeare would be pleased and once he got over future shock , would enjoy discussing it with the company! "},{"Title":"'Tis Strange, but 'tis True","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  There are always two ways to approach a Shakespeare play either for stage or film.  You can try to be the standard version or you can try to be an extraordinary one.  This production deviates in many ways from the standard approach, yet it is solidly grounded in Shakespeare's text and brings a wonderfully fresh perspective to Hamlet.I am not talking primarily about the New York City 2000 setting.  Although it does serve to remind us of the timelessness of the plot and characters, this is a superficial lesson quickly learned.  Shakespeare did not worry a great deal about costume and setting everyone, no matter who they were, looked like English nobility dressed in clothes that had just gone out of fashion and the stage looked like the Globe.This Hamlet is self-absorbed, a loafer without any legitimate means of support and a predeliction for dabbling in the theatre.  Bang on.  So was Shakespeare's but he's not often played this way (it doesn't flatter the lead actor much).This Ophelia is a girl who is being used by her father against her lover; caught in this conflict without any defences, she loses both of them and her sanity.  Right again.  Julia Stiles was heartwrenchingly helpless while being aware of what is going on.  When she says I was the more deceived you know she really means it and is thinking Why didn't I listen to Laertes?This Gertrude doesn't know the price Claudius paid for her until her bedroom scene with Hamlet.  This gives Oh Hamlet thou hast cleft my heart in twain ten times the force.  Also she guesses what Claudius is doing with the cup and uses it to redeem herself from her unwitting participation (as motive) in Claudius' crime.  A brilliant performance by Diane Venora.This Polonius is a nasty little bureaucrat who dotes on his son and treats his daughter with contempt.  That's in the play too.  If you're expecting laughs from Bill Murray, don't hold your breath.In fact, there are no laughs in this Hamlet.  Unless you're Branagh, you're going to make serious cuts to the text, and this will change the complexion of the story.  Mel Gibson's Hamlet is cut so as to be an action film.  Not here.  But the cuts here are made judiciously and with a purpose in mind.  First of all, all of the funny scenes are gone.  No funny gravediggers, no teasing of the hapless Polonius, no off-colour banter with Ros and Guil.  But the soliloquys are all there, even How all occasions do inform against me because we want to see a Hamlet absorbed in his own self-dialogue and drawn ever so reluctantly out of his fantasy film world and into the real world of revenge and murder.This may not be the way to introduce anyone to Hamlet but if you know the story it's an interesting take on it.  It is sad that we have to put up with so many losers who obsess about whether the actors wear codpieces, whether the scenery looks Danish, and whether the lines are declaimed rather than spoken in an ordinary voice and electronically amplified.  This film stands on its own merits; my only complaints are that the Horatio is very weak and the cuts have in places made the action difficult to interpret (e.g.  Hamlet's speech, Now I might do it, pat, while he's praying . . .; without it we don't know why Hamlet doesn't kill Claudius at this point) 8/10 "},{"Title":"The most ironic to be or not to be ever filmed.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  here are 70-some (according to the IMDB) filmed versions of Hamlet.  While this might not stray as far from the traditional as some, it brings a new setting to this Shakespearean classic.  Hamlet (Ethan Hawke) is the son of the CEO of Denmark Corporation, a multinational company in present-day Manhattan.  His mother Gertude (Diane Venora) has married his murdered father's brother, Claudius (Kyle MacLachlan).   He lives in the Elsinore, a trendy apartment building, and delivers the To be or not to be soliloquy in Blockbuster Video -- pondering his future course as he wanders up and down aisle after aisle of action movies.  While many of the non-traditional stagings of Shakespeare are clumsy attempts to breathe new life into a play that is doing quite well on its own without help, this staging is an exception. The members of the cast deliver their lines not as if they were reciting them, but as if they were speaking them from the heart, of their own accord.  It's a pleasure to watch, despite the occasionally jarring setting of mid-town Manhattan.  A particular highlight of the movie is Bill Murray's Polonius, a toadying middle manager who slips his son, Laertes (Liev Schreiber), a wad of cash as he heads off to Wittenberg University, even as he destroys his daughter Opelia's life by forbidding her romance with Hamlet.  Polonius, or better or worse, is far more sympathetic in this rendering of the story than I have thought before. "}{"Title":"imaginative, but flat","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This modern day version of Hamlet is imaginative in its adaptation to the setting of modern day New York City, and its translation of court politics to modern corporations.  While the cast is fine, Ethan Hawke's slacker interpretation of the title role, while appropriate, ultimately sucks most of the energy from the screenplay.  The recent modern version of Romeo & Juliet managed to maintain its energy.While the screenplay does a good job of shortening the play to a manageable length (half of Branaugh's 4 hour version), there are still some gaps where, if you don't know the play, you won't be able to follow.  It's definately worth watching, especially for the performances of Hawke, Diane Venora as Gertrude and Bill Murray as Polonius, and it is MUCH better than the Mel Gibson version. But it isn't quite the breakthrough as Romeo & Juliet was. "},{"Title":"Well done but didn't inspire me","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this stylish, imaginitive version of Shakespeare's Hamlet, I can understand the generally positive reviews it has received. I'm afraid I can't entirely agree, though.There were many positives to this film - it was creative, the story was adapted very well to modern day New York, the language was made more understandable in today's context, and the performances overall were pretty good.  However, it really couldn't hold my attention too well.  I'd hate to call it boring but it seemed to lack enough dramatic elements or basic oomph maybe.  Half-way through it, my thoughts were not on the film but on the pork chops that I had forgotten to defrost for supper.  That is not a good sign.  I enjoy both the modern day versions of Shakespeare plays as well as the more traditional versions.  I really liked Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet.  Yeah, it was flawed (hammy and over the top) but at least it kept my attention throughout the film.For what it's worth, I'd like to see more classical works (why not Canterbury Tales or Beowulf) set to modern times.  These stories are classics and should hold up well.  They also might encourage people to actually read the originals too! "},{"Title":"An absolute abomination","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" WARNING If you want to spoil Shakespeare forever, see this movie!Almereyda both directed and adapted the play for the screen. Shakespeare's script is butchered. Some famous soliloquies are missing; some cut up and thrown all over the place; and some cut off mid-stream. The directing was okay, but I cannot forgive this man for taking Shakespeare's words and defecating all over them. He shows absolutely no respect for the originals, not that adapting is bad. I've seen wonderful adaptations of Shakespeare's plays, but this one is a true abomination.Some aspects of the screenplay make absolutely no sense. For example, what is the purpose of the Bill Clinton news clip in the middle of one of Hamlet's soliloquies? And one of the last shots, a vapor trail of a jet flying over some statue! Was that supposed to be one of the flights of angels singing Hamlet to his rest? Granted, artistic license and freedom of expression, but good grief! This was pathetic. "},{"Title":"OK, so it's Hamlet in the year 2000... then what?","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A truth I think is often overlooked when it comes to regarding movies is that a good movie is more than a good idea. Sometimes I get the feeling that people will indulge themselves with certain movies, and very eagerly try to convince you of their greatness, by enlightening what, in theory, is so good about them. There can be all these things going on inside of a movie, all these themes and many original ideas. Yes, certainly, but is it any good? I get the feeling that some movies will get critical and audience approval, sometimes even hail, just because most movies aren't that original.This Hamlet strikes me as such a movie. The Shakespeare tragedy, in unaltered words though heavily cut, set in a modern New York City with all suitable alterations you'd imagine. As far as I can see, these alterations is the only attraction given. The kingdom of Denmark is now a corporation called Denmark, the young prince is now the kind of quasi- intellectual, very post-MTVish kind of sad puppy (Ethan Hawke) that plays with his video editing equipment all night long. His speeches take place not within castle walls but along the shelfs of a video store and, yeah, I don't know... really? Some of these modern translations work better than others the best ones tend to be smaller details, like the doorbell with Ophelia's name written on it by her apartment building. The worst are fairly laughable - the finale is specially anti-climactic and that must be the most unspectacular vision of the ghost of Hamlet's father ever (he vanishes by a Pepsi machine in some random corridor).But these alterations are besides the point, or at least I feel they SHOULD be besides the point. But if I stop taking notes about these alterations and focus on the movie in itself - I find that I don't really know what I'm watching. What was the point of making this movie? Most Hamlet adaptations - be it Branagh's 4 hour epic or Zeffirelli's weird adventure/thriller spin - has the guts to take the source material more or less by the roots and try to make something new out of it. This one does very little (dare I say nothing at all?) for the actual play. This Hamlet is obviously one of those Hamlets done for the sake of it being Hamlet. It's like you see that! That's 'to be or not to be' in the video store! And that is James Dean, basically, as the Player King. But the self-referencing lacks any kind of substance other than being a, sometimes pretty, visual trivia game. It lacks a rhyme and reason of it's own, which becomes very clear when our Hamlet is watching a stage play of Hamlet himself! That is not cool, that is just stupid. Talk about self-referencing gone overboard!The absence of clear ambition and direction is even more tangible when we get to the acting department. Rarely have I seen a more disjointed group of actors. There exists almost no convincing chemistry between any of the characters and the actors themselves are stale and awkward, as if they really don't know how they are supposed to do this. You remember Jack Lemmon in Branagh's Hamlet? That's the entire ensemble here. Ethan Hawke is merely reading lines with a theatrical voice, Diane Venora does a professional but totally automatic sob-sob performance as Gertrude, Liev Schreiber takes on another ambitious role in Leartes but ends up performing very little of it anyway, I really don't know what Jula Stiles was doing and who provided Horatio with whatever he's on? I liked Kyle MacLachlan the most, just because I couldn't detect any visible failure in his performance and I was surprised that Bill Murray actually tried to play Polonius instead of, well, playing Bill Murray. I'm not sure if his performance is good, but at least it's ambitious.All in all, 'tis strange - Why was this movie made? For whom? What was the point? If you are familiar with the play, there is no need to see this movie except for the trivial reason of having seen a modern adaption - and I sense most Hamlet-fans are obsessive enough to check this out just for the sake of it (after all, I did). And if you're not then I can only imagine what a confusing and incoherent ordeal this movie must be to sit through. The best thing you can say about this piece-by-piece shifting of Shakespeare's Mideval Denmark to New York in 2000 is that it's hum, hum, kinda cool I guess. But then what? "},{"Title":"Hamlet for the masses","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Please be fair the movie was a highly stylized version of the 16 th century classic.Please to compare it to a play or a period piece is to say Joesph Conrads Heart of Darkness is not portrayed correctly in Apocalypse Now.My son who was nine watched at the edge of his seat.The acting was mixed.Hamlet was done very well by Ethan Hawke.Bill Murray whom I think is great in almost every other movie including drama is lost and his timing is choppy. Bill Murray's volume is weak and I often had to turn the volume up when he talked (as if he was out of breath).Liev Schreiber as Laretes is outstanding and should have garnered a nomination in support.The average person can't read Hamlet and should ;this offers and alternate that is very intriguing. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary yet strangely relevant contemporary version of Hamlet","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Coming across this version of Hamlet by chance, and knowing the play fairly well, I was blown away by the power and sophistication of this film. The use of contemporary urban settings - the boardroom, the laundromat, the art gallery, the back ally - was perfectly apt; the casting was great and the key characters performed with subtlety and passion. I enjoyed Ethan Hawke's sincerity and confusion as Hamlet, but felt that there were really extraordinary performances by Julia Stiles as Ophelia, Kyle McClachlan as Claudius, and Bill Murray as Polonius. Somehow Ophelia got to me as she has not done on stage in the performances I have seen to date......now at least one of the reviewers for IMDb has claimed that people who are unfamiliar with the play will find it hard to follow the film. I beg to differ I found that this film version actually makes the story more universal, breaking the confines of history and geography, time and space, and bringing the issues into the current context - which was surely what William Shakespeare would have wanted. My one criticism, and where I agree with some other critics on IMDb, is that because the film is an edited version of the play, there are such beautiful and witty parts of the original left out. Which is always a shame. I tend to agree with those who argue that if someone is committed to watching Hamlet, they will watch it whatever the length there is little point in abbreviating it. But....but.....even my ten-year-old son got intrigued with this film version, and asked me to explain the story to him, which I did. It's certainly not obscure those who found it hard to follow should look to their own deficiencies in understanding! "},{"Title":"Effective, Youthful Contemporized Interpretation","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Like Zefferelli's Romeo & Juliet, this Hamlet demonstrates the effectiveness of having the younger generation played by young people, as Hamlet and his friends are supposed to be college students. The mise en scene in corporate NYC, especially the new commercial Times Square, is terrific, and the conversational tone quite believable, especially by Ethan Hawke (though why is he wearing that dorky hat?). I wish the media metaphors had been taken even further; I expected Dad to be more of a Ghost in the Machine a la Max Headroom than the corporeal Sam Shepherd and was disappointed that there was a final fencing duel instead of something more contemporary, and why is every character's turreted room filled with books and not CDs or videotapes, i.e. modern media. But from the opening press conference of a coronation to the play-within-a-play being Hamlet's videotape splicing together of images, the contemporary sets fit terrifically, illustrating the edits out of the play. Even further than in Branagh's Hamlet which had been an improvement over Mel Gibson's traditional treatment of her, Ophelia (surrounded from the beginning by water images, including photo developing chemicals) and Hamlet's relationship is made clearer and more sympathetic. Nice touch that Horatio's friend is a girlfriend this time around, a stability counterposed to Hamlet's.I at first was disappointed that the music wasn't more of a commentary, even culturally as I expected more rock like in the most recent Romeo and Juliet but it turned out that was my ignorance; the credits showed that the non-original music played was mostly symphonic and pop tunes of variations on Hamlet including a Nick Cave song with Hamlet in its title, similar to the images of black & white previous covers of Hamlet that were on monitors in Hamlet's typically very messy bedroom.(originally written 6/25/2000) "},{"Title":"what kinda movie","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" this movie had no actual connection with the original script of hamlet.this movie had no actual connection with the original script of hamlet.this movie had no actual connection with the original script of hamlet.this movie had no actual connection with the original script of hamlet.this movie had no actual connection with the original script of hamlet.this movie had no actual connection with the original script of hamlet.this movie had no actual connection with the original script of hamlet.this movie had no actual connection with the original script of hamlet.this movie had no actual connection with the original script of hamlet.this movie had no actual connection with the original script of hamlet. "},{"Title":"Modern Hamlet is right on the mark","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this new interpretation of Hamlet. Ethan Hawke has just enough angst to portray the young man whose father was killed and then betrayed by his mother.  Julia Stiles as Ophelia gives a credible intepretation of the role of the confused girl. Bill Murray shines as Polonious.  Sam Shepherd as Hamlet's father is corporeal and not ghostly at all. Most of all Diane Vernoa as Gertrude plays the guilt ridden woman who must atone for her sins.  Amy Hobby producer did a fine job of getting all of this done for about 2 million dollars.  The scenes in the Guggenheim were disturbing.  A unique look at an old classic. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray in Hamlet 2000","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A movie made for theatrical release will seldom go the full 3+ hours that the play Hamlet typically takes on stage. Brannaugh tried it with his version and it did not do well. Movies need to stay within about 2 hours (with rare exceptions for ones with big followings, like the Lord of the Rings but I digress.) The theaters do not like to show really long films--the fewer showings each day makes a difference in the profitability. Cutting from the original play and making Denmark a corporate empire in the 20th century worked reasonably well for me. But mostly I enjoyed Bill Murray's Polonius. He made the character make more sense to me than any other performance of Hamlet I have seen. In most other productions Polonius is a buffoon and a dolt. But Murray defied the usual interpretation and made a kindly, well-intentioned but a bit clueless Polonius. The center of his performance comes from his scenes with his grown children. He comes across as a doting and loving father. The devastation that Ophelia and Laertes experience when he dies makes more sense to me given Bill Murray's handling of their scenes with Polonius. With attitude and body language and nice little touches not in the script Murray makes us believe Polonius as a nice guy who does not deserve what happens to him. This also makes the characters less black and white. Polonius is not a villain and Hamlet is not a hero for killing him. People expecting the usual interpretation of Polonius may not like this movie, but why make the same movie with the same characters who have the same motivations and attributes over and over? "}{"Title":"Put me to sleep...","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The play Hamlet was a very well written and exciting play.  Even when productions have been done on Broadway it has captured the true meaning of Hamlet.  However, this movie rips apart the play, taking out intricut scenes.  This movie caused me to fall asleep much quicker then any other movie has.  This may be a great movie if you're into artsy movies that make no sense.  To anyone else, however, it's awful. "},{"Title":"Abominable. No character, no style. Dead on arrival.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Alas, what a butchery! I have thought some of nature's journeymen had made men and not made them well, they imitated humanity so abominably. Abominable indeed, friends. I've seen over a dozen productions of Hamlet, and this is the worst so far. And the idea of setting it in corporate Manhattan was so promising. But I've never seen actors so uncomfortable with their lines. I've seen High School productions with more drive. Hamlet is portrayed as a complete imbecile, and the rest of the cast is not much better. Despondency ? Not by a long shot. All depth of character has vanished, the text is butchered past the point of decency. Everyone of the characters gets this painful expression on their face just before they have to speak, and when they finally do it makes you wish they'd kept quiet. Laertes is the only one left halfway unscathed. No other play gives you this many chances to get at least one point right. But they managed to miss them all the language, the character play, the political drama, the love story, all gone. Where be your gibes now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment. Seek them elsewhere, folks, this thing was dead on arrival.  "},{"Title":"Hamlet is hard to screw up but I congratulate Almereyda for doing it","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This has to be one of the worst movies to come out of Hollywood, The plot was virtually incoherent, The setting and the characters never interacted, the lines were monotoned. The extra's outside of the Hamlet play seemed to ignore the Characters as if they were invisible. The characters stop sword fighting in the middle of the scene and one shot the other. I think Almereyda was high while creating and directing it. If the characters didn't care about this movie why should I. How do you spend a over a million dollars to produce a movie that wasn't even worth the two dollars it takes two rent a movie at the library? A better approach would be to hire a lot of b list actors instead of casting eathan Hawke with a bunch of nobody's. "},{"Title":"Comment on Hamlet 2000","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I think that this is the worst version of Hamlet that I've seen.The script for a modern Hamlet is really bad and the entire movie is extremely boring. I was hoping at the middle of the movie that it would get better but that did not happen. It's very disappointing since it has a very good cast. In the original Hamlet play there was a deep and historical sense in making Hamlet prince of Denmark. But in this movie, Denmark is a company (?) and Hamlet is from New York, have you ever heard something more ridiculous? This makes that the complete story loses its sense. My advice is do not waste your time or money on this one.  "},{"Title":"What?!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Somebody please explain to me how you can destroy a Shakespeare play the way they did. It was one of the most miss-cast movies i've ever seen. What is going on with Ethan Hawke he's usually a great actor, but not in this. It's so bad I can't even talk about it anymore. Beware DO NOT RENT. "},{"Title":"(1) T'is a far far better thing ...","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  that's not Shakespear, but then neither is this.The poetry of Shakespear reduced to simple conversation? Playing second fiddle to hightech gadgets?Bill Murray as polonius? Hamlet as videographer?Shallow, pointless, silly and pathetic. Do yourself a favour and just bypass this one, unless you feel like a good laugh (in all the wrong places).If you really want to see it on film, then try Hamlet (1996) Directed by Kenneth Branagh. You can read the book or listen to it on tape. "},{"Title":"Gobble, Gobble","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Gobble, Gobble. This movie is one big turkey.Shakespeare is tricky. Do him well and you have a thing of beauty. But  don't do him well and you are left with something that is almost painful to watch.The idea of this version of Hamlet is interesting Transport the story to modern day New York City. Unfortunately, the creativity stopped right there. The modern day NYC idea was only half thought out and the movie was cast very poorly. The end result looks and feels at times as if it were a Saturday Night Live comedy sketch, not a genuine attempt attempt at Shakespeare.Ethan Hawke is okay as Hamlet. Not bad, but he certainly won't make you forget about Laurence Olivier. Kyle McLaughlin looks as though he'd much rather be tracking down Laura Palmer's killer. Bill Murray is lost. And Julia Stiles wanders around pouting and wondering how in the world she's supposed to say these poems so that they sound like lines.Rent this if you are curious to know how a production of Shakespeare can go seriously wrong. But if you really want to see a good version of Hamlet, rent the 1948 version instead.   "},{"Title":"Why does Hamlet have to wear a stupid hat????","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I am not much of a movie critic, but when I see a bad movie I know it, and Hamlet (2000) is the worst movie I have seen this year. Shakespeare's Hamlet is the greatest play ever written, and to see it being trash like this makes me very disappointed. The casting, costumes (why does Hamlet have to wear a stupid looking hat), settings are all very bad. None of the actor can recite Hamlet. "},{"Title":"An Average Adaptation","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hamlet is one of Shakespeare's most popular plays and as such is ripe for a modern retelling. Hopefully, though, someone will do a better job than this. The concept is initially interesting- Hamlet is a film student and 'Denmark' is now a corporation. Unfortunately this concept soon wears thin, mostly because of the poor performances- surprising given the calibre of actors' involved. Hawke is an adequate Hamlet, though he is one of the poorest I have seen. However Hawke escapes with his reputation intact, which is more than can be said for some of his co-stars Kyle MacLachlan seems to be fairly average in everything he makes that without David Lynch, but again he is not the worst offender. That 'honour' falls to Julia Stiles who on paper seems well-cast. However she does not seem to understand any of her lines and as such the delivery of said lines is awful. Bill Murray is not much better. I have always found Polonius to be a funny character but as good an actor Murray is, he is not suited to Shakespeare. Luckily, both are saved by Liev Schrieber who managed to 'drag' Stiles through their scenes together. I was never that big a fan of Schrieber before I saw this film, but he was by far the best thing about it. He knew what he was saying and how to say it. Overall, I give this film 5/10. If you want to see Hamlet, there is far better out there. "},{"Title":"I think it works","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a riveting adaptation. Seldom has the aura of malaise and corruption been so evident, seldom has the brooding nature of Hamlet seemed so true, never has the ghost appeared more sinister and underworldly. Bill Murray is excellent as the slightly fatuous Polonious. The stark, angular modern settings are an effective counterpoint to the ornate Elizabethan language. I think it works. I found my self moving with the characters on the screen. The use of surveillance cameras and in insertion of iconic images like James Dean added a depth of experience that brought the experience from medieval Denmark to our own lives. "}{"Title":"Appreciated but not really recommended","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Shakespeare's works are remade for screen about as periodically as the seasons change it seems. So one would figure that,sooner or later,someone would come up with a contemporized version of the Bard's most famous work and here it is.The story of Hamlet's pretty well known,so I'll write this review assuming the reader knows at least most if not all of what it is about. Director/screenwriter Michael Alymedya(spelling?) does a nimble job of refitting the elements of 10th century Denmark into 21st century New York City,replete with digital recorders,cell phones,24-hour cable news,VCRS,fax machines,laptop computers and plenty of 90sish grungy,post-hip clothing and attitude. I couldn't help but be a little impressed at the concept of Denamrk as a country to being a corporation(of which what they do or make is somewhat murky. Electronics,I'm guessing?) and making full use of the concept of CEOs and VPs as Kings and Lords. However,I couldn't quite delve myself into the almost somnambulist reading of the Bard's lines. The cast,while all capable and intriguing casting(especially Bill Murray as POlonius),seem to be less than enthused about their parts,instead sort of playing up the brooding in their characters. To me,the most passionate performance was probably Liev Schreiber's slow-burning Laertes,which seems a little off for a play where every character should be more driven.In sum,this is a curiosity for anyone who fancies Shakespeare movies,but it is hardly the best rendering of his most famous work. "},{"Title":"Brilliant adaptation and wholly original","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why people are comparing this to Baz Luhrmann's ROMEO AND JULIET, outside of the Shakespeare connection. This is the best film adaptation of Hamlet that I have ever seen, rivalled only by Olivier's. Almereyda's script is way more intelligent than Luhrmann's and his creative reconfiguring of pivotal scenes from the play, use of contemporary settings and devices (the video's the thing), excellent casting, and gorgeous sets actually enhance the original play, putting Shakespeare's marvelous language at the forefront where it should be, rather than with the acting or costumes. It's a beautiful film; Hawke gives a solid performance, and the transposition of the story to contemporary Manhattan was done artfullly and admirably. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Truly a viscerally engaging Hamlet","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very exiting vision of the play, even though I found one of Almereyda's casting choices very unfortunate. (Bill Murray is still unwatchable in serious roles; and yes, Polonius is a buffoon, but it's almost painful to watch  Murray try to keep a straight face as he lumbers though the dialogue.)That aside, however, Almereyda has created what is in some key respects an entirely new vision of the very human personal connections in the complex web of relationships between Ophelia, her father,  Hamlet and his father, the King's ghost. ---Just in case any readers may actually not know the outcome of the play, consider this a Spoiler Alert---  Almereyda has, for instance, inserted Ophelia into the scene in which Polonius first brings Hamlet's odd behavior to the king and queen's attention. Here Julia Stiles shows us an all-too-real angst ridden teenage girl who is being smothered by the  all-too-adult deception, deceit and intrigue that is spreading through her world. After we watch her wordlessly staring into a nearby swimming pool and fantasizing it as an escape, her eventual suicide no longer seems far fetched in any way.Likewise, Almereyda's vision of Hamlet's relationship with his father's ghost is both intense and exiting. No longer is the ghost played as an imperious, distant vision; Sam Shepard's ghost is a very real figure, and his relationship with Hamlet is intense, loving, and affectionate- both physically and emotionally.Again, here we experience a very contemporary relationship in a visceral way that truly explains to us Hamlet's all consuming grief at the loss of his father, and in turn, the conflict that drives the action of the play. In short, this version is absolutely worth a viewing.  "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Modern day retelling of William Shakespeare's play finds the to be or not to be monologue taking place in the action section of a Blockbuster and Enthan Hawke in the title role (and doing a rather good job to boot!) seeking revenge on his mother's (Diane Venora) new husband (Kyle MacLachlan) shortly after his father's death. Vivid, well crafted with some daring casting choices working rather well. Liev Schreiber and Diane Venora really stand out.Rated R; One Scene of Violence. "},{"Title":"A witty, groundbreaking postmodern Hamlet","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Saucy, ambitious, inventive and whimsical-- this movie is *the* perfect antidote for all the insipid archaic-dress versions of Hamlet you may have seen (Mel Gibson anyone?).Granted, Baz Luhrman was there first with his 'Romeo & Juliet.'But this Hamlet is the Twin Peaks answer to Luhrman's gaudy, sloppy prime-time soap opera.Each actor (whatever their respective strengths) turns in one of their most solid performances in recent memory.Reading some of the negative reviews, I have to wonder what movie these folks were watching, and what they were expecting...?   If you like your Shakespeare done 'straight' (bo-ring), then why bother picking this film up?It's worth mentioning that despite the complaints, almost two-thirds of those who voted on this movie here gave it a '7' or better... this film's average rating would be much higher if not for the votes of humorless whiners who want to punish this film for presenting up-level ironies and creative visual translations that will-- gasp-- require even those familiar with the story to pay attention to what's on the screen from start to finish.The flavor and nuance of this version just gets better with repeated viewings-- from the leather-jacketed, motorcycling Horatio (Karl Geary, perfectly cast) to Bill Murray's spineless, blindly cynical Polonious, to yes, the infamous video store scene-- which is, by the way, meant to be ironic.If you like your films to take chances, and want to see a talented cast throw themselves with wit and passion into a director's hip and edgy take on *the* archtypal tale of existential despair, you owe it to yourself to check out this version of Hamlet. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Just happened to snatch up this DVD the other day, and I was pleasantly surprised at the latest adaptation of this famous play.  Ethan Hawke did a remarkable job as the troubled prince (boy, it was nice to see someone play Hamlet who's actually close to the age Hamlet is supposed to be), and Julia Stiles was understatedly good as Ophelia.Still, since I've seen and read the play many times, I wonder if that gave me an unfair advantage in watching this version of it.  It is, after all, under 2 hours long, which means much of the subtext of the original has been excised, and I wonder if the Hamlet-deprived people of the world would understand this particular foray into the story.  That aside, it's still an admirable job at making Shakespeare hip again, though one should really balance this version with a viewing of Kenneth Branagh's complete retelling from 1996. "},{"Title":"Updated...But Not Enough","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I give a lot of credit to the creators of this field for the atmosphere and concept (and I realize other's don't like it -- that's fine -- but they did achieve what they set out to do). I did like Bill Murray's Polonius, Julia Stiles' Ophelia, Ethan Hawke's Hamlet, and mostly Kyle McLachlan's Claudius and Steve Zahn's Rosencrantz.But the strict use of the play's original language ended up feeling more of a distraction that an enhancement. It felt like the filmmakers wanted to have it both both the close tie and 'legitimacy' of the old language and the moderness of a current setting. "},{"Title":"Worst Hamlet Adaptation EVER!!!!","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" So far, I've seen a few Shakespeare adaptations, but this one was by far the worst I've ever seen in my life. Hamlet is a four hour play. They cut this movie to less than two hours. Right there should tell people that there's no way this can be a good film.Ethan Hawke was TERRIBLE in the role of Hamlet. He had no drive, no passion. He didn't make me feel for him, he didn't even make me believe him. He didn't even try and act insane, he just sounded guilty, like he was just being a moody teenager. And then the fact that they had him repeatedly call Ophelia to tell her to a nunnery, just makes him a jerk. Or near the end when they bury Ophelia, and he's talking to Laertes, he's trying to say I loved Ophelia but he sounds like a petulant child who just keeps talking, hoping somebody will believe it, not necessarily because it's true.Normally I like Julia Stiles, but I didn't believe her Ophelia. I didn't see her actually being crazy, just stoned. I didn't feel like she had reached her breaking point, and they cut a lot out that was what led to said point.The whole movie was just so... bland. By far the worst Shakespeare adaptation ever. If you're going to see a Hamlet movie, see the Kenneth Brannagh one. That was how Shakespeare should be done. This was like watching Amuteur Night or something. "},{"Title":"A very boring movie","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" No wonder this movie did not win any awards among the youth of this great country.The teen choice awards go to really good movies but this is not one of them.Shakespeare belongs in the middle ages and whoever still appreciates Shakespearian language, most probably also likes long nails, breast implants and strippers in those tall ugly shoes.Whoever thought of putting classical language into a modern day movie must have been a wee bit on some kind of mind numbing drug or his movie was financed by some eccentric old English man.Maybe the English love Shakespeare, but come on people, you really need to get a life if you think this movie is worth watching "},{"Title":"Beautiful adaptation of a beautiful literary work.","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hamlet is one of my favorite literary works, and as such, I've seen many versions of the film. This one is undoubtedly my favorite. I've read many reviews which are critical of the film's choice to adapt the story to modern day and the exclusion of some of the play's scenes, but overall, I feel that this version captures the emotional feel of the play the best, not to mention it is absolutely visually stunning.Ethan Hawke's performance as Hamlet is excellent. Part of the reason this film works so well, I think, is that the story is completely believable brought into modern times, and Hawke's Hamlet is the perfect morose college student; we can almost see he's at that time in his life anyway where he's questioning what is it I'm supposed to do with myself? and the death of his father throws him into a destructive, depressive spiral. Hawke's Hamlet is the perfect mixture of depressed and slightly off-his-rocker.Julia Stiles' Ophelia is another excellent performance as well; in fact, this film is filled with great performances. Bill Murray's Polonius is exactly the obnoxious buffoon he needs to be, Diane Venora's Gertrude charming and forgivable, Kyle MacLachlan's Claudius a great mixture of charisma and smarm. All of the performances in this film are nearly flawless!Performances aside, though, the visual style of the film simply must be mentioned. I often compare this film to Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet; where it is all color and brightness, this film is all the subdued blue-grey of New York City. Shot entirely on location, it benefits immensely from the unique architecture of New York. The visuals are stunning! Nearly every frame in the movie would work as a painting - that's how beautiful it is. There are many little details that delight when noticed, and inspire questions in the viewer's mind.The soundtrack, too, is excellent - full of slightly strange, ambient music which is utterly appropriate to the film's setting and Hamlet's state of mind. The film makes full use of pop culture in its presentation of a classic drama, and manages to meld them beautifully. Hamlet's delivery of the To be or not to be speech in particular is beautifully done, as is his internal monologue and his fascination with film. All the little touches in this film make it just that much better - not that it needs it, but it's just the cherry on top of a very delicious visual feast. See this movie! "}{"Title":"well, it does have its moments...","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  warning may contain minor spoilersFirst off, I'll say I was pleasantly surprised. I only saw this out of curiosity, since I am a fan of the play. I had read other user comments, and so I had pretty low expectations. What surprised me the most was that the acting wasn't bad at all. Ethan Hawke, suprisingly, was a decent Hamlet. That's really what Hamlet's supposed to be like- moody, stuck up, overly thoughtful, in his own little world. I am reminded of a line from Catcher In The Rye, which went something like, Hamlet's just supposed to be some screwed up guy, but Olivier made him seem like a god damm general. Not that more heroic interpretations of Hamlet are wrong- I just think it's unfair to say that Hawke makes a bad Hamlet just because you may prefer a different interpretation of the character.  Maybe Julia Stiles wasn't great, but I think she did the best she could with the minimal amount of screen time they gave to Ophelia. Other than that, Kyle Machlachlan and Diane Venora were very good, as was Bill Murray- I particularly remember his to thine own self be true speech. Oddly, this movie is one of the few versions of Hamlet that gets it right. For most of the speech, Polonius babbles just because he likes to hear himself talk, and Laertes doesn't pay him much attention because he knows that. When Polonius says to thine ownself be true it's not only the last line of the speech, it's the line where Polonius stops babbling and tells Laertes something that's actually meaningful. After all, Polonius is supposed to be a fool. This is the first version I have seen that succesfully captures both Polonius' foolishness and his good intentions. Anyhow, in conclusion, the performances range from good to at least interesting, as goes for the production design and cinematography. Now, with all that going for it, where does this movie go wrong?First of all, I have to agree with what one reviewer said about how this movie is done in by its setting in a specific time. If it was set in a modernized fantasy world that just resembles the 21st century, it would work. Its setting in 2000 does it in in lots of ways. In Shakespeare's play, Hamlet was, of course, a prince of a country. That is an important place in the world no matter how you look at it. In this film, he is merely the son of a CEO. There's a big difference between a country and a corporation- especially when we don't know why this corporation is so significant. So, what was once a story about the most powerful and famous people in a country is now reduced to  a story about just another family of super-rich people. I'm not saying that's the primary factor that kills the movie- it just takes a lot of the weight away from the original story.  Second, although everyone does the best they can, it's impossible not to laugh, or at least be distracted by the anachronisms that result from preserving Shakespeare's original language in a specifically 21st century setting. For instance, it's really hard not to be distracted by the frequent referrals to Hamlet and Claudius as prince and king. The movie seems to have self-destructive impulses. Just when we might have gotten used to the Shakespearean dialogue, we hear the voice of the moviefone man, or a man on TV, or we see Times Square just as it would look if it had been seen by our own eyes, and we are reminded of how anachronistic the characters are in their own movie.  About 20 minutes into the movie, it occurred to me that a much better movie could have been made if they had just done away with the Shakespearean dialogue, as in O. Or, if they had kept the dialogue but  set it in a fantasy world, like Titus, as I and a previous reviewer mentioned earlier. I wanted this movie to turn into either O or Titus, but instead, it turned out to be a very awkward imbalance of the two. The creators didn't put enough effort into creating an internally consistent setting. By transporting Hamlet into the real world of today, the filmmakers ended up creating a less convincing setting than any artificial world would have been.  In conclusion, revamping Hamlet was a concept with a lot of positive potential, and this movie didn't live up to that potential. Interesting? Yes. Good? At times. Bizarre to the point where you want to laugh at it? I'm afraid so. Bad? No, I wouldn't go as far as to call it a bad movie. The most unfortunate thing about this Hamlet is that a great modern Hamlet movie would be very possible- but since this version is pretty well-known, it's probably never going to get made. "},{"Title":"To see or not to see","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is an ambitious project with a very strong cast, yet for me, the modern setting does not quite work with the play in the way that Baz Lurhman achieved with Romeo & Juliet. Another reviewer called it bland and that is a good description - it is almost wholly unengaging and consequently one of the most gripping of stage plays is produced as a tedious and uninspired movie. Ethan Hawke brings very little to the part - other than looking cool, although other performances are generally strong - the fault is almost entirely with the direction and the interpretation. I applaud the ambition of the project, but sadly the end product is a disappointment. In staying as faithful to the text as possible, the gaps in the interpretation are too clearly exposed.Interesting, but not great.  "},{"Title":"A Comedy Tonight!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  If you want a hoot, rent the Ethan Hawke Hamlet. I laughed so hard my tush ached! I literally choked with laughter. Bill Murray's performance as Polonius is his funniest turn since SNL. Unfortunately for Murray, Hawke & Co., the movie seemingly was being played straight, but it's the sheer amateurishness and incompetence that makes it a delight (although I had to turn it off after Ophelia's mad scene in the Guggenheim Museum; Julia Stiles is plain awful, though it's more the director's fault than hers I feel).Hawke, Murray and Stiles seemingly not know a thing about what the play is about, or even the logic of what they are saying. The director's imagination and intelligence seems to have stopped with the idea of transposing Hamlet to the Manhattan patrician class circa 2000; why the language couldn't be updated to avoid the dissonance and illogic created by images/mise en scene that don't match the words of the play is beyond me. Would it have been too much, since Denmark is changed from a kingdom/country into a business enterprise, to change the word state to corporation (the latter word having as much import these days as state did a generation ago), or to drop the references to King, Queen, etc.? Laertes' warning to Ophelia to protect her chaste treasure, played straight-faced, is ludicrous when the actress playing the part is the hard-edged Stiles.It's a one-shot idea, Hamlet in contemporary New York City, and this movie gives one the impression of a particularly poor community theater in over its head, except that the community theater wouldn't be using product placements for a beer and a major video chain. (Would any serious film student go to the major chain and not a boutique video store? This is Manhattan, not Hodge Podge Lodge, Maine. And for a director to have Hamlet place two beer bottles before Ophelia with their labels clearly visible just screaming PRODUCT PLACEMENT -- this is a serious artist?)I rated it a one (1) as there is no zero. Dreck, but not without its amusements. "},{"Title":"something rotten in denmark","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A cool looking movie, in a very trendy way that I suspect will look  unbearably old-fashioned in 10 or 15 years, but what terrible, terrible acting! The poetry just gets thrown away (when not actually butchered--Hawke refers to the the undisover'd country *to* whose bourne no traveler returns, rather than from whose bourne, and there are other howlers. At one point Ophelia can actually be seen glancing at the cue cards. Gertrude apparently takes to drink at one point--she staggers about--but this goes nowhere. The product placement--Marlboros, Pepsi, Blockbuster, American Airlines--would make me gnash my teeth if I could spare the enamel. Every scene is busy to the point of twitchiness, because none of the actors can be trusted to stand still and say the lines.  I don't think this travesty will overcome fear or resistance on the part of viewers who don't know Shakespeare. Worthwhile art doesn't drop into anyone's lap, no matter how dumbed down it may be. People who are curious about Hamlet should read it, then see the Olivier or Mel Gibson versions. If Shakespeare hadn't been a great poet, only scholars would read him today; it's no service to him or the audience to sacrifice the poetry for an illusion of accessibility. "},{"Title":"nor the exterior nor the inward resembles that it was","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The trouble with this adaptation is that, albeit noble intentions to translate the plot into a modern setting, it fails miserably to bring with it any of the essential features that make a Shakespearean play what it is It's about character. The plot and scenery are merely vehicles by which the human nature is observed and illuminated. And every once in a while a version comes along that falls entirely for the plot and forgets the rest. And this is such a one. Ethan Hawke's Hamlet is shallow beyond comparison, the text is mangled to be almost unrecognizable, and Bill Murray's Polonius cannot save this either. The entire thing comes out as flat as can be. I don't even want to mention how the verse is being delivered. I'm not in the least opposed to modern adaptations, on the contrary, but you cannot do Shakespearean drama  while looking down your nose at it. I think the idea of setting this in a corporate realm could work indeed, but even two minutes into Claudius' opening speech the dream is shattered. This wimp is supposed to be the CEO of a multi-million dollar company ? This movie looses its ground about two minutes after the beginning, and gets steadily worse after that. The ghost conveniently visits Hamlet in his apartment. How nice of him. Hamlet would otherwise have slept right through the entire first act, which is quite metaphoric for the audience's main compulsion.  Most soliloquies are either cut, delivered from tape or spread out across a dozen takes. To be or not to be among the action movie isle in a Blockbuster ? Oh please! I have seen more than a dozen productions of Hamlet, and I admit it's not an easy play. It's not for freshmen actors or directors, Hamlet is graduation. And this version remains sophomoric at best. 2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Great Adaptation!!!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely one of the best adaptations of any Shakespeare play that I've seen in quite some time. The acting, incredible. The imagery, awesome. The directing, genius!!  Definitely a perfect 10! Once again proving that low-budget independent films are usually better than Hollywood blockbusters. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time with egomanical Hamlet from Hawke","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  There is a common saying in the theatre that no actor can ever completely fail in the role of Hamlet because the part is so expansive, and encompasses so much what it means to be human and what is humanity, that somewhere, sometime in the play an actor will find success.  Ethan Hawke proves centuries of theatre critics and historians wrong.  Before the SXSW screening, the director was quick to point out the most common question asked of him was Why another Hamlet?  His response was that hopefully the film would speak for itself and answer that very question.  Sadly it did not.This HAMLET tries a little too hard, is little too self conscious about being cool and looking slick.  Now I must confess many things about the film were original and inventive, for example The decision to present the Mousetrap as film/video produced by HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK, was very inventive and led out of a Hamlet who was obsessed with the narcissistic pleasure of videotaping himself. Likewise, Hawke watching James Dean in REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE before the O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I, speech was a nice touch.  This was fantastic - the original angry young man trying to communicate with the modern angry young man, but there wasn't enough of these moments.When producing Shakespeare there are some standard questions that inform and influence production. Hamlet most often is defined by the cutting of the script.  Conversely productions which do not cut the play and present Hamlet in its entirety (or Hamlet in its eternity, as Gielgud called it), also define the production.  Nothing defines this production, the text that is cut and rearranged, feels times arbitrary, capricious and random - something thrown together because this would be a cool idea, rather than this makes sense for the story or Hamlet.And that leads me to the biggest problem with the film Ethan Hawke. He comes off so unlikable and so un-charasmatic that ultimately NO ONE CARES. My God!  Hawke was more concerned with conveying grunge-cool while he opened a beer bottle for Ophelia in the nunnery scene than he was in really letting the audience know what is going on with an ambiguous line like I never gave you aught.To me, what makes Shakespeare the greatest writer in our western culture is his use of ambiguity and contractions along with irony.  Human Beings are by our nature ambiguous, difficult to define - just when you think you have someone pegged, they do something completely different and unexpected.  All of his characters are this way. Likewise the use of irony is rampant through out all of Shakespeare.  There is a reason that Falstaff is perhaps Shakespeare's saddest creation and Hamlet maybe his funniest.  Americans are not good with irony - we are very good and very effective with sarcasm, but not irony.  Think about it - ask yourself if you even know the difference between sarcasm and irony.  Shakespeare does and he uses it in all of his plays.  Hawke doesn't.  In fact Hawke comes off like the sort of poseur rich kid spoiled by fame that his Hamlet is trying to rail against.To an Elizabethan audience when they looked at Hamlet they would have seen a Prince who was cheated out of his crown, they would a have seen a man who should be king.  This is a difficult frame of mind for us in America to even contemplate - we have no context for monarchy.  So what most often happens in American productions of the play is that HAMLET becomes a domestic drama, a simple conflict between mother, son, step-father/uncle.  But this is wrong and ignores a giant element of the play.  At no point in this film did I believe that Ethan Hawke was ready and willing to become CEO of the DENMARK CORPORATION.  He was just a sort of artsy-fartsy college student with some Euro-trash friends (Horatio and Marcellus), more concerned with his video equipment and looking good while he was riding a motorcycle or at a chic club with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, than a man who was concerned that his uncle had popped between the election and my hopes.When Mel Gibson played the part there was some criticism of such a large Hollywood star doing the role, but that is exactly what Hamlet needs - star quality - of which Hawke has none.  Anti-hero Hamlets (such as David Warner's Hamlet with the Royal Shakespeare Company in the 60's) capture the intellectual imagination but never the theatrical imagination.  That is because we want to follow a classic hero's journey.  How many times did Joseph Campbell talk about Hamlet?  There is nothing heroic, nothing transformational about Hawke's performance and that is why the film ultimately fails despite some clever trickery from director Michael Almereyda.The sad thing about the film is that for some kid Hawke will be the first. As an actor that is one of the great bonuses associated with the role - for someone, somewhere you will be the first, your Hamlet will pop the Shakespearean cherry for somebody.  What a shame.Everybody should see this movie - it is the first, and I am sure last time in theatre and film history that an actor has and will ever totally fail in the role.  "},{"Title":"Yet another modernistic Shakespeare adaptation.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Is this a major piece of pretentious garbage or what? First of all, a Shakespeare play set in the modern world how original!!! It was original when Richard III (with McKellen) was done a few years back. But it was already unoriginal when Luhrman copied this idea and filmed his utterly idiotic version of Romeo & Juliet, with everyone armed with machine guns, for what is probably one of the worst movies ever made. It was not original when Titus was made, even if in Titus they sort of played back-and-forth with the past and present. But at least Titus was okay - and it's never been filmed before, as far as I know.But Hamlet...?? First of all, there have been so many versions of this play, especially in recent years, that there is no excuse or reason for anyone to film another version, and I don't care how much new energy they want to inject into it, or try a new approach to the whole thing, bla bla bla. Isn't it bad enough that Branagh made a 4-hour version of it?! When that piece of crap came out I thought that no one could ever top that in sheer self-indulgence. This Hamlet may not be quite as self-indulgent but it's pretty damn awful. Almereyda's version is one of the silliest things I've come across in recent years. Almereyda is a total idiot for thinking that he can make a the umpteenth modern-time Shakespeare play within a decade and get away with it.The first reaction to this movie is loud laughter. It really does come as a humorous shock to see this particular cast speak in Shakespearean English in this particular corporate-oriented environment. Even the caption at the very beginning is quite funny, too. However, the unintentional hilarity of this miserable filmic venture wears off sooner than one would like, and it's just dull from then on; boredom, disgust, and annoyance alternate. Then we have the cast the most idiotic ensemble casting I've ever seen. Most movies avoid having even one example of really bad miscasting. This piece of trash has at least four! Bill Murray plays the new king's stooge; watching him speak Shakespearean in a very bad movie makes me long for the times when he played in comedies. Pig-faced ugly teen Julia Stiles plays Ophelia; she plays her in the most annoying way imaginable; Ophelia doesn't come off as semi-insane but merely as a hysterical little 90s teen brat. Liev Schreiber plays Stiles's brother; this guy has been playing comic relief in so many movies that it's impossible to accept him in a heavy dramatic role; he tries hard but simply comes off comical, for example in the scene with the casket. And Kyle MacLachlan looks totally out of place, as usual; this man has been miscast so often that I almost got used to it. And as for Ethan Hawke who plays Hawklet; he isn't miscast but utterly bland and dull, as usual. (One critic called the casting unusual and considers it a benefit for the movie. Since when is bad casting rationalized by being considered unusual?) Ethan Hawke flexed his muscle to contribute some nepotism of his own into the stale Hollywood movie world his brother-in-law, Dexter Thurman (or something) plays Rosencrantz (or Guildenstern); Uma's ugly, little talentless brother. As far as Almereyda being supposedly clever with his alterations of the play utter malarkey. Instead of Hawklet hiring actors to play out his father's murder (as in the original) Hawklet makes an indie-type low-budget movie. How original! Wow! Now that is a brilliant idea! Almereyda - you are a film god. And how about that fencing duel at the top of the corporate building in the not-so-grand finale? Marvelous, simply marvelous. And the ghost appearing in an elevator, how about that one?! Genius.Almereyda merely changed the old means of communication and transportation into modern ones; a play becomes a movie, a letter becomes E-mail, etc. There is nothing brilliant about that. It's predictable and stupid. It's also stupid to refer to Kyle as a king, for he is a CEO or something. It's a mess. All this movie achieves is to induce unintentional laughter - and some considerably loud snoring and yawning. It is a silly affair, one that never grips you - not because you know the story but because the mood of the movie is so lifeless and the goings-on so utterly lacking in credibility and realism. What's more, the whole thing looks like a TV movie. It's hard to say what this two-hour joke lacks more energy or intelligence (in spite of Shakespeare's clever dialogue). There are also more or less subtle hints as to where Almedeyra's political heart lies we see Hamlet's wall plastered with pictures of, among other things, Che Guevara and even Malcolm X! In other words, this talentless director considers these men to be noble enough to be adored/respected by a morally sound character such as Hawklet. What a dubious, intellectually hollow mind Almedeyra must have! And in an earlier scene, Hawklet watches the pseudo-wise cookie-fortune ramblings of an empty-headed, drugged up Buddhist monk; this sort of thing is a direct nod of approval to that whole bird-brained New Age/Eastern philosophy nonsense which is so very hip in the morally decadent and infinitely dumb Tinseltown community. This also supports the fact that Almedeyra's intellect is a bottomless pit of stupidity. Knowing all this, it becomes apparent that Almedeyra's Hawklet and Ophelia are these morally clean artistic student souls (he makes art house movies, she does photography) trying and ultimately failing to survive in a harsh and immoral capitalistic world. Pathetic. Well, Mr.Almedeyra, only in a naive capitalistic country would you find someone actually dumb enough to think that a movie of yours is worth financing. Almedeyra reminds me strongly of Spike Lee a worthless, overrated filmmaker whose political messages are despicable at best and whose hypocrisy seems to have no bounds. "},{"Title":"Director succeeded in making Hamlet irrelevant","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've seen in the past 10 years (I don't go to  the major Hollywood releases) & the only movie I've ever walked out of.  Bill Murray as Polonius? Yeah right.  The actors are wooden, the dialogue feels like it's being read from a teleprompter.  In trying to update this piece by setting it in NY & adding a tech industry setting, the director made this tale seem irrelevant & laughable.  This first 1/2 hour or so was pure torture to sit through. "},{"Title":"certainly a better Gen-X update than Romeo + Juliet, if not great","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is an interesting if not altogether successful adaptation of Hamlet. I'd think if you're young and about to read the book in high school watching this would soften the blow of the text (if, of course, not providing an entire picture). This is a little like the cliff-notes contemporary example as opposed to the 98% faithful adaptation that Branaugh had made a few years later. The director has assembled no-less a fascinating and capable cast- I liked Ethan Hawke in the role, and loved supporting work from Kyle MacLaughlan, Diane Verona, Bill Murray (yes, Bill Murray, who is fantastic) and Julia Stiles- and he's created a situation and framework where the original text fits in with the 20th/21st century business and clothes and technology. Unlike Lurhmann's wild take on the play (too wild if you ask most, including me), this is a little more meditative in pace and tone, if not without any energy, and it's a fine sight to see the perennial To Be or Not to Be monologue spoken in a video store. Not for all purists, but a fun and strange adaptation with little hints of wonderful satire. B+ "}{"Title":"It made sense to me, and I'm not a big fan of Willie's on paper","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" English professors, English teachers, English students who don't want to read the cliff notes ... lend me your ears (well, actually your eyes.) To a lot of people, Hamlet is Twain's version of a classic someone everyone cherishes, but no one wants to really read or watch. This version may be seven years old, but like the Romeo and Juliet version by DiCaprio-Danes, kids will be able to relate to it, and most likely watch and understand it, if not respect the beauty of the language.The kids (and others) may be stumped at the language, but they'll recognize the context clues and acting of their contemporary actors, and they'll get the gist of it. I respect Kenneth B. and Laurence O. for trying to be faithful to the Bard. (Hell, to be honest, I've only saw Oliver's version as a kid in school. I have to revisit it as an adult. But I digress.) The words are the same, but when you have Bill Murray acting serious long before Lost In Translation to his son Scream's Liev Schriber while Ethan Hawke ponders the emotional/moral question of life in a Blockbuster video store you have something special that works even though on paper it would seems a mismatch to make a CEO a king in New York City. (Kudos also to the beautiful Diane Verona -- yes, Verona -- who plays a sexy Gertrude.) Look, I'm just a writer placing this stuff in a electronic box. But I really suggest if you want to teach Hamlet to today's youth show them the corporate version, with yes, blood, but also with heart. Then go to Oliver, Kenneth B., Mel Gibson, and so on. That's just my suggestion. View it first, and then if possible, tell me what you think it does is it both entertaining and enlightening as a good Shakespeare play or not? That's my question. "},{"Title":"Much better than might be expected","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Some reviewers have complained about the acting and the casting for this modern dress Hamlet. Clearly Bill Murray as Polonius is something of a joke. He is competent in speaking his lines, but he might have achieved a better effect had he played the part for laughs. (Although The Bard certainly would not have liked that.) Polonius is paradoxically a figure of ridicule because of his pomposity while at the same time he is the repository of some ancient wisdom. It's a delicate part to play and I don't think Bill Murray got it right.And then there is Julia Stiles as Ophelia. I thought she was competent, but failed to project the sort of distracted, suicidal imbalance that the part demands. And why didn't they let her sing the ditty instead of just pronouncing it before the king and queen in the mad scene? If Stiles can't sing a little (and it only requires the thinnest of voices) maybe she shouldn't have played Ophelia.Kyle MacLachlan played Claudius as an Enron-type CEO, merciless in his greed and malevolent in his desire to secure his hold on the corporate reins of power. The prayerful scene (overheard by Hamlet) in which Claudius remarks aloud that his words fly up, but his thoughts remain below is done in the backseat of a limo driven by Hamlet! In Shakespeare's play, Hamlet does not kill the king at that moment because Claudius's soul might very well go to heaven since he is in prayer. Recall that the ghost of Hamlet's father complains that he was murdered with no reckoning made, but with all his imperfections (sins) still upon his head.Most questionable to some is Ethan Hawke as the sweet prince. But I thought he did an excellent job and was very like a 21st century, privileged American (a secular prince) pretending to be going crazy. And I am sure that the Ophelias in the audience thought he was just wonderful.Certainly there can be little criticism of Diane Venora who played Gertrude to a tee. Incidentally the queen's chamber scene worked wonderfully well with Hawke becoming well the son disgusted with his mother, and she, seeing her tragic failings in her son's eyes, becoming the very embodiment of shame.I also liked Karl Geary as Hamlet's loyal friend Horatio. I thought it was interesting that here he has a silent girlfriend who is almost always with him. (She's silent because Shakespeare wrote no lines for her!) But putting all that aside, what I think is wonderful about this production is that it worked! Modern Hamlet in New York City, the king really the CEO of a Danish corporation, the kingdom, that corporation, the castle, its New York corporate headquarters. How simple. But would it play? And what adjustments and cuts and pastes would have to be performed on Shakespeare's immortal script? Well, practically none. A lot was cut out, but almost all productions of Hamlet leave out a lot, c.f., Olivier's Academy Award-winning film from 1948; Zeffirelli's 1989 Hamlet light starring Mel Gibson, etc. The most notable exception is Branagh's magnificent Hamlet from 1996 in which nary a word was cut from the text of the play. If you really want to experience Shakespeare's Hamlet at its best and fullest, see that Hamlet from 1996 starring Kenneth Branagh, Kate Winslet, Julie Christie and Derek Jacobi. You can read along as you watch it. (See my review.) Here we have selected speeches played over a backdrop of modern life in the Big Apple. Every word is from Shakespeare with the exception of a couple of things seen on TV. A security guard plays Marcellus; Fortinbras' army in the background is a rival corporation seen in newspaper headlines; the drape behind which the ill-fated counselor hides only to be stabbed by Hamlet becomes here a hotel closet with mirror through which Hamlet fires a bullet so that Polonius becomes indeed still. There is a sword fight at the end as in the great play, between Laertes (Liev Schreiber, who brings some welcome subtlety to the role) and Hamlet. It seems natural in a sense because both privileged young men could have taken fencing at prep school and university. There is no bubbling brook across which Ophelia lies. Instead she finds her quietus in the hotel's fountain.The graveyard scene in which the skull of Yorick--I knew him well! is unearthed is skipped over, probably because the tit-for-tat between Hamlet and the gravedigger would not make much sense to modern audiences. (Laertes still jumps into Ophelia's grave, but I must say without the full bravado that Shakespeare intended.) I guess I liked this more than others because I expected a lot less and was pleasantly surprised. Part of the power of the production comes from the close camera work on the faces of the players--something that surely would have delighted Elizabethan audiences--particularly when listening to some of the longer speeches. The trick in all of this is to make the Shakespearean speeches sound natural and very like what people today might say. I thought that Michael Almereyda, who wrote the adaptation and directed, pulled this off very well.For those of you who are high school teachers, I highly recommend that you show this to your classes. It will definitely help your students toward an appreciation of this great and timeless play. (And then show them the Branagh film.)(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Maybe it's just me, but...","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" ...isn't it getting a little old to have teenagers and young adults talking Shakespearean talk? True, we consider that language beautiful, but it's starting to just seem out of place. I will say that the cast members in this Hamlet do a good job in their roles; a previous reviewer noted that when you see what happens to the title character (Ethan Hawke) here, you feel that he has even more of an incentive to do what he does. It's just that if they make an updated version of a Shakespeare play, I think that they should just use modern language like they did with the Othello adaptation O. Also starring Kyle MacLachlan, Diane Venora, Julia Stiles, Bill Murray, Jeffrey Wright and Paul Bartel. "},{"Title":"A hamlet worth seeing","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I've seen many, if not all, notable films of Hamlet and I love this version. I was skeptical at first -- Hamlet in 2000? But Michael Almereyda pulls this off. In many ways it is more accessible than traditional Hamlets. The film has its staccato-like moments, which adds to the tension, and much of it is filmy and dream-like. Add superb acting and directing (you believe Hamlet's father was killed by his sleazy corporate brother, Ophelia's confusion, Hamlet's wonder at the situation) and you have a winner. I especially love the way Bill Murray does Polonius's speech to Laertes and Ethan Hawke's get thee to a nunnery speech to Orphelia. I would suggest high school students watch this version for another view of the masterpiece-- Hamlet. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"An interesting interpretation, but not the best","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The finest Hamlet on screen is Kozintsev's Hamlet (Gamlet) winner of a Venice Film Festival award made in 1964 in black and white, in Russian with English subtitles (Nobel Prize winner Boris Pasternak's translation and set to Shostakovich's music). That version showed the importance of filming tragic plays in black, white and gray. Branagh's Hamlet (1996) and Olivier's Hamlet lag far behind.Almereyda's Hamlet is far behind all these versions. It seeks to cater to the desires of the modern audience, a truncated play brought to screen with lush color and good looking players. Sam Shepard could well have been an inspired choice for the Ghost but he mumbles his lines--and yet Shepard is a capable actor in other films like Days of Heaven. Probably this has something to do with the fact that Almereyda and Shepard are mutual admirers.Almereyda gives us a fleeting glimpse of the gravedigger but little else! The gravedigger is shown but has no role (or lines to speak)--the modern buildings and electronic gadgets have a role. The fencing duel is compressed and unrealistic.However, the director's choice of having the to be or not be soliloquy ironically in a bookstore stacking action books, the equation of James Dean's Rebel with Cause with the central character, and finally Ophelia mulling suicide as her father talks to the Queen and her new husband are creditable contributions from the director in the film.The talented Diane Venora's (who only blooms with Shakespeare or director Michael Mann) Gertrude lifted up the film in parts. Evaluated in toto, the film is merely an interesting academic experiment. Nothing more. "},{"Title":"Liked it","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a Bard freak, but there are some films based on his stuff that I enjoy. HAMLET, with Ethan Hawke, Julia Stiles, Bill Murray, Kyle McLachlan, Diane Venora, Liev Schreiber and Sam Shephard was pretty nicely done. The language was OE, but the movie was set in modern day NYC. Doesn't usually work for me. I usually want the 14th century period detailing with the OE, or I want plain mod English with the modern timing. The absolute worst example of modernizing Shakespeare is ROMEO AND JULIET by Baz Luhrman!!! Ugh!!!However, because Hawke is one of my favorite actors and is impeccable here as usual, this HAMLET works well and plays out as the great murder mystery it is meant to be. I give it an A. There's really nothing wrong with it!!! "},{"Title":"Best Hamlet I've seen in a long time in the movies.","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  First rate.  A Hamlet in which everything is pared down to its essence. Quite the opposite of Branagh's, which was delightful for showing us everything written in the play.  This Hamlet 2000 gives us Osric as a fax machine (well, isn't he?), the play within the play (the Mousetrap) as a student project on a computer/editing machine, and the family Polonius as a real family --- Bill Murray (great as Polonius), Julia Styles, and whoever it is that plays her brother, are all made to look like each other and perform beautiful ensemble acting.Perhaps the only problem is that this version might seem difficult to those who don't know the play well.    "},{"Title":"one of the most underappreciated movies in years. 9/10","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a perfect example of the merit of film as an artform.  We have all been associated with Shakespeare on one level or another in our lives, and what we are often subjected too conforms to a simplistic mold on how a Shakespeare play should look.  The Shakespearian crowd often expects for a complete and concise telling of the story down to the last syllable and this movie chooses not to conform to this mold.  This is exactly why I love this movie so much, and why I find it important for it to get the credit it deserves.  We can all see Shakespeare at our hometown theater in its exact form, but the way in which this movie is told can only be done on film. Not only does this movie use witty and interesting symbolic visuals, but it also tells the story of Hamlet in a remixed version that I find highly effective. I find it hard for someone who truly loves Shakespeare to not be impressed by the way the story is adapted, and I also find it hard for someone not to come away looking at the play in an entirely new light.  I feel this movie captures the essence of Hamlet like no other movie before, abridged or unabridged.Some SpoilersThere are some who challenge the acting of Bill Murray as Polonious, and for that I understand.  His acting is raw, but I find all of the other acting highly impressive especially Ethen Hawke as Hamlet.  This movie is so visually impressive that I find so much of it absorbing.  Who would have thought Hamlet could have done his famous line (To be or not to be) while walking down the action isle at Blockbuster.  Or how about when Hamlet watches James Dean in Rebel Without A Cause during his rogue speech.  The director obviously understands the essence of Hamlet, and gets so much across that it makes me wonder why didn't Shakespeare think of that? For those of you who loved the modern remake of Romeo and Juliet, you might not like this remake.  More often than not I have found people say they did not like the Hamlet version.  This is sad because It has a much deeper aspect to it that Romeo and Juliet cannot approach.  While Romeo and Juliet is fun to watch, the remake of Hamlet in modern day sets itself head and shoulders above the crowd.  It clearly distinguishes that film has its own separate presence as an art form that is different than theater.  I do not mean that all classics should be interpreted as a modern day story, but I do wish for film to be used in its own special way that is not tied down with the strings of another art form such as theater.  This movie is special and should be appreciated as so, and that is why I give it the score of a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Oh my God","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a snob, and this movie started inauspiciously, I think, confirming my fears of a modern adaptation with popular actors.  It does use Shakespeare's language, with only a few words changed for the modern viewer, and the usual rearrangements and jettisonings.  And there are titles to explain the initial situation.  Eek!  Actually, the editing and the resetting of scenes is significant enough that we cannot anticipate the next line or even the next scene, and must look at the play with clean eyes, occasionally wide eyes.  This is a great benefit to those of us dangerously overfamiliar with the material.Much of the occurence does not make any sense in the '90s corporate setting. The language and personal relationships are likewise problematic, but the brain easily ignores such minor details.  Many lines are rushed through on metre and with no particular grace or expression.  This turns out okay in Hamlet since he is sort of depressed, thinking aloud, and... well, he's a blank slate, receiving all our interpretations instead of making his own, mostly reacting instead of acting.  Gray and vague like an Etch-a-Sketch, and like an Etch-a-Sketch, sometimes getting shaken up and losing his picture.  Um... He's also annoying, constantly watching black and white video clips on various monitors.  So, this is not as so often a piece centered about one star, it's more of an ensemble, the cast is quality to the smallest part.Ophelia is depicted with particular excellence, except she doesn't make sense.  To me, she never makes sense, unless she is just very simple, somewhat stupid, and dutiful.  I think this is a fault of the medium, I hate to say the play.  How can the full immensity, the emotional weight of these situations ever be depicted on stage or film? That lacking, our imaginations must supplement and engross their motives, or the characters become exaggerated, volatile charicatures of themselves, moving too slow or too soon, reacting in too great tenor. Ophelia's lover is mad - that's never depicted to my satisfaction. He must confuse her enough to make her willing to deceive him, and the stronger a character she's made, the higher a standard of motive is needed for her change.  Nonetheless, with this single inconsistency and a little perhaps excessive screaming forgiven, she is beautifully, strongly, and touchingly drawn.  No shrinking violet she, but a woman signified by water still and moving, pellucid, powerful, changing, falling...The Ghost is for once, more attractive than Claudius, aiding our accord and approval of Hamlet's obsessive grief.  Neither a terrifying nor an overwhelming, nor a pathetic figure, he is mostly human, and for that effective.  Laertes - oh, well done!  The grave scene achieves only an unsatisfying quiet pathos, but in all else, full of most excellent differences.  Liev Schreiber is perfectly cast, impulsive, capable of great emotion and violence, but basically warm-hearted.Claudius is unctuous, slightly sinister, appropriately threatening in a testosterone-y way.  Bill Murray's Polonius is undistinguished, no fault. Our Gertrude is lubricious and perhaps a lush, a wretched queen indeed, but she has her moment.This Hamlet, now.  He becomes most moving.  Moodier than other portrayals, yet he does not bore or disengage us.  Those annoying movies begin to be important and involving, not mere directorial flourishes. He's special.  This is a Prince trying to act, but then...  perhaps he has ADHD - he forgets his purpose.  It's tragic.  Also, one big problem - he's not really mad!  Hamlet in general plays more than is mad, though we debate to what extent.  But this Hamlet hardly even plays mad, making others' reactions to him not bear examination, but acceptable because we know the story, know that's what they do.  Likewise his play is too vague - we can understand the king's reaction, but would anyone else in the court understand?In fine, this is a most unusual, powerful, and moving production, due to depth of cast, the excellencies of particular interpretations, judicious editing and canny use of technology, which I hate to detail for fear of spoiling - I think some of the power owes also to the surprise of the edits and resettings.  Coming to this with an open mind, but not completely new eyes, I do not think it is logically complete, like the play within the play, it ought to be confusing without our prior knowledge.  Possibly I am wrong, even if not, it touches me not - I love the current film better than the other 5 or so Hamlets I have known.  A surpassing update. "},{"Title":"Moderan and Excellent Adaptation of The Shakespeare Masterpeice","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This adaptation of the original tale is done with great originality and pozzaz, Ethan Hawke is excellent as is everyone else even Bill Murray though out of place does well in his part.5 Stars "}{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is as butchered as Shakespeare can get, if you for a moment forget about a insulting Romeo and Juliet with Leo Di Caprio and Claire Danes, or pitiful Titus with Anthony Hopkins.  Movie, not just that it's very boring and pointless, but it's decapitation of Shakespeare's working.  It's offensive to take his original setting of old Denmark, and put it into America.Movie is not worth watching and is a big mistake.    "},{"Title":"Hamlet **1/2","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hamlet **1/2Remakes of classic Literature is rare nowadays. It seems people would rather remake a bad TV show that remake a classic. Hamlet was remade into a teen soap opera. It has good acting from all the supporting actors, but Ethan Hawke (who plays Hamlet) can't carry the movie all by himself. He tried to carry it but dropped it somewhere along the way.The film is about Hamlet, over played (or under, I'm not sure yet) by Ethan Hawke. In this version he's a twenty something son of the Queen (Diane Venora). He has fallen in love with Ophelia (Played nicely by Julia Stiles), but her father (Bill Murray, finally a change of character) has different plans for her. All the classic characters are there. I find it weird, though, that in the year 2000 these people haven't learned slang yet. Are they living in a cave? The Olde English I kind of had a problem with. After I while, I got into it. The main I had was Ethan Hawke. His context never changed. He said every sentence exactly the same as the last. He might as well repeated himself over and over. Only when the occasion REALLY called for it, he came out of his pathetic shell and acted. Julia Stile is wonderful in this. She really stretched her acting (with dumb teen stuff like Save the Last Dance to this). This seems a strange pick for Bill Murray. He's neither funny OR annoying. He's normal for once. I was disappointed with Steve Zahn's character, Rosencrantz. Zahn is always great, but his character just showed up and started inter acting with the plot with very little explaination of his character.I must comment of the great cinematography. And most of the acting was really good. The story didn't change so I can't complain there. But, the movies isn't good on the level that it feels like retread more than a remake.  "},{"Title":"One friend fell asleep and the other loved it","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see Hamlet last night with two friends.  One guy was snoring within the first 15 minutes and finally stumbled out of the theater 3/4 of the way through the film.  The other guy raved about it all the way home.  Me?  I gave it a 5.First off, I must say that I never have liked Ethan Hawke in any movie I have ever seen him in.  I really don't think he's a very good actor.  To me, he always comes across like a cold fish and somewhat of a dullard onscreen.  Of course, in this movie he could use his natural depressing persona to good advantage and mope through the whole thing and call it acting.Some of the other actors fared much better, I think.  Surprisingly good were Kyle Mclachlan and Bill Murray.   The photography and visual conceptions were artsy and interesting at first, but got old real fast.The only great thing about this film is that it is Hamlet and since I am a fan of Shakepeare, I always delight in his dialogue and each time I see one of his plays, I get a little bit more out of it.  My advice to anyone that would like to see this film...Rent the video of Zeffirelli's version, starring the great Mel Gibson and watch the part played passionately in a screen production that makes sense. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Best Modern Hamlet Ever","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I first saw Hamlet live at 15, and in the last 32 years have seen numerous versions on stage and screen. I have seen both period versions and versions updated to modern times, and this is simply the best of such updated versions. The actors deliver their classic lines with all the inflection and body language of modern-day people, lending the entire film an immediacy and recognizability that should make for a whole new generation of Hamlet fans. Ethan Hawke and Julia Stiles are fabulous as Hamlet and Ophelia. Bill Murray's Laertes is well-acted and believable. The setting is in New York, and the glamor and grit of the city makes an effective background for this dark story. "},{"Title":"The Divine and the Rubber Duck","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  These are some second comments on the new Hamlet, comments that escaped my earlier, hasty posting.More Bad The play depends heavily on the audience's belief that God directs regents, and that at some basic level, he is guiding the action. Macbeth and Lear also depend on this. Transposing the role of regent to head of a multinational probably works in terms of power. But it further takes the magic out of the machine of fate. Does anyone believe there is anything divine behind Bill Gates?More Good I already mentioned Ophelia as a well-crafted and projected part. I separately mentioned Hamlet and friends were film students. Ophelia is an amateur photographer. After a few days, one image has really stuck. When a wired Ophelia pulls `remembrances' out of her retro-50's 45rpm carrying case (how many know what that is?), and among them was a rubber duckie, my heart just sank. Few people work with the notion that these were just kids. She scoops up this duck -- it later appears in the fountain with the body. So much past is connotated with this, so much said. This girl will stay with me. I'll remember the Gugg.I also mentioned how out of place Bill Murray was. It must have been quite a gamble. He always acts by looking at the inside of his forehead, which well serves his invented sort of humor. Just doesn't work here. But the director has done well with his setting. Polonius is not the nattering fool many portray, but actually a wise fellow. This Polonius has an amazing library, placed not for display, but for reference. It could be easy to see that he is brains behind the company. Great use of the set to convey this, even though Murray fights it.And Another Good Too There are two problems with the play that this film solves deftly. Why does Polonius' death drive Ophelia mad and to suicide? Here she is already full of angst, and ready to drown herself when she is denied Hamlet. So believable. Another problem in the play. Why does Gertrude drink the cup? In every other production I've seen, it is an accident, an unhappy coincidence. Here, she knows the cup is poison. This director gets a lot of credit in my book.(Just wish he hadn't taken all the product ads.) "},{"Title":"Reasonable version but not totally comfortable","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hamlet returns from school to find his father dead and his uncle married to his mother and running his father's business - Demark Media Inc.  His friends tell him they have seen the ghost of his father and Hamlet investigates.  Meeting the ghost, Hamlet is told how his father died - poisoned by Claudius.  Hamlet begins to plan his revenge.This film runs at less than half the length of Kenneth Brannagh's film version of the play but it doesn't feel like it's a tighter, more fluid telling.  The film is a very rapid update - using digital video, designer clothes, media empires and such to replace the tools used in the original play.  This works quite well without taking away from the material.  At times it isn't convincing - I had problems with the use of Hamlet's digital cameras to portray things, I thought it was a bit obscure and didn't help the material move forward.The loss of so much material is a bit of a problem, but ironically it is also a problem that the film has so many words in it!  The editing and pacing is rapid and fast cutting, the characters all speak quickly and the whole film feels rushed; the problem with this is that I didn't feel that it gave the material time to sink in, the nuances of some of the dialogue was lost.  An extrapolation of this problem was that the characters were not as well rounded as they would have been if the dialogue had been allowed to work.The cast is pretty good but some are a little self conscious and seem like they felt they had to puff themselves up to speak Shakespeare.  Hawke is pretty good as Hamlet but lacks the necessary gravitas to carry it off; he never really seemed driven enough - more internal madness than anything else.  MacLachlan has surprisingly little to do; Venora didn't sit with my image of the queen (which was more my problem than hers I guess).  The support cast includes Murray, Shepard, Schreiber, Affleck, Zahn and Stiles but the film's was Hawke's and he doesn't really manage to hold the film up.Overall this is an OK version but it doesn't totally work.  For those who love the dialogue and the play, the film will feel too rushed, too frantic and with too much missing.  For the MTV generation (for whom I imagine it was hoped would be introduced to the play by this) the dialogue may prove too hard to follow with the speed it is delivered at and the fact that subtleties are lost in the rush. "},{"Title":"The Bard redux","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" HAMLET (2000) **1/2 Ethan Hawke, Julia Stiles, Diane Venora, Kyle MacLachlan, Live Schreiber, Bill Murray, Karl Geary, Steve Zahn, Dechen Thurman, Sam Shepard, Robin MacNeil, Jeffrey Wright, Paul Bartel. Filmmaker Michael Almereyda's hit-and-miss yet daring adaptation of William Shakespeare's classic story about the Dane prince facing his father's ghost (smartly cast Shepard; trivia note second time playing Hawke's dad &#150; previously in 'Snow Falling on Cedars') and whether or not to avenge his memory or simply off himself, is set in modern day New York City with the ever moody Hawke (for once cast for just reason, Hamlet is a petulant bore at times) as the tormented young man (this time as a videomaker) who must come to terms with the literal corporate takeover by his uncle Claudius (sleek MacLachlan) and his mother Gertrude (the always watchable Venora) while suffering the slings and arrows of his beloved Ophelia (stunningly affective Stiles), her vengeance seeking brother Laertes (equally compelling Schreiber) and their smirky father Polonius (boldly cast and acquitted nicely by Murray) as slackers Rosencrantz and Guildenstern (daffy Zahn and Hawke's bro-in-law Thurman) wait in the wings as the plot unfolds. While it is distracting to say the least (lose the Stone Temple Pilots ski cap Ethan!) it is a breath of fresh air in making the moldy storyline something tangible in the 21st century with some nice touches of idiosyncracies (the not so subtle 'To Be or Not To Be' in Blockbuster Video's ACTION aisle) and a cool glossy look thanks to cinematographer John de Borman. "}]