[{"Title":"Nurse Betty (2000)","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With Nurse Betty (2000), acclaimed indie film-maker Neil LaBute (In the Company of Men, Your Friends & Neighbors) makes his breakthrough into the big-budgeted (Betty's $24 million as opposed to Company's measly $25,000), mainstream realm -- and yet remains true to his roots. While his cast is now composed of A-list Hollywood names (Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman, and stand-up comedian Chris Rock), his material remains just as bizarre and quirky as his first two features, proving that he just may be the next big thing. Nurse Betty is one of the darkest comedies to be advertised towards a mainstream audience in years, and considering its moderate box office and critical success, perhaps moviegoers weren't as dumb and brainwashed as we though they were. The story follows (both figuratively AND literally) a naive waitress (Zellweger) who has fallen in love from afar with a handsome soap star (As Good As It Gets's Greg Kinnear) but is trapped in a loveless marriage to a slimy car dealer (Aaron Eckhart, who made his big-screen debut in Company). When her husband is gruesomely murdered by two hitmen (Freeman and Rock), she's sent into shock and obliviously sets out for Hollywood to meet her object of affection -- unaware that he's only an actor. When Freeman and Rock discover that the car she took contains 10 kilos of cocaine, they hit the road as well and outrageousness ensues. Fans of LaBute's previous work might have a hard time figuring out how this could possibly be the same guy who directed In the Company of Men -- a tragicomedy about two cruel sexist pigs who play a practical joke on a deaf co-worker --, but when you think about it, the connection is rather clear in Company, a vulnerable woman is unaware that she is being ruthlessly taken advantage of. In Betty, a vulnerable housewife is unaware that the man she's chasing thinks her genuine adoration is nothing more than a joke. Some might begin to wonder if LaBute is really some sort of misogynist himself -- considering that his recurring theme involves the downfall of innocent women. But personally, I think he's coming to the defense of the fair sex and dealing far more harshly with the abusers in his pictures than the abused. One of the many charms of this film is that it's absurdity is full-fledged most directors, when handling a script such as this one, would leave the story at two hitmen chasing a woman chasing a dream. But LaBute knows better, and has one of the hitmen (Freeman) fall obsessively for Betty as well. This was an interesting role for Freeman to take, because it allowed him to play off of his trademark `this-is-the-last-time' character (see Unforgiven, Se7en, and 1998's stinker Hard Rain); the supporting cast also includes the likes of famed weirdo Crispin Glover (Back to the Future), Allison Janney, and `Mad About You's Kathleen Wilhoite. The script, written by first-timers John C. Richards and James Flamberg, is deliriously over-the-top (honestly have you ever seen a comedy -- or ANY movie, for that matter -- in which a man is scalped in his own dining room?). You could argue that the ending is a little too perfect, but it's really not worth denying everything that's great about the film for one trivial complaint. If Nurse Betty is any sign of what LaBute has in store for us next, you can bet that I'll be lining up for whatever he decides to follow it up with.Grade A- "},{"Title":"An underrated movie on how people sometimes don't see the difference between reality and fiction","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nurse Betty is really an interesting movie. I guess we all know someone who is so convinced that the characters in a soap opera are real, that you can't explain them with any means that these are just actors and not real persons.'Nurse Betty' isn't a nurse at all. In real life she is an ordinary housewife who works at a diner. To escape from her awful husband and the problems in her miserable life, she has become a very dedicated fan of a soap opera. After she witnessed her husband being murdered, she goes into some kind of a shock and she loses all grip on reality. She thinks she's in love with one of the characters from the soap opera, a doctor, and decides that she'll visit him and start a family with him. The hit men however think that she knows too much and go after her to kill her.As I already said, the subject is quite recognizable (if you leave the professional hit men and the murder out of it) and the movie was funny. The story was well directed and the actors did a fine job. It had everything I always want to see when watching a comedy. I give it a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Great casting, acting, and original screenplay","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Neil LaBute takes a dramatic turn from his first two films, In The Company of Men & Your Friends and Neighbors, with this funny and original thriller/comedy/road movie.  When Betty (Renee Zellwegger) witnesses the brutal murder of her no-good husband (Aaron Eckhart), she develops a bizarre sort of amnesia, and flees in his car, not knowing that there is large stash of drugs in the trunk.  Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock are the hit men who follow her.What Betty is chasing, besides a new beginning (although she can't remember the old life) is her beloved, Dr. David Ravell (Greg Kinnear).  Only problem Dr. David isn't real, he's a soap opera character on the show `A Reason To Love' and he's really an egotistical actor named George McCord.To say any more regarding what develops would be too much, but Nurse Betty is certainly original.  Its hit men are, like the hired killers of Pulp Fiction, are violent yet philosophical, its take on soap operas terrific spoof material, and its acting is the best feature of all.  This has to be one of the best cast films in recent years.  Renee Zellwegger is perfect for Nurse Betty, with the constant gleam in her eye that pushes her in her quest.  Morgan Freeman brings his constant state of grace to the role of a killer at the end of his career, and Chris Rock is his partner, a man of rage and great impatience. Greg Kinnear is at his comic best as the vain actor/soap opera doctor.  There are also great supporting performances from actors such as Emmy-winner Allison Janney (The West Wing), Harriet Sansom Harris (Frasier's agent Bebe Glazer), and Kathleen Wilhoite (Chloe on ER). Actually, the supporting cast is a Who's Who of television best character actors.A unique film that is funny one moment and chilling the next, Nurse Betty is a mix of great acting, casting, and a terrific screenplay.  "},{"Title":"For The Adventurous Only","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  People keep asking is this a romantic comedy?, a black comedy?, a violent thriller?.  If you're the kind of person who is not comfortable with a film unless you can safely store it into one of five or six comfy little categories, move on (or as Jack Black says, go to the mall!).  To quote Roger Ebert, audiences lobotomized by one-level stories may find this confusing.  It's really a sweet little comedy that breaks a number of 'sweet little comedy' rules, by introducing real terror and a few (count 'em - 3) scenes with a bit of gore.  Like Jonathan Demme's minor masterpiece, SOMETHING WILD, we are taken out of a safe little world (Kansas, literally) to another dimension.  This dimension is part Oz and part grit.  Oz is the fantasy life of the main characters (for Zellweger it's Kinnear, the fictional doctor on a soap opera, and for Freeman it's Zellweger, who he sees as a sort of modern Doris Day).  Intertwined with the fantasy is the frighteningly realistic fact that Freeman and his son Wesley, are hit men.  What hit men do ain't pretty.  I'm personally relieved that this is not a cute comedy with 'widdle cuddwly' hit men who are really not so bad because after all, their violence is bloodless we can overlook what they do.  UH-UH!  We are not left off the hook that easily!  On the other hand, Morgan Freeman is an authentically charming guy, and in many ways, this film contains some of the most sparkling romance (real and/or imagined) that's been seen on the screen in a long time!  This indeed is a film that breaks many conventions while celebrating others, but be forewarned, this is not a safe, cuddly film.  You're not in Kansas anymore! "},{"Title":"A Splendid Little Black Comedy.","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" LaBute's 'Nurse Betty' tells the story of a young housewife (and part-time waitress) in search of the man of her dreams. Sounds like another fluffy romance, no? Not quite! Her adulterous trash of a husband is scalped. Two hit men, a father who's about to retire and his son, are after her (the father happens to be in love with her). The man of her dreams is a character from a soap opera...she travels half the country just to be with him. Little does she know that it's only an illusion. Yes, it is a bizarre little comedy but fun nonetheless. Zellweger proves to be the perfect choice to play Betty. She delivers a very nuanced, comic and moving performance. Has Morgan Freeman ever gone wrong? He's just laugh out loud hilarious. Chris Rock too takes a chance playing the villain and does a fine job. Greg Kinnear and the supporting cast that includes Tia Texado, Allison Janney, Aaron Eckhart, Kathleen Wilhoite and Crispin Glover are all good. the soundtrack is beautiful and very romantic. It just adds to the surreal mood of the film. A lot of the film takes place on the road giving us glimpses of the beautiful American landscape and an adventurous feel. Towards the end, there's a beautiful scene between Morgan Freeman and Renee Zellweger (well I can't say what it's about without giving spoilers) which is the real turning point in Betty's life and the way that scene was presented amidst the chaos in the next room is amazing. 'Nurse Betty' is a sweet film that dares to go against the usual standards of American comedy. There are some very graphic scenes of violence and there's the element of suspense as the father and son track down Betty. Yet, it manages to stand as an adventurous comedy that is uplifting and brings a smile. "},{"Title":"Unique, inconsistent but great","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's much to enjoy here if you like movies because of the actors. I was attracted to this film because of Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock who always deliver, but there's also great acting from the rest of the cast, most notably Zellweger but Kinnear is also perfectly casted as is the rest, no exceptions. All a joy to watch.And then there's the offbeat plot with a woman living in a fantasy of being a soap character that takes over her life and makes her forget that she was just a waitress in Kansas with a cheating husband who got killed in front of her eyes by hitmen. Sometimes I thought the movie was thrown way off balance with the sudden bloodshed but most of the time it was a very warm film. It was the wonderful, strange mixture between cold reality and movielike fantasy that made it interesting. It's good for a couple of dosed laughs but I would classify this as a tragic comedy with a relatively happy and satisfying ending, tho it may be cheap to some. Funny thing is, as life can be stranger than film, all in the movie could in theory happen! And the focus is still very much on human emotions so in that way the movie is still down to earth.Better than I expected, this film rules, can't get enough of Morgan or Chris but really everybody did a great job making this film.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An original and fun story","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure why I picked for a borrow from mom for Nurse Betty. I think just because I had heard a little bit of this movie. But I'm glad I did. Nurse Betty is an original and clever movie that has humor and a darker side. This was one of Renee's first big one's before hitting it major in Hollywood. I can see why, she is an incredible actress. The scene where she finally realizes what had happened and she's on the set of her favorite soap opera, you can see pain, confusion, fear, and embarrassment on her face. Just to let you in on the movie, she plays Betty. A shy and insecure woman who stands by her abusive husband, she's a waitress, and is in love with soap operas, especially one where a certain cute doctor, Dr. Dave Revell. When she happens to see her husband's murder accidentally in separate room, the murders she notices are two customers she just had, Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock. She then just looses her mind and leaves town after talking to he police and says she needs to find her former fiancée, Dr. Dave Revell. So, she travels along the country to California to find Dr. Revell, and wants a job as a nurse to work with Dave, she's seen the show so many times, somehow she's just awesome at being a nurse when she saves a woman's brother. Despite everyone telling her that she is delusional, she just looks at them like as if they were the crazy one's. When she meets the actor who plays Dave Revell, George(his real name) thinks she's just a crazy fan trying to get on the show. She just looks at him with confusion and believes that he and her belong together.Renee was terrific, she was so believable on loosing her mind in the movie. She has come such a long way, and wither you want to admit it or not, she's adorable and a great actress.Morgan Freeman plays one of the assassin's, Charlie, who is the father of the two. He is so charmed and smittened by Betty and while chasing her around the country, he becomes almost just infatuated with Betty to the point where he almost falls in love with her. He and his son Wesley must find Betty when they find out she was there at the murder scene and could give away their identities. When Charlie sees Betty and catches her finally, she's scarred at first, but calms down and they know they have a real connection. It was a beautifully played scene, my opinion is that Morgan gave a stronger performance. He's just great.A surprisingly decent performance by Chris Rock, the son, Wesley. He is so gun-ho about just getting the job done in a rush and taking care of business. I loved his comedic performance at the end where he and the gang he's holding hostage by gun point are just watching the soap opera's together. Classic. Nurse Betty is a great movie that I'd recommend for a good laugh and just in all a nice honest little movie I think anyone could enjoy.9/10 "},{"Title":"Cute, edgy and very funny","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an adorable, if somewhat edgy, comedy from a clever and witty script by John C. Richards, crisply directed by the very talented Neil LaBute, proving that he can handle comedy just as adroitly as he can the art house movie.Renée Zellweger stars as Betty Sizemore, a sort of Doris Day of the 21st century, a waitress from Kansas whose fantasy life centers around Dr. David Ravell (Greg Kinnear), star of a TV soap opera called, A Reason to Live, to such a fanatical degree that she has memorized lines from the show after watching the tapes over and over again. (This will come in handy later on.)Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock play a father-son team of cocaine-dealing hit men who ignite the premise of the movie by murdering Betty's slimy used car salesman husband, played by Aaron Eckhart, who starred in In the Company of Men (1997), also directed by Neil LaBute. Chris Rock is a comedic psychopath, and Freeman a fatherly murderer whose favorite dictum is three in the head, you know they're dead. One of the amazing and characteristic things about Morgan Freeman is that even while playing a professional criminal, he manages to sound like the wisest, gentlest man you ever knew.True, the plot relies heavily on co-incidence (Betty copping the keys to the Buick that just happens to have the goods in the trunk), precise timing (meeting Dr. David and entourage at exactly the right moment), and some questionable psychology (Betty's partial and convenient amnesia). But such contrivances should be written off as poetic license and ignored. After all, who would criticize Shakespeare for the tortured plots of his comedies? More significantly, what makes this work is the cleverness of the plot melded well with the personalities of the characters (while gently satirizing them), and some very funny dialogue. My favorite line is when Freeman, looking gravely at a picture of the disappeared little miss Nurse Betty, soberly remarks to Rock, We may be dealing with a cunning, ruthless woman here. I wonder, could it be that some of the pseudonymous (and humorless) reviewers who trashed this movie here and at IMDb are jealous, out-of-work screen writers?An observation and a question Renée Zellweger has the kind of on-screen presence to delight the most jagged heart. And who really is the reigning queen of contemporary filmland comedy, Zellweger or Reese Witherspoon? They are both brilliant. Witherspoon is a little more over the top while Zellweger is more impish. It would be interesting to see them trade roles, say, Zellweger as goody-goody A-student Tracy Flick in Election (1999) and Witherspoon as Nurse Betty. Too bad something like that can't be done.Incidentally, the song, Ca Sera, Sera heard in the background won an academy award for best song in the Hitchcock thriller, The Man Who Knew Too Much (1956), starring James Stewart and Doris Day. The reason it reappears here is not entirely clear, but the resemblance of the wonderfully naive Nurse Betty to the on- and off-screen Doris Day (who also had a hit recording of Ca Sera, Sera,) goes beyond the strawberry blond hair to a kind of irrepressible innocence. In Nurse Betty, however, the Doris Day world of white picket fences and monogamy is given a contemporary spin. Although this is to some extent a romantic comedy, it is one in which the answer to the question, Who gets the girl? is one never seen in a Doris Day flick.Bottom line if you can watch this without laughing old loud and crying some real tears, you need to get your hard drive fixed.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Inventive and weirdly funny throughout, but touching, too, and Zellweger amazes!","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nurse Betty (2000)This is a sleeper, a dark comedy with enough inventive twists to call to mind The Truman Show but with a greater sense of reality to hold it down. Renee Zellweger is flawless as the naive, sweet, but utterly detached young woman named Betty who is addicted to a soap opera called A Reason to Love. This seems sweet enough, but her husband is a jerk (totally) and things start to spiral, and get dizzy, as reality even for the viewer starts to shift ground.Not that you are ever confused about what is happening or who the good guys are. The good guys are not Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock, for sure, as this unlikely and comedic father and son duo get involved, incidentally at first, in Betty's strange inner and outer life. A chase of sorts ensues, the soap opera becomes reality, and then reality becomes soap opera. And it's really hilarious and inventive and fast paced.Is it a total work of genius? Probably not. Maybe Charlie Kaufman would have added another twist in there (I'm not sure how), and certainly some of the side characters could have seemed less cardboard, or less awkward as actors. But Zellweger is unbelievable (really, your jaw might drop at how convincing she could play her mental blindness, and her awakening, of sorts). And Morgan Freeman is his usually convincing and engaging self. The utterly disgusting violence of one 20 second scene might turn off some viewers near the beginning, but if you can keep watching, the movie gets better from there. Much better. "},{"Title":"Nurse Betty focuses on an unhappily married coffee shop waitress in Kansas, whose ungratifying life blends with her fascination for soap operas as a form of escapism.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As Betty Sizemore (Renee Zellweger) secretly watches her tyrannical husband Del (Aaron Eckhart) being murdered by the vengeful hitmen Charlie and Wesley (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock), her bruised sense of reality becomes totally immersed in the fantasy world of her favorite soap opera. In a state of complete denial and delusion, Betty escapes both physically and mentally from her unsatisfied, small town life to search for Dr. David Ravell (Greg Kinnear), the handsome and loving hero of A Reason to Love, a soap opera set in a hospital and produced in Los Angeles. Immune to reality, Betty arrives in L.A. and becomes Nurse Betty as she tries to belong in the hospital world of her dream lover. Meanwhile, the angered Charlie and Wesley track Betty down, convinced she is a dangerous witness who also knows about their compromising dealings with Del.Nurse Betty creates comedy and suspense by contrasting its main character's extreme innocence and optimism with the evident hypocrisy and violence that surround her. By clearly defining the protagonist's difficult life, Nurse Betty justifies its character's tendency to turn away from reality. Thus, while offering a comment about the popularity of the soap opera within the film, Nurse Betty also makes a comment regarding the widespread addiction to television and its celebrities. In addition, Nurse Betty benefits from the effective manipulation of its protagonist's mental state, particularly in those scenes where she cannot distinguish between Dr. David Ravell, the character, and George McCord (Greg Kinnear), the actor who plays him. Betty's incapacity to recognize George as an actor leads to funny misunderstandings, which stress the magnitude of her delusional state. However, in spite of these successes, Nurse Betty suffers from the troubling characterizations through which the narration evolves. For example, while Charlie and Wesley are consistently portrayed as a comical pair, the brutality of their actions undermines any sense of appreciation or acceptance the viewer might have initially experienced. Similarly, although the initial scenes establish Del as a detestable man, the humiliation and violence he experiences with his murderers surpass all the humiliation and violence he caused his wife Betty.Finally, toward the end of the film, Charlie undergoes awkward transformations as he develops an obsession for Betty; an obsession which results in noble feelings of love, and which ultimately destroys him. Consequently, since the characters' roles as victims lack consistency, the story's victimization processes seem random and unsubstantial. All in all, Nurse Betty's indeterminacy --rather than creating suspense-- weakens its characters and pollutes its plot. "}{"Title":"Zellweger sells it","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There's some heavy-duty talent involved in this movie. Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock as a father-son hit team. Greg Kinnear as a soap opera star. Direction by Neil Labute. The brilliant script is by John C. Richards. Well, maybe not everyone if familiar with that guy. But his screenplay is what makes it all work.Renee Zwellweger is front and center. I'd love to say this was her breakout role, but she had been in Jerry Maguire four years earlier. Still, I think this movie proved she could carry a movie by herself without Tom Cruise co-starring. She does carry it.How do you classify this movie? Light-hearted romance. No. Black comedy? But it's sweet, kinda. Crime drama. Well, sorta. But really, none of the above. It's about a crazy lady who, without really realizing it, puts her faith in luck. And it pays off. Even if the main character is insanely deluded.Can this work? Zellweger sells it. "},{"Title":"A New Step in Mass Media Layering","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Bad The gimmick of this film, as with very many, is contrast. This time its the well-exercised contrast between mindless brutality and open, honest innocence. What's new is the ratcheting up of the extremes. The violence is a new extreme in this context. How much more can we escalate? Is our own innocence so permanently numb?The Good This film is remarkably sophisticated in its self-referential layering. Here is an indicator that in this category at least the general intelligence level in the US is rising. It takes real abstract thinking to appreciate this, and one imagines that an audience in the 80s would be thoroughly puzzled.Simple films with theatric self-reference usually mix real life with a play-within-the-play. Shakespeare in Love and illuminata are of this ilk. Slightly more complex is real life within the play as with The Truman Show. But here we have a new and lovely evolution, six layers of self-reference. We have the layer of the real-life Renee and her film character. I am in no doubt that the marketing of Renee as the new America's Sweetheart is the real basis of this effort. So Renee playing the public Renee. Then we have Renee playing Betty. We are lead to believe that the three are simultaneously real. But this has been common for 75 years.What's new is Betty becoming Nurse Betty. Another layer, and then full circle as the real nurse Betty becomes the play Nurse Betty. This last is assumed before it actually happens. Finally, we have Freeman's fantasy angel Betty, which we assume is the root of all the conflated layers. That makes six layers by my count. Think about it this film requires a sophisticated viewer. As it will likely be a big hit, that sophistication must exist in the masses. Wonderful!Incidentally, only two people in this film can act, and one is not Chris Rock. What's with this guy? "},{"Title":"Bad aftertaste...","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To sum this movie up, it is LaBute carrying his sadism over into the realm of comedic farce.  The predictable result is that he is constantly stepping on all the jokes by insisting on surrounding them with blood-curdling violence and extremely hateful characters.  There is also evidence of his continuing efforts to insult and ridicule everything in sight but then to apologize for it with weak gestures to the PC.  Basically the movie just doesn't work, its plot is beyond contrived, the characters are one-dimensional cliches, there is no consistency or development of anything, and the comedy (where it is not totally out of place) is the worst kind of High Concept drivel.Morgan Freeman and Renee Zellweger are completely wasted on characters that seem like parodies of studio-driven audience pandering--no matter what, make them likeable, neutral (and neutered), and full of moral platitudes. Crispin Glover is in here just long enough to convince you that he doesn't belong in movies anymore.  Chris Rock actually has negative chemistry with fellow hitman Freeman--it's as if they are acting in different rooms even when they are two inches away from each other.  In effect, Chris Rock seems like a digital insert.  At least he isn't as annoying as Jar-Jar.LaBute's 15 minutes may well be up by now.  It's already looking like he's overstayed his welcome.   "},{"Title":"What's Morgan Freeman doing here?","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Morgan Freeman is one of my favourite actors, especially for his work in Seven and Shawshank, but I seeing him alongside such awful actors as Chris Rock (stick to bad comedy) and Renee Zelweiger (just quit), I couldn't help but wonder if it was a joke.Perhaps I'm being unfair, because Bridget Jones was one of the disgusting pieces of utter trash I've ever seen making it just impossible for me to look at the talentless Zelweiger without wanting to vomit, and actors should vary their work... but it just didn't work for me.Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"A near hit or a near miss?","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard to categorize this movie, but many things come to mind. My boyfriend described it as Blue Velvet filmed by the Farrelly brothers and I think that is an excellent description. My problem with this film is that it sets up its premise so exquisitely in the beginning - Renee Zellweger trapped in a waitressing job that she can actually do in her sleep, who watches her favorite soap so zealously that she can pour coffee while staring at the screen. As we follow her around in a day we begin to realize how desperately she is trying to keep going by losing herself in a false positivity sustained by soap opera platitudes, but that these are becoming increasingly more difficult to apply to her sad life and bad marriage. As she soldiers on through the day, more and more things unravel around her, so that by the time she witnesses the brutal murder of her husband, she is completely consumed by her imaginary world. Up to this point, Zellweger balances the tension of her delusional positivity with a buried sadness that is so delicate, when it comes out every once in a while, it is heartbreaking to see. Then LaBute just abandons ship with her and launches into a road trip movie that loses all dramatic tension by creating extremely cartoonish interactions and characterizations that do not come into balance again until Bette meets up with her soap opera star at a charity event. The scene where Bette introduces herself to the writer and some of the cast of the soap opera A Reason to Love is one of the best balancing acts of conflicting views of reality I have ever seen on screen. But once again LaBute abandons Bette to one-dimensionality so he can rush over to the Grand Canyon for yet another badly written scene where Morgan Freeman is trying to have a conscience and Chris Rock is just trying to get the job done. The point at which I got anything out of their interaction with each other was the point at which Chris Rock decided to stop acting and just start doing his foul-mouthed comedy routine. Finally there seemed to be some spark and life to their relationship, and the road trip aspect started to pick up for me. I feel like Mr. LaBute is very good at theatrical manipulation of audience expectation, but not so adept at filmic flow and continuity. I am glad he exists, and the film was very interesting and very watchable, but I think he still has a lot to learn about how to create and sustain a convincing oddball reality throughout the duration of a feature length film.You can't have intermissions in a modern movie theatre, but I felt as if there were intermissions in this film, that plot lines would ebb and flow like tides until each character was plucked out of the group and given meaning. Perhaps this would have been best done as a play first, and then the ensemble cast rounded up to do the film. I was underwhelmed by the artistry but entertained by the quirky story, so I think I will just leave it up to other viewers to determine - is the film half-empty, or half-full? "},{"Title":"Dreamers","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Three is a charm, and it certainly was for Neil LaBute - his first three films (of In the Company of Men, Your Friends and Neighbors, and this one) were fresh, original, darkly funny, had personality and insightful, not clichéd look inside his characters' hidden desires and motivations. What he saw often was not pretty but always honest. Of three, Nurse Betty is the best - deliciously multi-layered, full of twists and turns, making fun of the TV obsessions and turning upside- down many genres. What is the film? A sort of a cinematic onion that reveals its layers one by one. It's a black comedy and a thriller, a road movie and a modern version of the girl Dorothy's adventures in the Wizard of Oz. It is very detailed clinical description of post- traumatic stress disorder and the parallel story of two dreamers who in the same fashion created in their imagination the ideal lovers that were so far removed from reality as Kansas from Oz. And the awakening was truly shocking. Renee Zellweger in a Golden Globe-winning performance has never been better, before or after Betty (Chicago came close). Morgan Freeman has never been as romantic and so much in love at the same time being a cold-blooded and meticulous hit-man. Greg Kinnear as a man from Betty's dreams, so handsome that a bit more and it would be a crime was perfectly cast and funny as the shallow TV star. The presence of Aaron Echhart and Crispin Glover did not hurt the film, either. But the real star is the script, so rich and unpredictable that it was pleasure following all its turns and twists. Underseen and underrated indie film that has only became better since I saw it first time soon after its release, it is a rare treat. This is a very funny and very dark film. It is dreamy, and it's one of the movies that make me happy just to know that it exists. Definitely recommended for repeat viewing. The ending is beauty itself. There is another never I have to add -Neil LeBute has never done anything as fresh and enjoyable since Nurse Betty. "},{"Title":"Betty Quijote","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This excellent film is another reminder for us to look under the surface of things. Beyond even the most sordid or terrible details there is something extraordinary waiting for you if you had eyes for it. Betty's ingenuity, purity and capacity of transfiguration, symbolized and enhanced by her post-traumatic shock, leave a mark on everyone in the film and in the audience. It's like Charlie (Morgan Freeman) put it clearly, that the two of them are resembling one to each other more than you'd think, hence his fascination with her as a personification of that ideal of purity long lost by him. The film is powerful and diverse. Life is diverse, too. It has its horrid moments and its soulful moments. Why do we need to squeeze the film in a category (comedy, be it dark or not)? Even the scalping scene, apparently appalling for so many people, is not that graphic and is very short. Most of the performances are excellent, and first of all Ms. Zellweger of course, who is perfectly cast and entirely believable. Betty is a kind of 'Dona Quijote', looking for the extraordinary and the soul-fulfilling beauty in every thing. 'You don't need anyone, because you have yourself.' It's a soulful, even spiritual film, much more effective in its suggestiveness than a morose, didactic, preaching and pretentious one. "},{"Title":"Charming comedy, despite one jarring yet necessary scene that shot the rating to an R.","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Betty Sizemore (Renee Zellweger) lives her life through soap Opera A Reason to Love as a way to escape her slob husband and dull life. After a shocking incident involving two hit men (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock), Betty goes into shock and travels to LA, believing that she is destined to marry the show's main character (Greg Kinnear).Nurse Betty is that rare thing, a lesser known film with an all-star cast and a fluffy Rom-Com plot that surprises with it's terrific script and spot on acting. Indeed, such a plot makes one question the R rating, but it's warranted all right. The shocking incident that sends Betty over the edge is a tad too graphic compared to the light, amusing comedy that is to come and feels like something out of a different movie, but at the same time it is necessary to believably show Betty's transformation into the doe eyed, lovable nut job she becomes.As we go along with Betty on her journey, director Neil LaBute works some extraordinary magic which makes the movie unique and high above your bog standard comedy of error. An example of this would be Betty's first meeting with her crush. She pours her heart out to him and he plays along, thinking she's auditioning for a part on the show. Even as we are aware of the ludicrous nature of Betty's ramblings, the music swells as she speaks, giving us, the audience, Betty's emotional perspective. We almost believe what she is saying, yet we understand that her mind is fractured. Whereas other filmmakers would try to accent the ridiculousness of the situation to wring every ounce of possible comedy out of the scene, LaBute is sensitive to his main character and treats her with the utmost sympathy and understanding.The banter between the hit men played by Freeman and Rock is priceless, the excellent script doling out clever line after clever line for them to riff off of. Freeman in particular is excellent as always, pacing himself as his character slowly and blindly falls in love with his own ideal of Betty, not even truly knowing who she is or what has happened to her. Aaron Eckhart once again shows versatility in the thankless role of Betty's no-good husband and he is almost unrecognisable. The other revelation here is Kinnear, whose portrayal of the soap's star is not too overcooked. There's a tendency to lay on the celebrity bastard cliché as thickly as possible, and Kinnear resists, instead imbuing him with a pompous yet restrained self importance, despite simply being a soap star.The soap opera is realised so well, it could almost exist. LaBute and co hit the nail on the head with this one and a good thing too. If the soap opera had been too satirical, a large part of the film would not have worked. To do a Days of Our Lives spoof as seen in Friends would have been the wrong move for this movie. The dedication to detail pays off, as the style and feel of the soap opera begins to bleed into Betty's reality more and more, while keeping with the overall unintentionally comedic aspect of the genre. The scenes on the set feel real, as opposed to some films in which the atmosphere feels so manufactured, you wondered why people who do it for a living can't get it right.The neat resolution of the final act, while being a tad predictable, is wholly satisfying overall. It's a shame that after LaBute directed this wonderful film, the mainstream came calling for him to direct the abysmal remake of The Wicker Man, a fine example of a man so totally above the material given to him. Unfortunately, one cannot absolve him of all responsibility.If you haven't seen Nurse Betty, it's something to discover. If you have, it's worth a re-visit. There is a charm to Nurse Betty that is infectious, even if it may not leave you thinking that much afterwards. A hidden gem nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Nurse Betty","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Minor spoilers follow, but nothing you won't have learned from reading the back of the DVD.Held together by a wonderful central performance from Renée Zellweger, Nurse Betty is a dark yet deceptively good-natured comedy.Suffering from an emotional and mental breakdown after witnessing her sleazy husband's murder, already-troubled and desperately unhappy waitress Betty becomes convinced a character on her favourite daytime soap is her long-lost fiancé and sets off from Kansas to Hollywood to find him.Instead of making jokes at the expense of Betty's mental state, writer John C. Richards is very sympathetic, with Zellweger portraying her as a lost innocent, not entirely helpless but tragically vulnerable nonetheless. Crucially she's never really a victim despite this and while she undoubtedly suffers horribly the motives of the characters who treat her poorly are all understandable - even Greg Kinnear as the object of her deluded affections may be an egotistical, blinkered, arrogant pig but he genuinely believes that she's merely a quirky wannabe actress with bags of talent rather than an insane stalker.The farcical ending where all the main protagonists descend on the same place (in this instance Betty's house) at the same time to have it out is as old as cinema itself but it works quite well here, even if the shift in tone is unfortunate.Zellweger is ably supported by Kinnear and Morgan Freeman both doing solid work, and it's especially pleasing to see Chris Rock show restraint in his earlier scenes.Not nearly as cruel as you might expect, and not at all mean-spirited, Nurse Betty - while far from being a laugh riot - is a solid entertainment elevated to something considerably more by the lead actress. "},{"Title":"A Stylish Black Comedy with a First Rate Screenplay and a Perfect Cast","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" NURSE BETTY is a delicious black comedy that is an affectionate send-up of the film noir genre that takes some effective swipes at the television industry as well. Renee Zellweger stars as Betty, a sweet-natured waitress and housewife who is a devoted follower of a soap opera called A Reason to Love. One evening, while watching her tape of today's episode, Betty witnesses the brutal murder of her slimy, drug-dealer husband (Aaron Eckhart)by a pair of ruthless hit men (Morgan Freeman, Chris Rock). This incident causes a microchip in Betty's mind to blow and she packs her bags and decides to drive to Los Angeles to find Dr. David Ravelle, her favorite character on the soap, with the hit men hot on her trail, who have to take out the only witness to their crime. This comedy makes all the right moves, thanks to a razor-sharp screenplay and wonderful performances from a perfect cast. Zellweger is absolutely enchanting as Betty, an endearing performance that earned her a Golden Globe for Best Actress in a Comedy. Freeman is charming as a surprisingly sensitive hit man and Rock, as always, steals every scene he is in as Freeman's explosive young partner. Greg Kinnear offers a charismatic turn as George McCord, the actor who plays Dr.David Ravelle and finds himself enamored with Betty. Allison Janney, Kathleen Whilhoite, and Crispin Glover offer effective support as well in this delightful comedy that is warm, witty, smart, and heartbreaking. Don't miss this sleeper. "}{"Title":"Go Nurse Betty!","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rene Zellweger is truly a wonderful actress both comically and dramatically as well. In this bizarre scripted film, she witnesses her husband's murder by Morgan Freeman and his sidekick Chris Rock, a great pair of actors. Despite all the seriousness, this movie is also a comedy as well. Rene's character believes that she is truly Nurse Betty and goes to Los Angeles where her favorite soap is filmed. Greg Kinnear plays the man of supposed affection. Alison Janney has a supporting memorable role as the producer of the soap but she's also acted on Guiding Light as a Ginger, the tall lanky maid for Alexandra Spaulding (Marj Dusay) and butting heads with Roger Thorpe (played by the late Michael Zaslow). Anyway, Janney and Kinnear manipulate the Nurse Betty situation. Her character settles into a new life and this belief that she will be part of this soap's life. Of course, the story is not perfect and Nurse Betty comes to her senses before it's too late. It's worth watching but mental illness isn't something to be used as running joke. Zellweger makes us care for a character who has experienced a trauma of witnessing her husband's murder. "},{"Title":"A dark comedy, that's always entertaining","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" We have all the elements here, that make up a really great movie.Renee Zellwiger leads the film in a dark comedy that's a bit twisted, funny, poignant, and real. A waitress in Kansas, Betty (Zellwiger) is married to a real piece of work named Del (Eckhart) who's the owner of a used car lot. Cheating on his wife, is not the least of his character, but rather involved in something Betty doesn't even know about. Two men (Freeman & Rock) come to town to speak to Del about his endeavors, and kill him right in front of Betty, who happens to be watching her favorite t.v. soap at the moment of his death. Because of the traumatic situation, she blocks the whole thing out of her mind, and goes to California to find true love with her t.v. crush, Dr. David Rivell (Kinear). After finding out that she was a witness to the murder, the two bad guys follow her half way across the country to find her.It's funny, but can be quite serious and a little heavy at times, especially during the murder scene. It might be too graphic for someone under fifteen, and be warned, that it's not a romantic comedy either. It's almost the complete opposite of that. Although there are a few romantic scenes, this is not your typical 'Sleepless in Seattle' story.I love it, and am never let down by it's performance as an awesome film. All the actors in it are exceptionally good, especially Morgan Freeman. Renee Zellwiger is also quite noteworthy, and Chris Rock is equally funny.I would recommend it to anyone who likes dark comedies, and good writing. It's a keeper! "},{"Title":"Freeman and Zellweger on screen in the same movie deliver in a delightful and very different type of film.","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHNurse Betty is a really good movie and a delight to watch all the way through. Even though this came out years ago, I just saw it for the first time recently though I was already familiar with the general story. I found it to be a wonderful movie.Renee Zellweger and Morgan Freeman deliver performances that are flawless, effortless.....they make it look so EASY!!(Which of coarse it is not.) But these two are among the most talented movie performers working today and they are both at their best in this film. Most people reading this will be familiar with the plot but even if the plot doesn't sound like their type of thing, this movie should definitely be seen by any major Freeman or Zellweger fan.Not only are the performances incredible, from the rest of the cast as well, but the story is delightfully different and sucks you in. The main characters are fascinating and the story is both funny and touching. The whole soap opera story line is great and I must mention Greg Kinnear who is great as the superficial, annoyingly narcissistic soap opera actor as well. I actually knew someone who reminded me very much of this guy. Kinnear creates a character who maybe annoying but who is very believable all the same and he's just another example of a great casting choice.This is a movie that somehow retains all the good in the quirky type of film, while avoiding the negative stuff. The story even though it's almost unbelievable, feels believable and these are no cookie cutter characters, we feel like we know them. Zellweger exhibits the same star quality she did in Jerry Mguire, and later, Chicago and Bridget Jones' Diary.The road scenery was stunning and I happen to like road movies so that was appealing as well. Nurse Betty, in addition to being funny, and touching, is melancholy and from a cinematography level, lovely. There isn't much not to like in this film and I can't believe it's the same director who did In The Company Of Men, a movie I really really disliked.The only things I did not like in this movie are the amount of violence and the ending which seemed to happen a little abruptly and seemed a little rushed after the powerful scene between freeman and Zellweger. But those are small things. This is a strong 8.5 of 10 and a movie I definitely plan to watch again. I'd say this movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"it's no 'chick flick'","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Nurse Betty' is a film about a woman who witnesses her husband in an accident, and she becomes obsessed with the star of a soap opera, whom she goes to stalk. A lot of silliness happens along the way.Renee Zwelleger's character is charming as a naive Nurse Betty struck in love with the celebrity. The film itself combines a romantic comedy with thriller to create a unique film in its own category. The film is exciting and hilarious, and it plays on so many other emotions. It really is worth watching, despite what you may have read or heard or seen in the trailers. I think this is one of those films that has not been given much of a chance and is grossly under-rated by a wider audience. Just see it for yourself; and no, it is not a 'chick flick'. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment, at least for adults and older teens.","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The 'adults and older teens' is for some rather foul language in a few scenes but aside from that this is an enjoyable movie to watch, although the end could have been a little happier.Morgan Freeman and Renée Zellweger are at their best, Chris Rock runs his famous mouth as you would expect and the rest of the cast are great, too. Some neat puns about soap operas and their fans.I enjoyed seeing Crispin Glover again, although he didn't get much screen time in this one. I haven't seen him in a long time.This is a movie you can sit down and just watch. Keep the kids out, plenty of f-words in a couple of scenes. "},{"Title":"A graceful, wonderfully conceived black comedy.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to figure out the roles some actors choose. Most of the actors in this movie have landed a mix of roles both brilliant and bland in the past, and since this movie as well. Take Morgan Freeman, for example. He excels as the quirky, strangely gentle criminal Charlie in Nurse Betty, but his roles in the past have often been a fairly uniform federal officer (which made a waitress's comment about Charlie not looking like a police officer amusing on more than one level).Chris Rock has experienced the same. While rather stereotyped in movies such as Down to Earth, his role as Charlie's son, Wesley, is blessed with some brilliant lines and reveals a surprising talent.After all this, however, Renee Zellweger stands leagues above all others in this film. The actress who was left with little to do in a certain disaster of a flick with Jim Carrey (you know which one I mean) is pure sunshine as the good-natured waitress, Betty Sizemore. As the witness to her husband's grisly murder by the hands of Charlie and Wesley, Betty is driven into a post-traumatic delusion in which she believes that the characters from her favourite TV soap are real. Leaving her bewildered friends behind, Betty travels from Kansas to L.A., all the while being chased by the two criminals, one of whom becomes somewhat infatuated with Betty in the process.It's an unusual concept, and one which works wonderfully in practice. Like Rock, Zellweger gets some hilarious lines as she unrelentingly follows her dreams, and what we get in the end is a twisted (but nonetheless astute) observation of the leaps of faith that bring us forward in our lives. All the while, Zellweger is charming, occasionally moving and completely watchable, and I'm left wondering how an actress of such obvious talent could have also been in Me, Myself & Irene.Oh damn, I said it.Grade A "},{"Title":"A character of substance","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SOME SPOILERS AHEAD It's a theme that's been done before the fan who gets caught up in a character she finds in a book/movie/soap opera/whatever. And it's been done well before (American Dreamer, for one). And the concept of her fantasy being dangerously caught up in another's reality is not unusual either. But Nurse Betty imbued its Betty (a.k.a. Dorothy from Kansas, Alice in Wonderland) with a complex mixture of honesty, heart, courage, love, trust, power, and vulnerability. I've seen some great movie performances, but none with more depth and heart than Renee Zellweger's Betty. Betty here is a Soap Opera junkie. She lives a drab, harsh existence as the wife of an abusive philandering boor. A couple of hit men kill him brutally (they scalp him) while she watches from behind the kitchen door. The trauma sends her reeling into the made up character of Nurse Betty in her favorite soap opera. Immersing herself into the role, she sets off for L.A. to meet Heart Surgeon Dr. David Ravell, the Soap's resident stud, played by Greg Kinnear, whom she believes she loves. Unfortunately, the car she uses has a major stash of dope hidden in the trunk, and the hitmen take off after her. The story from there on is good, but of secondary importance to the characters of Betty and the lead hitman, Charlie, played with great sensitivity by Morgan Freeman. For Charlie, Betty herself ironically has become a beautiful fantasy. Nurse Betty is not a totally separate entity from the life she used to live. She carries into her fantasy life the virtues and strengths of her natural starting-point character. Fact is, in the very first scene, even before she slips into her alter ego, depth and complexity of character can be read into her face, her brittle tone of voice, and her trusting, honest eyes. Then on into her unfolding fantasy, I was always aware of the down deep strength of Betty's character. The movie was a comedy, but you couldn't belly laugh at her honest soap opera naivete, because it's played so sincerely from start to finish just a thin brittle veneer above the terrible violence she was witness to and that shattered her life. In or out of fantasy, Renee Zellweger's Betty was a character of substance - a character to care about. "},{"Title":"Bad Medicine, Good Bedside Manner","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renee Zellweger is radiant, but the rest of this movie just does not work. It's like a hamburger-jello-mold salad--interesting idea, but who ever thought it would actually work on film?  I like director LaBute's two previous films--they were mercilessly honest and chillingly funny.  This film manages only to be merciless and chilling--with jumbo dollops of the cutes.  (As high concept, think the Doris Day-Rock Hudson movie Sam Peckinpah might have made--now reduce your expectations to match the present, mass-produced state of Hollywood.)  That actors as talented as Freeman, Kinnear, Eckhart, Vince, and Janney ALMOST make their scenes come alive is a testament to the immensity of their talents to rise above material that just does not cohere.  I would have found Freeman's corny, feel-good-about-yourself speech at the end of the movie funny (in a Lynchean way) if it weren't for the nagging suspicion that this unconvincingly tacked-on moral is meant to be accepted seriously. "},{"Title":"What is going on here?","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I cant understand by reading all the rave reviews about Nurse Betty if I saw the same movie as everyone else. This movie was awful. Everyone in the particular theater I was in hated it, I didn't hear one laugh from anybody the entire film, just groaning and sighing. Has the quality of comedy stooped so low that people can take a boring, uninteresting, and thoroughly stupid piece of trash like this and make it sound like an instant classic. Is comedy really dead? I hope me and all the people who wasted $7 bucks tonight aren't the only ones who feel this way.  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant, Overlooked Black Comedy/Drama","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Renee Zellweger is Betty, a Kansas waitress who wants to be a nurse, who is infatuated with a soap opera actor (Greg Kinnear), and who is married to Del, a cheating, stupid male chauvinist who's trying to sell some stolen drugs. Unfortunately for him, he gets brutally, bloodily murdered instead, while Betty secretly watches. It leaves her unhinged, believing that Kinnear is really the character he plays, Dr. David Ravell, and that she is his RN ex-fiancée. She heads for LA to find her lost love, not knowing the stolen drugs are in her trunk. Pursuing her are Charlie and Wesley (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock respectively), the hit men who inadvertently killed Del before they found out where the drugs were hidden. They pursue her across the country, while Charlie gradually falls in love with his image of her.And in LA, things get totally bizarre, as no one realizes that Betty is delusional. Alternately funny and touching, this movie is almost perfect. Stop reading commentaries and go see it. "}{"Title":"WARNING DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM!!!!","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you want blood and gore - this is the movie for you.  As usual Renee (and Greg too)is perfect - but, ohhhh the script is beyond revolting!  Too bad, this had such potential, but even with outstanding actors as Renee Zellwegger and Greg Kinnear, you need a barf bag to sit through this gratuitously violent and disgusting film.  "},{"Title":"Hated it","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this movie is terrible.  I watched it last night as sneak preview and could not understand why people were laughing.  Betty is an inane character but if one wants to believe the movie she is severely mentally ill and the film writers and directors use this for laughs.  Meanwhile, the two men in pursuit of her seem aimless, cruel, and yet supposedly reflective. Sure it all a fantasy, but it is a boring one.  I far prefer the edginess the directors used in In the Company of Men to this not so subtle mockery of women, the mentally ill, African Americans, and the movie watcher.  "},{"Title":"*****May contain spoilers ******","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I often go and see movies I have no idea about. I have managed to avoid trailers, publicity interviews etc and just want to be entertained with no idea of what is about to happen. I may just go on the poster or the actors or just because I have time to kill. The 25th hour and A Bronx Tale are two fabulous movies I found at the cinema for the first 2 reasons and was enveloped in a magical tale that blew me away.Nurse Betty is the other end of the scale, the desirability equivalent of cinematographic leprosy. Trying to be both funny and dramatic and failing miserably at both. I don't think I even cracked a smile during the whole movie. Chris Rock normally very reliable for some good laughs every movie and a skilled comedian stunk up the screen every time he appeared on it. The normally reliable Morgan Freeman trying to portray a cynical and world weary crim suddenly developing a gentle wistful crush on a young women whose reality check bounced comes across into this sluggish borefest as a sad old pervert, uttering bad lines in an amateur pantomime.Zellweger is merely irritating in a childish, retarded sort of way and certain exudes no appeal to anyone with an IQ of over 14 unless they have been at sea or in prison for a minimum of 8 years. Crispin the creepy thin man Glover has a small role and has been banished to obscurity for his association with this turkey. The only actors that can say they earnt what ever they were paid for this blemish on American Cinema was Greg Kinnear in a role as another self obsessed moron who falls for loveable loon Betty's charm and provides the improbable crapfest its most improbable twist (except if someone actually liked this movie!!!) and Christoper McDonald is worthy as a sleazy redneck who is Betty's abusive husband before he sends her round the twist.As I said this movie is a mismatch of styles, mostly bad, all badly done that fit uneasily together to form one of the worst 1 1/2 hours of my life. I still dream of suing the producers/director for my ticket price and mental anguish. I would not recommend it to people on Death Row except it may hasten their search for religion and definitely their desire to be executed.Horrible. Ghastly. Woeful. The Streetfighter of Romantic Comedies. Oh yes, and Romantic comedies should probably never depict graphic scalpings. And they should be at least mildly funny. Not an obvious tax deduction hashed together by a collection of talentless gits. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is fantastic. I thought it was very funny and sweet. There was only two violent scenes in the film although the first one is a bit gruesome it isn´t that violent. The plot is great, the screenplay is also good and overall the feel to the movie is good. The greatest thing about it however it the acting Renée Zelweger is amazing as Betty. She deserved an oscar for her role. I am not sure if she was nominated but she was fantastic ( but that bitch Julia Roberts won). Morgan Freeman was also great who also deserved some attention for his role in the film he is a great actor who is very underrated in my opinion. All the other actors were also fantastic except maybe for Chris Rock. He is really annoying in my humble opinion and not very funny. Well sometimes but it worked to have him in the film and it was very funny when he screamed Daddy. Anyway a great film that everyone should see if they have not seen it.  "},{"Title":"Decent Dark Humor, But No 'Fargo'","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a strange film but that's somewhat normal when the category is dark comedy, a la Fargo and numerous others of this genre. You wind up getting a rough film but one with a lot of laughs. This isn't Fargo, but it reminded a bit of it with the two hit men and a likable female lead. Unlike Frances McDormand's role as the cop in Fargo, here we have a ditsy but ultra-sweet girl played by Rene Zellweger. The hit men are played by Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock an odd duo.Freeman, in a role uncharacteristic of him, plays a profane hit man who is at the end of his career and mellowing. His is really a strange role, a real contradiction at times. Rock is his normal ultra-profane wise-cracking younger guy as Zellweger's character suffers some setbacks.For a comedy, this movie had a shocking amount of f-words and assorted other profanity including a lot of Lord's name in vain material. A lot of it wasn't necessary, either. Some of the stuff in here is not all black humor; some of it's uncomfortable to watch.However, if you can get past (or have a profanity filter) the language, this movie is entertaining because of its mixture of comedy, romance and suspense. There are nice colors in here, too. As I said a strange film. "},{"Title":"Oddball dramedy about two people in love with their unreal fantasies","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Released in 2000, Nurse Betty stars Renée Zellweger as Betty, a lowly waitress married to a total jerk. She watches her favorite soap and fantasies about the hero-doctor on the show (Greg Kinnear). Meanwhile Morgan Freeman plays Charlie, the leader of a criminal duo (the other played by Chris Rock); as they chase the woman from Kansas to Los Angeles Charlie ends-up falling in love with her even though he's never met her.This is part dramedy, part road movie, part crime drama, part romcom and part black comedy. While it's rarely laugh-out loud, it's pretty consistently amusing. What throws it off is that it's such an eccentric mixture viewers don't know how to take it, especially when it throws in a fairly radical scalping sequence (and I don't mean scalping tickets). It helps, though, when you grasp that the movie's about Betty and Charlie and their romantic idealism of people they've never met.This is an offbeat movie that's half-good and half-meh. The meh reaction is mostly due to its curiosities; it might play better on repeat viewings.The movie runs almost 110 minutes and was shot in Los Angeles; Durango, Colorado; Grand Canyon, Arizona; and Rome, Lazio, Italy (closing scene).GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Nurse Zellweger.","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nurse Betty (2000) Dir Neil LaBute / Cast Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman, Chris Rock, Greg Kinnear, Aaron Eckhart Very unique black comedy about fixation or excessive imagination resulting from being desensitized. Renee Zellweger plays Betty Sizemore who works at a diner and obsesses over a soap opera called A Reason to Love. She believes that soap star David Revell speaks directly at her. After her husband is savagely scalped to death, due to a situation involving stolen drugs, Betty gleefully sets out to meet the man of her dreams. Too disturbing for laughs but interesting and detailed. Director Neil LaBute presents the fantasy dysfunctional elements mixed with warped reality. Zellweger is radiant poising as a nurse believing a false lifestyle. When she finally does snapped back into reality, the film makes some interesting implications especially with Betty. Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock are excellent as her husband's killers out to find drugs hidden in the trunk of her car, unknown to her. Freeman draws laughs through a sudden infatuation with her, while Rock is violent and excessive. With that said, the violence presented is too graphic for the film's tone. Greg Kinnear plays Revell who sees Betty as an act until the tables are turned. Aaron Eckhart plays Betty's husband who gets in too deep with our two assassins. Bizarre portrait of reality and fantasy collision. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"awkward black comedy","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Betty (Renée Zellweger) is a Kansas diner waitress obsessed with the soap opera 'A Reason to Love'. Her husband Del (Aaron Eckhart) is a sleazy car salesman cheating on her and selling drugs. She sees him being scalped by criminals Charlie (Morgan Freeman) and Wesley (Chris Rock) and she goes into shock with delusion of being Nurse Betty on her favorite TV show. She goes to LA to find George McCord (Greg Kinnear) who plays Dr. David Ravell on the show thinking Ravell is her ex-fiancée. Del had stuff the drugs in the car and the two criminals go after her for the drugs.It's a black comedy but none of it struck me as being terribly funny. A graphic scalping can do that to me. It's quirky. I have nothing bad to say about the performances. Zellweger is fully committed to her delusional character. She is definitely suppose to be funny. I keep thinking a different way to get her to the delusion would allow the movie to be much funnier. She could get hit on the head. She could see her husband cheating. Murder and more specifically scalping seems like such an extreme option. It makes Freeman and Rock not funny. "},{"Title":"Interference in someones dream chase may end in disaster.","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A simple, plain, straightforward story that can surprise anybody like it did to me. Frankly to say I thought it was some pure chick comedy and yes it was but little more than that. I can say that where a fun filled 'chick movie' meets the ruthless 'hit man'. The movie was kinda similar to Alfred Hitchcock's last movie 'Family Plot'. The story centers around a Kansas waitress Betty who married to a car salesman. When Betty witness her husband's murder she suffers from a post trauma shock. She forgets everything and becomes a new of her who begins to pursue her favourite soap actor.Impressive performance by Renee Zellweger, I totally fell for her character and tell me who can't. For that she also won the Golden globe trophy, well deserved. Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock were others two with a solid supporting roles who comes in darker shades. It was little cleverly written script than I thought, like I said it was kinda Alfred Hitchcock style theme and presentation. In a couple of scenes I came to know the secrets only when they reveal it themselves. Those were the awesome tiny-tiny twists throughout the movie. This was a pure entertainment for those who seek a movie for relaxation. One of the rare product and a tiny bit underrated movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"Good... But not great...","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although I found it an interesting concept, I found it quite hard to engage with any of the characters. Having said that, I did find I had a bit of a soft spot for Betty. It's pretty well made, although I did feel I was watching a soap half the time. There were far too many coincidental events going on that allowed the plot to progress. The performances were all pretty good with Renée Zellweger easily standing out. Morgan Freeman was, well, Morgan Freeman; he just seems to play every part the same these days. Chris Rock was a bit of a surprise for me, playing the hot headed Wesley with great aplomb and a great degree of swearing. Over all though, I found it a little disappointing despite the decent performances, it never really got going.SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDED (Just)My score 5.9/10.You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "}{"Title":"The Yellow Brick Road to Rome","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In a small Kansas town, beautiful blonde waitress Renee Zellweger (as Betty Sizemore) enjoys watching her favorite soap opera A Reason to Love starring handsome doctor Greg Kinnear (as George David Ravell McCord). Following a tragedy, Ms. Zellweger traumatically imagines she is a character in the soap opera she adores. As if she was on the TV show, Zellweger wants to work as a nurse and romance Mr. Kinnear. Tied in with the tragedy, her criminal Kansas customers Morgan Freeman (as Charlie) and Chris Rock (as Wesley) follow Zellweger westward, looking for drugs...This could have been brilliant...Artfully directed by Neil LaBute, the story by John C. Richards, Nurse Betty almost works. We have parallel American dream stories. First, there is the longing of Zellweger for the seemingly unattainable world existing only in Hollywood. Knocked out of her mind by violent reality, she begins to live her dream. In her delirium, Zellweger pursues TV star Kinnear, with whom she has an imagined relationship. While this occurs, a more subtle loss of mind is experienced by Mr. Freeman, who begins to fall in love with Zellweger's character. A violent old Black criminal fantasizes a relationship with a pretty young White woman. Even more daring is which relationship is given the go, and which one is stopped dead in its tracks...Black comedy, indeed...Also a problem is the characterization of Freeman's sidekick, essayed by Mr. Rock. The professional comedian is the least funny (and most dispensable) of the comedy's quartet. If his reason for being there is meant to soften Freeman's character, it doesn't work. Freeman is made more despicable due to his connection with Rock's completely unlikable character. Perhaps the goal was to pair up the accomplished actor with the abrasive comedian. Actors and comics are not always interchangeable. Rock is unable to nail it down. There is promise in Rock's performance, though. He can also look to Kinnear for inspiration; a failed reporter then funny talk show host, Kinnear should have a shelf of Supporting Actor awards.******* Nurse Betty (5/11/00) Neil LaBute ~ Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman, Greg Kinnear, Chris Rock "},{"Title":"When you wish to escape reality","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a roller coaster of a good time. The characters jump out at you in this unique awkward kind of way. Betty (Renee Zellweger) is sweet, abused and under-appreciated and she goes through what all undervalued people wish they could go through. She finds herself and the life she was meant to have through tragedy and loss. The tragedy of witnessing a horrendous crime and the loss of her sense of serenity and calm.Morgan Freeman's character sympathizes with her in this way and is inadvertently drawn to Betty for it. The characters are made of the same lost and misused souls. The story line at first seems silly and just not thought out, but when the characters start to develop on their journeys you see the innocence and the loneliness that their lives are made up of. The two find themselves projecting the life they want into reality and when they are snapped out of it you feel a combination of relief and grief, and you hope that they are able to cope with the reality they are left with.That said, this movie is definitely not for everyone, but for those who appreciate and enjoy a comedy with deeper and more realistically sad under-tones this movie is worth a viewing. 7.2/10 "},{"Title":"Thine own eyes","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Neil Labute's Nurse Betty stars Renee Zellweger as Betty, a waitress who's both addicted to her favourite soap opera (A Reason To Love) and trapped in a loveless marriage. Like several of Labute's plays, Betty is interested in the way fantasy is inextricable from and so supports reality, serves as a means of assuaging trauma, and the way in which daydreams both inspire us to look for something more and subject us to disillusionment when reality doesn't quite measure up.And so Betty spends Labute's film in love with pictures, invented characters and cardboard cutouts; they keep her mind off her deadbeat husband. When a pair of assassins, Charlie (Morgan Freeman) and his protégé Wesley (Chris Rock), murder her husband, Betty then copes by spiralling deeper into fantasy. At this point she embarks on a cross country quest to visit the cast and set of A Reason To Love, which she believes to be real. Mirrored to Betty's delusions are the delusions of virtually everyone else in the picture. One character, for example, went to Rome because she once saw Audrey Hepburn in Roman Holiday, another constructs an idealised image of Betty. And on and on it goes.The film's script is wild and inventive, and Betty is sympathetically portrayed rather than an object of ridicule. Labute also injects an undercurrent of satire, particularly subplots which comment on media-defined aspirations. Aptly, the film becomes brutal and violent as it progresses, Labute ratcheting up the violence as Betty's illusions likewise increase. On the downside, Labute, originally a playwright, is still not strong enough behind the camera. Large portions of Nurse Betty reek of bad, late-90s Tarantino.7.9/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Neil LaBute the Wrong Choice for a Film Like This","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Neil LaBute's uneasy blend of thriller and dark comedy is a queasy affair.LaBute doesn't have a light touch at all, which more than anything is what a film like this desperately needs. He begins the movie with a scene of intensely graphic violence, and it's hard to recover from it. You can't sit back and enjoy the film's comedic elements when you're not sure when or if something horrible is going to happen again.Renee Zellweger does her best, but she's in the hands of a director who's out of his element.Grade C "},{"Title":"Winning romantic comedy and fantasy.","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Renee Zellweger is a Kansas housewife whose domineering husband is mixed up in drug trafficking. Two professional hit men -- Morgan Freeman and his son, Chris Rock, murder the husband in his dining room. Zellweger, unobserved by the killers, witnesses this and undergoes a dissociative reaction, assuming the personality of a nurse -- the eponymous Betty -- who is a character in her favorite soap opera. Believing herself to be the TV character, Zellweger takes off in her husband's car, which has a load of dope in the trunk, and travels to LA where she hopes to link up with another character in this mindless afternoon drama, Dr. David Ravell, Greg Kinnear. Not realizing she is being pursued by the two hit men, she drives to LA where she manages to link up with Kinnear and is actually written into the show as a nurse named Betty. A handful of men in the know, including the local sheriff, catch on to what's happening and also seek Zellweger in LA. The ending is believable and poignant.If that sounds crazy, it's because it is. And it's the writer's responsibility, John C. Richards. The curious thing is that Richards and the director, Neil Labute, with considerable help from the performers, just about pull it all off. This isn't a plot that has been cast in a familiar mold. Nope. I give it bonus points for sheer originality. Somebody went out on a limb. Somebody took a chance on a movie that was NOT a copy or remake of something that had made money ten years or fifty years ago. I imagine the people involved, down on their knees every night, praying fervently. I don't know if the film was remunerative but it's mostly successful on its own aesthetic terms.It's what might be called an initial premise movie. You start off with a single transformative event, in this case the murder of Zellweger's husband and her adoption of a genuinely new personality, and follow the resultant logical paths realistically. Groundhog Day is another, better and more intricately plotted, example. Nurse Betty has its logical cracks, where the incidents give up their plausibility. Eg., at a party in LA, Zellweger finally runs into Kinnear, the guy who plays her ex-fiancé on TV. She's stunned (because, after all, she thinks she's Betty, who lost her fiancé long ago). She approaches Kinnear and a couple of his colleagues and introduces herself as Nurse Betty, the character. She addresses Kinnear by the name of his TV character, David Ravell. The group are puzzled at first, then convince themselves that she's an aspiring actress who insists on staying in character during the conversation -- and afterward, too, after Kinnear has become fascinated by her and the others bored. Kinnear drives her home and even when she kisses him goodnight, she's still in character, leaving Kinnear wide-eyed with astonishment at the relentless way she captures the character of Betty. On the next date, Kinnear returns her love. That development, the relationship between Zellweger and Kinnear at this point, is a crack in the logic, the kind that's absent from Groundhog Day. By the end of Night One, Kinnear, like any other person, would realize that Zellweger is a few clowns short of a circus.The rest of the film, which includes many digressions, succeeds beyond expectations. The relationship between Morgan Freeman and his insolent, nihilistic son is marvelously spelled out. Morgan is flawless in his exasperation. He manages to fall in love with the image of Zellweger as he unearths clues to her whereabouts and activities, and at the end he can't bring himself to shoot her. She's too sweet to shoot. After her transformation into Betty, she left a note behind in Kansas. I want to help all life, whether it be animal, plant, or mineral. Who could harm the author of such a preposterous connative statement? His admiration of her comes as an epiphany, as he stands near one of the floodlights at the rim of the Grand Canyon. Zellweger, dressed as Dorothy, or maybe the Good Witch of the East -- well, characters that, like Zellweger, are from Kansas anyway -- appears to Freeman and he embraces her and kisses her tenderly. It's a scene that's at once eerie, romantic, and a little spooky. I once stood at one of those lights and threw some shredded paper into the updraft from the dark canyon and found myself surrounded by a thousand swirling bats who had misperceived the fluttering shreds as moths.Right. Where was I? Okay. I was trying not to run out of space. Zellweger's performance deserves plaudits. Everything she does, every movement, every utterance, is naive and tentative. She really IS a likable character -- and that despite the fact that she's no glamor girl by Hollywood standards. But -- what an actress. Compare her performance as the bumptious 19th-century hick in Cold Mountain. Just the opposite. But then everyone is up to snuff in this enjoyable film. Allyson Jannings does a fine job in a minor role. Watch her when she tells Greg Kinnear that she's considering killing off his character in the soap opera in a drowning accident. Kinnear is one of those narcissists who wears the kind of ten-thousand dollar thin black leather jackets that were popular at the time. He chuckles and says, Oh, one of those castaway deals, right? Okay, how do I get back? Jannings doesn't answer. She just smiles at him with those enormous blue eyes and tilts her head mockingly.Not a masterpiece of film-making but a good, original, professional job by everyone concerned. "},{"Title":"A most clever film, with strong performances, but very violent, at times","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Betty Sizemore (Renee Zellweger) is a waitress in a small city in Kansas. Her ogre husband, Del (Aaron Eckhart), a car dealer, keeps her under his thumb at all times, to the point of relentless verbal abuse. Her only escape is the beloved soap opera, A Reason to Love, which features her idol, the saintly and handsome Dr. David (Greg Kinnear). Betty can even pour refills of coffee without taking her eyes from the television screen! Because of her admiration for the show, Betty secretly longs to become a nurse. On the day that her loathsome husband forgets her birthday and her close friend has to cancel plans to take Betty out on the town to celebrate, the young waitress returns home to cook dinner, as usual, and then watch her stash of videos from the daytime drama. But, two bad guys show up, Charlie (Morgan Freeman) and his son, Wesley (Chris Rock). It seems Del has dabbled in drugs and double-crossed his connections and now it is time to pay the piper. Unfortunately, Betty witnesses Del's horrific murder (and it is horrific, indeed) and, as a result, she loses her grip on reality. All of a sudden, Betty believes that she IS a nurse and she must travel to California to find Dr. David, so that she can rekindle a love relationship with him. She takes off. But, since she is a material witness in her husband's death and she may have a sack of drugs hidden in her car, too, Charlie and Wesley begin a hot pursuit of our dear Betty. Will they succeed in bumping her off, also? This is a clever film with great performances but it is very violent from time to time. Yes, it was necessary to provide a reason for Betty's dive off the deep end, but for those viewers who detest violence, keep your finger on the fast-forward button of your remote. Zellweger gives a wonderful performance as the kind-hearted Betty while Eckhart loses himself in a smaller role that spells repugnance in capital letters. Freeman, who has played both God and the president, surprises the audience with his role as an aging killer. As for Rock, his turn as an evil, foul-mouthed assassin is revolting, as it should be, I suppose. The scenery is quite nice, as Betty goes through every state from Kansas to California. Costumes, also, are fine and the production looks great. Writer-director Neil LaBute displays a remarkable creativity and pacing as he tells his twisted tale, with the story going out on a high note. In short, if you are a fan of the stars, clever film-making, or offbeat movies, you will admire Nurse Betty. Just be certain you can handle the rough scenes, as they are powerfully stomach-turning. "},{"Title":"Beware 1 violent murder scene","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...not in keeping with the otherwise excellent comedic genre of the movie. Amazing how our perceptions of the later work of actors such as Freeman, Zellwegger, Kinnear leave us disconcerted by this mature, edgy indie.True, Zellwegger is cute, Kinnear gorgeous and Freeman (initially) avuncular (when will that Mandela biopic script be ready?), but this piece probes the seedy, exploitative, delusional side of human nature with wincing accuity, whilst staying (net) on the right side of feelgood.Just to be clear DON'T treat this as a cosy family romcom. Someone will be traumatised and that will spoil an otherwise enriching view. "},{"Title":"Between two stools","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have nothing against filmmakers making films which blend genres - I recognise that it is a brave and experimental step to take. But there is a reason why such films are not attempted very often and that is the risk that, rather than capture (in this case) the audiences for both sweet comedies and violent crime thrillers, you might end up losing both audiences.The indifferent box office of this film testifies to the fact that it may have discovered this, notwithstanding the vocal enthusiasm of many of those posting here.The concept was a good one, but my feeling was that the film was neither wholly successful, nor wholly unsuccessful. I laughed at times - quite a lot, in places - and I felt for the central character, stuck in a dilemma of which she was largely unaware. But the comedy element - undoubtedly the more successful of the two parts - never worked properly, due to the harshness of the crime subplot.Morgan Freeman, as usual, brought a huge chunk of gravitas to the proceedings, yet I found his character utterly unbelievable - an experienced hit-man who, on the eve of retirement, falls for his target, and who is given to uttering large chunks of compassionate philosophy? Sorry, but I don't think so. I found Chris Rock's character much more convincing, but so vile that I was unable to sympathise or identify with him. Was I meant to? When he was killed, it was such a relief that I expected Freeman's nice hit-man to say Good! Greg Kinnear played convincingly in a fairly thankless part, but this was always Renee Zellweger's film. Both she and Kinnear played the situation absolutely straight, and the humour arose from the situation rather than the quirks of the character. And the film is worth seeing for the scene where Betty's mental block is shattered, and she is suddenly made to realise that something very wrong is happening. The craft in this piece of acting shows that she is well worthy of her Oscar. "},{"Title":"Nurse Betty","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This could almost be along the lines of another nut-case film, along the lines of Misery, where the leading female character is so obsessed with a fictional character, but you can sympathise with this one. Basically Betty Sizemore (Golden Globe winning Renée Zellweger) is a Kansas city waitress, and her favourite show is A Reason to Love, but she doesn't realise it is only a soap opera. In her house, she witnesses the murder of her husband Del (Aaron Eckhart), while watching the show, but instead of telling the truth, she lied and said it was a friend of hers. Her favourite doctor (character) is Dr. David Ravell, played by actor George McCord (Greg Kinnear), and delusional with shock she is convinced that he is her former fiancée, so she decides to go to LA and find him. She first tries the hospital and fails, but with the help of Rosa Hernandez (Tia Texada) she finds David, and he (George) is convinced she is a very talented improvising actress that wants to be in the show, so he obviously plans to put her in it. Meanwhile, Betty's husband's murderers, father Charlie (Morgan Freeman) and son Wesley (Chris Rock) are searching for the drugs stolen by Del, and they happen to be in the trunk of Betty's car, so they obviously set out to find her, and Charlie's sees it as his last job before retirement, but he is becoming delusional about her. Also starring Back to the Future's Crispin Glover as Roy Ostery, Pruitt Taylor Vince as Sheriff Eldon Ballard, Allison Janney as Lyla Branch and Harriet Sansom Harris as Ellen. Zellweger is really good as the delusional but sweet wannabe nurse, Freeman is always good, Rock is good in this non-comedic (but still loudmouth) role, and Kinnear has his moments as the actor, a good, maybe underrated film. Good! "},{"Title":"Original plot","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a romantic comedy about an innocent women having a dissociative disorder after witnessing her husband being murdered. She blocks out all her horrible memories, and becomes delusional about a soap star.The one thing that is different about this film is that the plot is original and different. It's not the typical formulaic romantic comedy. You have to watch it to experience it! It's funny to see Renee Zellweger being so innocent, and then being so delusional about David. Her character is lovable though not so convincing. Do women who is innocent like her really exist? I did not like the subplot about the two villains though, I don't find it quite necessary for the story. The villains could simply have disappeared after the initial murder, and the film could have been as great. Great plot, great execution (pardon the pun). I enjoyed watching it. "}{"Title":"It's all in the mind, babe so, here's looking at you, kiddo!","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the most ridiculous, quirky, outrageous and totally unbelievable movies of all that I've seen (and, being what many would call a fuddy-duddy, an old-timer, a relic from the past, or whatever, I can get away with that, okay), and I've seen plenty.No &#150; it IS the most absurd...And I loved it! Forget about suspending disbelief in this crazy plot, nearly everything rational, normal, or even halfway believable is thrown out the window. And yet, it works...Here's a brief synopsis blonde bimbo Betty Sizemore (Renee Zellweger) is chased by a couple of hit men, Charlie and Wesley (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock) across USA. They want to recover a zillion dollars in drugs that had been stashed in her dead husband's Buick (or maybe it was an Olds); Betty is unaware of the hit men after her and the drugs. Poor Betty! Y'see, Betty had witnessed a terrible murder (a particularly funny and gruesome scene, I kid you not) such that she went into post-traumatic shock. So much so that she sets off to LA to find Dr David Ravell (Greg Kinnear) -- don't ask why -- a fictional character on a daytime soap opera, thinking (in her shocked state) that she is going to rejoin her one-time fiancée!Can you imagine the shock she causes to the cast of the TV show when she fronts up to claim Dr Ravell? And with a couple of hit men (one philosophical, the other frenetic &#150; no prizes if you guess right) lurking in the wings?Now, we all know that truth is stranger than fiction. But, look, this fiction is really stranger than any fiction that you've ever seen before &#150; and this story is just so wildly wacky, it must appeal to almost every woman (and maybe some men) who just love soaps. Heck, after putting my eyeballs back in my sockets, I just had to find out more...and I hate soaps!Hey &#150; I got this movie on DVD only because I'll see any movie with Morgan Freeman in it. And, I hadn't heard of this one before. What's more, I didn't mind at all (really) that there are a couple of absolutely absurd moments in the narrative, some really wild cutting (oops, where was I?), and gaps the size of black holes (e.g. so, just how did Sheriff Eldon, played by Pruitt Taylor Vince, find Betty in LA sooooooo quickly?).Renee Zellweger (whom I'd not seen before) does the blonde bimbo to perfection &#150; a truly stunning performance. Morgan Freeman is...well, Morgan Freeman &#150; just the most laid-back actor in the business, even when he plays the heavy. Chris Rock does the motor-mouth thing equally well &#150; and I'm not partial to him as a performer. And young smoothie Greg Kinnear is just soooo nice as the doctor, but also shows just how bitchy actors can be.This is satire par excellence tearing into the whole concept of soaps and how they affect people, ridiculing the unworthy (but often necessary) profession of hit man, and the equally destructive machinations of the soap industry in Hollywood, it's a delightfully perverse trip into the fantasy world of your mind.The only trouble for some may be this after watching this film, how can anybody possibly watch any soap again...without laughing? "},{"Title":"Worth Watching Once","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Worth Watching Once - A diner waitress (Renee Zellweger) from a small Kansas town is obsessed with a soap opera A Reason To Love which helps her escape her less-than-great life. Her husband is obnoxious, controlling, and (unbeknownst to her) cheating on her. He's also gotten himself into trouble with some powerful drug dealers, who have sent hit men (quite an odd pair, Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock) to retrieve stolen drugs. At the end of a terrible birthday, encountering the hit men scares Renee so much that she is sent into shock, and she calmly decides to reunite with her long lost love The star of her favorite soap opera. Way-too-convenient plot point #1 The drugs are in the back of the car she takes. Way-too-convenient plot points #2 through one million The hit men are able to successfully track her across the country given the sketchiest of information and using the poorest of tactics. That's really my main gruff with the movie &#150; the logical order of things is ignored in order to leap to whatever next plot point the writer decided should come next. And it's not as if the whole storyline is that extravagant or extreme - it's just really poorly strung together. Add in a few unlikable characters, and the whole movie is pretty much held together by Morgan Freeman's backtalk to his loudmouthed hit man partner, Chris Rock. A whirlwind of unexplained character mood changes and preposterous actions (especially right at the end) combine with a kinda dull story line to form a big lump that covers up what was really quite a good premise that had some charm. Really, it's not terrible, but I certainly won't need to see it a second time. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning possible spoilers ahead.This movie is a fairly well-conceived black comedy, and has a lot to recommend it. Renee Zellweger is truly deserving of the Golden Globe that she won - she is outstanding and really pulls off a very difficult role. Her performance is one of the better ones that I've seen on video recently. Morgan Freeman is excellent, and Chris Rock is convincing also. The direction is first-tier, and the dialogue is crackling. The conclusion is satisfying and there are a number of poignant moments interspersed with the outrageous situations.However, there are a number of problems as well. First, the gratuitous violence, profanity, and general gore is incongruous with the plotline and characters - it's excessive and really detracted from my experience. Second, for this type of movie, the plot is expected to be somewhat implausible, but the actors can't quite carry off all of the implausibilities to make them convincing enough for me to follow. The supporting cast tries hard and does its best with the wildly inconsistent script, but the movie sags in important places.Overall, I liked it. It's about 6 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Hilarious dark comedy!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty is one of the funniest and most clever dark comedies that I've seen in years.  The story focuses on Betty (Renee Zellweger), a small-time soap opera watcher with a cheating husband.  When she witnesses her husband's murder by a pair of father and son hit men (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock) she loses her mind, believing that she's a character on her favorite soap opera.  She then sets out to find her love, soap opera star George McCord (Greg Kinnear) with the hit men hot on her trail.The movie gets really funny when Freeman's character starts to develop a crush on Betty, and Rock teases him throughout the movie.  If you like a clever dark comedy, I highly recommend this one!7.5/10. "},{"Title":"One of the stranger movies out there...","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  But entertaining and a good view all the same. I never expected the movie to be quite so odd, but it was also very witty, charming and humorous at the same time, an interesting combination. I would definitely recommend this movie and give it an 8/10. The only criticisms I have is the gratuotious violent scene at the beginning-that was unnecessary for it to be that violent and bloody, it was unwatchable!! Chris Rock is not much of an skilled actor, just more of a stand-up comedian. The rest of the cast was outstanding-Renee Zellweger definitely earned her Globe, Freeman was great as usual, Tia Texada is an impressive newcomer, Crispin Glover is very charming and quirky and he and Pruitt Taylor Vince made a great comedic team.  "},{"Title":"Quite strange days","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Strange days, indeed! A violent comedy this is. It is about a woman who leaves her town in a sort of post-traumatic daze. She seems to believe a character from TV is a real person. It is kind of eerie as a joke, and it gets weirder as some people go after her. I don't want to spoil it, so I won't say more. People who don't mind some violence will probably enjoy this strange comedy. "},{"Title":"Love this movie!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nothing amuses me more than a quirky little wink at real life, and that's what this one is.  Add two exceptional performances by Zelweggar and Freeman and you've got a little gem here.Betty Sizemore's (Renee Zelweggar) only escape from her humdrum existence as the waitress wife of a sleazy, philandering car salesman is through her fascination with her favorite soap - a hospital show.  Add her infatuation with the lead character (Greg Kinnear) to a dream of nursing, and Betty is barely in touch with reality.  When viewing the bizarre death of her husband at the hands of hit men (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock) puts her over that edge, she sets out to correct the errors of her fantasy past - traveling to Hollywood to patch things up with her true love, that dashing doctor.  With the hit men on her heels trying to tie up loose ends, retrieve stolen drugs, plus realize Freeman's ever-growing fantasy romance with Betty, she heads West.Betty's fascination proves fascinating to the Soap folk who assume she is nothing more or less than the perfect new love-interest for the show.  Only by grasping Betty's lack of grasp on reality allow the hitmen, the local newspaperman (Crispin Glover) and Sheriff (Pruitt Taylor-Vince) to converge on Betty at the exact moment that she has relit in reality.Zelweggar and Freeman show major chops in this one. "},{"Title":"Darkly witty and exceedingly clever black comedy.","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  `Nurse Betty' is an odd, yet strangely enjoyable tale of insane discovery. While the film has a heavy-handed, sharply black edge to it, this is toned down by the brightly idyllic set designs. The plot is vaguely (and unintentionally) similar to that of `Crazy in Alabama'. That film saw Melanie Griffith as an eccentric woman who murders her abusive husband and travels to L.A., with the police on her trail, to pursue her dream of being a Hollywood star. In `Nurse Betty', Renee Zellwegger goes insane after her abusive husband is murdered by hitmen. She falls in love with a soap opera character and travels to L.A., with the hitmen on her trail, to meet this person who doesn't even exist. The only problem in the film is the first 15 minutes. The murder scene is a bit too gruesome and doesn't get the film off to a good start. But thankfully, the movie gets better and better as it goes on.Renee Zellwegger takes on the lead role as the ditzy, nervous and ultimately insane Betty. She deserved the Golden Globe she won for her performance and an Oscar nomination wouldn't have been out of the question. Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock are polar opposite actors. But that's what makes their roles all the more fun as the father/son hitmen. Greg Kinnear is well suited to his role as the mislead yet self-absorbed actor (oh the irony). Crispin Glover, best known for being George McFly in Back to the Future is very funny as the nervy reporter. He could have done with a bit more screen time though.   The situations are very funny and the script is brilliantly devised with very good comic timing. Most odd movies can be ruined by a bad and rather pointless ending. Luckily, `Nurse Betty' is an exception to this unwritten rule. The film reaches a satisfying and agreeable conclusion that gives you something good to remember it by. Despite the first few minutes, `Nurse Betty' never makes a wrong move and is one of the most entertaining abnormal ideas to come out of Hollywood in a while. 7.4/10.  "},{"Title":"Quirky but really worthwhile","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although I had to avert my eyes during the incredibly gory and somewhat gratuitous scalping scene (which elicited a truly horrified, That was gross! from my 13-year old, who is not easily grossed out), I found this movie to be a quirky, but more than worthwhile experience.Zellweger continues her string of fine work - catch in The Whole Wide World for a truly astonishing film debut, or the very amusing Bridget Jones's Diary for a great comic turn - and the rest of the cast, particularly Morgan Freeman and Greg Kinnear, more than measure up.Amazing that La Bute is the same filmmaker who made Possession, a very touching romance drama from last year, that is much more mainstream.Betty's final putdown of the Greg Kinnear character is a classic.If you like black comedy and films that are a little different, you'll love Nurse Betty. "},{"Title":"This is by far Renée Zellweger's best movie, although I have yet to see Chicago.","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very smart and funny.  I really enjoyed Ms. Zellweger's performance as well as the rest of the cast.  I'm not a big fan of Renee Zellweger, (personally, I think Joey Lauren Adams is a much better actress), but she did a good job in this movie.  I know, I know, she has got all the Oscar nominations going for her, but I really wasn't that impressed with Bridget Jones' Diary.  Anyway, check this movie out, it is really good!  "}{"Title":"You can bet on Renee","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I missed this on its first release in 2000 and have just caught up with it on cable. It deals with fantasy in a realistic way; Betty's obsession with her favourite daytime TV soap is common enough and she flips out for perfectly understandable reasons. Her cross-country odyssey from her Kansas diner to La La Land is plausible enough, though she is very lucky to get the access she craves to the object of her desire, `Dr David' of `Reasons of the Heart' (Greg Kinnear). At this point perhaps you could accuse the scriptwriters of fantasising but everybody concerned tries to give the story some believability.The other branch of the story, Betty's pursuit by two criminals interested in the contents of her car's boot, is probably even more fantastic, especially as one of them becomes obsessed with Betty, but somehow director Neil LaBute gets away with it, aided greatly by the acting talents of Morgan Freeman as the elder, obsessed, crook (as the other crook Chris Rock is a noisy disaster).OK, this is light frothy stuff but generally watchable and reasonably entertaining. Having seen Renee Zellweger before in `Brigid Jones' Diary' and more recently in `Chicago' I was aware that she is an actor of considerable skill, and she does nothing to disabuse me of that notion here. She projects perfectly Betty's sunny optimism in the face of harsh reality and makes one wonder if her `traumatic' reaction to her husband's shocking death early in the film is not in fact a healthy one. Renee has the facility to look and act differently for each new part &#150; an actor, not a star.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding Script, Superb Performances, Great Music, Casting, Editing","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THIS FILM HAS RECEIVED 11 AWARD NOMINATIONS OR ACHIEVEMENTS. However, most of us including myself are not aware of this, so for over a year I chose to pass up this film. So many times at the local video stores, I picked up the VHS, then DVD, but put it back as the cover indicated a silly no brainer.What a surprise! My wife and I were captivated from the start. Of course we are big fans of Morgan Freeman and Renee Zellwegger, but there were other admirable actors as well, such as Greg Kinnear. Their performances were superb. Zellwegger's facial expressions were just incredible, with an amazing range of emotional expression.The script is intelligently crafted. The story has deeper meanings relating to fantasy, reality, dreams, acting, romance, believing in oneself, and more. It is all there if you THINK about it and are perceptive.BUT there IS a problem with the film people may not tune in to the black humour and much of the witty script may be lost on the general audience. Also, as noted below, there are a few scenes of bloody violence; this surprised me and may seem out of place if the black humour is forgotten. But this harshness can be ignored or at least fast-forwarded and not dwelt upon. As you will see from the mixed comments below, this flick is not everyone's cup of tea.To us it was a cinematic gem. At a rental fee of less than a chocolate bar, it must be about the best value movie we have had. And to boot, it had a good-feeling ending.  "},{"Title":"a strange mixture","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film, with the usual excellent Renee Zwelleger performance, is a strange mixture of comedy and drama.  It succeeds quite well at walking that line, too.  The underlying plot - a woman driven to living out her dream in order to avoid a harsh reality - is played pretty much straight through as comedy, but with Zwelleger's help, we see it isn't funny at all.  I really liked its quirkiness. "},{"Title":"actors couldn't save it","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I kept looking for the unexpected throughout this movie, but got only the predictable.  It's movies like this that make one wonder how so many powerful stars signed on.  Betty's character was never fully created, the opening murder was too graphic and gruesome for a non-black comedy, and some areas just didn't make sense.  My guess is that most people who watch this movie will say they could've skipped it. "},{"Title":"It can't be lumped into one category but that makes it better, not worse!","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read over some of these comments and got sick of all the people who said nurse betty could have been good if it didn't have violence or if it was sure of what it wanted to be.  The better movies of today can't be lumped into Romance, Comedy or Action and the best are an assortment of them all.  Nurse Betty has everything, a dash of extreme violence at the beginning to wet your appetite and some at the end to resolve the problem.  The bits of comedy are perfectly spliced into the film, from Chris Rock's comments to the hilarious soap opera overacting and the romantic parts don't drag on too long.  It also contains a great instumental score by Rolfe Kent, one which sets the mood perfectly. It's not a perfect film by any means but it is a great movie and its many parts only make more intriguing, not less. "},{"Title":"Neil LaBute plays it straight, with mixed results","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Final Score (calculated average of various classical cinematic qualities)6.9 (out of 10)Isn't that cute. Our Neil LaBute is growing up, branching out and becoming a big mainstream filmmaker.  LaBute is definitely one of the most talented guys working in Hollywood right now (on my short list of those who could be the next Stanley Kubrick).  His first two films In the Company of Men and Your Friends and Neighbors are independent masterpieces. Dark, mean, funny, misogynistic anti-relationship movies with satirical jabs at sexual politics. They are all-time favorites of mine and points of beckoning light in a world immersed with people who think dating, marriage or somehow putting a man and women together will somehow bring them happiness and fulfillment.  There are few things more fun than watching somebody stumble away from either of these movies confused, befuddled, maybe insulted and not knowing what to make of it.   So he wants to branch out, that's good, but this movie is all over the map.  The tone swings wildly from moments that erupt in grisly violence and dark comedy to moments where it's genuinely sweet and almost childish.  Taken one way it could have been the next Fargo, taken another it could have been a cute romantic comedy, but unfortunately it can't manage both.  The problem is that for all it's missed laugh lines, choppy direction, static visual style, beaten to death media satire and uneven tone- there is a really good movie here just peaking through the cracks.  The acting is top notch all around, but biggest props go to Chris Rock.  He's really playing a character here and he's great.  Also the theme of the movie is a good one.  Nurse Betty is a nice adult story about the delusional power of love -or perceived love- that is far more sophisticated than the movie's targeted audience.  Last and most notably, the musical score is gorgeous.  It is memorable, catchy and does it's job of ringing emotion out of scenes that wouldn't otherwise have any.  The final scene- music, visuals and all- is one of the single cutest things put on film in recent memory.  So it's hardly a bad movie, but I think a stepping stone to a bad movie if LaBute continues this way.  Someone needs to tell him to grab his buddy Aaron Eckhart (whose character's fates are getting worse and worse with every movie since In the Company of Men) and go do what he does best.  And if he can do it in a big, multi-camera mainstream movie like this one- all the better.      "},{"Title":"Just the tonic","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty is a blend of the believable and the surreal.  Renee Zellwegger is very good as the titular character.  Neil LeBute's best work so far. The scene in which Betty regains her grip on reality is one of the best in recent cinema. "},{"Title":"This didnt have to be an 18 certificate.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty is an entertaining movie with some good acting and a cute story line that was suprisingly labelled as an 18 certificate for two moments in the film that were uncalled for.  Apart from a scene where Betty's Husband is brutally scalped and when Chris Rock calls betty a C**t the whole film is charming . These two scenes seem so out of context that it is hard to see what the director was thinking when shooting this film. Was he trying to make the film more hard hitting? and if so why? Essentially this film is a qaint comedy which is made entertaining by the superb acting of Renee Zelweger.  She is quickly becoming a top female comedy actress who impresssed in Bridget Jones's Diary. The only bad acting in this is from Pruitt Taylor Vince who plays the sheriff.  Watch his eyes and you can see he is reading his lines from a board. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Black Comedy? .... Nah.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, after watching the scalping scene I thought this was going to be another black comedy (not that there's anything wrong with that) but as it unfolds I realized it is not so at all. With only three inclement scenes through the whole movie I don't know how anyone could categorize it as being violent. I think Neil was kind of obligated to show depth in these scenes to keep the movie versatile to the audience. Yes I could say this movie had a range of genres to keep the interest level up but then again I could say he didn't have enough from each genre to have the audience rise their expectations to satisfy them with a good conclusion. I thought Jean-Yves did an outstanding job with lighting in the cinematography and casting of Freeman and Rock worked really well (especially their costumes, very original). This is a good movie. If you have the time, rent it on DVD and listen to both the commentaries (1 - with cast and Neil, 2 - with crew), you will learn a lot.   "},{"Title":"A good comedy, a rare treat!","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This kind of film is a dying breed. There is actually nothing wrong with it. It is amusing, witty and has enough violence to satisfy all action fans! This film starts off slow, but once it gets into the story, you are hooked to see what will happen. Renee Zellweger is the best she has been in years, and Morgan Freeman looks relieved to be breaking out of his serious character roles for once. Chris Rock lets himself down though, as he never once gets to demonstrate his comic abilities. None the less, this is a great film, which will please any fan of soap operas, comedies or action movies! "}{"Title":"Cute and charming.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Based on R1 DVDThere's a touch of The Truman Show about Nurse Betty, an everyday story of reality means soap opera. Fortunately Nurse Betty is not an everyday film, Zellweger gives a good performance - better than Bridget Jones, Freeman is dependable as ever and Rock is most annoying as is intended.The DVDs commentary track, by the actors, is worth listening to as well.6/10 worth watching. "},{"Title":"More than I expected","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this film expecting it to be an entertaining, but somewhat simple film. It was more than I expected. (Spoiler Alert) I was totally surprised by the some of the violent content, but it made sense in the overall context of the movie. Renee Zellwiger here, as in Jerry McGuire has a wholesome quality that makes you instantly like her and puts you on her side. This movie reminded me of Fargo in some respects, especially the comic tone mixed with some violence.  "},{"Title":"smooth, quirky, and original","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's funny, but I can't remember a really striking detail about this film. There were some great lines (It doesn't fit her profile.), great performances (Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman, Greg Kinnear), and a well-written script, but overall I think it was the coherence, smoothness, and quirkiness of the film that impressed me. It reminded me of Fargo.Zellweger plays a Texan housewife who starts believing she is a character in her favourite soap show after she sees her husband brutally murdered. She embarks on a quest to track down her on-screen lover (Greg Kinnear), while the hitmen who did the deed (Freeman and Chris Rock) try to track her down before she recovers her senses and identifies them. "},{"Title":"A good movie ruined by a Rock","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty had all the makings of a good movie an original story, interesting characters, some good talent (especially Freeman & Zellweger), and a great DOP. Unfortunately, the writers mistakingly believe that Chris Rock yelling at Morgan Freeman for two hours is somehow enjoyable.  This was not a nice thing to do to an otherwise good movie.  Even if you are misguided enough to enjoy listening to Rock screech his way through a movie, the writers let us down by giving him nothing interesting to say.  Be wary of this flick -- if you don't like Rock, it's not worth your time. "},{"Title":"Betty the nurse, needs a nurse of her own.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Someone finally found the right role for Renee. As a totally involved soap opera watcher, our Betty finds herself doing a Dorothy, vis a vis, The Wizard of Oz, in seeking out the actor who portrays her beloved doctor on the TV.During all this, interestingly confusing plot, she wanders around in a dreamlike trance almost to the point of distraction. However, this damn movie sneaks up on you, and regardless of your gender, you find yourself pulling for Betty to get it all straightened out.Morgan Freeman is his always reliable self, turning in a split-conscience performance. He's a crook, but he has a big heart. The sad thing associated with Morgan is the stupid casting of Chris Rock as his loudmouth assistant. Rock has no business being in this film, and as I was enjoying the story as it unfolded, his presence ruined the film for me. I was tempted to turn the sound off while he was on screen, because he absolutely distracted from the plot lines. If you watch this film, just pay attention to his line delivery. It's terrible, and he is about as believable as Ronald McDonald.  Someone should have investigated the casting company that selected him. The fact that he is an African-American is of no consequence, he's just BAD. You'll see what I mean.In spite of him, this film IS worth watching. It's a nice original twist on an old story, and Renee Z. does a good job. The rest of the cast (not C.R.) does a commendable turn. I always like whatever Greg Kinnear does anyway.I am a senior male, and have seen thousands of movies. I suggest you give this a go, and just try to ignore the acting attempt by you know who. "},{"Title":"Good acting, but violent and not that funny","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't recommend this movie, unless you are a Renee fan.  The acting in the movie, especially that of Renee, is very good.  But other than that, it doesn't work.  First of all, there are some brutally violent scenes in the movie that are even more shocking when you're not prepared for them.  Secondly, there is quite a bit a swearing from the usually-funny-but-not-this-time Chris Rock.  Profanity can be funny, and I love Chris Rock, but in this movie his cursing is just obnoxious.  Take the R rating (in the US) very seriously, this is not a good date movie at all.However, violence and profanity aside, this movie just isn't funny.  It's billed as a comedy (dark comedy) but there are no real laughs.  Dark comedies are sometime supposed to shock you into laughter, but that doesn't happen either.  There are a few amusing moments, but they are very few and even farther between.  I found myself just waiting for the movie to end.  Part of the problem is the plot, which is 100% predictable.  You see the setup and then just sit there waiting for the inevitable conclusion to that setup.  There are no surprises.  In the end, I was just bored, which is why I gave this movie a 4. "},{"Title":"A real favourite (contains spoilers)","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just love this film, and regret that a few people find the level of violence in two scenes unexpected. In the UK it is an 18, and that kind of category should prepare people to expect a dark comedy, however it is promoted.One little irony is that Betty is so lovable that the more susceptible viewer might be tempted to make just the same mistake as she does - fall in love with a fictional character. Still, she's a lot more worthy of this than the schmucky doctor!I think Morgan's character, Charlie, is very interesting. He starts off as a man who believes that he has professional integrity. It is his obsession with Betty which destroys this, and him. The first fatal consequence of this obsession is in the scene at the bar in Nevada. The only way the plot can hold together is for Charlie and Wesley to kill the Bartender lady. If they don't, she will surely blow the gaff and bring the cops into it? She is very sweet and definitely doesn't have it coming to her. Earlier on, Charlie, who prides himself on being a professional, has said he never killed anyone who didn't have it coming to them. Thus, his Betty obsession has surely made him break his professional code?It fits the logic of natural justice that he should perish. In this way, the plot follows the the baddies get it in the end Hollywood way. Just a theory! "},{"Title":"huh?","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie caught me off guard.  It wasn't at all what i expected, and i wouldn't recommend it to anyone because it wasn't anything that i enjoyed. What was weird about this whole movie is i was expecting a comedy and it did have some funny moments (i guess) but then was surprised to find it have some violent and serious overtones throughout it.  I guess it's not that shocking of a movie, but it is when you are expecting something totally different.  They totally tried to market this as a comedy, at least all the trailers that i have seen.   "},{"Title":"Sweet and sour...","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are going to judge this movie by the trailers seen in the theatre or on television, you are forewarned...This movie had some wonderful moments.  Each character was wonderfully three-dimensional and had a distinct quirkiness that was lovable and strange all at the same time.  I found myself liking each character despite the fact that one is a brutal murderer (Morgan Freeman).  His character was particularly interesting because as he searches for Betty in the film, he becomes obsessed with an idyllic fantasy, much like Betty becomes obsessed with her fantasy after witnessing the murder of her unfaithful husband. What we have here is a fine premise with wonderful actors in fine roles... and then it all gets ruined by horrendously violent overtones.  There are certain scenes that are so outrageously gruesome that I was amazed!  The problem here is the fact that the film swings so drastically from poignant sweetness to bitterly gratuitous violence that is so outrageous and unexpected that I was left wondering just what the heck the point of it all was.  This movie was not bad in the end.  But it could have been a heck of a lot better... "},{"Title":"I do not recommend","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I LOVE movies, and can almost always find a good reason to watch one. However, I was VERY disappointed in Nurse Betty.  If you like Rene, you probably need to see it.  The only thing I really enjoyed about this movie was Greg Kinnear.  He is very handsome and has some good dialogue.  I was frustrated by too many questions WHY did Morgan Freeman's character have an obsession with Betty?  It seemed more because of his belief in her altruism than a sexual attraction.  At the end of the movie, I discovered why Morgan Freeman hadn't killed Chris Rock in their motel room earlier, when Chris was being ugly and disrespectful.  Even the two of them seemed mismatched.  I did like Crispin Glover, Kathleen Wilhoite and Betty's LA roommate, however they were all excellent characters and acted well.  But one other thing I was frustrated with was that normally, in this type movie, SOMEONE will give a diagnosis of some sort PTSD, partly, but what about fugue state?  I wanted to know the clinical term for Betty's condition.Although the movie was well made and I have little criticism of the cinematography, I consider the poor script a waste of my time. "}{"Title":"Guh? Nuh buh?","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  NURSE BETTY, advertised as a sweet romantic comedy, happiness, love... with comedic lines and characters. I walk into the theater and this dark violent movie shows on the screen. I, normally expecting Chris Rock to be the one who is the happy part of it, was surprised at the twist of a character he played. Chris Rock seemed to be the bad guy of the movie. He makes some darkly funny lines that aren't that comedic but funny nevertheless. Morgan Freeman, also not known to be a bad guy, surprised me too. They were both great. The movie is a good movie. Not really a comedy, though labeled one. It had PHENOMENAL dialogue, BRILLIANT acting, and a GREAT story. This movie was underrated and under appreciated. I HIGHLY recommend this one. NOT TO FAMILIES but to someone looking for an SCREAMINGLY original movie. I give it an 8/10! ACTING IS AWARD WINNING!  Chris Rock, Morgan Freeman, Renee Zellweger and Greg Kinnear all do quite a bit of STRETCHING in their acting. ADVISORY- Violence is brutal at one point when Chris Rock scalps a man. Then Morgan Freeman shoots him until he is dead. Somewhat of a bloody shootout towards the end. Language is on the EXTREME side, though it doesn't bother me. Drug Content is minimal though its there.   "},{"Title":"Unusual, haunting and uplifting","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on DVD recently and was pleasantly surprised.  It does not conform to any known genre but takes a little-road-less-travelled  of its own. My take on it was that we are all on a journey to ourselves, but we are easily sidetracked when life becomes too painful whether through circumstances or poor decisions made. It is then easier to creep into a fantasy and live there for a while while we nurse our wounds. I particularly enjoyed the principle players, Renee and Morgan.  Their stories intertwine in an offbeat way. He fantasizes about her as she fantasizes about a soap star.  They both set off in pursuit of their ideals with unpredictable results. I enjoy movies that take risks and this one does and there are no set Hollywood patterns.  I found it to be a sly dig at Hollywood and its formulaic plot lines.  Renee is sweet without being smarmy, there is a naivete to her in this which is not cloying. And Morgan has seen better days and is the victim of his own lifestyle which he would leave in a second if his fantasy were possible and a deep part of him knows it is not. I saw the underpinning of many Hollywood movies here, threading lightly through the visuals and the script. An 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"WOW! What Writing!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie a 10. I was blown away with the writing --I'd be damn proud of a screenplay like that.  And what perfect casting.  This is a must-see dramedy. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, this film really blew me away, I'd seen clips of it when it was shown at Cannes last year but watching it I didn't know what to expect. This film is amazing, maybe not the best picture ever made but definitely underrated, it's just one pleasant surprise after another. The script is razor sharp and the characters highly interesting, rare for films these days.The actors are also essential in carrying the film, and Nurse Betty has a great ensemble. We have Pruitt Taylor Vince and Crispin Glover as a pair of small town nitwits, Greg Kinnear as TV soap actor George McCord... And then we've got Chris Rock and Morgan Freeman as a couple of two-bit hit men. Rock has shown great promise in his live stand-up routines but until now he's never displayed any real magic, and then there's Freeman, talk about a change in direction, I've never seen him this intense, cursing up a storm, he may get a little too `Freemanesque' towards the end but for the most part he comes of as Samuel L. Jackson's cooler, meaner, older brother.But the real treasure here is Renée Zellweger as Betty, in the early days I thought she was annoying but with this and Bridget Jones she's really showing herself to be one of the best actresses around. There are times when we don't even recognise the performance because we are so wrapped up in the character of Betty. She conveys the loss and subtle fear of the character and her mishmash of emotions excellently and what a shame she didn't pick up any serious awards (I think she got a Golden Globe though) because this is one of the best performances you will see.LaBute does a good job with the material and the switches between light-hearted fantasy and molasses black humour are handled with expert precision. I haven't seen his previous films `In the Company of Men' or `You're Friends and Neighbours' but after this I might just check them out. But be warned, when I say pitch black comedy I mean it, Nurse Betty has some truly astounding moments but they all add up to the brilliance of the film, and even if the lead up to the ending becomes both tragic and farcical the actual ending is highly rewarding.Nurse Betty is a film that most might not be in any kind of rush to see, but I urge you to give it a try. It's a funny, sad, darkly comic and deeply serious film full of great characters, writing and direction.9/10  "},{"Title":"funny!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This wasn't too bad a movie, as a nurse finds herself chasing her dream man. The problem is, her dream man is a character on a soap opera! The usual comic mayhem results, as she herself is chased by the bad guys (well played by Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock). Greg Kinnear also made a decent love interest.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"very fine comedy","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The best thing about `Nurse Betty' is that you never quite know where it's going.  Its loose and freeform structure allows the writers, John C. Richards and James Flamberg, to fashion their work from a wide range of disparate moods and styles - and the strain rarely shows.  One can question the appropriateness of a particularly gruesome scene early on in the film, but, for the most part, `Nurse Betty' wins us over with its originality, sweetness and charm.  The first element is provided by the screenwriters, but the second two come principally from the film's star, Renee Zellweger, who, as always, radiates the kind of beauty and vulnerability of spirit that have made her a major star for our time.Zellweger plays Betty Sizemore, a waitress working in a café in Kansas, who escapes the grim reality of her marriage to a callous philanderer by blanking herself into her favorite soap opera and fantasizing about her favorite soap opera character, the handsome Dr. David Ravell, played by Greg Kinnear.  When Betty witnesses the brutal murder of her husband, she lapses into a state of psychosomatic denial, becoming convinced not only that the world of her TV program is real but that she must travel to Los Angeles to reunite with her former fiancé, Dr. Ravell himself.  Thus begins Betty's bizarre cross-country odyssey, followed closely on her heels by Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock, the men responsible for her husband's death.But the odyssey Betty undergoes is not merely a geographical one - for she also takes a journey deep into the recesses of comic madness.  As a result, while there is humor in much of what she goes through, there is also pain - and the writers and the actress hit on both notes perfectly.  Thus, while Betty's confusion about what is real and what is fantasy often leads to comic misunderstandings, it also leads to the kind of fear, misapprehension and insecurity that can accompany irrationality.In a similar way, the writers knock us off balance with their conception of the Freeman and Rock characters.  Here are men - one a hotheaded, cold-blooded, calculated killer, the other a professional criminal who admits to knocking off those people who `deserve it' - who come across at times as quietly convincing humorous charmers.  `Nurse Betty' is not always a `comfortable' comedy.With its multitude of characters, settings and tones, `Nurse Betty' sometimes seems as if it will rip apart at the seams.  Yet, thanks to the skilled hand of director Neil LaBute, this never happens.  In fact, the film has an expansive, almost epic quality rarely found in a comedy.  Not every element in `Nurse Betty' works equally well, but for its ambition, scope and originality, it is a film well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"great and good actors but the script is bad","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the gangsters had great actors able to fill the parts, but their part of the story was flawed.too many unbelievable jumps in the story's progress.  The third act is very weak.if this movie is supposed to be commentary on regular people's loosing themselves in soap operas, I think the creators of this movie lack the ability to drive the heavy machinery of taking a picture of the picture.It was as if a young inexperienced film maker was given more than they could handle.... "},{"Title":"Little cinematic touches in this","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not to recount the plot (does EVERY reviewer on this site have to do that?), here are the moments that make this film work(Spoilers)-the intense colors in the film....green for the hotel room, blue in the diner scene at the end, the red in the Formosa Cafe, green lighting on Freeman and Rock in the car....these are the Technicolor moments when this lost girl from Kansas leaves her drab life behind, just like in you-know-what.-the bookend scene of Betty being served by a waiter who hands her the bill without looking, just like she did to Morgan Freeman in the first scene with the coffee being poured.-When Morgan Freeman takes his last look at Betty, with the strong light on the side of his face, he goes to face his impending death, while inside, she wears a star on her simple shirt, a foreshadowing as to her future career.-Though it seems ludicrous, Greg Kinnear doesn't see that this could be a truly crazed fan.   He and his show buddies just accept that it's the mark of a brilliant, struggling actress.   They're as deluded as Betty and Freeman's character are.-and isn't that director Labute as the pizza man near the end?Overall, one of those films where I have no idea how its going to end.  Yes, I figured that the hitmen would meet their maker, but still...as a fellow screenwriter, its great to be pleasantly surprised as to how it all wraps up. "},{"Title":"Renee Zellwegger's commanding performance","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is held together perfectly by an outstanding performance by Renee Zellwegger. She was duely rewarded by winning the Golden globe award for this performance. This movie show us the fine line between fantasy and reality, and the psychological coping mechanisms of dealing with traumatic experiences. Most of all this movie is another one of La Bute's dark comedies to which he debuted with In the company of men.Rating Renee Zellwegger 10/10; La Bute 8/10; Overall 9/10  "},{"Title":"A fun night at the movies...","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I look at movies I look for two types - art and entertainment.  I try to look at the film and relate to it on those two levels.  I may ask myself - Is this a good Saturday Night Date Movie? - Is this a good guy's night out movie? - or is this an arts movie that I will discuss with my mother?Well, this was a fine entertaining movie.  A Saturday night special as I would call it.  You have familiar faces in familiar roles.  There are some interesting twists in the movie and an interesting plot.Looking at the box office #'s (cost $24,000,000 US Box office $25,000,000) I was surprised it hadn't done better.  I have watched the trailer again to see if it didn't show enough of the action side of the film, it did so that can't be why it did so poorly.  I then went to see if it had great competition it's first two weeks.  It did not, it had The Watcher, Bring It onand urban Legends, Final Cut.  None of these films are great enough to have beaten any new releases.  My only assumption is that the key movie going demographic of 18 - 35 males spent their money on Bring it on and Urban Legends.After all is said and done, it was a good movie worth a look on DVD or VHS. I assume that my assumption is correct since it has done over $50,000,000 in Video rentals. Urban Legends hasn't even done 1/2 have of that amount.Take a look and ask yourself how you missed it the first time. "}{"Title":"RATHER SARCASTIC","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A film that focuses on the stupidity that characterizes a large part of the US population which have a life style that starts and ends on a TV set. Nurse Betty, a naive girl who lives in a small town, has become obsessed with a TV series carbolic soap opera protagonist and begins a journey to find her beloved one. Many grotesque situations happen on her way to the hospital (which is actually the set of the soap opera) and finally when she arrives there (and the audience expects her to find out what really is going on) she meets her beloved one and then comes the real good part. The actor exploits her but then he realizes that the country girl lives a part of the soap opera. The film has a happy end .A comment for Freeman's role is that his choice was disappointing for this movie. "},{"Title":"Good movie, terrific acting, and fun and intelligent script","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a good solid movie. Renee Zellweger is terrific in this. She got the character down 100%. Couldn't imagine anyone else doing the role. And Morgan Freeman. Always brings style and elegance to a role no matter which one it is. One of my favorite actors. I thought Chris Rock did a great job as well. All around solid, good movie and easy to watch and have fun. Yes, watch the violence in the beginning and near the end. Not suitable for children. I give it a B+ "},{"Title":"A slight correction to my previous comment","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just wanted to make an apology for a slight mistake. When I wrote to call her David Ravel I meant to call him David Ravel. Oh well...Everybody makes mistakes, and I found out after having posted so there was no use editing. "},{"Title":"Acid and funny","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie turned out to be one of the most original and hilarious I had seen in years. Perhaps the script could make the film predictable, but it wasn't that way. The only thing I resented was the way Betty's hubby was murdered. It should have been done in a less cruel way. However, the movie lived up to my expectations, essentially due to the cast' superb acting, mainly Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock.What I believe turned me on the most to this film was how it features an acid portrait of life in the deep US - not to offend anybody ok? I'm just not keen on patriotic-driven messages, regardless of their nationality. Nurse Betty lets us know there are certain people whose lives are so empty that they try to find consolation (Even alienation) on TV soap operas. As scary as it may sound, it's very true.I like so much the scene when Betty, already on the run, stops by that roadside bar and tells the waitress about her story and goal. Then the waitress says to Betty that one of the greatest things she has accomplished in life is going to Rome and have a drink sitting in that plaza.I can't help commenting on the scene when Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock are in the Grand Canyon at night and the first starts rambling about he and Betty together. Hysterical!One of the funniest parts is when Betty has just arrived to L.A. and goes to a hospital trying to apply for a nurse job. How funny is when that armed man is scaring the hell out of people outside the hospital and she does not fear to come helping that injured person in an ambulance despite of him.It's also damn funny the part when Betty and Rosa are in that party and the man who plays David Ravel in A Reason For Love shows up. Then Betty comes to him and starts saying quotes from the show so perfectly that the actor believes she is an actress looking for a chance to appear in the soap opera. She manages to get it in the end, though turns out to be a total shambles as she finally realises it's all a fantasy she's been living for a long time. George (The actor's name) is mocked by the show's cast and crew as he insists in giving her another chance to act and she screws up over and over again. Especially frustrating for him is when, after Betty fails to utter a single word in the set, she begins to call him by his true name and he desperately tries to get her to call her David Ravel.I also love the parts in Rosa's flat, when the two thieves (Played by Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock) have Betty, Rosa, Betty's town' sheriff and the journalist as hostages and almost everyone sits mesmerized in the living-room to watch the soap opera's current episode that Rosa has taped.The end is so touching, when Betty is also sitting in that Italian plaza with a drink before her and the tv is on with A Reason For Love (Featuring her) playing. Then she asks the bartender for the bill, and he gives it to her without taking his eyes off the tv set. Definitely, a must see movie. To me, one of the best and most acid comedies ever made. Rating 10. "},{"Title":"deserved an oscar","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Obsession - it makes for a great story.  It's something Hollywood writers picked up on a long time ago, and has made for some of the great moments of cinema.   Nurse Betty can now be added to that list.  A tale of people obsessed with others lives, real or imagined, that is quirky and different enough to leave a lasting impression.  I would even go as far as to say it is the best movie I have seen this year - fresh, darkly funny, enthralling, original, magical, clever, and with stand out performances from the cast. Let's start with Renee Zelwegger as the Betty of the title.  It's actually hard to know where to start she's so good.  Her character exudes home baked goodness, with an air of naivety and innocence that emanates from those beady little eyes.  Couple the expressive eyes with body language that is scarily real and you have one of the stand out performances of the year. It comes as no surprise that the role has won her numerous awards and should have been nominated for Best Actress at the Oscars. When Betty see's her husband rubbed out by a couple of hit men, she recedes into the imaginary world of her favourite soap opera, Reason to Love.  She hits the road to find her true love, Dr. David Ravel, the shows ace heart surgeon.  Close behind are the hit-men, hoping to find a mystery package in the boot of her car. So Nurse Betty becomes a road movie, with a host of interesting characters along the way.  Everyone Betty meets is enchanted by her child like innocence, and not long after, rattled by the pursuing killers.  An interesting yin and yang plot.  Not that the hit men are your usual ruthless thugs.  In fact, Charlie (Morgan Freeman) is a gentleman in the truest sense of the word.  He enjoys sunsets and classical music.  Plus he has a good work ethic, which he is doing his best to instill in his student, the over zealous Wesley (Chris Rock). Freeman, as is to be expected, is wonderful in his role, imbuing his character with a casual reality.  The obsession he develops for Betty is handled with a finesse that makes it believable.  The real surprise is Chris Rock in his best performance to date.  When he opens his mouth, you expect his usual maniacal, 90 to the dozen impossible to understand dialogue. Instead, he delivers a refreshingly restrained performance with just a hint of edginess. In what I'd have to say is a salute to Back to the Future, Crispin Glover plays the role of journalist, Roy, every bit like his earlier character, George McFly.  Even his hairstyle is the same.  One of his lines in Nurse Betty is stolen (for want of a better word) directly from BttF.  He has the home grown mid-west country boy down to a tee. Bottomline, to be able to make a truly witty, albeit dark, comedy out of a widow's post-traumatic obsession with a soap star is an accomplishment in itself.  The fact that the characters all seem so real is an added bonus. Nurse Betty is a real treat, and stands miles ahead of a lot of recent fare. I've heard it described as  &#145;Forrest Gump meets Pulp Fiction' and would have to say that's pretty accurate.  While romantic and often sweet, it is punctuated with violence and occasionally frightening.  But don't let that scare you off - Nurse Betty should be top of your must see list.  My pick of the year so far. "},{"Title":"uninteresting escapism from a hateful director","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After unintelligent waitress Renée Zellweger witnesses the dramatic scalping and murder of her unpleasant husband Aaron Eckhart, she hits the road believing TV soap opera star Greg Kinnear sent her a message to do so in a recent episode.  Hired killers Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock reluctantly track her down as the former becomes slightly obsessed with her.  The completely unqualified small-town crazy winds up getting a job at a hospital by saving a wounded man's life, also landing a room with the patient's sister Tia Texada.  After Zellweger stars up a confused relationship with the man she's essentially stalking, matters get very confused and therein we find the meat of the matter.  While cute on the surface, LaBute tends not to genuinely dabble with such lighthearted emotions.  Tucked under a sheet-thin sweetness, we find some extremely negative takes on his characters.  Zellweger's delusional infatuation makes light of someone genuinely insanity, and LaBute encourages us to laugh at he.  The very presence of laughter in such a dark drama indicates a strong distaste for the characters.  Worse yet are sudden switches to a more objective portrayal of Zegweller's delusions.  Her conversations in a bar with a woman gradually realizing Zegweller is out of her nut offer more genuine fear than sympathy.  I've never enjoyed any of Neil LaBute's movie &#150; on the whole, I find him negative to excess, relying strongly of whines when anger could have proved a more useful tone.  Freeman, who started his acting career on `The Electric Company,' has a character lifted right out of Pulp Fiction, and gives him extremely little room in which to work.  Rock, meanwhile, tries very hard to make up for all that space but fails to pull it off. "},{"Title":"Three in a Row for Labute","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty is an odd little comedy..&#133;an odd, dark, and complex comedy. You don't know whether to hide your eyes, cringe, or laugh. Eschewing standard Hollywood formulas, Neil Labute has again helmed an excellent, well-crafted movie. More compassionate of its characters than his two first films, Nurse Betty is no less thought provoking. Aiding Mr. Labute is an excellent cast from top to bottom (with the exception of Chris Rock who seems out of synch with the film's rhythms). Particularly impressive is Renée Zellweger in the title role. She's magnificent. Morgan Freeman and Greg Kinnear also give great performances. It's impossible to pigeonhole this movie, my advice is to go to your video store and rent it. "},{"Title":"A interesting concept in directing, not not a success.","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of all the movies I have seen, this is the one that I would most like to speak with the director about. Had Freeman and Rock played their parts less straight, I could envision this movie being a break out comedy &#150; maybe even a classic. Had the minor characters played their parts more straight, I could envision this a tight drama with a captivating story. Unfortunately, the movie straddles the line between comedy and drama, never falling onto either side of the line for more than a few moments. For me, the apparent lack of true vision makes this movie a failure. I would love to speak with the director to try to learn what it was he was shooting for.  "},{"Title":"Nurse Betty has an international flavor to it.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Many people around the world watch soap-operas. In some countries such as Brazil the soaps run six days a week and last about six months maximum.  The country literally stops when they are aired.  Unlike the States where they air during the afternoon, in Brazil they aired at night in prime time. The 8'clock soap is watched by millions. Those Tele-novelas have a tremendous impact on peoples lives. People tend to copy trends from those much watched and loved television novelas, such as hair cuts and hair styles.  They quote lines of the soaps, and it is like a soccer game, if the favorite team  losses productivity in the work place goes down the next day.	From that perspective I believe that Nurse Betty has an international flavor to it. And no wonder that the Renée Zellweger (Bridget Jones's Diary) won a Golden Globe award from playing Betty Sizemore. She is a very good actress.  The members of the foreign press probably could see that this could be a true fantasy story as far as other countries go. I don't think that people fantasize have to necessarily have a pos-traumatic disorder to really believe that they are the heroes and heroines. To be sure, not to the extent that Nurse Betty was fantasizing.  I think that many people live their lives though soaps because they don't have a life.	This movie is fun and interesting, the plot is fresh and we enjoyed it very much. I recommend this film!                                             "},{"Title":"A Romantic Black Comedy","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty is different, very different.  At one level, it is romantic and often sweet but it is also violent and occasionally frightening.  It works, though, thanks to brilliant performances by Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman, and Greg Kinnear.  It is also helped by the writing, which somehow avoids lurching too far in the direction of either cynicism or sentimentality.  An excellent film but one that may not be for all tastes. "}{"Title":"Great actors + great script + great plot= One of the best of 2000","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Neil LaBute. If you'd told me the name before Nurse Betty was released, I wouldn't have known who he was. When Nurse Betty came out to critical acclaim, I saw the trailer for the movie with Ben Stiller in it... I don't know the name. Anyways, I was scared. Scared because Nurse Betty might be that weird. I really am an idiot.Renee Zellweger is Betty, a waitress obsessed with the soap opera A Reason To Love and more precisely its star Dr. David Ravell (Greg Kinnear). One night, Betty's car dealer husband (Aaron Eckhart) comes home with two clients. Betty is in the den watching a tape of A Reason to Love. The men talk when one of them (Chris Rock) menaces to scalp Del, much to his father's (Morgan Freeman) disarray. Things go awry and Del does get scalped, and then repeatedly shot. Turns out Rock and Freeman are a father-and-son team of hitmen out after Del. Betty saw all of it, but maybe because of the shock or because of her infatuation with Dr. David, she seems oblivious to this. She decides to leave and go to Los Angeles. She decides to go see her ex-fiance. And, yes, you guessed it, it's Dr. Ravell.But Betty doesn't know that the soap isn't real. She thinks it's real. Nurse Betty raises interesting questions about television and its effects. The same thing is explored with imagination. Freeman's character carries a picture of Betty around. He makes her up into his dream woman, even though he only saw her once, waitressing. All this is a bit frightening when you think that this might be happening to real people right now.I stop the story right there because the plot goes on on its own and sucks in the viewer. Even if I tell it in minute detail here, you won't make any sense out of it. You have to see it to believe it.Zellweger breaks out in a fantastic performance. It seems like an easy role to play. After all, Betty is only a blonde who smiles at everything. Played by any vapid starlet, the fact that it's a mask, a coverup, may have been lost. I think it's much harder to play a role like this and make it seem like she's not acting at all. Zellweger is now one of my favorite actresses and it will be interesting to watch her career from now on.(By the way, she won a Glden Globe for the role. No, a Golden Globe isn't worth much. But still.) Old veteran Freeman and smart-mouthed comic Chris Rock form a dynamite duo. Their dialogue while traveling, quite obviously inspired by Tarantino, is one of the only times I've seen Tarantino done properly. Freeman is superb in one of the rare times where he plays a villain. Rock is good, but he still has some ways to go as an actor. Kinnear, as the TV star, is good, but still, this isn't the role that'll change him from being the guy from Talk Soup.The script and the performances make this could've-been grim story into a funny comedy of sorts. Rock and Freeman, as I said, make a great pair. They are so endearing, all of them, that when something bad is about to happen, you feel like you want to turn off the movie, to save them from their fate. When a movie makes you feel this strongly about the characters, you can't help but love it. Nurse Betty is an original, winning film and is one of my top picks of 2000. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Uhhhh....","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The popularity of many movies escapes me, but at least in the case of movies like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon or Magnolia, although I don't understand the acclaim, I can at least see what it is people like about the film.  However, in the case of Nurse Betty, I just don't get it.  This movie was, in a word, dull - dreadfully so.  Morgan Freeman wasn't bad, Greg Kinear wasn't bad, hell, Renee Zellwegger wasn't bad.  Still, the assertion that this is some sort of dark comedy masterpiece is just ridiculous.  There is nothing new or transcendent here, nothing subtly brilliant, no great connection to something in the human spirit.  Its simply another silly comedy that misses the mark, no better than Lost and Found or Dude, Where's my Car?.Lastly, for those ripping Chris Rock for the language he used in the film, I hope you realize there is something called a script that has lines on it that actors memorize and then deliver.  If you think that Chris Rock is degrading to women, blame the script, not the actor.  Do you also think that Ed Norton and Brad Pitt hate women because of their language in Fight Club?  Get a clue, rip the insipid writing, not the messenger. "},{"Title":"A immensely entertaining and original film that suffered from horrible marketing.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had wanted to see this movie when it was in theaters. But before I could blink it had exited them.  So with great anticipation I rented it last night, and man was I impressed.Before I give my impressions of the film, the marketing executive who thought it would be a good idea to market this as a straight-ahead screwball comedy should be fired immediately.  While there are some comedic elements to the movie, it is more of a edgy and sometimes brutally violent road-movie/thriller.  A lot of people went to see it expecting a light-hearted comedy, but a little bit into the movie a certain and very violent scene had people wondering if they had wandered into the wrong movie. Maybe it can finally find it's proper audience on video (though they are still inexplicably pushing it as a straight comedy...........)Everything from this movie is great.  The acting (especially Renee Zellwegger and the always perfect Morgan Freeman) is flawless. Even Chris Rock is not annoying like he usually is.  The script flawlessly juggles quite a few different genres into a fine stew at some points it's a violent hit-man film, other points it's more of a road movie, and even at other times it's sort of a twisted buddy movie.  Kudos should be given to the director who really pulled this material together and didn't go the easy way out.The movie drags just a hair during the middle (hence why I didn't give it a perfect 10), but it's easily the best and most original movie to come out in quite some time.  and Renee Zellwegger was robbed of an Oscar nomination in my opinion!rating9 "},{"Title":"Unusual to say the least... but a spellbinder for me","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty was nothing that I expected and fascinated me from start to finish.  Renee Zellweger was believable in an unbelievable role and the interplay between Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock put a new twist on a very old theme.  If you can keep an open mind, have a taste for the unusual (to say the least) and can put up with a short but jolting scene of violence that is intended to jolt you this is quite worth watching.  A special motion picture -- reading much about it before you see it can only detract.  "},{"Title":"Refreshingly funny, witty, entertaining!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Other than one scene that is a little too violent for my tastes, this films humms along with great precision.  I was pleasantly surprised with this one.  The acting is really good.  Reneé Zellweger puts in the performance of a career and the others certainly support her with quality acting.  The script is entertaining and we are carried from scene to scene by the shear desire to follow what could possibly happen next to poor Betty Sizemore!Rent it - you'll feel really good that you did! "},{"Title":"That Betty","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Renne Zellwegger stars as a delusional nurse who goes into a weird traumatic state after witnessing her husband get killed. She believes that Greg Kinnear who plays a doctor on a soap opera is her soul mate and she goes off to see him. She is followed by two hitmen played by Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock who are after the vehicle she is in and it's contents.This movie should be seen because I for one was surprised on how well it was. It is quirky and funny. Everyone regardless of whether you like them or not shine on in good roles. Check this one out.***1/2  "},{"Title":"concerning imagination, improvisation, anarchy, and greater American soap opera fantasies","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty shouldn't be supposed a character who embodies some element of magic or who has any agency of casting a spell--that is too easy an appreciation of the role.CNN, and PBS, (unwittingly) DO cast spells; but Nurse Betty is of a more transcendent character. It is by no accident that such transcendence as hers (Zellweger's, included here) might be gobbled up like one birthday cupcake, by a swinish and short-lived hubby, or might be mistaken for in-character expertise by soap opera producers.But on the screen where I saw the film, if any spell was cast, any enchantment worthy of mention, an active source inspiring it might be Morgan Freeman, through whose seamless improvisation, at a certain point along the way, we are lead, as if standing right beside him, into his infatuation with the imagined Betty. Incorporated in this sui generis touch a fuller irony and humor can be heard in other lines we see to tumble from his lips. One comes to mind I'm a professional, he says. Now, THAT's got some flesh riding on it.If you wonder about my epigrammitic one line summary at the head of this comment I will suggest in this moment (as I submit a TOTAL re-vision of my fuller contribution) that a worthy consideration of some fundamental premises of Nurse Betty--elements such as, to name just three,soap operas, imagination, and deception--easily lead one to remark on the longest-running American soap of all, a deception that has been playing to the grandest audience of all (the general American public), produced by, you are now UNdeceived . . . American TV--which will account for my mention of CNN, and PBS at the beginning of this re-view. I only mention those two mediators in the interest of brevity, and in the interest of being impartial in my attribution of responsibility. I should of course be surprised to find this comment running soon after this 25th March 2001, as I try to be intelligent, and to the point--something Nurse Betty can claim to have provoked from me. That's called a vote of approval, for a movie doing something that in my book goes beyond fearful timid non-political entertainment. Yet wonder of wonders, the flick is a marvelous piece of entertainment. See for yourself. Think for yourself, too, while you're at it. "},{"Title":"Easy on the Analysis, boys and girls, it's just a movie","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not so bad, but boy, do the IMDB'ers get carried away. Hating men, Western v. melodrama, the script is overwritten (?),(that from a very very LONG comment in here), well, hoo-hah, guys, take it easy.  Today's filmgoers must learn to treasure any film out of Hollywood that doensn't suck.  Treasure! Nurse Betty meets the big four criteria 1. It's entertaining. 2. It's new enough to be called fresh. 3. It's well casted. and 4. (the bog four), it doesn't suck.Hollywood has proved in the year 2000 that there is nothingeasier to do than make a film that sucks and nothing harder than to make one that doesn't suck.  And I always thought rocket-science and stand-up comedy were the two toughest things in the universe.  In the year 2000, the badly scripted Gladiator and the un-watchable un-endurable Erin Brockavich (don't care about mispellings there) are the favorites going into the Academy Awards!!  Favorites!  The best of the bunch!And so, rent Nurse Betty and enjoy a small clever movie with a story that will hook you and a sort of happy ending. Remember, and this is important, it doesn't suck.   "},{"Title":"Dark Comedy?  Huh?","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After hearing the rave reviews, I finally broke down and rented this movie.  Although it pains me to trash a movie that stars Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock, I have to do it.First off, this movie is not a dark comedy.  Fight Club is a dark comedy.  I hesitate to even call this a comedy because I didn't laugh out loud one time.  The storyline is absolutely stupid and completely unbelievable.  (No, I'm not one of those people that needs a movie to be realistic, but this is so ridiculous that it isn't even the least bit funny.)  Everyone else has gone into the details, so I won't bother.Second, Renee Zellweger.  Ugh.  She's definitely not one of my favorites.  Her expression during the entire film was either confusion or drippy love.  To me, this movie proves that she can't carry a film. Now, I wouldn't say that this is the worst movie I've ever seen, but it certainly isn't worthy of all the praise it got.  God, I'm so sick of the Hollywood marketing machine telling us what to think of movies.  Obviously the ticket receipts showed that this movie wasn't all it was cracked up to be.  It was mildly entertaining at best, but over 50% of me wishes I could get my hour and  a half back.  Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock both give good performances (of course).Not recommended unless you have absolutely nothing better to do.      "},{"Title":"Don't Walk Away, Renee.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tour-de-farce for Renee Zellweger. Between Betty and the vastly underrated A Price Above Rubies, she's beginning to compile a neat little resume.  Somewhat predictable script, but hey...with a soap-opera theme, I guess you've got to allow for that. Not a lot for Morgan Freeman to work with, but he's one of those actors that could read the phone book and make it interesting. Greg Kinnear's agent isn't getting paid enough. Kinnear is landing one great part after another, and he gives this role a good ride. And LaBute's got his homey, Aaaron Eckhart, playing a misogynistic slimeball again. Worked once before. Works here, too.Along with, In The Company Of Men and  Your Friends and Neigbors, LaBute's now given women 3, count 'em..3, movies in which men come off as undiluted scum. We're not all THAT bad, are we? I mean...I feed my dog regularly, I send my mom roses for Valentine's Day. What can I do, personally, Neil, old buddy, to make you give a guy ONE LOUSY SCENE in which he does the right thing? I'm only trying to help here. If need be, I'll call up all the guys I know in the neighborhood and take up a collection so that you can make a low-budget documentary film about what wonderful folks men are. I was thinking...maybe a Ken Burns-type historical treatment....... "}{"Title":"Like this one","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent and Brilliant movie. The story of an obsessed soap opera widow. The characters in the movie are well plan especially for Renee, she acts very genuine in her role as Nurse Betty.Sort of good beginning and ending but the middle part of the story is not very good written. The script do not tell us why she can be like this.. at the beginning and like that.. at the end. Such a confusion because the plot did not have a clear indication of her actual behaviour. Although we know she addicted to the show but obviously people around her will take her seriously and not follow her reaction and her weird attitude.It is a movie but a clever script has been written and thumb up to this one and to all the casts and crew.N.B By the way, you have extremely large letters at the opening scene, ever consider to make it smaller, size 20 probably? "},{"Title":"Unique and edgy do not make a good movie","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was unique and quirky and had some good acting(ie Zellwegger and Freeman)The material was far too disjointed and pointless.I just couldnt get fully involved...the plot just did not seem to flow.I wanted to like this movie,it just never completely won me over.It sure starts off like a ball of fire,then ends up like typical Hollywood pap! 6/10....only that high because of the acting and some exciting scenes. "},{"Title":"Great story line; but lots of unnecessary violence","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty has a great plot and is well acted. However, the disgusting, gratuitous violence detracted from the picture terribly. A more talented writer and director could have made this same movie with a PG-13 rating and it would have been a better movie. Showing the scalping of a live person added nothing to plot or value of the movie.  "},{"Title":"A fresh new comedy.  Renee Zellweger shines.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It isn't often that we see a fresh comedy.  `Nurse Betty' is certainly that and much more.  If this is any indication of the kind of material that we can expect from first time screenwriter John Richards, then he has a very bright future ahead of him.  It is the story of a waitress who always wanted to be a nurse.  She lives this dream vicariously by immersing herself in her favorite soap opera.  When she is emotionally traumatized by witnessing the murder of her husband, she retreats into a world where fantasy and reality are fused.  She believes that the soap opera is reality and that she is part of that reality.  So she sets out to find the lead character in the show, a doctor whom she believes was once her fiancé.Naturally, this gives rise to numerous hilarious situations as she goes about living as a soap opera character in the real world.  What is so clever about the way the story is written is that Betty is extremely believable while engaging in absurd behavior.  In most comedies, we justify the comical behavior of characters by assuming the characters or the situations are ludicrous.  In this story, the character and the situations are very realistic, but her temporary insanity puts her in a separate realm where she can be simultaneously earnest and amusing.The addition of the killers attempting to track her down adds an additional comic element, delivering a more traditional type of humor, with absurd characters doing absurd things while acting as if they believe they are serious.  This terrific and innovative blend makes the film sparkle with novel situations.The direction by Neil Labute is excellent.  It is a challenge to keep a script like this from collapsing into farce, but Labute brought forth genuine performances from all the actors that maintained the believability in the premise.  He also created some nice effects with lighting in various scenes.  Considering that this is Labute's first major motion picture, he did an extraordinary job.  As a piece of developing trivia, this is the third film directed by Labute, all of which have college chum Aaron Eckhart in the cast.  His next film, called `Possession', stars Gwyneth Paltrow, Jeremy Northam, and surprise, Aaron Eckhart.As good as the story is, it would not have worked without Renee Zellweger.  Zellweger oozes sincerity with a lovable naiveté that makes Betty utterly believable.  Since I first saw her in `Jerry MaGuire', I continue to be more impressed with each new role.  She has an ethereal quality about her that makes her dreamy and adorable, while still having the depth as an actor to handle the heavy scenes with an emotional force one wouldn't expect from such an airy actor.  I also enjoyed the performances of Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock.  They make a wonderful odd couple, the introspective career killer and the brash hothead.  Allison Janney also gives a fantastic performance in a supporting role as the soap opera producer.This is a unique and delightful comedy despite that fact that it is a bit dark and bizarre.  I rated it a 9/10.  Sometimes dreams really do come true. "},{"Title":"Fun to Watch, but Politically Confusing","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Feminist critic Tania Modleski argues that soap operas feed off of fears of social isolation. She argues further that the never ending narratives of soaps perpetual viewing practices over long periods of time. Housewives who watch soaps are, then, watching their ongoing narratives as a way of paralleling the elogated and unending plots of their own drudgery. The soap opera form, then, is opposed to the traditional cinematic (an inherently male medium) form, which requires unambiguous action and conclusions similarly lacking in duality and variation of meaning.In Nurse Betty, the main character (Betty, played by Rene Zellweger) is a Kansas waitress, who watches her favorite soap, A Reason to Love (a not very coded comment on soaps as a catalyst to a life of quiet desperation), at work. She also watches tapes of each episode at home. She discusses every episode with her best friend and subscribes to soap opera magazines. Rather than using soaps as a form of isolation, she uses her show as a way of creating a community for herself. Of course the soap's reenforcement of family structures has stunted her social growth. Her husband, Del (Aaron Eckart) is screwing around and Betty seems to know, but she does nothing to change the isolated world in which she lives. Then, on her birthday, Del is brutally murdered by two hitmen (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock) and Betty witnesses. She goes a little around the bend and becomes convinced that she is living in her favorite soap and heads out West to try to win back the affections of her favorite character, Dr. David Ravell (Greg Kinnear). All the while, she's being chased by the two hitmen who are convinced that she's running off with the drugs.Nurse Betty is Neil LaBute's first director effort that didn't come from his own script. Of course, nobody really praised the direction of LaBute's first two films (In the Company of Men, and Your Friends and Neighbors). Both films had a spare and claustrophobic look. They were insular chamber pieces about misanthropes and the not-so-nice things that people do to each other to screw with their minds and their bodies. Nurse Betty, on the other hand, is a warped fable.The locales make it easy to compare to The Wizard of Oz, but I don't really like that comparison. I'm not honestly sure how to handle Nurse Betty's allegorical meanings. When she witnesses the death of her husband, Betty doesn't really make a decision to change her life. She doesn't make any choices, a trick of her psyche causes her mind to believe that her life has already changed. She has gone from waitress to skilled nurse without actually contributing to the process. But for all of her new-believed professional credentials, what Betty really wants is a man and she's incapable of seeing behind the curtain to realize that the man she wants (Dr. David Ravell) doesn't exist and that the man she finds (actor George McCord) is an ass. She's incapable of seeing through the illusion. Whether she gets her mind straight is really just a plot point and that's a little disappointing.Frankly, Nurse Betty feels overwritten. John C. Richards and James Flamberg's script never feels real, but even worse it never feels fully like the bloody fairy tale it's aiming for. To return to the Wizard of Oz allusion, with Nurse Betty, you can always see the men behind the curtain. It always feels as if two screenwriters are moving the plot along, rather than like Betty is doing anything to move things along. The plot structure is classic elementary chase drama -- we go back and forth between the hitmen and Betty. And while getting Betty to Los Angeles was easy, in order to keep things going, Richards and Flamberg introduce a Hispanic roommate whose actions and character are painfully unmotivated. Nothing comes easy to this movie, including the various twists at the end, which would be surprising except for the fact that they just aren't interesting.LaBute's direction is fine, I guess. He mixes the brutal with the fantastical with decent skill. He errs, though, in his collaboration with cinematographer Jean-Yves Escoffier, whose work is just distracting. Sure, the frames look nice when they're tinted various primary colors, but I don't understand what that had to do with anything.The biggest strength of Nurse Betty is the acting. Zellweger proves that when the material is right, there aren't many actresses better. Her greatest liability would seem to be her baby-doll voice, but she always plays off her atypical line readings to create truly complex characters. This film wouldn't work without her. Morgan Freeman is also strong, but when did he last give a bad performance? And this is truly Greg Kinnear's best screen acting to date.Nurse Betty bothers me, I guess, because I don't understand it. I can admit that. On one level it seems to have feminist undercurrents, but on the other hand it has elements straight out of the anti-feminist backlash of the late 1980s. My discomfort about two men writing a woman's fantasy to be directed by another man is tough to overcome. While the actors on screen make everything seem effortless, the film's plot seems to be working much too hard. And the result is a frequently entertaining jumbling with enough pleasant moments to get a 6.5/10, I guess.  "},{"Title":"Uplifting and ***DARK***","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I came into Nurse Betty not knowing what to expect at all, and I came out glad I didn't. This movie is just about unlike anything else I've ever seen, combining some horrifyingly dark comedy, painfully pathetic situations, a loveable heroine, and an ultimately uplifting message into one of the best-written and most original movies I've seen in a long time.It's not for everyone, but I can't recommend it highly enough to people who aren't for everyone, either.  "},{"Title":"Comedy? A horror movie!","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the story of a guy who went up to see a comedy and it turned out to be a horror movie. The true story of a guy who's infatuated with pictures and got scared when he identified himself unexpectedly with one of them. The unbelievable story of A GUY who got scarier when the female-hero was deluding herself as well as the male-villain. Gosh, is this what life made us be? People deluding themselves about the perfect face imagining how that face should be perfect inside? Toto, I think we're not in Kansas anymore. "},{"Title":"Betty has the cure for this year's movie doldrums...","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If I'd only seen the poster for Nurse Betty, I probably wouldn't have touched it with a ten-foot pole.  But after I heard some positive buzz, and knowing it made some noise at Cannes, I decided to give it a try.  What I got is a truly enjoyable movie, based on a very entertaining plot.  Rene Zelleweger is impressive in her role as &#145;nurse' Betty, a woman who is sent into a delusional psychotic episode following a traumatic experience.  I also liked Morgan Freeman (no surprise) and was pleasantly surprised by foul-mouthed comedian Chris Rock.  The film bounces continuously between comedy, drama, romance, and thriller.  Yet despite this apparent identity crisis, it holds up quite well.  I found my eyes glued to the screen from beginning to end always waiting for the next twist in the story.  The entire cast is strong, if not spectacular. My only real complaint is that director Neil Labute (who made a splash a few years ago with the very impressive and dark &#145;In the Company of Men') relied much too heavily on many cliched Hollywood conventions.  The mood-creating musical effects he crammed down our throats during each sentimental scene were unbearable!  And he did the standard old let's take some of the minor characters and pair them up at the end in an illogical and unnecessary romance trick, just to make absolutely certain everyone goes home with a smile on their face.  Why must directors and writers treat their audiences like idiots??But the movie is still much too enjoyable to be dragged down very far by these annoying irritations.  In a very subpar year for movies, 'Nurse Betty' ranks as one of the more pleasant surprises of 2000.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What a surprise","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was mighty impressed with Nurse Betty all the way through.  It has a great ensemble of characters, an origional plot, and an ending I shoulda seen coming but didn't and pulls at your heart strings.If theres any one thing about this movie that got me the most it was Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock's interaction.  These two are great and it warms my heart to see Rock isn't going to do crappy Big Hollywood fare like Lethal Weapon 4 for the rest of his life.  Freeman is as always the man,  really there shouldnt be any need to critique his work anymore.  Hell, Kiss the Girls was watchable with him in it.Renee Zellwegger does the best she can with her role,  and Kinnear is good as her obession.Sweet movie with a nice touch of gratuitous violence in it to satisfy the bloodlust of the male.  9 outa 10 "},{"Title":"Not my speed","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was pretty enthusiastic about seeing this movie when it came out.  Commercials for it made it look quirky and I generally like Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock, and the combination of the two seemed like an interesting idea.  Sadly, I was terribly disappointed with Nurse Betty.Personally, I've usually found that graphic violence and comedy don't go all that well together, and the only directors that have ever combined the two successfully, in my opinion, are Tarantino and the Coens.  There isn't that much violence in Nurse Betty, but what violence is in it made me feel kind of weird when I was supposed to laugh.  Of course, for me, part of the problem was also that there didn't seem to be many places where I was being asked to.The film doesn't much work as a drama, either.  Renee Zellweger's Betty, the story's protagonist, is clinically insane and impossible to relate to in any real way.  I will say Zellweger acts the role quite well, and Freeman, Rock, and Greg Kinnear all do good jobs too.  The problem is in the writing; Freeman is the only person that gets to play an interesting character.  It's really too bad.  3/10 "}{"Title":"A Zesty Zellweger Delight","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renee Zellweger absolutely shines as Nurse Betty, easily one of the most charming, off-beat, and lighthearted comedies of the year.When soap opera obsessed waitress Betty Sizemore witnesses her insensitive husband's murder by two hitmen (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock), she snaps and thinks the cast members on A Reason to Love are real.  She decides to travel to Los Angeles to find famed heart specialist Dr. David Ravell (a character on the show).As the two oddly paired Hitmen, the caustic Rock and the pontificating Freeman generate some very fun chemistry, and Greg Kinnear also has fun with his smarmy offscreen actor persona.  Renee Zellweger turns in an innocent, candy-coated, and sometimes terribly sweet performance as Nurse Betty.  She exudes goodness, warmth, and is irresistible.  While the script sometimes feels like a sit-com, is filled with sometimes unbelievable characters and contrived situations, Zellweger is so likeable and so utterly disarming that it all comes together.With just a few splashes of black comedy to keep things interesting, a winning performance from Zellweger, a great supporting cast and a competent script, Nurse Betty is utterly delightful.7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Amusing and confusing","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *spoiler* *spoilers* *spoilers* I found the film amusing.It was weird and I enjoy it,I laughed a lot so the bottom line is that I recommend the film.However I have problems with what LaBute wanted to say.The plot is very simple.Betty(Renee Zellweger), a hard life house wife watch her husband being murdered and while having forgotten everything she had seen,she follow her true love for a soap series character,Dr. David Ravell (Greg Kinnear). Simple enough but not enough to hold a 95 minutes film. And here comes the big question.What is the film all about? The reference to The Wizard of Oz is obvious.Betty and Dorothy are both from Kansas however while Dorothy come at the end of that film to the conclusion that there is no place like home, Betty doesn't come to any conclusion and by the end of the film we are left wonder what has she learned from her experience and the answer is simply nothing.It seems not to affect her at all.Than is the film about the different between reality and fantasy? could be,but the scenes that are dealing with this subject are short and serve no more than a joke and not as a serious plot line that can take the film to other places.(and by the way The Truman Show dealt with this subject in a much better way).The film could be about obsession.Betty is obsessed with the soap series and Charlie(Morgan Freeman) is obsessed with Betty.LaBute show two sides of obsession and he seems to forget that obsession,in any form is dangerous,and should be condemned.He seems to have sympathy to Betty's obsession because he sees it as a harmless one.All a long the film we have scenes that in itself could have been a subject for a whole film,but are left for us to think about without that they will have impact on the characters.The ending is simply a make -up that has nothing to do with what we saw before.It's a shame because the film could have been sharper if he would have concentrate in one or two subjects.As it is,it's about a lot but actually say nothing.What we are left with is the feeling that we have seen a little film,amusing and weird that could have been much much more. "},{"Title":"Kind comedy about the confusion between reality and fantasy","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Betty is a waitress in a little town's bar who is married to a car seller, but who is secretly in love with a TV series actor who plays a surgeon. The night of her birthday she is at home watching a recorded chapter of her favourite series, when two assassins murder her husband in their own house because of a drug affair. The shock causes her to confuse fantasy and reality, making her believe she is a real nurse and that the hospital displayed in the TV series is real. Therefore she abandons her husband (or at least that is what she believes) and goes to California to meet the surgeon (whom she believes to have been her boyfriend once). Meanwhile the two assassins are looking for her and the drug her husband had stolen them. In spite of being quite a tragical story, all the movie is related in a tone of comedy and from a kind point of view, that makes the spectator feel fine once the movie is over, having spent a good time watching it. "},{"Title":"Good but not as original as people say it is.","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Halfway through I predicted what was going to happen in the finale. But, it was still worth seeing. Zelwegger plays Betty, a hapless Kansas City waitress who has nothing going for herself except a sitcom called A Reason To Love, which has a actor whom she has a crush on. Witnessing her philandering husband's murder in a gone-bad drug deal (and watching her favorite soap opera at the same time) gives her a somewhat schizophrenic effect of her thinking Dr. David Ravel (Greg Kinnear) is a real life person and that he was once her fiancee. So, she embarks on a road trip in search of him. What kept this above the ground was the brilliant performance by Zelwegger and the hilarious bickersome antics of the two hitmen, played by Chris Rock and Morgan Freeman. Other than that it was Hollywoodish at best, but I won't argue that it was a different and unusual movie. "},{"Title":"Que Sera, Sera","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful, violent, disturbing, provoking.I feel like John Lennon just hit me over the head with his line Life is what happens when you're making other plans...Nurse Betty is, by far, the best film I've seen since Being John Malkovich.If you don't get it, I suggest looking beyond the surface.  There's more there than meets the eye.  Did you catch the fact that Roy notices Rosa's fish before he notices her breasts (something a person not paying attention to it wouldn't catch)? (My fiancee caught that point, BTW)  That's one of the simple pieces put in the film that make it as wonderful as it is.  "},{"Title":"Don't know what all of the fuss is about","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is not a bad film, but it is not a good film. When I heard the first buzz on it, they were saying a dark horse for the Academy. Say huh? As I watched it, I just kept waiting for something to happen. It never really did. No great performances, although Freeman is good (he always is). Rock's character got very old and fast. No one else to really write home about. If you want to a see a semi-enjoyable film, check it out. Just don't expect too much. Perhaps that is why I am dogging it, I expected too much. However, when critics start throwing around Academy, well then you have the right to expect something. "},{"Title":"Just a little more Crispin Glover and this would have been perfect","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, okay, maybe not perfect, but it was pretty close. This movie jumped from crime drama to romantic goofball comedy and back again so quickly all the way throughout that it seemed like two different movies that played simultaneously and then joined up again at the end. But they did it smoothly, and some in the theater found the bloody parts (like the scalping scene) to be funny as well. I just about threw up, but I guess that's just me. Greg Kinear is perfect as a soap opera actor. He has the ability to perform those over-dramatic soap scenes with just the right facial expressions and voice intonations.  His scenes with Betty seem like something out of Sleepless in Seattle or some other romantic comedy like that. You almost forget that Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock are searching Betty down. Morgan Freeman's fascination with Betty was rather creepy, considering that he could practically be her grandfather, but the scenes where he is conversing with her photograph are definitely worth a few laughs! Chris Rock's performance seems rather wooden, but he has his moments.  Renee Zellweger is so sweet as Betty, the lovable waitress with the crude, unfaithful husband who treats her like dirt. It's very unlikely that she would have actually gotten a job at a hospital without any real credentials, but, hey, it's a movie, just go along with it! Her roommate, Rosa, shines as well, as a woman who cares about Betty, but doesn't quite know how to deal with Betty's sickness. And, lastly, there is Crispin Glover. As a fan of his, I, naturally, thought that the movie could have been funnier had he been in it more. No one else has the same style of acting that Crispin has, and the argument between Chris Rock, Crispin, and the sheriff about the soap opera is hilarious.  I guess I'm saying that I liked this movie quite a bit! If you can stomach blood, violence, and a lot of foul language, it's worth the watch and will give you plenty of laughs! "},{"Title":"The Right Cure!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have just seen a very original film that I would recommend to everyone including `the young & the restless.' However, I guess some of the profanity, violence, and sexual innuendo in the movie are not suitable for  `all your children.' Anyways before the sand fills up the hourglass, let me tell you the name of the film `Nurse Betty.' Renee Zellweger stars as Betty. She is a Kansas waitress who falls under a trance, and thinks she is a real life character of her favorite soap opera. Because of this, she goes on a journey to Los Angeles to reunite with her supposed soap opera character lover Dr. Rubell. To add fuel to the fire, she is also being chased by some ruthless `one life not to live' hitmen who think she has stolen their drugs. You could say that is how Nurse Betty spends `the days of her life' throughout the movie. This very `ungeneral' situation eventually leads her to the `hospital' set of her beloved soap opera. However, the only problem is that Betty thinks this is all real. It is like her mind is in `another world.'  Ok! Enough! I will wipe off my mouth with soap and not mention any more soap names. I have already registered my vote for Renee as a best actress oscar nominee. Also, Greg Kinnear's performance as Dr. Rubell was  as good as it gets in his acting biography. To sum it up, my final diagnosis is that everyone should call in for `Nurse Betty.' ***** Excellent  "},{"Title":"Too much unnecessary violence.  ruined good story","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked the story about Nurse Betty.  But the opening and closing with the graphic violence was unnecessary and ruined the movie for me. The romance/fantasy of Nurse Betty was charming and interesting. The premise of someone getting shocked into a fantasy world and reacting from her fantasies was a great idea, and could have made a good movie if the violence did not get in the way.  The ending was totally preposterous and violent, ruined the ending. Chris Rock's character was grating and boring. Can not recommend the movie.   "},{"Title":"Uneven but engrossing","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty has that odd but winning combination of a repellent, unease-inducing plot with extraordinary characters. In the same way I loathed Fargo on first viewing, then realized I was still thinking about it days later and enjoying it somehow, I liked Nurse Betty a lot more the day after I saw it. Hard to understand, harder to explain.  As others have said, it's quite forced in many ways, but that seems to be part of what makes it so striking.Fair job by Greg Kinnear, great work from Morgan Freeman (although I worry that he's being stereotyped as the principled villain). Chris Rock was good but not a standout. Rene Z. is so natural it's unnerving -- i.e., unnerving to be natural playing someone not well in the head.  Also liked the sort of abrasive sparkle performance from Allison Janney in a small part.Don't go expecting as much of a road movie as you might assume from some synopses. (There is road, but it's only barely relevant.)  Rated 8/10. "}{"Title":"Much betty-er than I thought","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really had planned to skip this, based on previous efforts by Zellweger (Me, Myself and Irene; Jerry Maguire). I didn't think she was that good of an actress or picked good material. But, it was playing at a cheap theatre. I was pleasantly surprised. The story reminded my date of Crazy in Alabama. I liked Betty much better. The story was fun, with some plot twists that made me look forward to whatever was going to happen next. I really liked the characters, a key, I believe to enjoying a film. I cared for the good/poor characters, and even wanted to see what happened to the bad guys. I thought Zellweger did a very good job as Betty. I don't want to give the plot away, but I really liked the difference in the acting between Betty, the waitress, and Betty, the actress in the soap. I could actually see the difference.  That really stuck in my mind. Morgan Freeman, Chris Rock also did a fine job. Greg Kinnear, I think, seems to be the same no matter what his role is. I don't regret waiting for the movie to come to the cheap theatre. I liked it, and so did the other three people in the theatre with me "},{"Title":"Great guns, this movie is *WEIRD*!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, this movie starts out and it *looks* like it's going to be a cute comedy about a completely obsessed soap opera fan.  She has no touch with reality whatsoever outside of the soap (sort of the inverse of the main characters in Pleasantville) and runs away to Los Angeles to meet a fictional character.  Well it is a cute movie... but at the same time, it is ALSO a dark, very violent movie about two hitmen who are out to kill Betty for reasons way to complex to recount here.  Either plotline would have been enough on it's own, but Nurse Betty contains both stories at once, and the effect is very jarring.  I didn't much enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Do Not Resuscitate!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely the worst film of the year.One minute, the director treats you to an unbelievably brutal murder.  The next, he tries to make you laugh about it.One minute, he makes you feel sympathetic about the heroine.  The next, he makes her the butt of jokes and the object of verbal abuse.I don't just want a refund.  I want to be compensated for the misery this incredibly bad movie inflicted.  "},{"Title":"A strange mix of romance, violence and roadmovie!!!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen 'nurse betty' twice in september 2000 on the international film festival 'films by the sea' in vlissingen, the netherlands. It impressed me so much that I kept on smiling the whole day after I watched it for the first time and almost all evening again when I took the movie as the final taste of the festival. What I knew about 'nurse betty' was in short that renée zellweger would play a girl in love with a soap-opera-star. But what I saw was much more than that! Splendid roles for morgan freeman, chris rock ànd renée zellweger. A strange mix of romance, violence and roadmovie. And for all a story that takes other directions every moment you think you're on the track. Many soap-opera-lovers will love 'nurse betty' - the movie as well as the character!!! - but they can bring all there non-soap friends, 'cause they will enjoy the story even more for the hard and humorous lines - freeman and rock - for the cruel scenes, the thriller-aspects and for the beautiful pictures. And I'm quite sure that at the end everyone will love 'nurse betty' for her captivating and innocent charm!!! "},{"Title":"Goof","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Goof Factual errorWhen Charlie walks out of the room to commit suicide he takes his gun with a silencer. After a few seconds we hear a loud bang from the same gun being fired.  "},{"Title":"...this isn't the 40's  you've got yourself.","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A question immediately arises in this extremely idiosyncratic film  Who are the crazy people?The answer become less clear as the film goes on.Renee Zellweger loses the whiney note in her voice and, while her voice is still high, she is incredibly effective as the shell-shocked Betty.  In fact, she is so effective I almost wanted her to be just a little more crazy because her created reality was so believable.This is the first time Ms Zellweger has been called upon to carry a film and she is more than equal to the task.Chris Rock &#150; though as foul-mouthed as usual &#150; is fairly subdued as Wesley.  He is able to sublimate his manic energy and it only occasionally surfaces and always when it is needed most.There are some interesting allusions  the first time you see Betty she is dressed almost exactly like Dorothy Gale from the `Wizard of Oz' &#150; then later in the film she is compared to Dorothy when she says she has never been out of Kansas before.  At one point the song that Doris Day was best known for, &#145;Que Sera Sera' is on the soundtrack and then later Charlie (Morgan Freeman) describes her as having &#145;a whole Doris Day thing going on.'This is an extremely quirky film with good performances by everyone including the supporting cast.It has a surprising ending that, as contrary as it sounds, is actually fairly predictable.If for no other reason see this film just to listen to the master of the human voice  Morgan Freeman.  "},{"Title":"Great casting, writing and acting. A rare Hollywood treat.","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Flawless writing and brilliant acting make this unusually delightful and witty plot-twister one of the best American films I have seen this year. Neil Labute's terrific casting and cynical direction keeps this film from becoming too sentimental while Renée Zellweger and Morgan Freeman's authentic performances give it a soul.  Violent, provocative and humorous at the same time with a truly wonderful ending. Chris Rock, Greg Kinnear Aaron Eckhart, Crispin Glover and Allison Janney all give uproarious, tongue in cheek performances. The greatest spoof of soap operas since the movie Soap, but better and smarter. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Diet Labute (possible spoilers)","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Nurse Betty' is not so far from LaBute's previous films as its detractors have made out.  Like 'in the company of men', a woman is abused by a variety of men who misread her as she misreads the line between reality and fantasy. The ending, saccharine, set in the Rome of Audrey Hepburn, is spectacularly cynical - the heroine, it could be argued, has achieved a hard-won independence, eluded the dangerous attentions of three men of varying levels of psychosis; she no longer has to simper meekly, to define herself against worthless romantic ideals.  It could also be argued that Betty is depressingly alone, without a friend, which we all need, if not a man; she is only in Rome because a passing stranger told her how it briefly enriched her life - maybe so, but that stranger is working in a bar in the middle of nowhere (Arizona), and whose only relief from lonely drunks and potential violence is watching the same soap that got Betty into all the trouble in the first place.  When Betty, watching this as her husband is getting murdered, performs the kind of transference you would normally see in a sci-fi or horror movie, as she is zapped from the horrible, very final world of reality (violence, death) and the fantasy, television  world of possibility, hope, the quest, independence.This is achieved by two, allusive structures.  The first and most obvious is the reference to 'the wizard of oz'.  Like Dorothy, Betty is a Kansas woman suffocated by a home life, dreaming of a far off fantasy land, which, through the gateway of a traumatic experience, she actually does.  When she finally finds the generator of her dreams, the Wizard, he turns out to be all too fallibly human.  You can divide the other roles as you  like. Labute's pessimism lies in not following the conclusion of this story, rejecting its ambiguous conclusion of disillusion, enlightenment, literal nostalgia (longing for home).  Betty does enter her Oz, makes the illusion become the reality, and thereby loses all the lessons Dorothy and friends learned so harrowingly.  Dorothy, for all the loss of innocence, becomes a better person; Betty gets lost in a moronic, daytime TV hell.The other narrative, straight from film studies, is the oppositon between the melodrama and the Western.  These two forms are generally seen as antithetical - the melodrama is primarily a female genre, about women being defined by the home, the family.  It is a very interior genre.  The Western, by contrast, is an outdoor, expansive, masculine genre, about freedom from definitions, about creating identities, homes, histories, not being weighed down by them.Betty starts the film is melodramatic mode, stuck in a loveless marriage, defined, like Jane Wyman in 'all that heaven allows', by TV, on the one hand a medium of escape from the intolerable everyday, on the other a tiny box that narrows her options, literally entrapping her. When she leaves to follow her dream, the film takes on a whole load of Western iconography, from the Monument Valley landscapes and men in ten-gallon hats and boots to Charlie's sherriff badge.  Wesley sees the landscape as a blandscape, diluted, as David Thomson has noted, by the white supremicism of John Ford and Marlboro ads.  But this is a very different Western, populated by people you would never see in a Ford film - independent women, African Americans and hispanics.  The sheriff's uniform is worn by a killer; the real sheriff is fat and inept.  This rewriting of history and genre goes further than the compromises of 'thelma and louise'; the woman is allowed go free; the pursuers are destroyed; weird kinds of order are asserted.In many other ways , of course, this is very different from a Labute film. The opening sequence demonstrates this as the heroine is subjected to loving close-ups and editing, miles away from the cool distant aesthetic we have come to know and love.  Unlike the self-destructively intelligent monsters that populate the transparent jungles of his previous films, Betty is, for much of the movie, almost retarded.  it is good for a director to develop, change direction, move on, but this is Neil DiLute.  He didn't write the dialogue, which is why it neither suffocates nor bites. "},{"Title":"Renee and the Turkeys","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen's The Purple Rose of the Cairo featured the demure and winsome Mia Farrow physically transformed across the screen to the movie she so admired.  Renee Zellweger tries to duplicate that feat in Nurse Betty but her screen innocence isn't enough to save this mess of a movie, truly one of the worst films of the year.  Everything in Nurse Betty is out of sync from the characters (Chris Rock could never be a cold-bloodied murderer) to the director (Neil LaBute' forte is humiliation, not comedy and not sentimentality) to the story itself.  Imagine switching TV channels about five or six times and getting snippets of different shows and you have Nurse Betty, a thrown-together morass lacking any consistency.  There is the overtly chauvinistic pig husband and his untimely scalping and death, witnessed by the mistreated wife Betty, at the hands of two 'killers' (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock) who struggle to put on a straight face.  Then there is the travel across the country escapades of the dissociated Betty and the odd couple killers (who we don't find out till the end are really father and son).  Then the story of the fake nurse who shows up in uniform just in time to save a dying victim and gets hired to work without any credentials.  Then the buddy-buddy relationship between Rosa and 'Nurse' Betty and the silly use of subtitles to preserve Spanish dialogue.  Then the chance meeting between David and Betty (the only redeeming piece of this bad film) with neither one having a clue about the other but, since they are in Hollywood, nothing matters. Or the preposterous collision of the killers with the local Sheriff and Roy with Betty with Rosa and a rather misplaced moment when killer Charlie (Freeman) seems to be proposing to Betty. And then there are the two scenes in the Grand Canyon (insultingly called 'bland' Canyon) which appear out of nowhere involving Betty and 'David' and Betty and Charlie to the accompaniment of 'Que Sera Sera' and 'Don't You Know'.  Nurse Betty is a film as superficial as the soap opera it seems to castigate and as disorganized as a Chinese fire drill. Poor Renee, you deserved better.  "},{"Title":"Delightfully entertaining...","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie just might make you cooooo. The film was WELL worth the dark trip to town. Betty (Renee Zellweger)is the lone acceptable soap groupie out there. Her character is SO charming and SO convincing that you find yourself in forgiveness over her being such a goof. I might even allow myself to get lost in Bettys' adorable fantasy, if it weren't for the fact that Dr. Ravell's real name is George... And speak of the devil; looker Greg Kinnear fills his role VERY well. While Charlie (Morgan Freeman) makes you wish for his wish to come true, Wesley (Chris Rock) makes you want to tie him to a chair. And Rosa(Tia Texada)takes you back to those luminous grade-school friendships. The sheriff encourages you to feed him donuts and loose his name. The remainder of the cast fits well. Never one to do the same movie twice, Nurse Betty is the exception. One of these long, cold, needing to smile about something winter days.    "}{"Title":"Very enjoyable movie!","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty was definitely one of the most creative movies that's been released lately.  It was funny, but it also had many touching moments. Zellwegger, Freeman, Rock, Kinnear, & the rest of the cast made their incredibly weird characters seem real.  The story took such twist & turns that made it incredibly enjoyable to watch.  If you're sick of the recent formula movies, see Nurse Betty for something completely different. Go see this movie in the theater or at least rent it when it comes out!  "},{"Title":"The most highly original movie of the year.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After a summer full of retreads and disappointments, Nurse Betty is a breath of fresh air. The film is like no other I have ever seen. Director Neil LaBute proves that he can direct more then disturbing pictures of men and women and how they approach sex (his previous two films were the brillant In the Company of Men, and the almost brillant Your Friends and Neighbors). Renee Zellweger gives the best performance of her career as Betty, a waitress who, when she witnessing the brutal death of her asshole husband (LaBute mainstay Aaron Eckhart), and gets lost in a fantasy world. Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock play the hitmen who killed her husband and are now on her trial. The trick to the film is that Freeman and Zellweger are really parallel characters. While Zellweger falls in love with the image of the handsome and polite Dr. Dave Ravell on a soap opera, Freeman idealizes Betty. Nurse Betty is a brillant film, full of life, humor, love and graphic violence. My Grade 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Real Mixed Bag","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  NURSE BETTY   * * 1/2     Very uneven, off-beat, quirky comedy-drama seems at time to be several different movies playing at once, and only some of it works well, specifically the scenes between Renee Zellwegger and Greg Kinnear.   Chris Rock is convincing as a menacing, merciless killer but for some reason others in the audience laughed at everything he said.    "},{"Title":"The Most Original Movie of 2000","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty is the kind of movie you can't describe on a poster or in a trailer or commericial.  It's the kind of movie that you walk in to expecting a more mature Dumb and Dumber what with temporarily insane waitress goes on a cross country adventure while avoiding crooks trying to kill her.The fact is, this film is a wonderful, heartwarming tale about two people chasing their dreams.  The best part about Nurse Betty is it's unpredictability.  Director Neil LaBute uses brutal violence to seperate dreams from reality, and along with the touching drama, and hilarious comedy, you can never tell what is going to happen next. "},{"Title":"Good Movie...","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't particularly like American Beauty, but Nurse Betty has EVERYONE weird just like that movie last year... ...The only difference is, I liked this movie and the performances...What I didn't like is the fact that Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock had to die(although it was inevitable Chris Rock's Joe Peschi-like character was going to die)I kind of figured the director didn't want to go for the typical Hollywood ending...I give it a 9 out of 10... "},{"Title":"I cringed throughout this entire movie","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sitting through this movie was like being forced to watch a car crash in ultra-slow motion, one frame at a time. You know it's disaster for all those involved, but they seem to be blissfully unaware and you can't warn them; furthermore, there's not even any morbid excitement to be had from the crash and combustion, since the thing takes so long to play out that it just becomes nerve-wracking. Be over already! you want to scream. Alas, your cries go unheeded by the incompetent screenwriters and the sadistic director.I mean, this is one lulu of a premise; it doesn't even *sound* promising a woman witnesses the brutal death of her husband by drug dealers. She reacts to this - naturally! - by imagining herself to be a character in her favorite soap opera and hightailing it to L.A. to try and win the heart of the fictional doctor on the show. Huh?! Does this make any kind of sense? Even by Hollywood screwball standards? Of course not, and its concoction is further proof of the increasing randomness and lack of story logic currently infecting mainstream movies.Rarely has so much above-the-line talent been forced to act out a scenario so preposterous and misguided. The movie provides tension, of a sort - but only that of wondering, Will these actors escape this mess with their dignity intact? Happily, most of them do, as they at least inhabit their roles to the fullest, and so breathe a kind of life (amazingly) into characters conceived by the writers in condescension and mean spiritedness. Particularly good are Rene Zellweger in the lead role and Greg Kinnear as the soap star she's in love with; here are two character types so hackneyed and one-dimensional (the perky innocent and the vain actor) it's amazing they haven't been permanently retired. Yet the two performers do their best to actually make them believable. In this endeavor, they fight an uphill battle - i.e., the script - and ultimately they lose. But they do have their moments along the way.However, what this movie does to Morgan Freeman is a total disgrace. It gives him a fundamentally unplayable character. He is asked to be a bad guy, but then not allowed to cut loose with real venom (as he so capably displayed years ago in the movie Street Smart), instead being reigned in by the wise, gentle mentor straitjacket that casting directors have placed him in for the past ten years (he does it well of course, but guys, HE CAN DO OTHER THINGS!). Next, he is saddled with the one-note Chris Rock for a partner; don't get me wrong, Rock is fitfully amusing here, and provides what few laughs the movie has, but teaming the greatest actor alive with a stand-up comic is not likely to provide dramatic sparks, and it doesn't. Worst of all, Freeman's character is downright emasculated and, frankly, Uncle Tom-ed when the film decides that he is in fact romantically infatuated with Betty. Really now - a street-tough Negro hood in love with the whitest of whitebreads? It doesn't ring true, either dramatically or comedically. Come to think of it, it might have been very funny if played for straight farce, but the filmmakers really want us to take his feelings for her seriously, and it just can't be done. It all leads up to a final scene between their two characters which accomplishes what no other film before has managed it makes Morgan Freeman look like a total idiot.An achievement, certainly, but not one to be particularly proud of. "},{"Title":"An unusual movie with a surrealistic feel","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an unusual movie with just enough dislocations in reality to provide a surrealistic feel. The switches from real world tenderness to sociopathic criminality are jolting yet humorous in a perverse sense. It is the consummate acting of the two leads(leave out Chris Rock) that of course enables the film to accomplish the trick of being in two worlds at the same time. It has the feel of Fargo about it, sans the cold and snow. A '9' in my opinion. Just overacted enough! "},{"Title":"Not Totally Funny nor Dramatic but Cinema Gold","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As I bought my ticket for this film, I really didn't know what to expect besides the film being wonderful.  Morgan Freeman isn't exactly my idea of funny albeit he is a wonderful actor but a total juxtaposition with Chris Rock.  Once the film was finished, my opinion was true.  This is a must see film.  After a summer of sophomoric crap (Road Trip Scary Movie), the movie rescues a creative slump of a summer and exhibits enormous promise for the Fall Season.  The film should be a deadlock for Best Original Screenplay.  The screenplay is layered and satirical, chocked full of plot twists and the funniest one liners all year.  Renee Zelwegger finally recovers from a stint in REALLY bad films excluding Jerry Maguire and One True Thing.  As always, Labute is a master at cajoling the truest form from his actors and crew.  This offbeat romp deserves the highest praise one can possible laude it with. "},{"Title":"story was contrived and not that funny.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When one watches a movie, the viewer has to quickly conclude if the movie characters are trying to be stupid like in Dumb and Dumber or the characters are average people like us in Dramas or they have extraordinary strength and courage as in Action movies to make sense out of the movie. But this movie had its characters acting weird some of the times and normal the other times. The consistency was missing. Morgan Freeman falling in love with Renee was the most unbelievable part. "},{"Title":"Pointless, sick, unworkable piece of trash","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't understand why some people were laughing their heads off at the theater I was in. While there were some genuinely comedic moments, for the most part, this movie was as funny as a train wreck. It was just that awful Chris Rock saying the F word fifty or so times. The entire concept of the film was baffling to say the least, and most parts played out in a very juvenile manner, the dialogue especially. Other parts felt incomplete, and all but Morgan Freeman's character were just flat, boring and pathetic characters. And the violence was just sick. Some of it leaves you wondering if that stuff is allowed in comedies. A movie can have a sick sense of humor and still be fun, like the wonderful 28 Days. True, 28 Days didn't have mindless violence in it, but Nurse Betty would've been workable had it been funny. Sadly, it's not. It's just one of the worst pieces of trash I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"See This Movie","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A rare find - entertaining, well-written and perfectly cast. It did have some violent gory moments that I had to shut my eyes for, but if you can get past that, this is a delightful little movie. Renee Zellweger is wonderful, Chris Rock is hysterical and Morgan Freeman is, as always, believable and solid as a rock. I hope this movie does well. We need to encourage Hollywood to continue making these kinds of pictures. "},{"Title":"funny with a nice edge","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very entertaining dark comedy. Freeman and Zellweger give, as usual, excellent performances. Kinnear is quite good, too (he's perfectly cast in the role of the smarmy soap star), but I felt that Rock was less effective (even though I generally like him). The movie has a real edge to it (there is a scene early in the movie where the jerk husband gets scalped and murdered), but I think that this gives the movie some real energy, as well as motivating the strange behavior of Zellweger's character. There are lots of laugh out loud scenes, some of which are payoffs from scenes where the characters do things that seem to be doomed to being painfully embarrassing (and since the movie has a somewhat realistic feel to is, you worry about the characters in a way that you wouldn't for some complete fantasy like a Marx Brothers movie). "},{"Title":"A very odd black comedy in the tradition of the Coen brothers","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ****SPOILERS****At first glance, Nurse Betty has all the appearances of a good ol' girl-meets-boy heartwarmer.  Betty Sizemore, a smalltown diner waitress, gawks obsessively at her soap opera dreamboat Dr. David Revell (played convincingly by Greg Kinnear).  Everything seems to be going along very normally.  Then Betty's husband Del, a philandering, abusive, and conniving used car dealer, enters the picture.  The picture veers left quickly and I felt immediately thrust into the odd confines of Barton Fink or The Hudsucker Proxy.I won't give too much away.  But I will say that Nurse Betty was quite a breath of fresh air.  The plot is very far-fetched, so check your sense of reality at the door.  I think that Zellweger should contend for an Oscar as the amnesia stricken, soap opera obsessed Betty.  I think that Morgan Freeman - one of my favorite actors - was miscast as a Jules Winfield type of repenting hitman.  There was very little chemistry between him and Chris Rock.But the story is fresh enough and the acting superb enough to make Nurse Betty a very rewarding and entertaining film. "},{"Title":"At first I was afraid, I was petrified....","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Going in to see this movie, I knew that Morgan Freeman totally falls for Nurse Betty. So that kind of got on my nerves because it had a black man worshipping a white woman. However, I got over it when I realized what the whole point to that was, the fact that he ends up worshipping her just like she was worshipping her soap opera character. I loved Chris Rock's comedy, although I feel like, does he ALWAYS have to play an angry black man? In any case, this was a new role for Morgan Freeman and it worked very well for him. About Renee Zellweger, I wasn't really impressed with her in the past. I saw her as another blonde with a cute pout, but in this movie, she did an awesome job! She has very good acting skills and I was surprised about that! I loved the ending to the film and I think that she did a great job of bringing closure to the film. Looking back, I really liked Morgan Freeman's character, because he had a special message about female independence that I was not expecting! Hurrah for womanhood and being SINGLE AND HAPPY!Anyway, I recommend this film. Also, for ONCE, Latinas were presented in a semi-positive role, although they did have a stereotypical Latino gun shooting in it. But I didn't mind it so much because her friend Rosa was a good supportive actress with decent lines. (Although I'm tired of seeing Latinas in supportive roles!) "},{"Title":"funny, original, best movie this year so far","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"    With a summer of recycled plots and overall bad writing, Nurse Betty is a wonderful change.  Full of off-beat humor, great acting, and original characters, Nurse Betty is a film that defies genre.  It ranges from screwball farce, to crime drama, from black comedy, to obscure romance.  The surprise of the cast is Chris Rock who changes his complaining stand-up persona into a dangerous angry young man.  Greg Kinnear also gives an admirable performance as the soap star.  Betty also boasts great ensemble acting especially Aaron Eckhardt (Erin Brokovich) and Allison Janney (American Beauty, The West Wing).  However, Freeman and Zellweger are the showpieces of this movie.  Zellweger oozes a natural sweetness that is irresistable, and Freeman makes his violent character likeable.  Nurse Betty is not what you would expect, and should not be forgotten at Oscar time.   "},{"Title":"Funny as a crutch with  Termites","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Imagine a comedy that opens with a man getting scalped for his political incorrectness and laughing about it?  That is what Director Neil LaBrute expects his audience to do with Nurse Betty.The technique and chemistry mix of actors are quite good, but this is a sadistic comedy for the sensitive. "},{"Title":"Actors acting about acting","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The overall acting talent in this movie is excellent. Especially notable is the performance by the actor playing the Arizona bartender/owner. She gave an awesome, exceptional performance worthy of an award nomination. This is in the presence of tremendous performances by the principle actors.  "},{"Title":"Betty Is Pure Magic","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A young waitress in a small town in Kansas witnesses an act of violence so unspeakable that her mind refuses to accept it; instead, like a ray of light reflected through a prism, she takes a detour within herself and enters a reality in which things are just a little bit better and nicer, one that fuses with the world of her favorite soap opera wherein resides the `doctor' of her dreams.  Renee Zellweger stars in `Nurse Betty,' a satirical comedy/drama with some serious psychological overtones from director Neil LaBute.  It's an objective look at, among other things, small town life, the aesthetics of professional hit men, an unhealthy (?) obsession with soap operas, and the ethics of car salesmen.  One thing is certain  After the aforementioned incident, Dorothy isn't in Kansas anymore.  And her story becomes an odyssey of sorts, one that is both exhilarating and hilarious, and by turn somber and disturbing.  Since those with whom Betty comes into contact do not realize that she is dwelling within a reality of her own design, it creates moments of absolute side-splitting hilarity as they try to figure out what is going on with her; is she putting them on, or is she in fact, deranged?  But at the same time, even as you're laughing, there is an element of discomfort about it, because you know the truth of it all, and what a sad and serious situation it really is.  You feel, not only for Betty, but for all of those involved with her as well, and it's like manic depression; you ride the wild highs, but come down just as hard. 	As Betty, Renee Zellweger gives what just may be the best performance of her career; there is such a gentleness of nature about her, a winsomeness and pacificism that makes her such a wonderfully sympathetic character.  Early in the film LaBute establishes what kind of a person Betty is; she's easy to like and someone you care about instantly, someone you want to see good things happen to.  And it makes the impact of the violence with which she is visited all the more profound (and be advised, the scene is shockingly reminiscent of the torture scene in `Reservoir Dogs;' somewhat graphic, but because of excellent directing and editing, you get the illusion of seeing more than you actually are.  It is definitely one that you will not soon forget).  These are things that should not happen to someone like Betty; it just doesn't seem fair somehow, and the connection that she makes with the audience underscores what a brilliant job Zellweger has done.  Equal credit, of course, has to go to Neil LaBute, for creating the perfect atmosphere through which the desired results are so impeccably delivered.  The serene, almost lilting essence of Betty's reality, this kind of Pleasantville into which she has entered, contrasts so vividly with the thread of violence and menace laced throughout that it heightens the emotional response to it all.  He has successfully managed the perfect balancing of the pure with the despicable and enhanced it all with pace, timing and some memorable performances.  Besides Zellweger, Morgan Freeman is outstanding as Charlie, the aging hit-man out to finish one last job before retiring.  He brings a commanding demeanor to the role, coupled with a maturity and intelligence that adds so much to the depth of the character.  And Greg Kinnear, as Dr. David Ravell/George McCord, gives a definitive performance as the soap opera star of Betty's dreams.  It is a character Kinnear was born to play and he covers all the bases, leaving no doubt as to just exactly who and what this guy is all about.  Notable performances also are turned in by Chris Rock, as Wesley, Charlie's protege; and by Aaron Eckhart, as Del, Betty's sleazy, neglectful car salesman husband.  Rounding out the supporting cast are Tia Texada (Rosa), Crispin Glover (Roy), Pruitt Taylor Vince (Ballard), Allison Janney (Lyla) and Kathleen Wilhoite (Sue Ann).  Rarely are there so many truly memorable performances in a single movie, and again, LaBute must be given credit for bringing out the best in his actors; it adds a polish to the finished product that is inestimable.  Another reason for the success of this film is that the humor is natural and true; rather than being forced or contrived it issues from real situations and the characters reactions to them, and LaBute plays everything straight, which makes it all real.  The laughs (and there are many) are born of their own merit; each one is honest and earned.  And again, because of that purity of delivery, it makes the drama all the more effective.  Well made and delivered, `Nurse Betty' is highly entertaining and certainly memorable; a funny, emotional movie that will have you alternately gasping and cheering.  Check this one out; it's a motion picture experience you do not want to miss.  I rate this one 10/10.              	  "},{"Title":"An Inspired Funny/Romantic/Sick/Sappy Film","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a unique film. Funny yet sappy. Romantic yet very sick and evil. Director Nick LaBute has melded these seemingly polar opposites into one very unique, entertaining, and heartwarming (yet heartsickening) film. And he couldn't have done that without the excellent cast. Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock was hilarious and fantastic as two hitmen. Greg Kinnear was perfectly cast as the confused TV star. Aaron Eckhart, in his 5-minute supporting performance, deserves accolades. However, best of all was Renee Zellweger--the only actress in Hollywood who could play the part of a sweet but traumatized soap opera fan. "},{"Title":"The most remarkable movie in YEARS","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nothing is trivial, nothing is wasted, in this story that explores the classic question of how people perceive reality.Once they read the script, actors must have begged to be in this film. Each performance was wonderful; the pace was excellent, and thoroughly enjoyable.But not the run-of-the-mill movie you would expect from Hollywood - hope lots of people go see this so that Hollywood will be encouraged to be at its finest. "}{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was such a great film -- the thing that's really easy to miss about a movie is what they're really trying to show the audience.  Nurse Betty is about a woman (Renee Zellweger) who is really unhappy with her life -- she has dreams, it's just that she can't really act upon them. She's married to one of the biggest jerks in movie history -- a man who sells cars and drugs (unbeknownst to Betty), and sleeps with his secretary on the side.  He is cruel to her and it's almost a relief when he is killed by the two men who were in on the drug deal with him.  Betty witnesses it from the television room while she is watching the tape of her soap opera A Reason to Love.  This soap opera is probably the only thing she has in her life that has not let her down -- including the handsome Dr. David Ravell (Greg Kinnear).  The trauma of seeing her husband killed is absorbed by the scene she is watching, where Dr. Ravell says that he knows there's something really special out there for him.  That becomes her mission -- she sort of goes crazy with the idea of there being something special out there for her. She believes that she is a part of the world of A Reason to Love, and she goes out to Hollywood to look for the hospital from the soap opera, Loma Vista.  Hilarity ensues. The meanwhile, the two hitmen are looking for her the whole time. Charley, played by Morgan Freeman, becomes obsessed with her as he learns more about her -- she is his last mission, and he transfers all of these amazingly strange hopes onto her -- it's something you have to see for yourself.  The relationship between Charley and Betty is what really makes the movie unusual and it's something deserves a lot of attention from the audience as they watch. Wesley, played by Chris Rock, is an interesting character to have next to Charley -- he's hysterical and really does amazing things with this part. Greg Kinnear is so right on with his portrayal of an egotistical soap actor that it was scary.  The rest of the cast is great, too, but Renee Zellweger and Morgan Freeman are the ones who MAKE the movie. The script is really original, and that's why it's important not to be distracted by the basics of the plot -- the feelings and motivations behind the characters are what makes this movie so great.  This is so absolutely worth seeing!  "},{"Title":"A truly delightful (though bloody) flick.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty is by far one of the best movies I've seen this year, the script is beautifully black, the performances (every single one) are perfect and LaBute's work is visually stunning.Obviously the stand out performance in the cast is Zellweger who stumbles through most of her scenes in delightful confusion. Freeman and Rock are a great pairing who seemingly bounce off one another and Kinnear delivers another fine performance (a little similar to his role in Mystery Men, though).I think the hip Tarantino indie kids can enjoy this as well as wholesome movie goers who just love a happy ending.PS Does anyone know where I can get a tape of 'Reason To Love'? "},{"Title":"The Most Charming Schizophrenia Case Ever","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Neil LaBute's most recent film is quite a departure from his earlier films. Don't worry there is plenty of the seedy characters and razor-sharp dialogue from his previous work, only this time around he happens to squeeze in a little humanity.Renee Zellweger is simply amazing in the titular role of a woman obsessed with a soap opera star, who witnesses the graphic murder of her husband. This causes her to delve head first into a delusion that her favorite soap opera is real life. Renee creates such a sweet and admirable character that you can only help but feel every bit as uncomfortable as the situations she is put in.Further more, the film high-lighted by several wonderful supporting players, such as Morgan Freeman(playing a character who would drive miss daisy off a cliff) and Chris Rock(playing his usual cranky,loud-mouth,but as good as ever). Greg Kinnear, Tia Texada, Crispin Glover and Pruitt Vince Taylor round out a very balanced cast, who deliver funny and sympathetic characters.The Police's Every Breath You Take is a very celebrated song that deals with the topic of obsession, Nurse Betty should get every bit as much attention.  "},{"Title":"The performance of the year so far","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty is being promoted as a comedy. Unfortunately when people sit down in the theater, as they start watching it, they're going to start wondering what's so funny about it. They may feel tricked in fact, as fifteen minutes into it, they get to watch one of the more gruesome movie killings in recent memory. This is not a warning against seeing the film, but simply a word of caution. By revealing this, I'm not as much spoiling a surprise as I am averting an ambush.The scene is gruesome, but in no way gratuitous it may be the film's most important and symbolic moment. Betty Sizemore (Renee Zellweger in the performance of the year so far), a waitress in a small Kansas town is married to an inhuman monster, Del (Neil LaBute regular Aaron Eckhart), who happens to be a used car salesman. She's obsessed with a soap opera called A Reason To Love (or just `Reason,' as its many fans refer to it). Her birthday comes and goes and Del forgets, not surprisingly. Betty is so unaware of the sad state of her life that she's slowly withdrawing into the world of her soap opera, allowing her unconscious contempt for Del to manifest itself in an imaginary love affair with Reason's star, Dr. David Ravell (Greg Kinnear). That night she suddenly finds herself witnessing the bloody killing of her husband, even as she's immersed in the world of her TV show.Sometimes you'll be so into a movie or TV show that it takes a moment to readjust to reality when it's over. What if during a commercial you happened to look out the window and witnessed, say, a bad car crash in the street in front of your home. For just a split second, you'd wish your life were the TV show (depending on the show) and that the crash had been on TV. Well, Betty's moment lasts for much longer. You can't help but feel deeply for this character. Her mind has thrown up a wall of protection against the trauma she's sustained, so we can feel truly proud of her when she leaves a loving note to Del that she's leaving him and hits the road to re-unite with her ex-fiancee, Dr. David Ravell. The moment is both funny and sad. As is the whole film. Betty's delusional state creates some great moments. Your instinct is to laugh, but then you hold back, almost out of courtesy. Oh my god, that poor woman, is the thought you're most likely to have. Zellweger's performance will stick with you. She unleashes enough facial expressions in this one film to fill a film career. Morgan Freeman, playing Charlie, one of Del's killers (his associate is played by Chris Rock), gives maybe his best performance since Shawshank. His fascination with Betty, which turns into romantic fantasies, also creates some great moments. Either laugh or feel pity your choice. Charlie's story gets you thinking about people's perceptions of each other. In a way, Betty is his David Ravell. She's his fantasy and he makes her what he wants her to be. She symbolizes the emptiness in his life. Charlie's dream Betty is who Betty herself wants to be. Charlie's brutal actions throw her into the state she's in, but in a way they also free her. There is so much beauty here I could go on and on.Not that this is perfection in filmmaking by any means. It's not as good as LaBute's last film, Your Friends and Neighbors, which I thought was the best film of 1998. Most of Betty's drawbacks come from the writing. Too much of the plot relies on people's stupidity and gullibility. Then again, maybe it's intentional and Del Sizemore was being proven right (see it and you'll know what I'm talking about).It's too bad Nurse Betty must be pigeonholed as a comedy. I think I would rather have gone to this film thinking it was a thriller and then found it surprisingly touching and funny. Makes a film like this a marketer's nightmare. But in a weak film year like 2000 has been, it's a film fan's dream.Grade B  "},{"Title":"Renee Zellweger is superb in this brilliant moving film","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well I saw Nurse Betty today and was throughly moved by it. Renee Zellwegger gives a very moving performance as Betty and itwould not surprise me if she is holding an Oscar next March.There is a brilliant script in this clever black comedy fromCompany of men  director Neil La Bute.I don't want to say to much about this film course i don't wantto give to much away.Let's just say it works very well and has to be one of the bestfilms of the yearI could really rave on about it, all the supporting performancesare superb, from Morgan Freeman right down to Pruitt TaylorVince. And although a lot of people don't like Chris Rock in it,i think he's good.Must give a thumbs up to the music as well which will hopefullyget an Oscar nom.But this film belongs to Renee Zellwegger the best performanceby an actress I've seen  "},{"Title":"INTELLIGENT, HILARIOUS, MOVING, INVOLVING, FUN, DIFFERENT","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great characters, writing, acting, direction.  Much more than a comedy, this film is difficult to categorize.  A total pleasure to experience. I found myself wanting more.  More of the very colorful characters; more of the highly entertaining scenes/situations.  The film starts out a little slowly, but very soon everything gets going and gels and then just flys by much too quickly = Very Engaging.  I highly recommend this film to anyone who wants to laugh, think, and see something truely original that you won't forget the next day. "},{"Title":"All the excitement of changing a cat box....","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film last night. While it held my interest- I just don't care about this movie. It's in a (remotely) similar vein to the type of story-telling or rather story that Pulp Fiction seems to have triggered. Inane events about inane personages. The attempts at unusual violence for films is not in the same league as PF however. I honestly like all the actors in this film- even down to the minor character played by Crispin Glover (who will never live down playing a cartoonish character called Mr McFly Sr in those Back to the Future flics). And for once Renee Zellwiger is in a role that is more tailored to her limited abilities. But the characters are beyond bland- so maybe it is a story for today's America? This sort of story has all the excitement of changing a cat box......for the cat that is. "},{"Title":"labute charms ??","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The poor U.K distribution for this film is a mystery. It's got stars and gags aplenty for the multiplex crowd.  They're missing out on a good little film. Zellweger charms the audience superbly. You never laugh at her, but instead for her. It is an important distinction to make, and she carries it off well. Perhaps a 2001 Oscar chance beckons, if only to stop Streep's annual nomination. The film isn't as satirical as I'd expected. In many ways it's more of a modern day fairytale.  I can't believe this was a LaBute film after his previous 2. Has he had a life-changing experience, or is this his shot at the mainstream? "},{"Title":"A few questions for the makers of NURSE BETTY...","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  1. Is there such a thing as a drug deal gone right?2. Do hit men really get employed in symmetrical teams of two?3. And when they do, is there always a human/subhuman, good-cop-bad-cop bipolarity?4. When suggesting to an audience that the central character's husband is a big jerk, is the occupation of used car salesman the freshest way of going about this?5. When casting Morgan Freeman as the Humane Hit Man and Chris Rock as the Murderous Hit Man, what are we supposed to think is the real relationship between them, revealed, as a so-called shocker, in the penultimate reel?6. Is the concept of traumatized woman goes into Delusionville after seeing her husband's murder at least 10% more contrived than a plot centering on amnesia?7. Is this movie so full of contrivances because it revolves around a daytime drama?8. Must Greg Kinnear, a talent of nearly Downey Juniorish proportions, always be cast as a vain, smarmy media type who gets a humiliating comeuppance?Every year or so there is a movie whose critical and audience appeal leaves me stone cold baffled. Last year both THE SIXTH SENSE and THE BLAIR WITH PROJECT activated my what-are-they-thinking? gland; this year, NURSE BETTY seems on its way to being a modest hit, and some of the reviews are rapturous. But isn't it obvious that the director, Neil LaBute, is talking out of both sides of his mouth? For simple folk, NURSE BETTY is a simple, warm, mildly darkish comedy about a simple woman who learns to Be Herself. The syrupy music suggests a late-seventies Neil Simon warmedy; so does the puppyish performance of Renee Zellweger as the diner waitress turned deluded chaser-down of Greg Kinnear, soap-opera star on A Reason to Love. A scary character even tells Betty near the end, You don't need a man--you've got yourself. On the other hand, for the cognoscenti--the real people the rigorous, theatre-history-trained, Mametianly severe LaBute writes for--will recognize NURSE BETTY as a kissin' cousin to IN THE COMPANY OF MEN and YOUR FRIENDS OF NEIGHBORS two cold cauldrons of bile, now three, if you count this Almodovarish screwball melodrama as a cauldron in disguise.Freakish, ya-gotta-be-kidding contrivance and abrupt, klutzy tone shifts are the blue plate special in this movie. Deeply rooted in those two sagas of dualistic hit men, PULP FICTION and FARGO, the script swerves from dark to very, very lite, but LaBute can't handle the hairpin turns a scene in which Nurse Betty is comically squirted with a gunshot patient's blood just hangs there, like a LaButean master's thesis on absurdism. And the feminist conclusion that LaBute, so often decried as a sexist, creaks to, is just oogy--Erin Brockovich getting her T-shirt wetted down in Tarantino sauce.The one bright point, of course, is the cast. As the lovesick hit man, Morgan Freeman late in the day has the best scene in his movie career--an outpouring of old-school romance that melted even my otherwise untouched heart. Chris Rock manages to be almost totally un-Chris Rock-like, and deeply scary. Zellweger is perfectly cast (even if she does lay on the ain't-I-cute in the last twenty minutes). And Kinnear continues to astound. Watch the inventiveness in a scene where he pleads for his professional life with a vengeful soap producer Kinnear is like an assembly line of acting ideas run amok on an I Love Lucy overdrive rampage.I liked LaBute's second feature, YOUR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS; unlike his attention-needy first film, it had complexity--its characters, if conceived in diagrammatic terms, had roundness, realness, self-contradiction. Now it would seem he wants to cash in his notoriety chips and be a real player at the big table. We have recently seen Sam Raimi, a minor but interesting guy, do this to grim effect. The bottom line is that LaBute isn't even good at it. His attempts at mainstream manipulation seem to derive from repeated video screenings of PATCH ADAMS. His first two films were stagy and classroomish. They felt, however, personal. I recommend that he go back to original scripts. "},{"Title":"Uneven dark comedy","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renee Zellweger plays an innocent and naive - and wacky - coffee shop waitress who has difficulty differentiating real life and soap opera life after witnessing the brutal murder of her abusive and demented husband (how DO women like that get hooked up with men like that?).I'm still not sure of the purpose for Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock, who both provide comic relief (Freeman far better than Rock), but for this film?  It seems as if two films were spliced together, making it uneven and in need of better editing (or major re-doing).  Greg Kinnear does well as the soap opera doctor who is the object of Renee's fantasy desires.  Great scenes when they meet for the first time.  Zellweger continues to be sweet, adorable and likeable. "}{"Title":"Cute!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As I was walking out of this movie a few people asked me what I thought of it and out of my mouth came, It was cute.  Yes, since Renee Zellweiger is so darn cute and she is in almost every frame, I would say it was Awfully darn cute.  True, Morgan Freeman did his normal terrific job, but this film would be a much different one without Zellweiger, who plays the title character, Nurse Betty. The super closeups on her sweet face and the trusting nature that comes from her eyes makes the audience route for her from the very start, where we see her in her Kansas environment of uncomplaining waitress by day and uncomplaining wife by night.Greg Kinnear also acts with his eyes and they go wide with disbelief at the wonder of Betty.  The acting, in general, was great, with the weak link being Chris Rock.  I think that he should stick to standup and quit trying to be funny on the big screen...it just ain't working for him.At any rate, I would say to go see this film, as it has an interesting, fantastical premise and a lot of very funny lines.  The audience in my theater was laughing out loud a lot of the time.  And, hey, are we not all starved for something at least halfway decent to go see this year?  "},{"Title":"Superb movie!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As much as I found myself laughing out loud with this darkly touching story, I found myself marveling at how well this film worked on every level. A great cast that is well used in the service of a solid, skillfully written screenplay. Rene Zellweger is so believable and dear in the way she matches the darker plot elements with convincing sentiment. There may be many oscar nominations out of this one. Director, screenplay and several performances! See this without hesitation!    "},{"Title":"Too violent to be truly funny","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Watching this movie was frustrating because there is a lot of talent on display here.  I thought it was an interesting idea, but the gratuitous violence and some awful casting keep it from being a very good movie.  It has something in common with Sister Act in that both are `fish out of water' stories about a woman being pursued by killers because she has witnessed a brutal murder.  However, in Sister Act we didn't have to watch an extensive torture scene in which a man is scalped.  There is a LOT of blood in this movie.  Then there is the big casting mistake of putting Morgan Freeman in the role of a career hit man.  I kept thinking what Jack Nicholson or Burt Reynolds would have been like in the part.  It needed somebody with an outrageous sense of comedy.  Freeman has given a lot of good performances in the past, but comedy was never his strong suit and this role was simply not in his range.  I found Renee Zellweger (whom I had never seen before) a very appealing performer.  I hope to see more of her in the future.  It was also good to see Crispin Glover again.  I also liked the performances of Greg Kinnear, Allison Janney and the talented actress who played the bartender in the Arizona saloon. "},{"Title":"Go see this only if you've seen all the other current movies","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A soap opera fan who begins to live inside a role, a pair of young and old hitmen, a gorgeous leading man who is not what you expect. The journey of a small town girl to Los Angeles, California!Yes, there was some funny stuff, but I felt myself straining to laugh. With good comedies, the laughs come bursting out like you can't help it. Not with this one. Some of the scenes are either so gross, so violent or so stupid, you kind of wonder what kind of movie this is. It's got some romance...but NOT satisfying. It's got some humor...a bit. It's got some bloody action (in fact when I saw the movie last night one couple left after the first 15 minutes) and and an ending that---all I can say---is not a bit funny. "},{"Title":"Not what you expect","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was great.  It is not your typical Neil La Bute film, but he did not write it.  It is more of a mainstream slap-shticky, dark-ish comedy.  It is also, downright hilarious.  This movie should, hopefully, find a large audience who love its comedy.  It almost seemed to be taking a strike against movies of its genre, including While You Were Sleeping, etc.  The movie has a great plot, of which I will reveal nothing.  The movie is not what you were expecting, and I think that everybody should go see it for themselves.  It also moved very well for a 112 min. movie.9/10P.S.  If you are going into the movie expecting In the Company of Men, or Your Friends and Neighbors, you will be sorely disappointed.  It is not nearly as dark, and has camera movement. "},{"Title":"Finally, something creative!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a pleasant film starring Renee Zellewegger and Greg Kinnear.Zellewegger is cast perfectly as Betty Sizemore, a good hearted waitress from a small town who gets caught in the middle of her wrongful husband's schemes. (Aaron Eckhart - Erin Brockovich) Betty is so obsessed with her favorite soap opera, (starring Greg Kinnear as the good looking doctor named David Luvell) that when she witnesses a tragedy in her home, she immediately supresses what she saw by entering the fantasy world of the soap opera.She escapes the tragedy by leaving her small town in Kansas and heads out for Los Angeles to live out the fantasy that only exists in the soap opera life. Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock play the bad guys who are hot on her tail.  Morgan Freeman is a little too inadmired of Betty in a bizarre subplot.When she finally tracks down Kinnear, she talks to him as if they are both in the soap opera all the time, and Kinnear is charmed by her commitment to character.  It takes him awhile to realize that she is not acting. In the meanwhile, he plays along and even gives her a role in the soap.She eventually snaps back into reality and things of course unravel and work themselves out with a GOOD ENDING.  Leaves you feeling warm and fuzzy.My only gripe is to ask the question.  Why do the bad guys have to be African American?  Aren't we done with stereotypes yet? The movie is consistently funny and the story moves well.B+ "},{"Title":"Cute and funny, with reservations","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is much that is gracefully funny and truly, kind-heartedly weird in this light (but surprisingly bloody) film. My gripe is with the script. Chris Rock does a good job in a familiar role for African American males the hairtrigger, rageaholic sociopath (Samuel Jackson and others have been cast in this role before). It's as much of a cliche, and an oppressive one, as past stereoptypes of African Americans have been.  "},{"Title":"Funniest soap comedy since SOAPDISH!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"       Both SOAPDISH and TOOTSIE were funny comedies about the lives of soap opera stars and starlets and the chaos that goes on around the sets and lives of these people.  NURSE BETTY is almost like that, except add a bit of PULP FICTION and a dash of THE TRUMAN SHOW and that is what you get out of this funny movie.      Betty Sizemore (Renee Zellweger) is a waitress at a cafe in a small town in Kansas.  She always wanted to be a nurse, but she had to quit school and help support her cruel and cheating husband Del (Aaron Eckhart).  But Betty escapes everyday by watching her favorite soap opera with her favorite star Dr. David Ravell (Greg Kinnear) who is played by a actor named George McCord.  One night when Del was doing business with a bumbling father and son hitmen team of Charlie (Morgan Freeman) and Wesley (Chris Rock).  Charlie and Wes were not satisfied with Del, so they killed him while Betty was watching this between watching her soaps.  Betty sees this as the perfect opprotunity to go to Hollywood and meet her love intrest Dr. David!  When Betty makes it to Hollywood, she meets actor George McCord, but she thinks he's really Dr. David Ravell, the brain surgeon!  And Charlie and Wes realize that there was a witness to the murder of Del, and the car that Betty took has their requested merchandise in the trunk.  So they go across county to find Betty, and the wanted item that Del had.      I heard about this movie years ago when it was being filmed.  I remember that Renee Zellweger was excited to work with Easy Reader Morgan Freeman, and that it has quite a unique cast, Zellweger, Rock, Kinnear, and Freeman?!?!?  And when I heard that it was the highest received American film at Cannes last May, then I had to see it.  And after seeing it, I was very pleased.  This is one funny movie!!!!      I enjoyed how this movie was charming and it did have some dark scenes in it (especially the murder of Del!)  But there were so many funny parts that it overshadowed the dark scenes and made it a cute movie.  Zellweger did a great job as Betty, I thought that Julia Roberts was a shoe-in for Best Actress Award for the Oscars, but she'll have compete with Zellweger.  Zellweger gives a wonderful and innocent performance.  Think of Alicia Silverstone's character of Cher in CLUELESS grown up, watches soaps, and is a waitress.  I also enjoyed the excellent comedy team of Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock.  It has to be the funniest comedy team that I have seen since Robert DeNiro and Charles Grodin in MIDNIGHT RUN.  There is the comical man and the straight man, and at times the two men alternate the roles.  And there is good support from Kennear, Tia Texda, Crispin Glover, Pruitt Taylor Vince, and Alliosn Janney.      I would say that this is the adult comedy of 2000, while CHICKEN RUN is for the family, and ROAD TRIP is for the teens, this will tickle the funny bone of the adults.  There were several scenes in this movie where I was laughing out loud in front of an audience, which I rarely do.  Also, for a movie about two hours long, it went by pretty quick.      This is a funny and great movie.  I do reccommend it to almost everybody.  For those who don't really like violence, please be warned, there are about three scenes of some violence, but after that, you'll have fun.  As for the soap opera fans, they'll enjoy the tounge-in-cheek humor throughout this film.  It's easy to see why NURSE BETTY was a success at Cannes, because it's so darn great!  ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Good Main stream film w/intensely personal moments","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This Director has riveted me in the past with his ability to capture intense and uncomfortable moments.  This film not only continues with this talent but has also integrated main stream qualities to this production (Comedy, Love, Fear, Suspense).  I loved this film.  I savored the moments when Freemen was dealing with the climax segment.  The awkwardness he portrayed in character, of his emotions, was almost too powerful to believe.  Freeman pulled it off and the Director captured it.  He changed tempo and rang the bells at opposite ends of the emotion scale in that one scene.  I am going to watch again and get goose bumps.  Bravo!  Oscar!  Oscar! "},{"Title":"My Morgan-centric review of Nurse Betty","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, some have called this film a 'black comedy'. NURSE BETTY is NOT a comedy; it is farce. One in which serious themes such as violence, betrayal and killing are taken very lightly. Think not 'Dogma' or 'Pillow Talk' but rather 'Throw Momma From the Train'. This kind of dark humor has probably put more than one critic off the film, but if you understand the nature of the genre you can see past it and laugh at the absurdities. And absurdities abound. When we first see Renée Zellweger's character, Betty, she is nice and sweet to the point of unreality. Everybody ignores or takes advantage of her. In short, she is a doormat, and would be unbelievable, were it not for the fact that I have seen a few Bettys in my time. She is a type of holy fool, consecrated to the cult of soap's A REASON TO LOVE'S Dr. David Ravell. And when in the face of trauma and death she goes round the bend, she embarks on a pilgrimage from Kansas to L.A. to seek out her icon. Greg Kinnear's performance as Dr. Ravell/George McCord, the idol with feet of all-too-human clay, hits just the right notes of Hollywood insincerity and smarminess, reflecting the desperation of an almost has-been actor who would consider anything to avoid the specter of his soap character being killed off. And we see Freeman's character Charlie in his devotions, carrying around, talking to and fussing over photos of Betty as if they were holy relics.Morgan Freeman's performance in this film is pure pleasure, akin to seeing a Frank Lloyd Wright house, tasting and enjoying the bouquet of a fine wine vintage or listening to the smoky vocals of Ray Charles or Macy Gray. Whether admiring Betty's wedding picture, reading aloud to Wesley from her diary, contemplating her image as they chase her cross-country in the car or stalking her outside the apartment where she is staying, he fills out his role of the hitman Charlie with unexpected dimensions. In past interviews MF has expressed a longing to expand past his usual staid and dignified typecasting, and here he finally gets to do it. Ironically, though he could receive a fourth Oscar nomination for this part, he probably won't win it. It would be only be for Best Supporting Actor, anyway... With Betty (once jerky, dismissive husband Del is put out of the way) and Kinnear's Dr. Ravell/George McCord these three characters focus the movie. Each one of them suffers from misdirected devotion once Betty's eyes are finally opened she realizes it as she listens to Charlie describing himself to her as if he were writing a lovelorn personals ad. In response she gently tells him, I don't think I'm who you think I am. And in one scene with the soap star she quotes a friend who once told her if he were any handsomer it'd be a crime, then in the next breath with an earthy if astute observation of his character proceeds to demolish his actor's ego, shattering the last of the illusions he has accumulated in the course of his involvement with her. In all this, Chris Rock's Wesley doesn't fit in. He is the odd man out in this triangle; he kicks against its edges, but does little more than inflict various dings to its sides. But the one real damage we see him do early in the film is enough to precipitate the whole mad chase. Think of his character as the fulcrum that sets this unbalanced object rolling. He and Charlie are an oddly matched pair. As father-son the two actors pull it off, Rock's raunchy raucous comedic talent and MF's steady, centered presence balancing and complementing one another. There is one very funny moment where Charlie hauls Wesley's struggling form out of an office, as if corralling a tantrumming five-year-old. There is another more telling scene, however, where the family dynamic is suddenly reversed Wesley rebukes his dad's fantasizing, telling him in effect that he won't stand for it. It matters not that Wesley is addicted to A REASON TO LOVE and has a case of the hots for the actress playing Jasmine; that does not begin to match the level of obsession involved in Charlie's cherishing and taping back together a snapshot of Betty that his son had torn and scattered in a fit of pique. Charlie and Wesley may be related, but as in most families, the two are real opposites son Wesley is outwardly charming but boiling over with rage and violence inside (like the character Mouse in DEVIL IN A BLUE DRESS, or, more interestingly, one of Freeman's past roles, the Times Square pimp Fast Black in STREET SMART). On the other hand, his father Charlie in his capacity as a professional hitman has been there and seen enough to keep his belligerence firmly on the outside often he will take someone roughly in hand, then in soothing tones tell them something like you haven't been forthcoming to us. Neil LaBute seems to have handled his directing duties well. The casting of the leads is superb, he lets each do what they do best, and there is enough light shining through the cinematography (and the story) to avoid the charges of claustrophobic film-making that were lodged against his prior projects. At times the pacing seemed uneven, a little slow, particularly in the first 45 minutes of the film. Indeed it seemes that it gets faster and faster the further one gets into the film; perhaps cutting back and forth too quickly in the last, most important scenes. Also, a few story points seemed truncated or edited out, such as Charlie's fantasy sequence with Betty (they kiss, but not dance? And if so, why does Wesley deride his father later for dancing alone in the dark?) and the subplot involving Fair Oaks' sheriff and newspaperman. In NURSE BETTY there is not only idealization of the central character, the soap star and the fantasy milieu of Hollywood but also of time. Throughout the film there are harkenings back to a simpler era several visual cues relating Betty to Dorothy in Wizard of Oz (check out her waitress uniform and her garb in the fantasy with Charlie) the mention of Doris Day, the old car Charlie and Wesley drive in, break down, then have repaired again. And if Betty is a Dorothy in search of self-fulfillment, then in some sense Charlie is the Wizard, the man behind the curtain. In the denouement he in essence tells her that she needs no hero; that in herself she has the heart, the brains and the courage to make her way in the world on her own. And that makes that last chaste, real kiss he bestows on her cheek almost a benediction. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Film, Morgan Freeman and Zellweger Shine","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A movie like this has so many opportunities to fall on its face and die, because the concept only works if you believe Renee Zellweger can see her husband murdered, forget the event, and so identify with her favorite soap star, she actually believes the television actor and her were engaged once. If an acting team can create that illusion and make it work, they've done something impressive. The movie works because the cast makes everything appear so real.This is Morgan Freeman's movie, but Renee Zellweger is right up there, too. Morgan Freemen is like Gene Hackman to me. Soon as he signs up for a part, the credibility of the story goes up. If you haven't seen Roger Ebert's review of the movie yet, take a look. He captures very well the change in Freeman. The most important story is Nurse Betty, how she makes it through a horrible trauma, makes it to LA, and makes it to her favorite soap to meet her heart surgeon tv star. Just as rich,though, is the story of Freeman's character. He has his own changes, too, as he becomes enchanted by the photograph of Betty, to the point of imagining her in a dance at the Grand Canyon.     I won't go into the rest of the cast, except to say everybody is so good in this flick. The supporting roles are all rich. In some ways, this film is like Ruthless People. Hilarious off-the-wall stuff, followed by danger. They both exist in this film, and they both seem right when they happen. The exit line of Morgan Freeman -the last thing he says to Nurse Betty- is a summation of his philosophy. In its own way, it reminded me of the last line I recall from Spartacus, when the wife of Spartacus shows her husband their boy, and tells her husband on the cross, He's free. It seems to be the final wake-up call for Nurse Betty, the last one she needs to rejoin this agreed-upon illusion we call reality.This should be on the top-ten lists by the end of the year. "},{"Title":"Not sickeningly sweet.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A soaper obviously unlike anything the cynical Mr. LaBute has created up to this point, Nurse Betty is still not without its dark moments. Renèe Zellwiger's sweet and deluded naïf is captivating, and is a more interesting role than I've seen her play before. Most of the other characters are somewhat one-dimensional, with the exception of Morgan Freeman and Tia Texada. Good writing and a pleasant combination of sweetness and dark.However irrelevant, my review of the audience is considerably less glowing. Being already rather repulsed by the gratuitous gore and violence, I was shocked to hear many people laughing during one of the last scenes, wherein Chris Rock's cardboard villain runs amok with his fists. Enough to shake one's already shaky faith in humankind, that was... "},{"Title":"The best movie of Y2K by far, so far!!!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty is a refreshing, mixed up, twisty, and very enjoyable film. I have developed a habit of trying not to see or read any previews, interviews, reviews or clips.  More often than not these days some previews tell the whole story and are all spoilers.  I was fortunate not to have any real idea what this movie was all about before I saw it, and am I glad. If you want to know what to expect then read the other reviews posted here, but I advise against it.All I will say is that I can't remember any movie that had more surprises for me.  Every scene was like opening a new Christmas present of laughs, pathos, drama, and a whole gamut of emotions.Renee Zellwiger clearly establishes herself as a top rated Oscar contender, and the rest of the cast is great with one exception. Chris Rock is Chris Rock, a one note obscene foul mouth, but since he plays this kind of character, I was able to easily live with it.  Morgan Freeman shows once again an even closer look at the great range of his considerable acting abilities.Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"A Breath of Fresh Air","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There has finally been a movie this year that I can truly say was surprising from beginning to end.  There was not a moment in this film that sold out to convention, and there is not a movie in recent memory that I have been happier to have missed all of the previews of.  It is the rare movie, much less a comedy, that one can truly say was original, yet easy to relate to and enjoyable, yet this one was one of those rare few.  I know that this movie will not get the critical recognition of a movie like Pulp Fiction, but it is every bit as original for not taking the easy way out, yet succeeding because of it. "},{"Title":"Love and Obsession in L.A.","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   `Nurse Betty' is a story of obsession. Betty is obsessed with her favorite soap opera. So much so that she all but misses her husbands grisly end at the hands of two enforcers (Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock). The enforcers are obsessed with recovering the drugs that Betty's idiot husband stole from their boss. Morgan Freeman becomes obsessed with Betty herself.Because of what she saw of the murder, Betty retreats into a fantasy world in which the young doctor from her favorite soap is her ex-fiancee. So, after leaving a note for her husband, she goes in search of him. . She does meet him and he thinks her to be an actress trying out for a part on the show  What we end up with is a black comedy in which the only blacks are the least comic part of it.  I found the violence in Chris Rock's character a little jarring after the comedic parts.But I loved Nurse Betty herself.  Rene Zelwiger's performance is wonderful. Betty may be crazy, but her sweetness saves her. No wonder so many are falling in love with her.Three Stars.  "},{"Title":"Nurse Betty heralds the arrival of Renee Zellweger","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renee Zellweger was perfectly cast for the role of Betty. I suspect she really could charm the occasional hitman/philosopher or a comic actor with equal aplomb. And I suppose it doesn't hurt for the leads of a movie to be likable, but I prefer to believe that the high esteem I hold for the movie, has much more to do with the onscreen craft of Freeman and Zellweger, in extremely complex roles, and the offscreen work of director LaBute, and screenwriters Richards and Flamberg. I fully believe that Nurse Betty will garner nominations from the Academy for all of the above, and at this time, I see no real challenge. In the ranks of fine actors, Morgan Freeman has really been here for quite a while, but, I think, Nurse Betty heralds the arrival of Renee Zellweger. As unrealistic as any of the possible plot twists might seem on first assessment, in context they work nicely. Of course, you must factor in the suspension of disbelief some directors command. LaBute even manages to wring a charming performance out of the oft times annoying Greg Kinnear. Chris Rock remains the real focus of the brutality of the film, shocking but really not over done, and I sort of feel that LaBute just coaxed a little bit of buried reality out of Rock. The short glimpse of the soaps world was probably pretty accurate, and I don't doubt for a moment that the Kinnear character could, indeed, be drawn to the haunting, seeming actress Betty. And, all in all, LaBute has managed to pull all the strings in concert, to present a masterful movie. Kudos on Nurse Betty. Jim Carey, consider yourself on notice.Mike Kelley "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but...","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, this movie was entertaining. Weirdly entertaining. But, why, God, why do these scriptwriters overuse the eff word? It is so unnecessary and the scenes with Chris Rock and Morgan Freeman became highly annoying because of it. Renee Z. was oozing with sweetness and innocence. She is in a class by herself. Some critics are comparing her to Meg Ryan. No no no. Meg Ryan tries. Renee Z. doesn't have to. For something different, go see this movie. It'll trip your mind. Not your typical Hollywood foofoo movie. "},{"Title":"The most magical film in years, and the year's best so far","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you've heard from a friend or from someone online that Nurse Betty was a waste of time, don't listen to them.  Chances are, you were talking to one of the few people alive that would not absolutely cherish this movie.  What we have here is not just a brilliant screenplay that pays homage to many of the best films of all time(the screenplay is a modern Wizard of Oz, but calls to other great films like Being There and Pulp Fiction), or just a film made to give the actors a chance to showcase their talents.  Every part of the film is exquisite and came together just right for this movie; Neil LaBute has finally created a cinematic masterpiece.We have Betty(Renee Zellweger), a modern Dorothy, who has so many gifts that she's unaware of.  After a horrible event, she enters a fantasy world, determined to meet the Wizard of Oz(Greg Kinnear) to return her back to home and make everything alright again.  Of course, she does meet this Wizard, who of course turns out to not be the one that can answer all of her questions.  What is so amazing about this film is how uplifting it is.  This is a twist-at-every-turn movie, and the twists are always spectacularly good hearted that it's hard not to get goosebumps at every new idea.  Of course, this is a LaBute movie, so there are many ugly moments here, as well, including a very violent, spine-tingling violent scene.  This is certainly one of the most gruesome scenes of any movie this year, but there is a very obvious point behind it, so it is in very good taste.The cinematography is wonderful, the music is spectacular, and there isn't one part of the movie that is not treated oh-so delicately so it can create the perfect atmosphere.  However, the movie never forgets to allow these aspects to outweigh what is truly important-the story and characters.This is a rare movie where every character ends up growing, becoming more mature, and allows the viewer to never second guess the outcomes.  It has such great character development.  Kinnear, Zellweger, and Freeman all deserve Oscar nominations, and many other characteristics of the film should be recognized as well.  The only weak point here is Rock's performance, which takes half the movie before we forget it's Rock and truly focus on his character.  So, if you have a love for the black but oh-so uplifting story, see Nurse Betty.  Hell, even if you're not sure this movie is for you, give it a chance.  It would take an awfully sour person to not enjoy this spectacular movie experience.   "},{"Title":"Thoughtful and amusing","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Morgan Freeman practically steals the movie as a hitman who is also a modern Socrates. Chris Rock shows both restraint and real talent for acting. Renee Zellweger is genuinely sweet and completely believable as the emotional center of the story -- a female Don Quixote in search of her impossible dream.This amusing film plays with some profound ideas. Betty makes a journey from being an abused nobody to real self-knowledge. The plot involves mixing and unmixing dreams and reality, and eventually dreams become reality. Betty learns who she really is and to be happy being herself.It's a clever story with a great cast. "},{"Title":"Has noted misanthrope LaBute really made a feelgood comedy?","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a fan of In the Company of Men and Your Friends and Neighbors, I wasn't sure I liked the sound of this but it's well written and acted and there's an interesting clash between the fluffy romcom main plot and the darker black comedy subplot. Plenty of good lines, some genuine surprises and it's great to see Freeman as a baddie. ( "}{"Title":"Why the bad language?","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cute story but I left because the f word was used too much.  No, I am not a sainT.  But the language is not needed to make the story or too laugh. Awful!  I feel sorry for those who sat and listen to this garbage all the way.  Glad it was a preview.  It I paid, they had to refund my money.   If you think that language is okay, you are sicker than you realize. "},{"Title":"Minor flaws but a showcase for its talent","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw an advance screening of Nurse Betty last night.  Since I enjoyed the film hugely, I'll deal with my quibbles first.  Neil LaBute is clearly an actors' director, and does best with longer, sustained scenes.  Something about the pace of this film is a bit off the cross-cutting doesn't flow very naturally, and the editing leaves a few not-so-funny lines dangling. Perhaps it is an underwritten film, with the wealth of incident and the skill of the actors concealing somewhat sketchy roles.  Chris Rock doesn't have enough to do, and Renee Zellweger's adorability practically implodes on itself.  (One Meg Ryan is quite enough!) However, a very difficult and fanciful concept is worked out with some ingenuity and generosity, and in an easy-going manner that doesn't seem to be trying to knock us out with how outrageous it all is.  This movie has been somewhat misleadingly labeled a road picture, with Betty on the go and the hitmen played by Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock in hot pursuit.  In fact, Betty reaches Los Angeles quite quickly, while the hitmen's pursuit is amusingly protracted.  But they are all definitely on a journey of sorts, although it probably doesn't do to think about it too hard (journeys in search of dreams, lost ideals, etc.). Zellweger, for all her cuteness, manages not to be cloying, adding the saving grace of matter-of-factness to her performance. Her Betty is so bent on her delusion that she simply gazes straight through reality.  (The easily embarrassed may find this film excruciating!)  Greg Kinnear is as good as one would expect in a role cut from the same cloth as his parts in Sabrina and Mystery Men, laying on charm and smarm indiscriminately.  A number of actors do excellently in small roles, especially the women, and most especially a bartender in a lonely Arizona saloon.  Best of all, I'm quite happy to say, is Morgan Freeman, who plays the sort of role he's done before, but gets to play all sorts of angles and feelings that we've never seen from him on-screen.  He is not well-served by a couple of road-side scenes in which he is required to be irascible at too great length.  But those tired of Freeman's recent run of father figures will be pleased by his sinister demeanor here.  (He's a father figure in this film too, but in a most perverse way.)  And, as it turns out, his Charlie is as much an escapist as Betty Sizemore--gallant and ridiculous and ultimately discombobulated by his confused feelings for the Betty of his imagination he prepares to go kill her as if he were getting ready to propose marriage, and his furtive application of aftershave is perhaps his best moment in the film.  If he is made to state the theme of the film a little too explicitly at the end, and forced to go through too many sudden changes of heart, he's earned enough good will by then to make it okay.  The hardest thing to do in movies these days is end them properly.  The climax of this one is tricky, with slapstick in one room and an intimate confrontation in another, but LaBute pulls it off.  More difficult is the wind-up, but it goes by fast. The comedy in this film is character-driven and a bit cock-eyed, so think Coens rather than sitcom.  Be prepared also for some fairly graphic violence at the beginning and the end.  The violence is not gratuitous, however, as it places us firmly in the world that both Betty and Charlie are recoiling from.  One final quibble, or perhaps a question  At the end, isn't Betty still living someone else's dream?  And is this a miscalculation, or is it meant as irony? "},{"Title":"Brilliant, genius","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Neil LaBute does it again with NURSE BETTY.  This movie is smart and seamless ... pure brilliance.  Renee, Morgan, Greg and Chris compliment each other wonderfully. Even the supporting cast make their mark.  A must-see... one of this year's best! "},{"Title":"Sweet but brutal","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Neil LaBute tries something a little more mainstream after two dark mini-masterpieces.  Nurse Betty has a sweet main character and an appealing plot but unfortunately suffers from a large dosage of mean-spiritedness.  Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock are terrific actors but their characters serve little purpose in this movie. They belong in a Tarantino movie, not a sly feel good comedy.  There was no need for the gory scalping sequence. But the film is saved by Renee Zellweger, proving once again that she has the stuff to replace Meg Ryan as America's sweetheart.  It's always a treat to see that good--make that great--things happen to good people who were horribly mistreated at the beginning of the story.  Remove the crime subplot and add more eccentric characters (like the entire cast and crew of the soap opera) and you would have had a great film.  As it stands, it's a good movie in a summer dominated by disappointing and flat-out bad movies.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hysterical","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most original films I've seen in years.  Renee Zellweger is right on target as the post traumatic stress syndrome victim Betty, and Morgan Freeman and Chris rock are hysterical as the pair of father-son criminals.  There are scenes in this movie that are absolutely unbelievable, but for some odd reason, they work.  This movie is more than worth the price of admission, and if you want a good laugh, you'll definitely get more than you bargained for with this film. "},{"Title":"A few quibbles, but otherwise Betty's a delight","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw an advance screening of Nurse Betty last night.  Since I enjoyed the film hugely, I'll deal with my quibbles first.  Neil LaBute is clearly an actors' director, and does best with longer, sustained scenes.  Something about the pace of this film is a bit off the cross-cutting doesn't flow very naturally, and the editing leaves a few not-so-funny lines dangling. Perhaps it is an underwritten film, with the wealth of incident and the skill of the actors concealing somewhat sketchy roles.  Chris Rock doesn't have enough to do, and Renee Zellweger's adorability practically implodes on itself.  (One Meg Ryan is quite enough!)  However, a very difficult and fanciful concept is worked out with some ingenuity and generosity, and in an easy-going manner that doesn't seem to be trying to knock us out with how outrageous it all is.  This picture has been somewhat misleadingly labeled a road picture, with Betty on the go and the hitmen played by Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock in hot pursuit.  In fact, Betty reaches Los Angeles quite quickly, while the hitmen's pursuit is amusingly protracted.  But they are all definitely on a journey of sorts, although it probably doesn't do to think about it too hard (journeys in search of dreams, lost ideals, etc.). Zellweger, for all her cuteness, manages not to be cloying, adding the saving grace of matter-of-factness to her performance.  Her Betty is so bent on her delusion that she simply gazes straight through reality.  (The easily embarrassed may find this film excruciating!)  Greg Kinnear is as good as one would expect in a role cut from the same cloth as his parts in Sabrina and Mystery Men, laying on charm and smarm indiscriminately.  A number of actors do excellently in small roles, especially the women, and most especially a bartender in a lonely Arizona saloon.  Best of all, I'm quite happy to say, is Morgan Freeman, who plays the sort of role he's done before, but gets to play all sorts of angles and feelings that we've never seen from him on-screen.  He is not well-served by a couple of road-side scenes in which he is required to be irascible at too great length.  But those tired of Freeman's recent run of father figures will be pleased by his sinister demeanor here.  (He's a father figure in this film too, but in a most perverse way.)  And, as it turns out, his Charlie is as much an escapist as Betty Sizemore--gallant and ridiculous and ultimately discombobulated by his confused feelings for the Betty of his imagination he prepares to go kill her as if he were preparing to propose marriage, and his furtive application of aftershave is perhaps his best moment in the film.  If he is made to state the theme of the film a little too explicitly at the end, and forced to go through too many sudden changes of heart, he's earned enough good will by then to make it okay.  The hardest thing to do in movies these days is end them properly.  The climax of this one is tricky, with slapstick in one room and an intimate confrontation in another, but LaBute pulls it off.  More difficult is the wind-up, but it goes by fast. The comedy in this film is character-driven and a bit cock-eyed, so think Coens rather than sitcom.  Be prepared also for some fairly graphic violence at the beginning and the end.  The violence is not gratuitous, however, as it places us firmly in the world that both Betty and Charlie are recoiling from.  One final quibble, or perhaps a question  At the end, isn't Betty still living someone else's dream?  And is this a miscalculation, or is it meant as irony? "},{"Title":"Talk about lol)!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty wins my award for best comedy of the new millennium! that's how funny it is, i just couldn't contain myself. Neil Labute has really outdone himself with this wonderful farce starring the delightful Renee Zelwegger. You will not believe she could ever be so hilarious! I'm telling you, if you think In the Company of Men is funny, you'll need 'Nurse Betty' to come save you, because you'll be dying of laughter!  "},{"Title":"Awkward and clumsy","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was a fan of Neil LaBute's nasty, low-budget In the Company of Men, but I found his third film Nurse Betty to be an awkward, clumsy, and almost unwatchable mess. It tells the story of Betty (intolerably scrunched-faced Renee Zellweger) who, after witnessing her degenerate husband being scalped in her living room by black marauders, goes crazy and imagines her favorite soap opera to be real life. Morgan Freeman is passable as a hard-luck hit man, but the real shocker is Chris Rock, who is at his absolute unfunniest in a depthless role as Freeman's son. The movie is never once incisive, meaningful, or even warm; each character has a whole lot of problems, but I'd to say that at this point, none are as serious as LaBute's.  "},{"Title":"Will leave a smile on your face","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A wonderful comedy full of black humor and REALLY weird situations. I wasn´t that surprised when I found out that Nurse Betty won an award for its screenplay - I have surely seen worse stories get such an award. This story and of course the great cast (all of them but mostly Renee Zellweger) makes this a really entertaining evening. Not a deep movie - but it doesn´t happen that often that you just can´t wipe that smile of your face when you leave the theatre for hours afterwards. You just can´t. "},{"Title":"This is the better version of All about Steve.","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 2009, we had a film released with Sandra Bullock called All about Steve. It was one of the worst films of the year. In 2000, we had a film released with Renee Zellweger called Nurse Betty. Now I love Sandra Bullock a lot more than Renee Zellweger. At first, I started off hating Nurse Betty, but as I continued, though it annoyed me, I was interested.There are many things that I didn't like about it. Zellweger's character is delusional and at times pretty stupid. Her husband is murdered, she witnesses it, and then goes back to watching her soap opera.Another character that I hated was Chris Rock's character. I have never been a fan of Chris Rock. Sure he has had a couple of good films but here he really is annoying. There was one scene involving him that changed my opinion a little.Nurse Betty is about a waitress named Betty(played well by Renee Zellweger), a woman who is a huge fan of a soap opera and is in love with the lead character David(played by Greg Kinnear). In a rather disturbing scene, Betty's husband(played by Aaron Eckhart, who is having an affair)is scalped and shot by a couple of hit men(played by Chris Rock and Morgan Freeman). Betty witnesses the murder, but she isn't upset by it. So she travels to California to see David. She's not in love with the actor, but the character. And when she gets there, she always refers to him as David.These hit men search for Betty and travel down to Calfornia to find her. Freeman's character falls for her. While the annoying son just complains all the time. And once Betty starts to know David, she starts to realize he's an asshole and that she's crazy.In short, this is the more original version of All about Steve. The better one too. Nurse Betty has it's moments of hilarity and it's moments of stupidity. I like Renee Zellweger and here we have a great cast. But the movie ain't that great. It's entertaining, funny, and other things. But it's also very strange. and like what I said about All about Steve, there is nothing funny about a crazy person. This movie is actually funny though. I can't call it great. though flawed, Nurse Betty works in it's own way.Nurse Betty B- "}{"Title":"Flawed but watchable.","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A wildly uneven film where the major problem is the uneasy mix of comedy and thriller. To me, the unusual premise is clearly a comedic one, and they should have gone for an all-out comedy. For example, Rock has some funny lines but occasionally he is too unlikable for a comedy. The scene where Betty's husband gets scalped is too nasty for what should have been a less violent comedy. An even better example is the Hollywood leftist writer preaching to us tritely through Freeman's character, early on, about the plight of the Indians; I mean - yawn! They should have given Freeman something funny to say in that segment, but that is of course much more difficult than to simply write him a boring PC speech.There is yet more New Age PC-ness in the form of the ending the girl not only doesn't get the boy - she gets no boy at all; in fact, the message is that the girl needs no boy at all! Bit of a feminist statement there. The first half-hour is weak, but the movie gets better - ironically - once Zellweger gets to Kinnear. I say ironically because I'm not much of a fan of Kinnear's, though he's solid here. Zellweger is very cute, as usual; she has the sort of all-American cute looks which should appeal to almost every guy, and I have to wonder why more of such women aren't represented nowadays, instead of the dogs who inexplicably became stars, such as Diaz, Roberts, Aniston, Lopez, or Barrymore.Since the movie tries to be very serious at times, I have no choice but to criticize Freeman's character which is the gangster's equivalent of the movie world's hooker-with-the-heart-of-gold. There is also absolutely nothing in the relationship between Freeman and Rock to suggest even remotely that they were father and son. "},{"Title":"As Good As Billy Wilder's Best","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Noted misanthrope Neil LaBute has made the best tribute to Billy Wilder in Nurse Betty.Probably because LaBute directed and didn't write the script, Nurse Betty actually loves and appreciates most of its nutty characters (except of course Aaron Eckhart who also played bastards in LaBute's stomach-turning nasty In the Company of Men and Your Friends and Neighbors).Wilder combined both mordant wit (as generated by, my Dad never fails to remind me, his Boys High Schoolclassmate Izzy Diamond, the I.A. who was Wilder's script writer for most of their career) and pathos.Nurse Betty definitely reminded me of aspects of The Apartment and Double Indemnity, from very funny to very violent, with characters who have warmth, delusions and ulterior motives through parallel dimensions that meet at dangerous and skewed angles.Morgan Freeman has a field day with his best deep character since The Shawshank Redemption.(originally written 9/24/2000) "},{"Title":"wonderful nurse Renee","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How important is the mindset you are in when watching a certain film? Without any doubt-extremely important. To continue in the same direction, it is also very important the way you set about watching the particular film-with low or even very low expectations or the opposite-with high or very high expectations. I think all of those propositions affect very much the final outcome. I am blathering about all this because this was pretty much the case (my case) with Nurse Betty. I had very low expectations when I went to rent this movie (I thought it would be one of those cheesy comedies) but it turned out to be such a beautiful one.This is a movie about two dream chasers Renee Zellweger and Morgan Freeman. I actually won't bother telling the plot, what's important is not to think that this is a kind of road movie about a mad woman pursued by two killers. It is not. It is much more deeper; and what makes it much more deeper is Renee Zellweger with her best to date performance. She was beautiful. She played not one but three different characters. Morgan Freeman with his final 5 minutes Betty and Greg Kinnear with his 5 minutes of directing Betty were the perfect supplement. Go and see this movie, you won't regret it. It gives you that nice feeling that good things happen to good people. Recommended.   "},{"Title":"Bland and boring","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  May contain *** MILD SPOILER ***Maybe it was just me but I found this film bland and boring. I expected so much with Morgan Freeman (Charlie) and Rennee Zellweger (Betty), But was left wondering WHY?? I lost interest about half way through the film and this never happens.How could people not think that she very strange when they first meet her and avoid her like the plague, George/Dr David Ravell (played by Greg Kinnear) would have ran a mile to escape from her in real life. This film could have been so much more if the storyline was not so weak.I can see the point of the violence at the beginning she would have hardly been as traumatized seeing her scumbag husband killed if they had killed him by boring him to death by making him watch this film would she?I see that I am a minority but this film did NOT work for me.2/10  "},{"Title":"Is this really a Neil LaBute film?","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Music? Editing? Multiple locations? Big name  actors? The Neil LaBute of old became a little  Hollywoodized, selling out to make this film  about a woman who thinks she is the nurse  to a television doctor. The first mistake LaBute  made was the fact he didn't write the screenplay,  which didn't have the trademark audacity and  numbness placed into his earlier films. I will  not say this was a bad film, for it really wasn't,  but it felt like some guy took LaBute's name  and used it for his own purposes. Hopefully,  LaBute's next film won't be so  `paint-by-numbers,' yet something more  relative to what he actually creates on his own. "},{"Title":"A unique crime thriller interspersed with a woman's delusional fantasy come to life.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renee Zellweger plays the part of Betty, a woman who lives an unexciting life stuck with a dirtbag husband, stuck in a monotonous day-to-day existence and with nothing really to look forward to or up to. When Charlie (Morgan Freeman) and Wesley (Chris Rock) show up to collect from her bonehead husband on a bad drug deal, they wind up killing him and throwing Betty's life into complete turmoil. Just as Ellen Burstyn's Sara Goldfarb was sickeningly obsessed with being on television in the stomach turning but surprisingly impressive Requiem For A Dream, Betty is obsessed with soap operas, particularly `A Reason To Love,' starring her hero, Dr. David Ravell, played by Greg Kinnear. It seems that Betty has been tottering on the edge of reality for some time, and her husband's death (or, more likely, the fact that she actually witnessed it) is the event that really sent her over the edge of reality, and made her believe that she had once had a romantic relationship with Dr. Ravell, and now that her husband is dead, she is free to seek him out to start that relationship up again. Charlie and Wesley pursue her as she travels to Los Angeles to find Dr. Ravell, at first seeking only the drugs that she unknowingly has in her car, and Charlie gradually begins to identify with her and fancy her on entirely different levels. It's not immediately clear what we are to think of Charlie after he kills Betty's husband, Del, because Del is the kind of person that we're not exactly sad to see dead, and also because his murder was, I guess, a mercy killing of sorts, since Wesley had already scalped him. This presents Wesley as the more brutal of the two, which is probably why the comical Chris Rock was not exactly the best person to play the role. The guy's just too well known as a comedian to satisfactorily play someone so vicious, and he just doesn't have the caliber that a great actor like Joe Pesci has. Pesci can easily go back and forth between comedy and violence, Rock can't.  At any rate, Wesley and Charlie are clearly meant to be something of an odd couple. There is obviously meant to be more than a little bit of comedy to be taken from their adventures, but it's a strange combination to see someone like Charlie undergo the fantastic change that he experiences throughout the film. It is, on the other hand, rather interesting to see two people who differ strongly in their violent content, clearly a very important personality trait in their line of work, as one of them transforms and their mutual goals begin to blur and change.  There are several plots going on in this film, and the thing that really makes it strong is that they never get confused and none ever really overshadows any of the others. Wesley and Charlie are chasing Betty because she has their drugs and she has witnessed their crime, Charlie is becoming more interested in Betty than in the drugs or in her knowledge as a witness, Betty is pursuing this soap opera celebrity who she can't even distinguish from the character that he plays on the show, and Betty and Charlie and each in similar situations, in that they are both fantasizing about people that they can't have. There are spectacular performances left and right in the film (Morgan Freeman, obviously, Renee Zellweger, Greg Kinnear, etc.), and the story is one of those rare gems that entertains without really revealing how you should feel about what goes on in the film. Nurse Betty is a movie that manages to be hugely entertaining while at the same time leaving the vast majority of the response up to individual interpretation, which is exactly what makes a movie like this so smart and sets it apart from other black comedies. This movie is not easy to figure out right away, but it is definitely easy to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Not particularly good","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The main problem here is that the film tries too hard to be a black comedy and overshoots it.  Freeman and Rock's charcters are just too quirky and I was just not interested in them at all.  And I just couldn't buy Kinear's interest in Betty  (btw I'm no big fan of Rene Z) it seemed totally out of place and forced. "},{"Title":"Did I watch the same movie as everyone else?","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm incredulous at some of the reviews I've read here and in the media. This movie is stunningly bad.  Regardless of the all-star cast and competent direction, the movie is doomed by its exceptionally amateurish screenplay from a freshman writer.  Incredibly, some reviewers attributed the weakness of the script to complexity of character, or the director's attempt to tap both ends of the emotional spectrum.  The reality is far more pedestrian.Thinly disguised and poorly executed references to cinematic archetypes fall flat, and were about as deep as those in Joe Versus the Volcano.  The script is one plot contrivance after another, neutering its ability to generate even one plausible character motivation.The script is filled with tell me moments instead of show me moments--the description of the bar owner's Rome vacation is a prime example.  Not one scrap of plausible emotion came through in this scene, which might be forgivable if the movie didn't try to use it as justification for the main character's subsequent actions.  It's about as emotionally engaging as watching a stranger's vacation movies, or listening to someone describe a dream.  A seasoned screenwriter would've been able to provide a better justification for Betty's actions than listening to an incongruous description of a Rome getaway from a stranger in a bar in the middle of the Arizona desert.  From the moment the bar sequence starts, we know Betty is only there to lay groundwork for later plot development, and it's painful to watch.The actors want to do a great job, but are hamstrung by the lame and flabby dialogue and anemic character development.  I know that listening to these characters speak is supposed to stand out from the melodramatic lines of Betty's soap opera, but sadly they don't in any memorable way.  Your average car commercial has punchier, more memorable dialogue.Furthermore, the enormously charismatic Morgan Freeman is terribly miscast as a hitman; the hilarious Chris Rock is miscast as a psychotic straight man.  Sadly, Zellweger was a perfect casting decision--her performance was a dead-on portrayal of her bland character.  Watching her in this role is about as satisfying as eating a supermarket sheet cake with the frosting inscription, Delicious Cake!.This movie doesn't walk a line between disturbing and funny; thanks to the poor script, it comes out somewhere between barely watchable and amateurish. If you want to see a movie masterfully blend these two, rush out and see something by the Coen brothers like Miller's Crossing.Perhaps the only indirect enjoyment I got from this movie was reading reviews that try to deconstruct the movie as if it were a complex mixture of thematic and emotional layers, when it's little more than a bad freshman effort.  Perhaps this is a by-product of the hobbled script--people want to find some meaning in the characters' actions, and there are none available from the screenplay. "},{"Title":"What a stinker! How'd this movie ever make it at the box office?","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Nurse Betty is perhaps the worst movie I've seen in 10 years.  We nearly turned it off after half an hour, but  were curious if it redeemed itself later in the film.. The opening brutality, totally unnecessary, when Betty's husband was murdered was perhaps the most unique part of the film.  But the answer was no, Nurse Betty was a confused, ill conceived waste of a DVD .  It would have helped if it had been funny, but there was nothing much funny about it.  Sad, what passes for entertainment these days. "},{"Title":"Not a comedy, and not really worth your while","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILERS* I rented this movie actually because of the actors.  Zellwiger has a good acting range and I thought it would be neat to see her in a Funny show.  The hit team of Freeman and Rock also looked promising.  Only one problem- the show is not funny in the least. I'm not insulting Rock, as he is only an actor, but he played this role with an unneeded amount of exceptionally deep bitterness, more than any other film he's played in.  Also, in this film he plays a true pyschopath, with no humor at all, unless you consider slicing the flesh of a man's head hilarious(which some writers probably did!). The fact that the husband was a jerk, adulterer, and trying to out screw the mob does not take away the horror of this scene.  However, it seems that the writers thought it would be okay to off a jerk.   The rest of the story tries to play like a Romantic Comedy, and to even watch it you have to suspend all belief in reality for a hour or so1. Betty saving the kid's life with detailed procedure.  Even if she took a couple of classes she couldn't have learned or remembered this.2.  The roommate who never heard of the actor's character before she met Betty all of a sudden gets tickets to see the actor in person.3.  The actor (Kinnear) isn't the least upset about a fan's over-obsession with him, in fact he feeds her obsession.  4. Instead of suing the company for taking advantage of her, she accepts a bit part in the show.5. Betty is so far away from reality that she believes she's a character, but in a second(on the TV show's set) she comes back to reality. No counseling, or treatment.  The ending is not sad or happy, but just there. Do yourself a favor and don't waste your time with this one.   "}{"Title":"If you're into this sort of thing....","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes I know Nurse Betty is supposed to be a dark humored comedy, and accepting that still doesn't make parts of this any easier to sit through.  The violence, in my opinion, overshoots the comedy early in the film.  No matter how light hearted the conversation is afterward, seeing somebody have the scalp removed from their skull just isn't all that giggle-inducing.Also, this film strays dangerously close to the line I like to draw around making fun of the mentally ill.  Now once again, I know that the bizarre mental traits exhibited by some of the characters is a tool to drive the plot along.  However, parading a person with mental problems through a series of abusive, confrontational, and even dangerous situations so we can laugh at the results just isn't funny to me.  What not kick a wheelchair-bound person down a long flight of steps.  I'm sure someone will find that funny too.All in all the performances we're bad at all, I just think the actors had less than the best to work with. "},{"Title":"Grotesque Hybrid of Comedy and Crime","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  No wonder this feature won no award nominations from the Academy - it's an ultraviolent drama masking as a comedy, despite good performances. The conservative Academy rarely takes to this type of film. From the marketing standpoint, it looks like a comedy but don't be fooled there's a hideous plot development within the first 20 minutes that will shock and horrify you (Now you'll definitely want to see it!). There's a plot contrivance of waitress Renee Zellweger first somehow becoming a nurse assistant, then befriending a her idol soap opera star (Greg Kinnear), which nowadays is completely unheard of, with all the psychotic stalkers among celebrities. Morgan Freeman's motives are unconvincing, while Chris Rock is whiney and vicious. Skip it. "},{"Title":"Horrible Movie","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can honestly say that this is the most horrible movie that I have ever seen, and I don't consider myself to be too picky when it comes to movies.  There was nothing funny or entertaining about it.  I was ready to walk out 1/2 way through, but the people that I was with said, It has to get better, it can't get any worse!  They were wrong!! "},{"Title":"If this were a soap, it would be called  Searching For Laughs","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented Nurse Betty last night thinking it would be a hands-down winner given the rating it received from movie critics.Did they see a different film than I did?If this film were a soap opera like the one it depicted, it would be called, Searching for Laughs. I tried, and found very few.Worse than the lack of laughs, the Pulp Fiction rip-off in this film made the whole sub-plot totally ludicrous.Morgan Freeman as a kindly, old hitman who falls in love with Zellweger's Betty? Give me a break! What kind of sentimental character calmly watches his foul-mouthed, maniac of a son pistol-whip his victims?Speaking of whom, choosing Chris Rock for this role was worse than anything Freddy Got Fingered could muster. Take away his incessant F words, and he would have said less than Arnold in Terminator I.Showing him scalp a guy was real fresh for a comedy, too. Makes the chipper in Fargo look tame. At that point,  I should have popped the DVD out and demanded my money back from Blockbuster.The main story might have been good if the director and writer together had half a brain and kept in on track. But it wandered all over the screen just as Nurse Betty and her wacky band of hitmen did across America.Kudos to Ms. Zellweger for a fine performance in an otherwise dog of a supposed hit movie. Greg Kinnear did his best, too, given what limited range he had in this script.How was it that everybody all over the whole world watched Searching for love, EXCEPT for every member of the Hispanic family who took Betty into their home?There were many other inconsistencies, but they pale in light of the predicably lame ending. After watching this mess, I wish I had done as Freeman's character did in the movie and ended it all before the final credits.  "},{"Title":"Ruined By Chris Rock","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love Renee, Morgan Freeman and Greg Kinear. But I really hope they make wiser decisions in participating in a movie with vile creatures like Chris Rock. I have nothing against black comedians you use language and demeaning, degrading remarks as there only way to get a laugh. But Chris Rock has ruined many potentially good movies because he is just an obnoxious punk. Richard Pryor was great, as was Red Fox or Eddie Murphy and so many others. But whoever decided that Chris Rock is funny must be ill. He can't play a part without useing severely foul and offensive language. I am no angel and swear myself, but I have enough respect for others not to degrade people for laughs by calling them names likes cu*ts, etc. etc. And I am speaking out to tell Hollywood there are hundreds of really funny comedians that don't need obscenity to get us to laugh! I hope others users speak out and follow my sentiments. This movie is ok but ruined by Chris Rock. I'd give it a zero if it was an option.  "},{"Title":"A mess","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't think anyone knew what this film was supposed to be from its inception.  Comedy?  Drama?  Woman finding herself film?  It's all and none.  Too violent to be light, female lead is too screwed up to be empathetic...it's just a mess.  Two hours of your precious life are better spent pulling weeds or cleaning the earwax out of your phone receiver.  Avoid. "},{"Title":"one movie, several different worlds","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nurse Betty is a little hard to classify. Telling the story of mentally unstable waitress Betty Sizemore (Renee Zellweger), who leaves her Midwestern town for LA, hoping to meet a soap opera character (Greg Kinnear, and I do mean that she wants to meet the character, not the actor), the movie seems to be several different types of movies all in one. While Betty is mousy and resigned, there's also two men chasing her hard-ass Charlie (Morgan Freeman) and goofy Wesley (Chris Rock). Naturally, there's the obvious fact that these two aren't exactly compatible, but that might bring up the question of how much that relates to the actual plot line.The truth is, I don't know whether or not they were trying to make any kind of point with this movie. Maybe it was about the trouble that some people have distinguishing reality from fiction, or perhaps they just made it for fun. I'm not sure. But I thought that it was worth seeing. I have to admit that I haven't seen any of Neil LaBute's other movies. Fairly interesting. Also starring Aaron Eckhart, Crispin Glover and Allison Janney. "},{"Title":"Interesting with plenty of good stuff but also a bit difficult to get into and a touch unsatisfying when it's all said and done","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Betty Sizemore is a small-town girl working as a waitress but with dreams of being a nurse and helping people like her hero and former fiancé Dr David Ravell. When her abusive and white-trash husband is murdered by hit men looking for stolen goods, Betty takes off to kick start her life and follow her dreams of marrying Dr Ravell and getting her dream job in a hospital by his side. When the hit men realize a witness has fled, they give chase to try and find her. The one problem is that Dr David Ravell, despite Betty's insistence that he is real, is actually a character on a daytime TV drama played by actor George McCord.Although it took me almost 4 years to finally get around to seeing this film, I kept meaning to on the basis that Neil LaBute's other films have been interesting. Bleak, but still interesting. Without an easy pigeon hole to put this film in it is not an easy view because you're never sure what it is actually trying to do but, despite this it remains an interesting watch. Trying to mix violence and comedy is hardly anything new (especially involving hit men & banter) but this film has much more interesting stuff going on even if it doesn't totally work. The plot is pretty strange and seems to be about people who think they know people but don't, then it seems to be about people who are lost in a world of soaps in place of their own lives, and then &#150; well, I don't know to be honest; where LaBute's other films have been easily put into a box about being about this situation or these type of people, Nurse Betty isn't so simple and perhaps for that reason is a strange watch.The plot is OK but it matters less than the characters who we care about. This is pretty well done despite everything the characters are pretty well done with us feeling a lot of different things for them throughout the film.Betty is delusional for most of the film and I did get a bit tired of her and there didn't seem to be any more to learn after a while. Charlie and Wesley were more interesting but never really got out of sub-Pulp Fiction mode until late in the game. Outside of the leads every other character was really support and I didn't really see much past that level. Zellweger does OK as Betty and is quite convincing even if she isn't at ease with the character at times. Freeman is always assured and always a steady hand on a difficult film and so it is here; he adds layers to Charlie that could have been missed and his chemistry with Rock is effective even if the latter is just doing his usual stuff. LaBute regular Eckhart has a small role but quality is added in slightly bigger roles by Kinnear, Glover, Vince and Janney to good effect. All of them give good performances but, because I found it hard to really grasp their characters, I felt I missed a lot of what they were doing.Overall this is an interesting film because it has so much going on and tries to be so much at the same time. It has plenty to think about with each character but it never really comes together in a satisfying fashion. An interesting film then, and one that is worth a look but not a 100% successful one or one that is easily put into a category and, for that reason, might be one that annoys as many viewers as it wins over. Me &#150; I'm somewhere in the middle. "},{"Title":"Nurse Betty doesn't qualify for me","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film ain't so good and I would have explained my reasons for stating that opinion in more detail, only I was two thirds into what was quite a substantial review when the words I had written disappeared from the page. So, understandably I can neither remember what I had written, nor care to remember as I am extremely annoyed and tired so instead I will just have to leave a brief summary as to why this film wasn't for me.The acting - great, I can't fault it, all the main actors/actresses do their job well.The dialogue - Again, no fault, it's well written.The story itself - self indulgent, whimsical, dull and most of all very unrealistic. Plus, it can't seem to decide whether or not it's a Comedy/Romance/Thriller or an amalgamation of all three - which if this is the case it simply doesn't work well as all three.The film - not thrilling (contrary to how the film was billed), unfunny and most of all statically directed. To conclude, this film is watchable, so don't be too put off and as I have mentioned there are some good points to take into consideration, but all in all I found it less than charming and boring. "},{"Title":"Nurses; assassins; fake cheesy serials and by the end of it all, you expect men in white coats.","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I suppose when one views Nurse Betty, one should be rather sceptical over whether or not one believes if these events or if these sorts of people could actually exist. The film is not of a large scale nature, it doesn't rely on gimmicks or special effects to get across the world in which it is set and nor does it ever want to get across an impression like that. In fact if anything, everything is shot very much on ground level and kept very simplistic on a visual and storytelling level. So why is it the film threatens to creep into a realm of the un-real when it has its protagonist and character of the title Betty (Zellweger) come across as an outgoing and perhaps overly confident woman and yet has her retain certain qualities that would see her in the real world carted off to an asylum? The joke Nurse Betty has flowing through it throughout is that small town girl, partner of a used car salesman, diner waitress Betty thinks that a fictional television series programme revolving around a hospital melodrama is actually real. The characters and the situations and events that transpire in their fictional lives are soaked up by Betty, whose relationship with her partner played by Aaron Eckhart does not seem so disconnected that she comes home each day and locks herself away, eating her way through hours and hours of episodes; soaking up everything and believing it's real. But that's what she does; her relationships with real people around her seem healthy she talks and discusses things with her partner Del Sizemore in a friendly manner over dinner; such things like if ten pin bowling should be an Olympic sport.He cheats on her at work and comes across as someone relatively unkind but there is no domestic problem &#150; would a violent domestic episode aided in prolonging Betty's wish to escape her life and hide amongst a fictional televised one? I think so. Additionally, Betty comes across as a cheery and outgoing girl at work and knows people in the neighbourhood; it seems she has some sort of network, indeed some sort of life given a friend she was due to go to a concert of some sort with a friend the night the initial incident occurs.Yet Betty gets so involved and we are supposed to believe that she genuinely thinks this television serial is real that it's all too much for her. The film carries a gritty and realistic of sorts feel but I just didn't feel that Betty could ever be as crazy as she is. Indeed, a better set up involving darker and nastier themes and incidences would've worked better in persuading me. Have her partner hit her; establish she has no friends and then make the television programme the only bright spot in her existence as she comes home; evades her husband and locks herself away, pouring over all these tapes and episodes.So the film is really a study of how individuals can get obsessed over certain texts. Betty is so obsessed with the show, she thinks it's real and goes to hunt the cast down with the other equilibrium revolving around Charlie (Freeman) and his gradual obsession over Betty herself through another type of text, a photograph of someone he's never met but must track down due to her oblivious owning of criminal related goods. Again, it's cute and somewhat funny in a surreal way but do we ever believe it? If not, can we really enjoy the events that are transpiring if the film does not 'feel' as if it is adopting an aesthetic of escapism? Like I said, Betty is in ownership of things she does not know of and the film is a tale of two men, Charlie and Wesley (Rock), attempting to track it/her down. The character study actually works pretty well. The buddy combination of Rock and Freeman works thanks to good dialogue for Rock's character and his loud mouth routine fits the often inane ramblings of a young gangster desperate to get the job done. Betty comes across as a somewhat independent woman in a backwater world dominated by men and we get the feeling that while she may not be a feminist of sorts, she makes her own decisions and if crossing the country looking for someone who doesn't really exist is what she must do, then away she goes.But the drag for Nurse Betty is its middle chapter with the final third coming off the rails completely in the sense it all boils down to odd events in one location with all the characters coming together. But we don't really care, because by then we want a bit of stupidity following the iffy second sector when it's established Betty is right on that brink between crazy and 'special' (if you know what I mean). The film juxtaposes its laughs with fake, cheesy soap scenes and scalpings as well as binary opposing its assassins old/young; healthy/dietless; experienced/newbie. The film feels like Last Action Hero only without the golden ticket as we watch a film about someone who thinks another piece of visual text is true. While not particularly great, Nurse Betty evokes the odd laugh and is a minor pleasure merely for the sheer bizarreness of it all. "}{"Title":"Unique blend of light comedy, fantasy and crime story mixed well in this flawed but entertaining movie.","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sweet hearted waitress by the name of Betty Sizemore (Oscar-WinnerRenée Zellweger) never misses an episode of her favorite soap opera show titled A Reason to Live. Betty saw her sleazy husband (Aaron Eckhard) murder by two hit-men (Oscar-WinnerMorgan Freeman and Chris Rock). Betty's mind has been altered and leaves for a road trip to find Dr. David Ravell (Greh Kinnear). Her favorite character from her favorite show, since she lives in a fantasy world thanks from post-traumatic stress.Directed by Neil LaBute (In the Company of Men, Possession, The Wicker Man 2006) made an amusing comedy with plenty of surprises and sharp performances by the cast. This wasn't success at the box office but it become a cult film on video.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an fine Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has two running commentary track, commentary one is the director and crew. Commentary two is by the filmmakers. DVD also includesdeleted scenes, original theatrical trailer and more. Don't miss this genuinely darkly funny film. Original, offbeat script by John C. Richards and James Flamberg. Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"A Comedy?","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought this movie was supposed to be funny, so I rented it with my wife. After 20 minutes I asked if she wanted to bail. She wanted to hang in there because she was certain something interesting was going to happen. I ended up bailing near the end. She hung in there out of morbid curiosity.This was by no means a comedy. There are about 5 chuckles and no real laughs in the whole film. I feel sorry for some of the characters, but found them all unlikeable or unidentifiable. There is more violence than jokes.The story itself was hugely unrealistic, which for a funny comedy is usually OK. In this movie, it left us saying, that would never happen, or they expect us to believe that?.I should have known when I saw Chris Rock and Greg Kinnear in the film. Neither one has been in a good movie. I'm well aware Greg Kinnear was in As Good as it gets. I stand by my statement. "},{"Title":"Randy described eternity..","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nurse Betty has a wacky enough plot to guarantee an interesting watch. A (soap-opera addict) waitress becomes delusional after witnessing her husband's death. Thereafter her daily life gets half-reality/half soap-opera fiction. Meanwhile, the murderers of her husband are after her, and one of them gets a crush on her. The waitress travels to LA, where she meets one of the soap-opera protagonists. Various wicked situations emerge. In the end, the waitress is cured, she gets a part in the soap, and also realizes her dream of becoming a nurse.The film is packed with interesting features, which mostly come in presenting humans for the miserable little creatures they are. The waitress is lonely, her husband is cheating on her and is a crook, one of the murderers is ruthlessly cynical, the other half-insane, the actors of the soap-opera are superficial egoists etc. Basically this is a black comedy, but also various sub-genres pop up. The scene where they kill her husband is almost horror, near the ending it gets into thriller/action territory, but also there's too much Hollywood melodrama. In fact the ending, while it's supposed to be clever (the waitress travels to Europe, a dream come true, only to meet the same people addicted to soap operas etc), it's sentimental nature makes it look like a compromise.This is the downfall of the film, that about half it is dangerously close to the soap operas it's supposed to criticize. Actually when you think of it, it's 2 minor scenes that stand out. One where one of the murderers ponders on God also being a murderer, and another where (black) Morgan Freeman dreams of kissing the white blonde waitress (when interracial love affairs are largely a no-no, even these days). These 2 scenes have a bigger impact than the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"Few flowers in the dirt","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nurse Betty is very difficult movie to comprehend. There is really no idea to which genre this ought to belong. It is too violent and sad for a comedy and too incredible for a drama or thriller. Fine actors do not save the time you have wasted for it. There is too much sugar and salt mixed that you must have a very selective taste to enjoy this one.There are however several good bits in it. Renée Zellweger shows what she's really made of and Morgan Freeman offers paternal presence. Here and there are bits that can make you laugh and that soup opera that Betty watches is an unique item. The female actress in the soup (Elizabeth Mitchell) is very good and even stunningly beautiful. The bad bits then are real bad. I could have enjoyed the film more had the violent situations made with more elegance. There is no trace of Hitchcock's masterly treatment of horror, because everything is shown raw, which is more disgusting than horrifying. Just little more editing and even I could have liked it more. Another annoying thing is is the artificial way Betty's husband is painted black - he's not decent husband and he is made to have sex with his secretary and therefore Freeman can kill him easily for cause. "},{"Title":"A pastiche of other movies.","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a good movie, but I was expecting a bit more. The performances are excellent, but the movie itself seems to be a catalog of clichés from other hit-man, memory-impaired protagonist, ill-directed love movies. They're all there...the soft-hearted hit-man choosing to go out with personal honor, the TV/movie fan who comes to discover that her heart-throb is less than perfect in real life, the bad guys who are able to find their victim with only a little effort and amazing luck, the heroines's discovery that she doesn't really need anyone else since she is now a strong person, and the unrealistic fulfillment of secret wishes.Some reviewers have commented on the originality of the script, but I did not find much at all that was any sort of surprise. In fact, I found the movie to be quite predictable. Fortunately, Zellweger is great in her role, as are Kinnear and the rest of the cats. This alone saves the movie from mediocrity.*** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Rubbish is never cheap enough","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The premise intrigued me, so I indulged this film when it became available at a cheap price point on DVD. I now realise that sometimes there is no price point cheap enough for a film and Nurse Betty is one of those films. Oh, don't get me wrong - I am not knocking the actors who mostly did a fair fist of things overall but they really were not given anything much to work with here. This just drags, big time. Not remotely funny, just appallingly pathetic mostly with some odd casting choices. Not the least of those being Chris Rock, whose seeming inability to actually act and provide any sort of characterization other than his loud mouth schtick really is getting quite tiresome, and really drags the film down even further. Morgan Freeman is a great actor but deserves better than this. Overall a waste of time that might have got 5/10 if Chris Rock was not cast but as it is barely gets 4/10. Eminently avoidable. "},{"Title":"Objectify Women","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Betty, played by Renée Zellweger, is a waitress who witnesses her husband get killed by two criminals, while she stays in her room and watches her favorite TV show, a soap opera.  Instead of dealing with his death, like a rational human being would, she dissociates with the real world.  Betty begins to live in this fantasy world in which she believes that she is an ex-girlfriend of Dr. David Ravell, played by Greg Kinnear, who is a character on her favorite soap opera.  Betty truly believes that they are meant to be together and that this soap opera is truly his and her real life. In the movie, Betty is perceived by each character differently. Morgan Freeman, who plays Charlie, also lives in a fantasy world.  He becomes obsessed with Betty and falls in love with her, even though he is chasing her because she witnessed that he killed her husband and because she must be driving the car which has the drugs in it which her husband stole.  He has never met Betty, but is fixated with her picture.  All of the other characters only have a partial view of Nurse Betty's life, but as the viewer, you have a panopticon view, you are informed from all of the different character's perspectives. Betty never has an overall defining character.  She is, as John Berger would say `surveyed' by the men around her.  Betty is the surveyed and the men in her life are the surveyors.  Betty bases her life around the men in her life.  Her first deadbeat of a husband did not care much for Betty and shows her no affection.  Betty gave up her dream of becoming a nurse just to marry her husband.  Charlie is simply in love with her picture, he knows nothing about what she is really like or what her personality is.  Dr. Ravell thought Betty was a great actress because she knew everything about the soap, and acted it out well.  He did not realize until later that Betty really thought she was part of the soap opera and that she thought it was real life.   He liked her until he found this out, and once he did he treated her like a piece of trash, and did not bother to try and help her. Betty chooses a soap opera to become absorbed in because a soap opera is never ending, there are no conclusions, and there are endless possibilities. She would never have to face the murder of her husband.This film was not realistic, hardly entertaining due to its complete lack of veracity.  If anything, this film objectifies women.  A woman gave up her career for a man and a woman can be completely lacking in mental capability to be completely consumed by a soap opera.  Her dream career itself, a nurse, is a career associated with women.  This is just another bad movie that plays on the stereotypes of women as well as promotes the commodification of women.  "},{"Title":"Comedy meets Mean Man Movie","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I heard this was a comedy, I went to the movie theater and did not laugh.  In fact, I seriously thought about leaving before I became anymore sick of what I was watching.  It was almost like the makers were trying to grab every audience in existence.  Some super mean violence, some dark humor, some really good make-ya-feel-good scenes.  This was about as funny as a two by four up the side of my head.  I thought the acting was just fine but the script was just really, REALLY BAD.  The ending was fine but please, the beginning just about killed me.  Greg Kinnear does a wonderful job being as shallow as all get out. Renee is fantastic but some movies should not be made, this is one of them. 2/10 "},{"Title":"No way is this Neil Labute's best work but thanks to the fine performances, it's a semi-hoot","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty is an enigma among Neil Labute's body of work but it's a fine movie because of the performances, especially the ones given by Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman, and Chris Rock. They make this weird and engrossing road movie into a strange and deprave look at obsession, and popular culture. Considering Labute past work, this is no way as profound or as powerful as In the Company of Men and The Shape of Things but it's miles better than his lackluster love epic Possession.  "},{"Title":"An almost hit!","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renee Zellweger and Morgan Freeman do what they can with a good story that is in its production demeaned and almost destroyed by Hollywood's penchant for vulgar language and extreme violence.  Chris Rock is typically tedious and should remain in standup comedy for his particular audience.  Here, he detracts and lends nothing to this production.  In the overwhelming number of feature films tiresome profanity and extreme violence are conceits of emotionally immature writers and directors who often lean on them to create impact instead of real craft choices. This use is almost always completely unnecessary and always reduces the product's legs.   The late Harry Chang, a friend and one time feature film broadcast preparation editor for ABC-TV Network once took out over 400 instances of such vulgar language out of PLATOON and the ensuing product did not suffer one iota despite the fact that the enlisted military often use them.  He also removed extreme scenes such as the Arnold Schwartzenegger character in TOTAL RECALL grabbing a totally innocent man on an escalator to use him as a shield against bullets.  This piece of business degraded the character and alienated audiences so one wonders why it was originally used.NURSE BETTY comes close to being a comedy classic and perhaps would have under abler direction.  As such, the choice of it as a good rental for Saturday night depends on your own level of patience and/or taste.  That said, Zellweger is the always-adorable professional and Freeman is, as always, at the top of his craft. "}{"Title":"Warning Do Not See This Movie!","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen!  The violence is disgusting and the plotline is very weak.  The advertisements made this look like a fun, light-hearted romantic comedy but it is far from this.  This film attempts to be a black comedy, but is not funny at all (a chuckled only about three times throughout the movie) and is more of a drama.  Take out the violence and cussing from this movie and you are left with a pile of pointless, boring fluff. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing, but...","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is generally worth seeing. However, it could have been a really cute movie if not for the abundance of violence and foul language.  When will film makers learn that there is no need for graphic violence, especially in what is intended to be a comedy. As a result, Nurse Betty was just average stuff, which could have been better. "},{"Title":"Not so cute.  ****MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!********","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renee' Zellweger is very charming in this role, and it surprised me that she received a Golden Globe. I think that she deserved it, but I was perplexed that this film was even considered due to it's gruesome content. After 15 minutes into it, I could see that this was too gory to be considered light and cute. Watching a man being scalped was just gross, and I know that it was make-believe, but I could not generate any sympathy for Morgan Freeman's or Chris Rock's characters afterwards. Were they supposed to be likable like Butch & Sundance? I just kept watching thinking that the movie wouldn't get any worse. It wasn't, but it almost seemed like two different movies. My guess is that Neil La Bute felt that he just had to put an unsettling/disturbing/violent image in there because he wants to keep his reputation as an edgy filmmaker(even though the murder could of been toned down like in Married to the Mob). But then I guess it would just be another movie if he did that. I see this title a lot in the video store and I just wonder if there are actually people that really liked this. Zellweger and Freeman are exceptional actors and I'm glad to see they have made latter films that are within their realm. I just hope that they don't try to combine gratuitous violence with comedy. The result is a rattlesnake in your hot-tub.   "},{"Title":"Major letdown from LaBute.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a big fan of Neil LaBute's first two movies I eagerly looked forward to see what he would come up with this time round. 'Nurse Betty' is a profound disappointment, and obviously not in the same league as his previous movies. Why LaBute would choose to direct such a bland, mundane script as this when he can write much more inspired and original ones himself is a complete mystery. This movie takes a paper thin premise and goes absolutely nowhere with it. Zellweger and Kinnear are two of the dullest stars currently working in Hollywood, and Freeman and Rock are two actors I can't stand, so that, added to the boring plot, made this difficult going for me. By the end my only reaction was so what?. A complete waste of time this one. "},{"Title":"You probably have better things to do, as did the people who made it","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whoever said there are only really three different stories, or twelve, or however many it was, probably didn't even believe such rubbish himself - there are, as we all know full well, indefinitely many stories, and I think I can safely say that THIS particular story has never been told before.  Nor is it worth telling now.  I mean, really look at the synopsis soberly, and tell me what you see...Betty, a waitress addicted to daytime soaps, is married to a complete jerk.  One night, while she's hiding in her room secretly watching videotapes of her favourite show, her husband is murdered by two of his criminal associates - and she, rather than deal with the brutal crime, retreats into a fantasy world in which she is the old lover of Dr. David Ravell, one of the characters on the show.  She heads off to Los Angeles to find him.  The hitmen, meanwhile, chase HER, both because she's a witness and because they realise she must be in possession of the drugs her husband had stolen.  Then-There's a good deal more, but already I'm shifting in my seat and glancing at my watch.  This is one of those films that's ALL exposition, all setting up (competently presented, but neither funny nor moving nor exciting in itself) for a future payoff that never comes.  The most we get is a contrived scene in which the screenwriters pretend to unravel but in fact merely cut through the tangled knot they have so laboriously created, followed by a happy ending that cheers us a little not because it's apt but because it's about sodding time.To paraphrase Robert Green  This is not a film to be thrown away with great force.  It should be tossed aside lightly.  It may appeal to people who habitually mistake novelty for quality, especially those cinematic vivisectionists who watch films chiefly to take note of good performances (Renée Zellweger, Morgan Freeman), and are willing to overlook bad ones (Chris Rock, and EVERY male actor who plays someone from Betty's home town).  Zellweger IS charming.  The trouble (here and in Jerry Maguire) is that she isn't as charming as she's clearly trying to be, and would finally succeed in being in Bridget Jones's Diary.  Now THERE'S a film which, whatever else you may want to say about it, at least had a reason for being made. "},{"Title":"Meandering, boring pseudo indie","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***********************Some Minor Spoilers****************************Nurse Betty is the updated Chauncey Gardener from BEING THERE.  Her naive, childlike behavior is mistakenly considered brilliant and sophisticated by those around her.  Unfortunately while BEING THERE was a sharp, witty satire on our deluded society this film is nothing more than a derivative 'feel good' movie with a quirky pretenseContinues the modern trend like AMERICAN BEAUTY where there's no original idea so instead they twist around a lot of old ideas into different directions hoping that something interesting comes out of it.  It's like driving a car down one of those winding San Francisco streets only to have it crash at the end when it runs out of gas.We are supposed to fall in love with Betty and cheer when she overcomes her oppressors, but we can't because she just isn't real.  She is a composite of what the writer feels is a typical oppressed midwestern housewife and then sprinkles on a extra coating of sweetness.  Although played flawlessly by Zellweger, her character becomes just too vapid and Pollyanish.  You want to line up and shake and slap her like they did to the hysterical lady passenger on AIRPLANE.To tell you it has a happy ending should not be a spoiler at all.  You are pretty much hypnotically advised of this every ten minutes by it's annoying lullaby like background music.  It's like have a reassuring parent telling you that everything is going to be OK.The acting also runs the gamut.  Freeman is strong as usual, but Rock seems misplaced. It never really takes advantage of his energetic, streetwise humor (his funniest lines are all in the previews).  Cult actor Glover continues to shine in his own unique way while Kinnear continues to look like a deer in headlights.Everything director LaBute did right in IN THE COMPANY OF MEN he does wrong here. "},{"Title":"More Disturbing than Entertaining","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The premise of 'Nurse Betty' is this after witnessing the violent murder of her husband, an emotionally traumatized and seriously disturbed young woman drives 2,000 miles in a delusional state, tracking down the man she believes to be her ex-fiance, who is in fact a character on her favorite soap opera. Meanwhile her husband's killers are in hot pursuit of her, with the intent to murder her as well before she is able to identify them to the police. Does that sound like the makings of wacky hilarity?? Sorry, it didn't work for me. The Coen brothers may have been able to pull this off, but this is an unfunny situation rendered annoying by Chris Rock's ranting all the way through the movie. Renee Zellweger as Betty does an admirable job with some pretty sorry material--she remains innocent and appealing throughout this mess. That Greg Kinnear's character, when confronted with being the object of Betty's obsession, believes for over three days that she is auditioning for a role on his show and doesn't recognize her mental instability strains the belief system of even the most credulous viewer. Morgan Freeman has the best time of it in this film--his character is interesting, inasmuch as he begins to fall in love with the woman he has set out to kill. WARNING The murder of Betty's husband at the beginning of the film is pretty gruesome and, in my opinion, gratuitously violent. SPOILER I actually felt like cheering when Chris Rock was shot to death at the end of the movie. If bad acting were a capital offense, Chris Rock would be on death row. "},{"Title":"How great is this movie?","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well just when you think you've seen them all..comes this original, unique and fascinating movie. I am in awe of all the talent shown by all the actors and the writer and the director. I am speechless! A nearly perfect movie. I don't even like Renee!I really mean it.  This movie means a lot to me right now. Not for everyone, but boy does it feel good to love a movie so much.A screen heroine in the truest sense, Renee does not make one single false move, a monumental task in a role like Betty.  Glad she got a Golden Globe for her efforts. Just incredible.   "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although this film teams Morgan Freeman up with Chris Rock, Rock appears to be the mature person in their relationship. Freeman, unconvincingly, seems to be infatuated with Renee Zellwenger (Nurse Betty), and needs Chris Rock to knock him back into shape. Although an interracial alliance between Freeman and Zellwenger was not necessary, the conecpt of an interracial alliance in this story worked well for marketing reasons. "},{"Title":"BRUTAL! 4/10","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the last film in our local video store and I was still reluctant to rent it. I am not a big fan of Rene. The only clincher was Greg Kinnear. He's always good. This movie was so boring! The story was so thin you could see through it from the beginning. If this was dark comedy, I think the producers should re-review Heathers. DO NOT rent this movie. Get Cable Guy instead.**SPOILER**What if Rene just went balistic and started destroying the hospital set and punched Greg Kinnear in the nose and ran off with her new room-mate (the girl)? Better ending?? I'm just throwing ideas out there... "}{"Title":"Surreal, but nice.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The fact that many of the scenes in this film can both be played as a comedic sequence and a simultaneously dramatic one speaks volume about Neil La Bute's direction, the superb screenplay and most importantly, the sheer force of Renee Zellweger's performance as 'Nurse Betty'.Truly appreciated Renee's subtle portrayal of the lead character(lesser actors would have succumbed to playing the role with laughable self-parody and white trashy overacting). Infact, this film would not have worked if not for her piercing personality and strong conviction to play the character straight. This in turn amplified the film's satiric edge and overall emotional impact. Renee Zellweger is truly one of the most fascinating yet sadly under-rated actress around. Notwithstanding the Oscars' idiocy for ignoring her(and of course Bjork too, for an even more amazing turn in Dancer in the dark), this sure was one of the most unforgettably show stopping performances of 2000.  Hopefully, this drought of attention will end with her recent Golden Globe win for this role and her possible star making turn in the better received 'Bridget Jones Diaries'. Overall, I am intrigued by this film. I marvelled at the tapestry of simultaneous emotional shifts its plot can possibly(or impossibly for that matter) allow and I am moved by its tender and sensitive treatment of the lead character's predicament. My respect all round too for the director's perceptive understanding and surprising empathy for the very people he parodied. The people(much like you and me) who are struggling with the ordinariness of their empty lives, with an inate longing for something more than what their mundane existence can throw up. This a standout film which attempts to marry surrealism with poignancy and its prescription of antidotal escapism is admirable, to say the least.Definite ranks as one of my favourite quirky delights of 2000.   "},{"Title":"an original dark comedy","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I hid my eyes during the very violent scene at the beginning, but I do think it was necessary in order to understand the trauma of the beguiling Nurse Betty.  The title indicates who this film is about. Nurse Betty weaves her innocent spell with grace and poise to quote Charlie.  Everyone is drawn in, except Wesley (Chris Rock) who did a great job trying counteract her charms.  Morgan Freeman contributes his customary dignity and elegance to this character driven comedy.  10/10 for original characters and loads of fun. "},{"Title":"Delightfully unexpected, and unexpectedly delightful.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is held together by Renée Zellweger's overwhelming cuteness. Among other things.It's a movie that jumps between offbeat loony fun and gunplay and death, often without success. You could call it a dark comedy, except the comedy is light, and the dark is just...dark. The death isn't actually funny, and I don't know whether it was supposed to be, with how gruesome (and at one point, tragic) it is.And that is just about the only problem I had with the movie. It's very funny, and, by God, it's intelligent, inspired humor, something Tom Green just wouldn't understand. And it also tackles the idea of reality not measuring up to the dream.Zellweger is a big fan of a *General Hospital*-esque soap opera, and is like, *totally* in love with the main character. Except when she experiences a bit of trauma, she goes a bit nuts and actually *does* fall in love with him, and goes after him. Meanwhile, Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock are after her for a reason you shall discover if you are smart enough to listen to me and watch the movie. Chris Rock is great, funny...and violent. Performances great across the board. Music deliciously sappy when needed, since a lot of the movie is soap opera parody.So see *Nurse Betty*. It's delightfully unexpected, and unexpectedly delightful. "},{"Title":"Novel, entertaining film, but only for those not easily offended by foul language and graphic killings.","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  CAUTION -- MAY CONTAIN SOME SPOILERS --I really didn't know much about the plot of Nurse Betty when we watched it on DVD last night. DVD was, BTW, well-done and included several deleted scenes plus nine episodes of the fictional soap opera Reason to Love. But the DD 5.1 sound has very little in the LFE or the rear channels. Renee Zellweger plays a simple, trusting housewife with a lousy, thieving, cheating car salesman of a husband, Morgan Freeman is a professional about to retire, and is training his son, played by Chris Rock. Greg Kinnear plays the actor who is a doctor on the soap opera, and Crispin Glover plays a reporter in their small Kansas town. Betty, works as a waitress, is thoroughly enchanted by the TV soap, A Reason to Love, and thinks of the characters as real people.Husband has somehow come into possession of a trunkful of drugs, and the two professionals show up to get it back for their client. They are in his house, don't know Betty is in the next room watching her favorite TV show, things get out of hand, son scalps husband, who goes beserk, so the dad is forced to shoot and kill him. Betty witnesses all this through a crack in the door and the shock of it all makes her temporarily insane. (Zellweger discusses this on the DVD commentary track, and says it is a genuine medical condition, but she did not name it.)Betty writes a note to her dead husband, explaining why she is leaving him, and takes the car to California to look up the character Kinnear plays on the TV soap opera. She in this temporary insanity really believes he is a real person and that she was engaged to him 6 years ago, and she wants to find him and reconcile. When she finally meets him, and his production staff, at an L.A. publicity party, she talks to them about all the characters and scripts as if they were real. Kinnear and others just think she is a terrific actor staying in character so they try to write her into the TV series.Meanwhile, the two professionals don't have the drugs and gradually follow Betty's trail all the way to L.A.  Turns out the drugs are in the trunk of the car Betty took, although she has no idea.The scene where Betty is first put into the TV show is a disaster, because to her the TV series is reality and she is confused by the situation and the fact that everyone calls her doctor George which is his real name. The good guys and the bad guys, including the small town sheriff and reporter, all end up in the apartment Betty is sharing, a shootout ensues, the bad guys get snuffed. Betty snaps out of her temporary insanity through that trauma, realizes her husband is dead, fully realizes again that the TV show was not reality, and drives back to Kansas.Yet, Kinnear looks her up, convinces her to become a regular on the TV show, which she does. A scripted comment at the end, in Rome, says she participated in 63 episodes and earned enough to take a trip to The real Europe and finish her training as a nurse.This was the writer's first film, and I think it shows. While the beginning and the middle of the movie are well-written and compelling, the last 20 minutes or so are not up to that standard. As often happens, an author with a great idea for a story doesn't quite know how to pull it all together and end it, and that is how I feel about this one. Still, it is good etertainment and I rate it 7 of 10, and could easily have been an 8 or 9 with a bit tighter scripting.Also, this movie contains something which has become a personal gripe of mine.  Chris Rock is a good actor, but his character is too much like his R-rated comedic persona. Sure, he is a bad guy, but after a while I become very tired of constant use of the F-word. In contrast, it was used sparingly and to enhance the story in Billy Elliot, but in Nurse Betty, which really is a dark comedy, I think it becomes a serious detraction for serious viewers.Also, the director and film editor felt srongly that the violence perpetrated by the two professionals had to be shown to properly set the mood of this film. I disagree. The casual way film-makers show shootings, scalpings, and the such just add another straw to the wagon of devaluation of life.  They could have done this in a much more tasteful manner. Sadly, the morals of Hollywood film-making continues its downward slide, and they all seem to feed off each other.Those are my comments, and I am sticking to them!! "},{"Title":"Flatlines 10 minutes into screen time and never blips to life again.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Neil LaBute's first film, In the Company of Men, was a disturbing yet original and provocative view of masculine behavior at its worst. His second film, Your Friends and Neighbors, branched out to encompass both genders in a dreary view of sexual infidelity and human amorality. The film was distasteful, unlikeable, and not particularly coherent, but one could still admire its riskiness and uncompromisingly indy-film aesthetic. Nurse Betty was obviously a much bigger budgeted project, including a star package of the suddenly (and unfathomably) ubiquitous Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman, Greg Kinnear, and Chris Rock. Unfortunately, LaBute's third feature has neither the integrity of his earlier work, nor the darkly humorous quirkiness that he was evidently striving for.While plausibility is not high on the list of virtues for offbeat comedy, the audience still has to buy the film's premise to some degree. But the plot in Nurse Betty is about as unconvincing as it gets. Perhaps the idea of post-trauma disassociation from reality would have worked a bit better if the pre-trauma Betty had not already been characterized as an airhead living in a TV dream world. Then, too, Renee Zellweger's sicky-sweet, utterly monotonous portrayal of Betty, while I suppose appropriate to the character, is so cloying and boring that cutaways to other characters come as a glorious release. On the other hand, one of these is a near-retirement professional gunman with a not-on-planet-earth and not in the least convincing dreaminess paralleling Betty's. The character is played by Morgan Freeman, a wonderful actor who is here almost embarrassingly miscast. The rest of the cast of would-be quirky characters is similarly bereft of humorous scenes and dialogue to enact. The only exception is Chris Rock, whose energy and presence turns even the most pedestrian moments in the script into at least passable comedy.For anyone interested in a masterful comic treatment of confusions between screened and lived reality, I'd recommend Woody Allen's The Purple Rose of Cairo. Nurse Betty flatlines 10 minutes into screen time and never blips to life again. "},{"Title":"I would have preferred Nurse Betty without Chris Rock","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was rather enjoying this movie until Chris Rock started mouthing off with his unbearable hi-pitched voice. Can't stand the foul language he seems to be allowed to use every time I've had the misfortune to catch him on screen. Using b*tch, c*nt and f*ck every other word does not heighten a dialog. After yet one of Mr Rocks tantrums I just wasn't able to get back in the mood of the movie.Thankfully Morgan Freeman participated. He's a great actor.Nurse Betty is no masterpiece. But if your in for a lazy afternoon this might be a flick to watch. "},{"Title":"Extreme","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bravo!Intelligent  . . . with extreme violence and extreme innocence, as it moves back and forth . . . Forrest Gump meets Pulp Fiction. The contrast creates a very effective film. Good and evil, false and true, love and hate, things we all hold within ourselves but fail to exhibit in such a manner.How can we know what is real  . . . Do we not create it all in our minds on the stage that is our life where we are the writer, director and actor?Renee Zellweger was so very good in this roll.  I enjoyed it very much.  "},{"Title":"empowering and enlightening","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an absolutely fantastic movie!! It is very clever and the ending is uplifting. Unlike Dorothy, her iconic equivalent, Betty may discover her wizard is not all he was cracked up to be, but she does not return to suffocating parochial isolationism ('there's no place like home') rather she gets out there and explores the world. The final shot of her as a jaunty, single, independent female being served by a man is v empowering - I can't wait to see Renee as Bridget!! "},{"Title":"Delightfully Different","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It starts out innocently enough with a lovely housewife who lives for the soaps on TV.  Then she sees her abusive husband brutally murdered. She forgets it completely and finds a new life for herself.  She s so sweet and helpless you want her life to come out OK and guess what it does. Morgan Freeman is exceptional in his role as the bad guy who falls in love with her.  That's enough for now with a surprise ending.  GO SEE!  "},{"Title":"very different from his other films","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this film didn't really do too much for me.  it was okay, but lacking the oomph of Labutes other films.  i am not the hugest fan of his other films - just not my cup of tea - but i think they were interesting, they stayed with me long after they were over.  nurse betty didn't really stay with me.  it has a few pretty funny bits and some good performances, but overall it was just okay. "}{"Title":"A good dark, yet sweet comedy","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is quite a film.  It is a film that may shock some, but in the end, you leave with a smile on your face.  The plot is nice, but it is mainly the performances that pull through.  Though Renee Zellwegger is always a treat, it's the acting with Morgan Freeman as Charlie and Chris Rock as Wesley who play hitmen who have to track down Betty (Zellwegger) after they find out she saw them scalp and kill her husband.  In this film, there is a parralel to the Charlie and Betty characters Betty wants Dr. Ravell (Greg Kinnear) and Charlie wants her.  It is quite sweet in a mix of dark mixes and brutal volence.  Which is cool.  Rock also gives his best performance yet here (mainly because he is giving an actual performance here with acting involved) as a hitman who tries to make a point every time he does something big (which upsets Charlie after he talks to him about scalping and Indians, when Wesley actually does it to a guy) and, like Betty, is a fan of Soap Operas.  Good film to see this month.  A- "},{"Title":"A fun night out.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a light hearted dark comedy that I throughly enjoyed, except that I don't know what  Chris Rock saying F---k every other word added to it. Renee Zellweger and Morgan Freeman were great as were all the supporting characters. "},{"Title":"A very bizarre movie.","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very bizarre.  It is sort of a so-called black comedy in the same way King of Comedy and U-turn were.  The acting is excellent; the story is okay.  There are several very violent scenes, particularly one horrifically violent scene near the beginning of the movie that kind of sickened me and ruined the mood of the rest of the movie for me, especially since I didn't expect it and thought the movie was going to be light fluff.  The movie made me smile at times, but it really never made me laugh.  I heard some people in the audience make statements near the end of the movie such as, This is stupid and Oh, come on.  Children should not be brought to this movie, as a few nitwits did where I was.  Besides the bloody violence and four-letter words, the movie depicts people and life as generally miserable; in fact, rather than cheering me up, which is why I went to see the movie in the first place, the movie actually left me feeling kind of depressed. "},{"Title":"A pretty good commercial film","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well another indie director goes Hollywood.  Neil LaBute after In the Company of Men and Your Friends and Neighbors, turns out a pretty good commercial comedy drama.  On those terms, it's good--but when you compare it to his earlier films, it's really depressing.  In the Company.. and Your Friends...  were depressing but fascinating films about men and women and their interactions.  This movie has no character development, tries too hard to be cute and quirky and (worst of all) has two hit men--one philisophical and one a violent, profane lunatic.  Gee, that's original!  The thing that makes the movie bearable is all the acting is good and some of the lines are hilarious.  So, if you go in expecting a typical Hollywood film, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Daffy screwball comedy; Zellweger is comic gold","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  NURSE BETTY (2000) ***1/2  Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman, Chris Rock, Greg Kinnear, Tia Texada, Crispin Glover, Pruitt Taylor Vince, Allison Janney, Aaron Eckhart, Sheila Kelley.  (Dir. Neil LaBute) Spoilers Alert!!! Renee Zellweger has that Shirley MacLaine quality about her which was so evident that when filmmaker Cameron Crowe was casting for `Jerry Maguire' (her 'overnight' success film) he was looking just for that specific spark in his Billy Wilderesque comedy.Since then she's been making a quiet successful career and her last outing in the wildly outrageous comedy `Me, Myself & Irene' this summer with her new beau Jim Carrey has proven herself to be a fine straight woman.  Here she makes the transition to smarter than she appears eponymous character with effortless ease.Zellweger plays Betty Sizemore, a sweet-natured waitress in Kansas who escapes her long-suffering marriage to the loutish used car salesman Del (Eckhartz) only through the one thing that acts as a balm to her inner turmoil the daily taping of her beloved soap opera `A Reason to Love' featuring her beloved `Dr. David Ravell' aka George McCord (Kinnear in one of his finest turns onscreen).  This is her only reason for living - even on her birthday when her co-workers chip in for her to take some nursing school courses and her piggy hubby devouring the cupcake they gave her to celebrate her special day - or so it would seem.Unbeknownst to Betty, Del has been up to no good by screwing his secretary (Kelley) and in the plot setting turn of events, hoarding a cache of drugs in one of the Buicks on his lot, which leads to his execution by impatient hitmen team Charlie and Wesley (Freeman and Rock making a uniquely casted team of unparalleled effortlessness).  Betty observes the murder from her den where she has been engrossed with the latest episode of her story and the shock of witnessing Del's rub out sends her into a fugue state of near amnesia where she takes on the assumed persona of `Nurse Betty' the ex-fiancee of Dr. Ravell.  Charlie and Wesley are unaware of her presence in the house and after they leave the scene of the crime, Betty takes to the road in the LaSabre with the drugs to LA to find her destiny, specifically Dr. Ravell.What results is a blackly funny satire on American dreams, the unrequited love of a fan and her idol, and several soul-searching treks through the human heart including Charlie who is thirsting for his retirement (naturally this is his last assignment) even if his apprentice Wesley is more hot-headed than professional.  When the duo find out about Betty being in the house and the job botched they trail her along the backroads to the Grand Canyon (where Charlie realizes he has fallen in love with this `Doris Day' an idealized angel he feels can redeem all the horror he has accomplished and witnessed) and finally to Lotus Land.Betty finds herself in Los Angeles and in her nurse's uniform goes to the hospital the soap opera is based on to find Ravell only to be turned away by the head nurse for lack of a resume and credentials.  On her leaving the hospital a scene of unexpected violence erupts in the emergency room parking lot with a gangbanger demanding medical attention to his injured homey. Betty in the middle hops in and saves his life whereby to show gratitude his girlfriend Rosa (Texada) takes Betty in and Betty gaining a job at the hospital to keep the fantasy alive.When Rosa discovers Betty is off her nut in a dreamworld she attempts to burst her bubble when her lawyer sister is given a pair of invitations to a charity event that Dr. Ravell/McCord will be attending. What follows is perhaps the film's signature scene of deftly handling satire and the unassuming presence of how method acting can be mistaken when Betty approaches McCord and proceeds to give her `life story' to the charming delight of his co-workers who think this is a brilliant way of auditioning for the show.  McCord is excited by this new presence of fresh air and is smitten as well insisting to writer/producer Lyla (the always welcome Janney) to allow him to direct Betty in a scene for her official audition. The film is highly original even if it incorporates some hoary characters (hitmen a la Tarantino, the soap opera tv set a la `Tootsie') and some derivations from sources as wide as `The King of Comedy' and `Being There' to even `Forrest Gump'.  But the merits are many especially the smartly, wryly written screenplay by John C. Richards and James Flamberg that balance the outrageously funny to the dreadfully serious and back again.  The characters are each unique and well-crafted with enough personality to go around in its stars.  Zellweger gives an incredibly honest, bare bones performance that should signal her as an actress of untapped talent to come.  Her Betty is a deer in the headlights but aware enough to swerve the oncoming traffic with an innate ability to deflect any obstacles in her attempt in finding her love.  Freeman gives an Oscar calibre performance in another of his grace through gravitas displays of such understated perfection you can feel the sadness in his hooded eyes and the weariness in attempting to finish his last job.  Rock holds his own and is the most adament in maintaining the reality of the situation even if he too is a fan of the soap opera.  Kinnear proves to be a natural leading man with sublime moments and actually causes the film to stop smiling when he blows up at Betty during the audition sequence that you really feel the beratement vitriol spewing. Credit the unlikely pairing of director LaBute (known for his darkly comic indie films `In the Company of Men' and `Your Friends and Neighbors' that were controversial and borderline misogynistic). Here he lets his actors do there thing but still pulling the film's leash here and there to remind the viewer that this isn't necessarily a real fairy tale come to life and that there are no guarantees to a happy ending. The film works as a satire of how the pop culture can overwhelm anyone to the point of nearly losing one's sanity but yet self-discovery of the most essential quality that Freeman sums up best in his final at-last meeting with Zellweger to paraphrase, you don't need anyone when you have yourself if you are a decent, loving human being.  Who could ask for more?  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen. Hands down.......","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the worst movies I have ever seen. Plot...........oh was there one? I must have missed it. These good actors should have read the script twice before signing on. The supposed combination of Comedy and drama was lost in the violence of the first part of the film.  "},{"Title":"Strange. Really really strange. (spoilers)","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After watching a movie called 'Guts from a Virgin' just recently, you'd think I wouldn't be confused by a Hollywood picture. Yet I was.A quick summary Betty (Zellweger) works in a restaurant and is married to some lousy, cheating carsalesman. Then, one day, he gets murdered by two hit men (Chris Rock and Morgan Freeman) in front of her eyes because of a drugdeal gone wrong. In stead of screaming, Betty goes into shock and suddenly thinks soap-opera actor George McCord (Greg Kinnear) actually is his role (dr. David Ravelle), and falls in love with him. So she steps in her car and goes to Hollywood, with the two hit men on her tail, as she has the drugs in the back of her car... But meanwhile Freeman's character falls in love with her. Oh and Rock is his son. I guess...The strangest thing about Nurse Betty is it's genre. When the movie starts out, you're thinking drama (due to the beautiful score... a score deserving a much better movie!). Then you're thinking comedy. But then a guy gets scalped on screen (I'm talking Reservoir Dogs here)... very, very odd indeed.After the bizarre ending, it left me completely puzzled... what the heck is this? Although I couldn't exactly figure it out, I'm pretty sure about what it isn't a good movie.For that, the acting is too wooden (I never liked Zellweger and Kinnear seems like he doesn't want to be in it), the ending too silly and the genres too conflicting... If I had to describe the movie in one sentence, it would probably be 'a mess... and not in a good way!'.4/10.  "},{"Title":"This Movie is Horrible","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am sick of people saying that Nurse Betty is a good movie because of its artistic elements.  Screw that!  This movie was horrible.  Some dark comedies are fun to watch but this was neither funny nor exciting! The story about a crazy woman thinking she's a soap opera character just does not work.  Do not waste your time on this craporama! "},{"Title":"An Unmitigated Disaster of a Movie","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Badly plotted, with incredibly forced characters and impossible situations (probably as a result of the substantial rewriting and cutting done on its original four-hour length) this is THE MOVIE TO MISS THIS YEAR.  I believe those who like it are the non-discriminating kind who will like anything.  If you have any taste in film, stay away from this at all cost. "},{"Title":"a documentary of the actors eating lunch would have been a better movie","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I consider myself an avid movie watcher. Even with movies I don't like I can hopefully recognize something good about a movie. This can not be said for Nurse Betty.It is arguably the worst movie I have EVER seen. I would compare the dialogue, plot, and humour to that of Dead Man on Campus (which my friend only rented because Zack Morris was in it). I found myself sitting in the theatre trying to find humour where there was none, style where there was none, even good performances, but there just wasnt.On the topic of bad movies, Gene Siskel used to say a documentary of the actors eating lunch would have been a better movie. That would be true in this situation. "}{"Title":"A film only a soap junkie could love.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty, the Zellweger title character, is a passive, ordinary Kansas housewife who believes herself to be romantically involved with a soap opera character after being traumatized by witnessing the brutal murder of her husband. This much over-rated flick will disappoint many as the violence and language demands an R rating while the comedy is so sophomoric as to have little appeal for mature audiences. Zellweger's performance is good but not deserving of an Oscar nomination as it requires no stretch and only stands out because there's so little going on around her. Good fodder for soap junkies and Zellweger fans. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nurse Betty (2000), directed by Neil LaBute, follows a story about a waitress named Betty, played by Renee Zellweger, whom has witnessed the murder of her cheating husband Del, played by Aaron Eckhart. Betty suffered from post-traumatic stress after witnessing the murder, and becomes convinced that she must rejoin her once fiancé Dr. David Ravell, played by Greg Kinnear, who is actually a fictional character from a soap opera. Upon her journey across country to find Dr. Ravell, Betty exhibits characteristics that are often used to objectify women. In the beginning of the film, Del mistreats Betty by cheating on her, and demands her to play the submissive housewife role. Betty abides Del and remains devoted to him until her traumatic experience of watching him scalped and murdered, when she then develops a new attachment to another masculine character, David. Betty's main determination throughout the film is simply to be the woman in David's life, and goes as far as leaving her entire life behindto pursue her supposed old flame.The camera shots in Nurse Betty highlight my point stated above; about the shallow gender roles that are portrayed. Whenever Betty romantically gazes at Doctor David Ravell, whether on television or in person, the camera often does a close-up to her face to emphasize the influence the man has on the woman. All David has to do is stand there and Betty becomes captivated by his presence. This gives a sense of perceived control that the men have over women, which isn't rare in Hollywood film. Also, whenever David is framed by the camera, it is at a lower angle, suggesting the dominance and power that he possesses. Berger studied art's constant objectification of women; Nurse Betty only supports his point. The heroine in the movie, Betty, plays a submissive role to her fellow characters, and her character's identity is somewhat based on the men that are in her life. In the first half of the film, she simply played a wife. In the second half, she played a `lost lover' to a man she had to be reunited with.In conclusion, Nurse Betty is a Hollywood film that portrays the female protagonist in an objectified way. The film also reproduces the existing stereotype of women, and the role of a wife, by the role Betty plays in her relationships with the male characters.  "},{"Title":"A shambles of a movie...","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Overstuffed and obnoxious film has Renee Zellweger playing a soap opera-loving waitress in Kansas who witnesses a murder and quickly goes off the deep end; she ends up believing a soap actor is really her ex-fiancé and she hopes to win him back. Renee is initially bright and charming, but even before the plot really kicks in, she begins to lose her luster; worse, the 'aw shucks' spin she gives to the role is more annoying than engaging. Elements of crime-drama and comedy co-exist here uneasily, and the script doesn't help because it's too silly. The opening murder is grisly and over-the-top; the attempt to set a darkly comic mood a la Fargo or Pulp Fiction fails completely as the film--with its comic-book look and tone--can't withstand the lack of balance, and we in the audience lose confidence early on. ** from **** "}]