[{"Title":"Thank You Michael Winterbottom","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"24 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I caught this on TV without knowing who it was by and I was instantly captivated. The first thing is that it's filmed and set where I live, around the Elephant and Castle, as well as in Soho, and it's about the people I see every day. It's absolutely spot on about the kind of lives people around here lead and the way individuals and different social groups interact.What lifts it above the sort of social realism common in British cinema is the cutting, the cinematography and Michael Nyman's lovely music, which must be his best work post-Greenaway. While I've never been a big fan of the 'poetry of degradation' school of art, somehow the ugliness and squalor of South East London are transformed by this film and the lives of the characters are invested with real dignity.Though it may deal with the same sort of subject matter as Ken Loach or Mike Leigh, the style and approach are very different - the difference between a great piece of prose and a poem. I guess you could say Winterbottom and Nyman do for London what Scorsese and Herrmann did for New York in Mean Streets and Taxi Driver.This is a beautiful film and I feel real gratitude to Michael Winterbottom for bringing our lives to the screen in such a way. "},{"Title":"Winterbottom's wonderful Wonderland","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This may be the best film of 2000 (at least that's when it was released in Australia).Whilst film-makers like P.T. Anderson have made admirable attempts at personal drama in the last few years, and Mike Leigh continues to tell us that no-one suffers like the poor (as if we didn't know that), Michael Winterbottom has re-defined the genres. This is English kitchen sink drama without the tired clichés of class wars, which have seemed a bit anachronistic since the fall of the Tories.Shot in a stunning cinemascope (12.35) and available light, with the tiniest of crews, this is London as you've only seen it if you've seen it for yourself.The cast shines. I defy anyone to make it through this film without falling in love with Gina McKee. That's not to say that Shirley Henderson and Molly Parker are anything less than charming. Ian Hart and Stuart Townsend are wonderful. Keep an eye out for the beautifully natural performance of David Fahm as Franklyn. Jack Shepherd, Kika Markham and John Simm round out the main cast with equally powerful performances.A great script from first time screen-writer Lawrence Coriat. Michael Nyman turns out his most subtle and restrained music score yet. Michael Winterbottom is turning out to be the Stanley Kubrick of the 21st century. Who else has been able to jump from one genre to another with such ease and grace?This is a compelling film, well worth having your own copy of.  "},{"Title":"London in perspective","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The city of London has featured in innumerable films - a vast, intensely varied metropolis, it has served as a vivid backdrop countless times. From the sun-drenched banks of the Thames in 'Four Weddings and a Funeral' to the gloomy squalor of Camden Town in 'Withnail & I' it is always an interesting setting for a story. But in 'Wonderland', directed by Michael Winterbottom ('Jude', 'Welcome to Sarajevo'), it almost gains a life of its own.Superficially a story of the day-to-day lives of three sisters, Wonderland is more about the city and the millions of people who live in it than the troubled family the plot centres on. They are Nadia (Gina McKee), a single woman desperately in search of friendship and romance, Debbie (Shirley Henderson), a single mother with a young son (Peter Marfleet) and Molly (Molly Parker), a pregnant woman whose husband (John Simm) is having doubts.The camera follows them (mostly Nadia) as they travel through the busy streets of the capital. It does not concentrate on just the characters, often lingering on faces and groups, giving the film a real-life edge. This is added to by the hand-held camera work and the slightly grainy quality of the image, which is as though a much larger picture has been magnified to concentrate on these people.The stories themselves are uniformly (and depressingly) realistic, although they all end on a high note, leaving the viewer surprisingly upbeat. Winterbottom has a knack of coaxing great performances from good actors and does not fail here, with the quietly miserable couple of Kika Markham and Jack Shepherd as the sisters' parents standing out.Wonderland will never break any box office records and is certainly not flawless, but it is an admirable film and it warms the cockles of this reviewer to see such worthy films still being made in Britain. "},{"Title":"the best damn tear-jerker ever made!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film hit home and touched me so deeply on a personal level, its not even funny. And I believe it should have a fairly wide appeal, as well. The main limiting factor is that it may only be fully appreciated by Britons and anglophiles. There are so many specifics of daily working class London life, and the accents are slightly thick, that non-Britons may not be able to connect.I read a review of this film in the Village Voice (it was very positive, and I rented the title on the strength of the recommendation) and one of the things it said was that this film didn't avert its eyes from the ugly things in life. And that is exactly what give this film is weight and poignancy.This film even manages to capture one of the most difficult (and therefore least often seen, in films) aspects of modern working class life the mind numbing crassness, tedium and insignificance. And at the same time, it manages to give dignity to these people's lives and gives them hope for finding threads of meaning in the garbage heap of modern life. The thought that came most forcefully to me at the end of this film was how many years of suffering do the working class have to endure before their lives are portrayed with dignity and meaning?One thing about this film that is consistently downbeat, and that the film maker had the good sense not to try and sugar coat, is the awful over crowding in modern Britain. This aspect is truly horrific, suffocating and overwhelming. And maybe this is the most topsy-turvy aspect of this film, that modern Britons are expected to endure this with good grace, but I don't know, I can't say.The music is lovely as well, very well chosen, very understated. And its all in a minor key, of course.Its films like this that re-affirm my faith in film as an artistic medium. But, although this film gives a sweet dignity to the recent past, it doesn't seem to hold out any real hope for the future. And it is this sidestepping of facile hopefulness where this movie really hits the deepest. This film says, in my opinion, that any progress towards a livable future is going to take everything we have to struggle to achieve. "},{"Title":"Scarred people","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This isn't a cute film. It's no Notting Hill, that's for sure. How London has been portrayed in this film is no advert for the place. Cold, nervous, loud, lonely. This is London. Warts and all. Shot in an eerie, lonely manner the film deals with individuals, whose lives have criss-crossed (or ultimately will).I suppose at the hub of the film is a tired train-wreck of a marriage between two upper middle-aged people. The mother, unable to show affection, unable to give anything at all, and a father who keeps the act up, while hurting deep down. He's popular with the neighbors, his wife is aggressive, spiteful and is in denial of what a couch-potato she has become.They have four children, all adults. Three girls and a son, of whom they have very sparse contact (the father dotes, and longs for him). It's in the lives and relationships of the three daughters that the film is centered. All of whom have scars from their up-bringing. I presume the mother's problems have been handed over to the girls. One, a young mother, has difficulty showing affection to her son. Another constantly on the look out for someone to love her. It's very, very agonizing. The third daughter is heavily pregnant, and is in a relationship with a guy who has problems of his own.Gritty. Scary and ultimately warm. (Well a few degrees above 0 Kelvin, anyway).I found it very interesting. Makes one think. "},{"Title":"Walking in Winterbottom's Wonderland","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie has only just come out on DVD in Britain, that is a shamefully long time for a film to reach the country it was made in. But now it is here, and possibly finding a new audience, I thought I'd write a quick review. If you have read some of the other reviews, you will no doubt be aware of the 'kitchen sink' factor in this film. Well, I'm not going to deny that, the subject matter would not look out of place in a soap opera. . . .however it is the performances, the script and the fantastic style of this movie which pulls it out of the mundane and into the cinematic. Michael Winterbottom is clearly a director who like several of his British contemporaries such as Mike Leigh and Shane Meadows, believes that the drama around us in everyday life is worthy of the big screen. The film has a fine ensemble of characters, three very different sisters, their estranged brother and squabbling parents. The performances are brave and heartfelt in all cases, and even though the drama takes place over one weekend, the characters really do evolve. The most enticing thing about the film is the way it is shot and scored. Sean Bobbitt's time lapse photography and dogma style 16mm cinematography combined with Michael Nyman's emotive music is a really fantastic combination. This film shows London how the people who live there see it, namely from the ground. Nearly every film set in London now seems to have to include the Gherkin, the Tate modern and the Millennium wheel, what Winterbottom presents us with is something simultaneously far less and far more remarkable. "},{"Title":"Sweet Thames, run softly till I end my song (T.S.Eliot, The Wasteland)","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although not classified as a film for TV, `Wonderland' is very much in the style of a production for that media, and indeed might even be classified as `soap-opera'.But forget anything and everything you have seen of that type of film `Wonderland' is totally in another sphere, with a well-constructed story of a long-weekend, magnificently natural performances and excellent dialogues. One constantly thinks of the theatre playhouse element as the actors carry forward this sociological document, excellently choreographed by Michael Nyman´s music.Here indeed is a richly rewarding 100-odd minutes of your time. The characters are immediate and thus so real that you cannot but fail to be swept into the story. Intertwining levels from the elderly couple, down through their daughters to the young grandson, all lends palpable reality to the price of living in the backdrops of a teeming faceless city.Set over the weekend on which the ever faithful and conservative British continue celebrating `Guy Fawkes Night' commemorating the attempted blowing up of the Houses of Parliament by said Guido Fawkes a few centuries ago, the film cleverly brings together ordinary Londoners at a particular moment which undoubtedly is crucial to each of them. The cast is splendid; the performances are exactly right, natural, and thus so realistic; there is no forced over-the-top stuff here.  Whereas I can easily sympathise with the symptomatic causes underlying the nonentity of suburban life in gigantic cities, and therefore can easily feel for these people in Winterbottom's very welcome offering in this film, I can so easily again see why, when barely twenty, I took to my heels and left London for other pastures.Thanks for reminding me, Mr. Winterbottom. But thanks also for a fascinating insight into fine character-making in a very enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"The Ordinary is Extraordinary","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Wonderland' is a story about ordinary people told in an extraordinarily beautiful way.The visual style of the film draws you close--you're not watching a movie, but you are an observer, an eavesdropper on the lives of a South London family and their friends.  It's almost as if you saw someone on the bus, and then were able to follow them to their home and around where they work, unseen, for a few days. You believe these people exist, in reality--you _recognize_ these characters because you've seen them before.There's an incredible musical score by Michael Nyman.  It supports and builds the drama of the story, and illuminates the inner struggles of the characters.It's a beautiful movie.  Fans of Wong Kar-Wai's ChungKing Express will enjoy this.I saw this movie at a Saturday midnight showing in Barcelona, with Spanish subtitles.  You could feel the emotion run through the audience.  Everyone stayed for the credits. "},{"Title":"Everyman's wonderland","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wonderland is a well-articulated drama about working people in London going through the emotional chaos of everyday life.  What makes it special is that it shows a family with little or no parental support struggling to hold together by the fortitude of its siblings.  It is a special film in two other ways characters act out their roles within unstaged, real world settings and, at the same time, the characters are shown, mostly in isolation, responding to these same settings.  By doing so, the film highlights even more the chaotic, transitory, and even aimless behaviors of urban life. We see the mother, Eileen (Kika Markham) relieving her frustrations by playing in an actual bingo hall, the estranged father, Tim (Stuart Townsend) taking his son Jack (Peter Marfleet) to a wildly contested soccer match, an emotionally wounded woman, Nadia (Gina McKee) riding a double-decker bus filled with revelers, and the piece-de-resistance of one of the pregnant characters, Molly (Molly Parker) giving live birth.  The film even uses fast forwarding frames in two scenes, one involving Nadia and her lonely-hearts club failures and the other when the dishonest husband James cannot return home to his wife, to illustrate their out of control,  misdirected lives. Another treat of this film is that we don't initially know the identity of the characters and their connection to each other until the film slowly unfolds bits and  pieces of their story. While that might tax the patience of some people, I became much more alert to the story.  What was annoying was the overemphasis on the background nightlife of London and the heavy dramatic score, a score that seemed to tip off in at least two places that the film was prematurely ending. Overall,  Wonderland is a well-acted, worthwhile film because it successfully portrays real-life situations involving real-life struggles in a unusually candid and poignant way.   "},{"Title":"Kitchen Sink Kaleidoscope","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very artful piece of work which looks like it was made by the Dogma mob &#150; hand &#150;held camera, minimal lighting, grainy film, but it is actually very well put together by Michael Winterbottom with superior acting, good musical score (by Michael Nyman) and a reasonable amount of dramatic tension. Initially I thought `God this is boring' as three days in the life of three sisters and their family, lovers and friends, all ordinary Londoners, unfolded, but by about a third of the way through it got interesting. By the end I was starting even to care about the characters. It was a little like watching a television series where the fairly ordinary characters unfold slowly, but somehow over time get a hold on your imagination. Except of course this film is just over 100 minutes long.We see most of the story through Nadia, the middle sister, played by Gina McKee, who last popped up at a dinner party in `Notting Hill'. This time it's inner South London, and Nadia is answering lonely hearts ads without great success. Her older sister Debbie (Shirley Henderson, the tiny diva from `Topsy Turvy') who has an ex husband and a 10 year old son, seems to have no trouble picking up men, while Mollie (Mollie Parker) the youngest, is awaiting the birth of her first child. In a whirl of lights, crowded streets, traffic, noisy bars, cigarette smoke and small ill-lit rooms, their interwoven stories are played out. In the background, but close at hand are Mum and Dad, despising each other but still living in the same house.All the sisters are well portrayed but Kika Markham and Jack Shepard, trusty old troupers that they are, practically steal the show as the disillusioned parents. The sister's men (and their mostly absent brother) are portrayed as weak, shallow or stupid, but the sisters are a forgiving bunch (unlike their mother).  It really is quite an achievement to make an interesting, honest movie about lives so mundane that they make `This Life' look like `Melrose Place'. If I were such an ordinary Londoner and I saw this film I think I'd experience the shock of recognition. And then consider emigrating. The life of the contemporary ordinary female Londoner is not far removed from quiet desperation, it seems. And perhaps that's so for the men too. It's just that they notice it a bit less.  "}{"Title":"wandering in sensitivity","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yesterday, I just said I'm sick of stylish lonely film, but Wonderland forced me to reject my words. I love Wonderland in the same way with Lost in Translation. They may not a good film but their artistic styles touched my visibility and sensibility (accurately, I should write my SENSITIVITY). The cinematographic approaches (such as hi-speed, slow-motion and hand-held) were similar to Wong Kar-Wai's works. Many scenes in Wonderland can created a beautiful sight of London as well as an exotic look of Hong Kong in Wong's. (And also Tokyo's mysterious look in Stratosphere Girl.) The most fascinated element in this movie was its score composed by Michael Nyman. (He also wrote music for The Piano.) Every single piece of them can take my heart away. I like Nyman's bright idea to give each song as a theme song of one character. (Therefore, all track lists are character's names such as Debbie, Molly, etc.) Compare to Philip Glass (Who composed score in The Hours); I think both of them have something in common. They are clearly a minimalist musician, using few notes and play them in a loop. But their music are so powerful, I can listen to them repeatedly for a hundred times. Anyway, I have to give a big thank to my lovely sister, Vespertine, who introduced me to Wonderland's score.My favorite scenes in Wonderland 1. Eddie (John Simm) stood on the bridge; he spoke the words he wanted to tell his wife to the air. It's like a rehearsal of tragedy stage play. He mentioned all horrible circumstances which may happen to his marriage life in the future. He will be a drunken, a jobless person. And he will imprison his wife and kids in the house, shoot them with a gun, and finally kill himself. (A story like this just happens to my high school friend, she is the only survivor.) It's unbearable if you know the bad things will explode, you want to cease them, but you can't. The only thing waiting for you is an irreversible disaster. (Anyway, I may too pessimistic for this scene because in the end Eddie and Molly can get along well.) 2. The scene Nadia (Gina McKee) went back home after she had sex with Tim (Stuart Townsend). She was on the bus, leaned on the windows, made a face that I can't describe, and then her tears poured from those sad eyes. I like Gina Mckee's face in this movie very much. It's like she always smiles but there's an obscure sadness on her face in the same time.3. Jack (the boy) watched the firework alone and I think the music played in this scene was a climax for me. "},{"Title":"Winterbottom's optimistic lovesong to London","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Michael Winterbottom's profoundly compassionate film looks towards the 21st century like the pregnancy of one of the characters. Also, like childbirth, joy and optimism is midwifed through a cataract of pain and loneliness. It is Winterbottom's grand achievement that this film, though utterly credible, blooms with all its aspirations intact and flowering.Like Woody Allen's Manhattan, the ensemble cast has a passive extra. The city of London belongs in every shot, either a recognisable landmark in the background or the noble, well-worn landscape (often at night) standing silent in centre-frame. For a Londoner like myself there is not simply romance in this but the recognition of authenticity, as if acknowledging a document, albeit a document with an evocative Michael Nyman soundtrack.Indeed Winterbottom's hand-held shooting in this picture is less about creating an aesthetic than simply trying to catch the city and its people unawares. There are few seams between the cast and the fast- moving river of oblivious extras. That cast is a truly extraordinary conflagration of actors, at least half of whom are now established lights of the British industry firmament - actors who have worn the thrill of the boom decade of the Noughties and its inevitable decay with the rest of us.Wonderland is an intelligent, honest and loving portrait of 21st century London. I think it is some sort of masterpiece. 9/10 "},{"Title":"What you seek is right in front of you","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My rating meter dropped into negative numbers as this movie unfolded in the bleak anti-human landscape of a contemporary London that is eerily reminiscent of the imagined future Los Angeles of Blade Runner. The story, indeed the whole city, is populated by useless men aimlessly pursuing desperate clueless women, and with dysfunctional kin tormenting each other out of boredom, witlessness, or despair. All the performances are excellent, even though they seem wasted on this depressing and apparently pointless tale. But at the climax, in a deft turn of legerdemain, the director neatly and almost plausibly unsnarls most of the skeins he had been tangling and twisting up until then, boosting the movie to a 6/10 (which to me means worth watching once, if you have nothing better to do, but definitely not worth watching twice).  "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully Sublime Movie About Quiet Desperation","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There really are two parts to any movie.  First, the obvious (plot, character development, setting, etc.) and second, that which is subtle... underlying.  This film is filled with the latter.  In fact, it would be a great disservice to the film to focus on just the plot without describing the feeling Winterbottom relays.  On the surface, it's a film about three sisters and the very different choices they've made in their lives.  The first, a single mom who pawns her son off to her anything-but-worthy ex-husband so she can go out and party.  The second, a pregnant woman who's husband seems to be getting more and more spooked as the idea of a child coming into their home becomes closer to a reality.  And finally, the youngest, a woman who simply longs to have someone -- anyone in her life. She takes to the personal ads and sleeping with men that will obviously not give her the emotional support she so desperately seeks.Obviously, these women have all taken different paths in their lives.  But it's not their paths that make the movie so interesting, it's their motivation.  We need only look at the loveless marriage of the parents that begot these women to understand why they've all come to love and/or long for emotionally inaccessible men.Winterbottom does a superb job of making us feel the grimy desperation in each of these women's lives.  Cramped apartments give a sense of claustrophobia.  The incessant barking of dogs begin to grate on not only the nerves of the characters, but on those of the audience as well.  And throughout the movie, natural lighting is used giving us a sense that not all is polished and produced in the lives of the characters.  All of these factors that have left the characters in the story with a quiet desperation, also pull the audience into a world of imbalance.The score was absolutely brilliant -- one of the best matched soundtracks to a movie I've yet come across.  Sublime at some points, triumphant at others, it was the final piece that made this film a joy to watch.  Not because it makes you feel good... but simply because it makes you feel.  Something. Real.  "},{"Title":"Good music, London is great, the story is a bit cliche","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the story of an elderly couple that are not on speaking terms, with their son (who has left the house for it) and three daughters. Its all about family relations. The family bond is not quite as strong as it used to be. People drift around a bit. The elderly woman Eileen looks down on her quiet, gentle husband Bill. Daughter Molly gets a baby and sees her husband Eddy run off. Daughter Debbie is divorced from the father Tim of her son. Tim takes the boy with him for a day, with near fatal consequences. Strong women and weak men, that´s very much the story here. The camera is a bit ´Danish´, like a videocamera, the film is grainy at times, as if this is a documentary of a real family, followed on its footsteps for three days. The film´s saving grace is the good music, and London which is the background of the movie. London is bigger than its people, it seems. There are so many opportunities there for another relationship, a sexual encounter, why stick to your partner...  "},{"Title":"Mike Leigh Meets Blair Witch","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's hard to concentrate on the many worthy aspects of this film (the naturalistic acting, unvarnished inner London) when trying to keep one's stomach settled. The hand-held camera thing is getting a little old (at least for me) and when combined with the arty fuzziness and the lousy print (Odeon Victoria) I couldn't enjoy this the way I should have. Great to see Canadian Molly Parker carrying off her role with aplomb, however, and Ian Hart remains as convincing as ever. In fact, every actor is superb. Think I'll try this on video on my 20 telly... "},{"Title":"Closer to a recognisable London","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The characters in this film move through streets I move through. They stop and stare down the Thames from Southwark Bridge, they go round the Elephant & Castle roundabout, they go to the Brixton cop shop, they wander down Soho streets and on into South London estates. This elicits a feeling I've only had a couple of times watching movies &#150; that these characters are living lives somewhere near mine, in the real world. Obviously that breaks down pretty quickly due to the familiarity of the actors but it's still strangely pleasurable. Beyond the affection I feel for this movie cos it's on my manor, it's still a good, fresh film with great moments of spontaneity. A Ken Loach sense of community via a Dogme take on film making, Wonderland is in some ways insubstantial (these lives are SO ordinary), but its warmth is undeniable. "},{"Title":"Four Days of the Dramatic Life of a Londoner Family","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Along four days in London, the dramatic life of the three sisters, their absent brother, parents, lovers and friends is disclosed in `Wonderland'. Debbie (Shirley Henderson), Nadia (Gina McKee) and Molly (the lovely Molly Parker) are sisters of a low middle class family in London. The hairdresser Debbie is the mother of an young boy. Nadia is a lonely woman, who works in a cafeteria, and is trying to find a love through the Lonely Hearts agency, specialized in blind dates. Molly is a pregnant teacher, who is close to the delivery. Nadia misses her brother Darren (Enzo Cilenti), who left London due to some problem with his bitter mother Eileen (Kika Markham), a very frustrated woman. Aileen and her husband Bill (Jack Shepard) are disillusioned with their lives. Bill is so bored with his life that he seems to be astonished, in the expectation of a call from his son Darren, like a salvation board for the situation of his common life with Eileen. Nadia has a blind date with Tim (Stuart Townsend) and feels a kind of non-corresponded love for him. Debbie has a promiscuous and well-resolved sexual life. Molly's mate is Eddie (John Simm), a man frustrated with his work and profession, and without enough courage to confess to Molly that he lost his job. The story is unfolded in a fragmented way, and in the ends, all the pieces are joined together, with characters and situations very well defined. Michael Winterbottom is a fantastic director. I have seen `Jude', `Welcome to Sarajevo',  `I Want You' and now `Wonderland' and they are great films. `Butterfly Kiss' is the weakest I have watched. Unfortunately I have not seen the other movies of his filmography yet and I am not sure whether they are available in Brazil. Molly Parker is an amazing actress in one movie, she is a pregnant woman feeling the pain of the birth, in `The Center of the World' she is very sexy, showing a great versatility in acting. The natural performance of the cast is also outstanding, making the story very real and credible. The `Minnie' hair of Nadia is the only negative point of this wonderful movie.  My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) `Encontros e Desencontros' (`Meetings and Failure to Meet')  "},{"Title":"The Whole Deck of Cards","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers hereinI do not know how I have gotten this far without knowing Winterbottom. I stumbled upon him in `The Claim.' That film had a few powerful visions that accompanied well integrated narrative power. Some extremely deft camera notions. Exquisite enfolding of the music, which in that case was Nyman's as well.Now here is something even better in its own way. It just blows me away because it is so intimate. I remarked on another little film about this same intimacy in looking at her in  `Things You Can Tell By Just Looking At Her.' But here, there is a weaving and bobbing of the story, a similar weaving with the camera's eye, and an intense musical experience. The music, and camera is extraordinary alone. The acting seems special too, but I suspect it is ordinarily fine. The merger is the thing.I'm usually satisfied with just a remarkable camera. DePalma for instance has a magical camera, but he keeps a sterile distance from his actors. Greenaway as well, and he used Nyman in exceptional ways. Not so here. This is what Aranofsky attempts having the camera inhabit the personal space created among actors. The space is a little wider here because of the `Short Cuts' platespinning. But the camera and music are much, much closer to the bone than in anything I have seen since `Vanya on 42nd Street.'I see a huge number of films, but with this one, I was transported to the drift of their lives. Oh, you absolutely must see this in its original ratio, not on some chopped up cable station. The peripherals are what matters. Visually of course, But if you know `Alice in Wonderland' well, one question you ask is what do the characters in Wonderland do when they do not have an Alice to animate and motivate them? Its this.Side issues this has one of the best uses of fireworks I have ever seen in film. These three actresses are so open, their skin seems translucent.Ted's Evaluation 3 of 4 -- Worth watching "},{"Title":"The Lives of Lonely Londoners!","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" London, England is a great city to visit and live but it can be a lonely place. Jack and Eileen are a middle aged couple with three adult daughters. Nadia is trying to find a man. Molly is pregnant and married. Debbie is a single mother. This character drama can be entertaining to watch especially veteran actors like Jack Shepherd and Kika Markham as parents. Gina McKee does a terrific job as Nadia. London is a very big city and the director makes the most of it. This film takes place during one weekend. It can be slow moving at times. Nadia, Molly, and Debbie don't appear happy in life neither do their parents. "}{"Title":"Wonderland","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Structurally, I was reminded a lot of THE VERTICAL RAY OF THE SUN. Loose vignettes about three sisters (and a brother who's kind of on the periphery) and their relationship issues. But of course, it's set in London and Winterbottom goes for a very different style than Tran's languid rhythms. The film is grainy, mostly hand-held that gives it a voyeuristic and often claustrophobic feel, which is occasionally punctured by some stylistic flourish like slo-mo. The visuals are actually a bit off-putting at times but sometimes it's to highlight the loneliness or ugliness of life.However, the film doesn't wallow in misery. There are highs and lows... some characters are better at dealing with problems than others, but everyone muddles through and tries to find their balance. Some do despicable things and we're not asked to forgive them, but we are asked to realize that there's more to them. By the end, there is a sense of contentment despite the knowledge that not all problems are solved, and new ones will surely arise.The three central performances are quite good, although naturally I would have liked to see more of Shirley Henderson. I couldn't find fault in any of the other actors, either. Winterbottom also lets the camera wander, including strangers and passersby in the mix, any one of whom could be a connection to our protagonists. Indeed, it's a while before we're fully aware of who the protagonists are and their relationships to each other. It's a bit frustrating at first before you have your footing, but it's a reminder that any of these people and their stories are equally significant. I should also mention Michael Nyman's glorious score as well as the skillful use of diegetic music.I was generally engaged throughout the film, although I wish there had been a few more transcendent scenes where it really clicked with me. Nonetheless, it's an excellent movie that explores our inner turmoil, need for connections, and precious moments of joy. "},{"Title":"The wraith-like heights that hug the pallid plain","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Michael Winterbottom's Wonderland follows a group of troubled lower-middle-class Londoners over the course of a few days. Screenwriter Laurence Coriat claims that his script was influenced by Robert Altman's Short Cuts, and it shows, the film bouncing deftly from one character to the next, but finding only misery, loneliness and grief. Stylistically Winterbottom is attempting to merge the gritty aesthetic of the kitchen-sink and British New Wave dramas of the 1960s, with the jazzy styles of Hong Kong cinema and contemporary music videos. Call this hip sink drama, Winterbottom using hand held cameras, 16mm film, frenetic location shooting, improvisational dialogue etc and colliding them all with Phillip Nyman's modern score, lots of dramatic slow-motion sequences, and countless shots of London's gorgeous, sparkly lights. Look closer, though, and it's apparent that the film is simply a big bag of dressed up clichés. The kitchen-sink and New Wave dramas of the 60s all aimed at social change, had a political function and attempted to shed light on an underclass that had been ignored. And so one has to ask why exactly is Winterbottom interested in reviving this aesthetic? One sees the moral outrage he invests into pictures like In This World and The Road To Guantanamo, applying kitchen sink to tales of subjugated foreigners, but Wonderland, which focuses on embittered Londoners, seems less interested in making any point or than it is in homaging, resurrecting and updating the British New Wave. So it's no surprise that behind Winterbottom's technique we find only clichés and contrivances. Take, for example, one sequence in which an estranged couple bump into one another at a hospital, their miraculous meeting allowing them to reconcile their problems. This isn't realism, it's a contrivance typical of a slick Sandra Bullock romantic comedy. Every other realistic subplot in the film is similarly generic, characters dovetailing far too conveniently and character arcs unfolding in unsurprising ways. So while Wonderland's aesthetic may be gritty, it's actually populated by stock soap opera characters and packed with clichés, its edgy and naturalistic surface obscuring a fairly old fashioned tear-jerker which simply goes through the motions toward a predictable outcome. And yet...if the core of the picture doesn't work, its edges are positively amazing. Actress Gina McKee invests one character, Nadia, with angelic grace, and Peter Greenaway's favourite minimalist composer, Michael Nyman, serves up a beautiful score, his repetitions of graceful epiphanies suggesting that passions swirl even within mundane lives.More importantly, what the film does better than any other film in recent memory is capture the beauty, energy, ugliness and brutality of London. Like Altman's A Prairie Home Companion, Winterbottom's aesthetic captures the romantic glow of street lights, the sparkle of car headlamps, the cosy bloom of coffee houses, the snaking tails of traffic, the muted warmth of diners, the buzz of companionship, but then clashes the city's romantic glow, its restless buzz, with London's cold inhospitality; the alienation, drudgery and squalor of the grey beast. Few films capture the contradictions of modern London.So again, comparisons to Altman's A Prairie Home Companion (he's one of Winterbottom's favourite directors) are apt, as Altman's film sets up a series of paradisaical enclaves of warmth, light and shelter, only to then collided them all with the existential horror of a wild, inhospitable outdoors. Both films are thus about a kind of beautiful hell, where only the lights of a diner and the promise of connection help hold back the night. But whilst Altman found some semblance of hope and respite, Winterbottom depicts something far more grim. Respite here is seen to be a sham (trips to plush hotels etc), social gatherings (fireworks displays and football games) lead not to participation but mask only further desperation, and our cast of Londoners seem forever chained economically and without spirituality or direction. Despite all this they live in a continuous, imaginative wanderlust. Why? Winterbottom makes it clear. Though to hope is to risk pain, the wanderlust lives on. Always.8/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Michael Winterbottom's wondrous modern masterpiece","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of my very favourite films... a fantastic work of social-realist drama that could, very easily be listed amongst the top-five best British films of all time. It presents a depiction of contemporary London that has nothing to do with the cosy fabrication of Richard Curtis, with director Michael Winterbottom instead creating a bleak, alienated intimacy, through the use of roving hand-held cameras and rapid cuts, always moving from one character to the next, fragmenting relationships through the use of editing and composition... literally painting characters into the corner of the scene by bringing the lens right up close to their pained, disenchanted faces. It's the perfect visual accompaniment to this kind of story, which focuses on the disparate relationships of three south-London sisters over the course of one long and frantic winter weekend.It ties in nicely with the themes of isolation, boredom and despair found in the director's other key works, most notably, the brutal killers on the road film Butterfly Kiss and the twitching and perverse I Want You, though with the attention to character depth and personal detail that was so prevalent in his TV adaptation of Roddy Doyle's Family. There are also some broad allusions made to the films of Robert Altman, particularly in the way that each character and their individual story thread interweave, back and forth, throughout the film, similar to Short Cuts. However, whereas Altman is often flippant and cynical about the worlds that he creates, Winterbottom's film instead adopts a sense of bleak-beauty, with the notion of despair and isolation giving way to a kind of romanticism for the desolation of the London streets - with their colourful neon lights and blurred bustle of people - whilst the whole film is further lifted into the heavens through the use of Michael Nyman's subtly poetic score... which, somehow, punctuates the anguish of the journey that these characters have to take.Most of the characters come across as entirely believable, aided by the unpretentious script by Lawrence Coriat and standout performances from much of the ensemble cast, including Winterbottom regulars Shirley Henderson, John Simm and David Fahm, as well as Molly Parker, Gina McKee, Stuart Townsend and, in particular, Ian Hart (though it's probably wrong to pick favourites with a film of this nature). Despite the hand-held 16mm photography, with it's grainy imagery and natural light, the film still manages to create a sense of beauty, with the director and his cinematographer using the naturally colourful exteriors of the various high-streets and side-streets, in which the drama develops, whilst the use of a cinemascope lens gives the film an epic sense that jars beautifully against the claustrophobic, highly intimate nature of the script. The influence of von Trier's Breaking the Waves is apparent, as is the visual imprint of Wong Kar-Wai's work, particularly Days of Being Wild and Chunking Express, not just in terms of the cinematography, performance and editing, but also in the way that both filmmakers create an energy and an inner-city vibrancy to undercut the bleakness so central to these character's lives.Winterbottom's direction here is excellent, as he creates something of a contemporary, cosmopolitan ghost story... only here, the ghosts are still trying to survive. His sense of pace when it comes to the story, and his use of movement, lighting and composition (not to mention the way he uses Nyman's music... probably the best example of how Nyman should work alongside the images since Greenaway's The Draughtsman's Contract in 1982) is, as far as British cinema goes, completely unrivalled. As recent films go Wonderland is as affecting, interesting, astounding and accomplished as any I can recall off the top of my head, offering a nice anecdote to the toothless depiction of England in many (more financially successful) films of the same era, and offers us an example of amazing direction, performance and writing in an intimate character based story that doesn't require kid-friendly mythology and CGI hobbits to appear interesting.I consider Wonderland to be one of the very best British films of the last decade, if not of all time, with Winterbottom creating the perfect depiction of inner-city loneliness, and a personal odyssey into the heart of darkness to rival Mike Leigh's similarly claustrophobic film, Naked (what is it with filmmakers from the North West really bringing out the seedy and desolate side of the nation's capital?). Though it may be a little depressing for some viewers, I still feel that this film is an essential modern masterpiece. "},{"Title":"family today","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  she wants a family but things turn out to be quite disappointed. i can't forget the tear in the bus.  her sister is a slut but at the same time a good mother also. we all have a blend of demands. anyway the husband is not quite faithful indeed. just like her brother-in-law, Molly's husband, sometimes it's not quite easy to keep all things well-balanced. her mother seems also to suffer from the same problem. faults are inevitable but nothing's perfect when compared with perfection. she gives up a date to search her nephew. that's better than Love Actually. the film gives a transparent view to the structure of today's family. very nice. in fact so many films or tv dramas try to show what family means to life but fail. buy the dvd. no rip-off for sure although there's no nine spoonfuls of sugar ruin a cup of tea.   "},{"Title":"The best British film I've seen in a long time","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the major problems with being a film fan, or a British film fan for that matter, is the deep sense of embarrassment whenever a new British film is released, because it's almost always bad.  But alas, this is not the case with Michael Winterbottom's fascinating Wonderland.  Here Winterbottom has gone back to the roots of the Ken Loach, Mike Leigh genre of kitchen-sink drama, crossing it with the narrative feel of Robert Altman, and the free-from style of Lars von Trier, creating in the process a new and deeply affecting tale of three south London sister over the course of one weekend (three days).  The great thing about this is, briefly, for the course of the film anyway, British cinema has it's own identity.  The BIG brit films of the last few years have all been tired American knock-offs, from Guy Ritchie's pathetic lock-stock and Snatch, to the empty romanticised views depicted in films like Four Wedding and Notting Hill.  Wonderland gives an authentic view of London, without the glamour but with much more pathos, and fully developed characters.  The ensemble cast of rising character actors are perfectly put together, they may not be familiar to some audiences even in the UK, but the work of the three female leads, McKee, Parker and Henderson are given fine support from the men, Ian Hart, John Simm and David Fahm.  The cinema-verite style gives the film a strong realism, making some the more depressing scenes almost un-watchable, but Winterbottom and writer Laurence Coriat should be commended for trying something different within the confines of the ever-predictable British Film Industry (&#153;).  It sadness me that this film is so underrated, whilst average films like Billy Elliot gather a barrage of Oscar and Bafta nominations, I don't remember Wonderland getting a mention.  This is by far the best British film I've seen in a long time, not a perfect film by any means, one flaw would be that some of the characters are pushed to the background, never getting a chance to fully shine, but a film this good is a rare thing.  See it now you won't regret it.  9/10 "},{"Title":"wonderful wonderland","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is most certainly in my top three of all time movies.  I can surely understand why people wouldn't appreciate it but you have to watch it with some understanding and you have to realize its dramatic touch. Winterbottom, did a fantastic job with this movie and it's outstanding soundtrack.  Honestly, you have to say that this ost. is absolutely amazing and touching Please go on making more movies which are unique in its kind "},{"Title":"For fans of Seventies realism","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember seeing Taxi Driver as a teenager, being blown away and wishing someone could do the same for my home city. Instead for years we have suffered clichéd, upper class twits like Hugh Grant prancing around a London few here recognise. Wonderland manages to capture the dark, grim side of London, the loneliness, the anonymity, the city of a million different stories, the same way Scorcese captured New York in 1976. Both films too have beautiful moving scores specially written for them. A stunning, moving film. Winterbottom's earlier film 'Butterfly Kiss' has the same feel too. That just about sums it up but as I have to fill out 10 lines, I should add that my favourite Michael Winterbottom films are in this order ( I have seen nearly all) Wonderland, A Cock And Bull Story, 24 Hour Party People, Butterfly Kiss, In This World, The Claim. "},{"Title":"THE BEST FILM I HAVE SEEN THIS YEAR.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Being a Brit living in Canada it was nice to see a glimpse of Blighty. I liked the way this film used the documentary style of filming. The grainyness gave it a even more realistic touch. Gina Mckee was outstanding as usual. It reminded me a little of some mike leigh filcks. Best of all i liked the way it didn't try to preach as so many films about working class Brits(like myself) do, they showed the characters as flawed indivduals but there was a undercurrent of love flowing in the film( Gina mckee's scenes with her dad always outside as to avoid her mother.) Sheer class the best English film i have scene for along time.  "},{"Title":"Wonderland is simply amazing","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Missing this film at the theater, I grabbed the dvd when it was released. After viewing the film 5 times I have to say it is brilliant. Bits of Lars Von Trier, Robert Altman, and Mike Leigh surface as its story and images stream across the screen.  The cast is tops  Gina McKee is a star in the making.  Her performance is haunting.  It's almost as if she is not acting and is this character.  Her sadness and frustration at dealing with her search for a life mate is painful and absorbing. The beginning shots of her on the streets leaving a blind date behind at a bar gave me goose bumps. The Michael Nyman score is stellar and adds so much to the film. The music swells as the images flash by. But the real star of the film is the city of London.  The shots of the people in the pubs and on the streets confirmed that no matter how large the world is and how many occupy its vast space -- we are ultimately alone.  It's been years since a movie has invaded my head like this one.  What could be seen as a simple story of a family at unrest is so much more.  So universal.  It's a compelling film.  "},{"Title":"Winterbottom will never make a bad movie","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to admit I liked Welcome to Saravio, only liked. It wasn't till the Atom Egoyan-esk I Want You came around before I realized he like Egoyan isn't a movie maker but a filmmaker. This man is a pure genuis. The film's style alone is beautiful, in a grainy dirty 16MM handheld camera style with a heartbreaking music score. Sure the first hour is a bit slow moving but in the last act of the film we are so taken in by the characters we don't want to leave them, they grow on us, inviting us into their lives and they intrest us. The handheld, 16MM night time carnival scene is worth the price of admission alone, if you watch it on DVD with A/B point loop your bound to enter a drunk-like state. This is a real movie for a real art audence- if your an barberic idiot who likes movies stay away, you'll be bored- if your a fan of Chucking Exspress and daring cinema, this is a must see.  "}{"Title":"Soap opera at its best","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First up, let me explain that I adore mosaic movies. Movies like Magnolia and Short Cuts are among my favorite movies ever.That's why I like Wonderland so much. At first you have to keep your head together to see where the characters interact and at what level they are coping or not coping with their troubles. This was expertly done in this movie. But once you get the hang of it, this will not let you go until you see the credits.You really felt close to the characters during the movie and they started to grow on you throughout the flick. This is probably in a large part accelerated by the audaciousness of the photography, which reminded me a lot of Festen or The Idiots (both Dogme 95 films). The grainy picture can be off-putting to some who are expecting to see a crisp clear picture. It is also the documentary style that makes this movie so real. That and of course the tremendously well acted performances.But, of course there are things which aren't executed properly to my opinion. First, the character of the brother of the lot was not fleshed out enough to make him really a part of the family troubles. He clearly has run away without notice and ever since his parents have lived in disarray. I would have liked to have seen this explained a little more. Second there is the character of the black guy who still lives with his mom. I had a hard time believing this guy who was clearly infatuated with Nadia would still be living with his mother in such a timid way.But all in all this was an excellent movie about regular people with regular problems in an enormous city like London. It was nice for a change to see a movie like this outside New York or Los Angeles. I award it the grade below because this took me by surprise and kept me locked on the screen for 108 minutes and that's a rare accomplishment these days.9/10 "},{"Title":"Brillent","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is extremly haunting and beatutiful, it can move you into a drunk like state if you watch it too often I think. The look of this film is amazing in the first place, gosh it is so beatutiful and gritty the way Winterbottom's camera shoots in 16MM. It's music score is equally as beautiful. The story is a tale of reality, it's like everyone and anyone you could ever know. Sure their lives are fractured, all of ours all at times. Most people will say they were bored at this film. That is understood it is slow to some viewers, so fokes with A D D stay away-walk into this film with an open mind and exspecting to see a docuementry on real life without plot and you'll walk out glad you saw it. "},{"Title":"Realistic to Romantic","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a sordid setting, the plot unfolds with a Contemporary feeling of British realism. Failure of relationships and family emerge in an Inner City environment. Suddenly the characters relate in a humanistic fashion. Though slightly contrived, we begin to accept to the message of the film. Brilliance of movement and color are stated and warmth and understanding are born. With a tear, we face sensitive and tentative feelings with the intent of the film, Wonderland. "},{"Title":"Best soap ever made","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was told at first that this was a typical woman's movie, but I -being male, 17 years old- was still interested to see it. And I loved it. It's a beautiful story about a normal family in London with all their recognizable problems, misfortunes etc.This movie is so powerful because of its reality especially the casting and dressing department have done a great job to create characters just like you and me (unlike those Hollywood-babes). For example, one of the main characters, Nadia (Gina McKee), is continuously wearing a casual rucksack and that's a thing we would never get to see in an American movie. The acting itself is very natural.Little weaknesses because the main characters are all part of one family, they are much alike and it was a little problematic for me to distinguish the different characters in the first 30 minutes; composer Michael Nyman seems to have understood the intimacy of the movie with his score but his music is a little too emphatic. Overall, 'Wonderland' is a very gripping movie, it's a little like a soap opera but much, much better - mostly because of the great cast. I highly recommend this movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderland is an excellent reality drama in the best British","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wonderland is an excellent reality drama in the best British tradition. Just 4 days out of the lives of members of 1 London family. Their hopes and ambitions, doubts and inability to communicate a perfect illustration of modern day big city life.The actors, though most of them well known from other British films and TV series always believable through very natural and modest acting.Only bad thing I can say about this movie Michael Nyman has gone way over the top on the soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Reminds me a bit of Magnolia... but at the same time, not at all...","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Michael Winterbottom's Wonderland uses the same formula as another movie of 1999, the beautiful Magnolia, in which we follow the life of many characters, which are linked together. The main difference between the characters of both movies, is that while Magnolia's characters were unconventional, those in Wonderland are the kind of people you cross on the streets everyday. But while the story between both movies are in the same vein, the treatment in each movie is totally different. While Magnolia was only about the many main characters in the movie, the OTHER PEOPLE get much of the camera's attention in Wonderland. In many scenes, the camera is distracted by people around the main characters. This is interesting since you get the feeling that everyone on the street has a story to tell. The acting is very convincing. You never get the feeling you are watching actors. Although some scenes are a bit too long, the movie is very rarely boring. I can only think of one scene where I thought OK, enough, I get it... This is just too long.. Sometimes the documentary style camera is a bit annoying. Other times, it is perfect.  A scene in an hospital at the end was memorable. All in all, this is a good movie, with some flaws but also beautiful moments.80% "},{"Title":"Amazing ensemble acting!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went into Wonderland not knowing much about what it was about.  I left the theater feeling completely exhilarated, owing greatly to the wonderful acting by every cast member in this film.  Wonderland (directed by Michael Winterbottom) is structured very similarly to such films as Happiness, Playing by Heart, and Magnolia with its interconnecting stories. It takes its time before the relationships between the characters are revealed.  But it is worth the wait.  The interconnecting stories get more and more emotionally involving as they develop.  All the characters in this film are so human.  I especially liked the scene where the father (Jack Shepherd) visits his neighbor upon being locked out of his house.  The moment where he and the neighbor dance with each other is so tender and subtle that it can't be described.  See the movie and you will know what I am talking about.Molly Parker is also terrific as the young expectant mother.  Her expressive face is very heart-rending and disarming at times.  But it is unfair to single out one or two performers in this particular film, as the rest of the cast is superb.  This movie is also aided by a wonderful musical score by Michael Nyman, who also composed the scores for The Piano and The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover. I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys watching actors portray real people.  You will be in for a real treat.  "},{"Title":"Dysfunctional, selfish family members try to survive.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have never been so depressed in my life.  The movie tells the story of a family--a very dysfunctional family.  The type of family that you actually pray for a happy ending to the movie.  At the end of the movie, things seem to look up as they move on with their lives, but I just have a feeling that Jack will become a juvenile delinquent, Alice's parents will be so self-absorbed her future will be dismal.  The only ones with a possibility of a future without a lifetime of pain is Franklin & Nardia. I can see how some people will appreciate the pain of everyday life...but this was just too much to bear! "},{"Title":"lovely","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is just the kind of story a girl like me would like to be able to tell. No wonder us twentysomething women gave it a 9/10 on the general.It's not hyperfast paced and not boring. It's not singleminded and not disperse. It's not totally plot driven nor does it dwell on deep psychological insights about the characters. It's better than a typical American romantic comedy. You know, it's not Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks again. It's more real life-ish, more emotional, less superficial and yet just as fun. It's the kind of movie where you want to make sure you have your bucket of popcorn, your soda and a comfortable place to sit. And yeah, it's the kind of movie that makes you leave the theatre feeling just a bit happier on the whole. ) "},{"Title":"Philip Larkin illustrated in full color","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wonderland reminds me of Philip Larkin's poem 'This be the verse' (They fuck you up, your mum and dad... and don't have any kids yourself). Perhaps the film isn't quite as negative as the poem, but very little is resolved in the characters' lives and very little changes. This is the most important difference between Wonderland and the films it has often been compared to. In the Dogme films, the characters change, a lot. They come into conflict, they learn from each other, they resolve their conflicts. In Magnolia, so much conflict and learning and transformation happens in a single day that it's unbelievable but beautiful. Wonderland's characters change so little that it's entirely believable and terribly sad. Everyone just muddles through and survives. At the opening of the film in Montreal (11 August 2000), the screening began with a public service advertisement from the Quebec government. It depicted an angry teenager keeping his frustration bottled up inside. A voice-over implored him to talk about it! with friends, with family, with teachers. If you don't talk you can't grow. Just the message the characters in Wonderland needed. "}{"Title":"Wonderland depicts the teeming masses living lives of noisy desperation in their solitude.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The city becomes a character and the camera tells a wordless story in the closing shot as it exalts Christopher Wren's dome from another era when the teeming masses lived lives of quiet desperation. It then moves back to show the concrete blocks of small flats where the inhabitants, some of whom are central characters in this film, are trying to live with some dignity.  The ceaseless chatter and traffic noise rammed home to me how souless and isolating this life style can be.  The is ameliorated by small moments of recognition and affection. Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"A true slice of London life but ultimately boring","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While there were many elements of this film I appreciated - good acting, fine cinematography. Ultimately, I found it a little drab and was expecting more from the recommendations. A sort of Eastenders meets documentary, unsure of really what it is. However, I might check it out again to see if there is something I overlooked, but certainly not for a while.  "},{"Title":"Alice(s) in Wonderland...","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Recent trends in film narrative have witnessed the proliferation of multiple 'petite' narratives involving a series of inter-related characters who are all inter-connected in some way pioneered by Short Cuts and followed by the likes of Pulp Fiction, Happiness, and the more recent Magnolia. In their deliberate and manifest fragmentation, they immediately seem to offer a schizophrenic view of society and the lives depicted within it. Yet to interpret these films as such and only that would be to misunderstand the overall logic of these films. In their very diversity, they seem to offer an overall 'world view', whether it be clear-cut or oblique, in which the characters in these films are all part of the same condition.Whether damning (as in Happiness) or redemptive (as in Magnolia), their world view is ever-present. It is with Wonderland that we have a film which plays with this tension, I think, more skillfully than the aforementioned films. The film is primarily about the lives of three sisters (and their friends, partners, family, etc.) living in London, who are all disparate in terms of their personalities and lifestyles. Winterbottom's message, intimated by the title, is to show that they are all 'Alices in Wonderland'. It is about coming to terms with this predicament and expressing their emotions about it, that the films ably deals with.Shooting his film on location with a shaky hand-held camera in brutally realist hues, Winterbottom reveals a London full of life - a background sharply contrasted by the three women pushed against it, highlighting their increasing loneliness and alienation, whether they accept it or not. Like Magnolia, the first half of the film traces their predicament (each in powerfully unique ways) as it slowly reaches towards a discernible 'crisis point' in which these sisters are forced to accept fate.Not wanting to laud the film too much on the basis of these humanist ideals, one must understand it with the notion of humanism in mind as this is the level at which it works best. Unlike Happiness in which Solondz wallows in the depravity of social misfits, Winterbottom valiantly offers a redemptive glimpse of humankind, in which despite all adversity, there is still hope yet. "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although it doesn't bill itself as such, this daring and compelling tribute to the filthy but magical city of London actually falls within the guidelines of the Danish Dogme movement.So, like Festen and The Idiots, this is a film without gimmicks or special effects, using only natural lighting and handheld cameras.It creates a very fluid style of film-making, perfectly apt for a film like this which charts the ebb and flow of living in a big city.Vibrant, emotive, and superbly acted in the best naturalistic tradition, this marks another stage in Michael Winterbottom's development as a major director. "},{"Title":"Bleak, unsettling, but rewarding.","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A weekend in the lives of three sisters as Nadia looks for love, Debbie packs son Jack off to her ex's and Molly prepares for the birth of her first child. Meanwhile their mother is being driven to the point of insanity by the neighbours dog and their father is left weary and frustrated.Filmed with a hand-held camera, Wonderland has a very documentary/ fly-on-the-wall feel, against the background of a very recognisable London.Winner of '99s Best New British Film Award in the Birmingham Film & TV Festival, it's essentially a bleak and unsentimental look at disjointed lives in a big city, yet very rewarding "},{"Title":"Very European, very close to life","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Recently, I have studied for one semester at a university in London and therefor I was very keen to see Wonderland when I got back to Germany. Unfortunately, I have just seen the german dubbed version but even without the english dialogue I recognized the London that I had experienced.The plot is similar to the films of Robert Altman as it is about a group of people who are all linked together, and the film follows the everyday life of these figures for a certain amount of time. In the case of Wonderland it is the family bond that unites the characters. In the centre of the constellation are the three sisters Molly, Debbie and Nadia.Wonderland is sometimes quite depressing as we see the problems that all the characters have to face, and as director Michael Winterbottom shows us how all of the pair relationships in the film form a very own kind of private hell. This is not presented in Hollywood style where even pain looks glamorous. Wonderland is very close to life, no stylization. Most of the film (if not everything) has been filmed with a hand camera on location on London streets, pubs, flats, etc. and indeed, when you have ever been to London (or England) for a longer period of time than you will be able to see that story and characters could happen everyday in everybody's life. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and intelligent","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Easily the best British film for several months. Winterbottom sees the London which all who live here know and love through a barely-distanced eye. We move with the characters, we live alongside them, the film brings them an immediacy and relevance which mainstream cinema rarely tackles. The plot (what little there is) contains more drama - not to mention coincidences - than real life, but this is compensated for by the film's texture, moving from warm to cold and back again, depending on the scene and its location. Nyman's score veers between irritating and deeply moving, approaching its best in the fireworks sequence. The Dogme-style technique is less annoying than in its Danish counterparts (Winterbottom doesn't seem to have so much trouble staying in focus). Odd to think this script was written by a Frenchwoman. Hey ho. "},{"Title":"Wondrous Winterbottom's wonderful, Wonderland.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wonderland is a breath of cinematic fresh air.  It does nothing wholly original, with its depiction of interconnected lives, family traumas and social despair having a great-deal in common with the best of Robert Altman.  And as for filmic style, well... the use of handheld cameras, improvised performances, and jarring jump cuts have been around since Jean-Luc Godard left audiences &#145;Breathless'.  However, for a British film to present us with such as honest depiction of everyday life; yet incorporating enough hope, imagination and wonderment to break away from the Mike Leigh/Ken Loach School of social realism... well, that is a truly remarkable achievement.  5/5 "},{"Title":"Wonderless","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A lot of people have been saying that this film is warm and wonderful. This movie is nothing but a string of characters that we already know doing things we've already seen.Comparisons have been made between this film and others such as Short Cuts or Magnolia which use a similar style of storytelling (i.e. many intertwining stories), but i've just got to say it. This film is vastly inferere.Watching the film, i enjoyed the opening section. Then i simply stopped caring for the middle section. The final section cleared things up slightly, but i really felt that these were people i didn't care about because their stories (whilst in the context of real life would be quite interesting) seem less than dull on a big screen.I'm not baging this film, it's better than a lot of the others that were showing at the same time, but overall it's weak and ultimately pointless.... "},{"Title":"Treading softly","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every so often I am reminded of the inadvisability of rushing to judgement on a single viewing.  Michael Winterbottom's Wonderland is a case in point.  I got very little out of this first time round, in fact my reaction was positively antagonistic;  characters seemingly as shallow as those in a currently popular BBC soap opera with a similar London setting, but here handled with that clumsy hand held camera cinema verite look, which for me is always a turn-off unless the material itself is brilliant - The Dream Life of Angels and La Promesse for instance.  I suppose it was the rave comments of so many that drew me back for a second viewing.  I can see now that the film has a lot going for it.  As a study of unfulfilled lives it is never less than perceptive and is often quite touching, the boy at the football match, the childbirth scene, reactions to the son's answerphone message and the death of a dog where our sympathies suddenly shift from the tormented to the neighbours from hell.  I can honestly say it is a film I have quite grown to like.  Where I would part company with its devotees however is in my degree of admiration.  It is certainly not to be compared with the best work of Mike Leigh and Ken Loach mainly because it lacks their genius for character development. Unlike the characters in masterworks such as Secrets and Lies and My Name is Joe, those in Wonderland are one-dimensional we know all there is to know about them on their first appearance.  And then there is that totally inappropriate score by Michael Nyman swamping scenes of everyday life with a spurious pseudo-classical muzak, banal lyrical lines accompanied by throbbing repeated chords.  Wonderland would have benefited intrinsically from being without a score.  In any case it is a classic example of a film needing to stand on its own feet without the prop of so called luverly music.  Would it survive so well without in popular esteem is the question! "}{"Title":"A British Short Cuts","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Michael Winterbottom's marvellous film starts off a little shakily and slowly but as we gradually meet this very dysfunctional London family (father, mother, 3 daughters, 1 son, 2 son-in-laws, 1 grandson) as well as various potential lovers and neighbours, it builds up a beautifully multi-layered picture of shifting relationships and life in a big city. Indeed, London is as much the star of this film as any of the actors.This is ambitious stuff juggling several stories at once and in some respects is almost unique for a British feature film.  This is the kind of thing we are used seeing spread over several episodes on television (think This Life or Queer as Folk) or more appropriately in the cinema of, say, Robert Altman (think Short Cuts) and while clocking in at under two hours still has an epic feel to it.Performances by everybody are faultless though I am inclined to single out Ian Hart and John Simm as two of the daughters partners for making two potentially unsympathetic people deeply sympathetic.  It is also brilliantly scored,photographed, edited and directed.  Go out of your way to catch this. It's not exactly easy viewing but it is essential. "},{"Title":"could have been fleshed out a little more, but still good","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i quite enjoyed this film.  the only problem i had with it was that i wanted to see more of gina mckee's character explored - i think all the characters were spread a little thin and it could have been better if there was more focus to fewer characters.  mckee was the highlight of the film (she often is) and her storyline was especially good.  overall i thought the family dynamics were great - in a horrifying way.  the parents were terribly distressing.  i found the brother storyline slightly confusing and unnecessary.  i would like to have known more about him or nothing at all.anyway, i thought it was a decent film, worth seeing by all means. "},{"Title":"Just  Wonderful!!!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Probably , this is the most incredible picture i 've ever seen. Wintterbottom following the way of a fantastic Leigh , could show the autentic atmosphere of the cold London . Every person who has been there , can notice how the director can give us a little piece of the londoner reality. With a fantastic crew and actors the film became one of the most perfect of the nieneties. "},{"Title":"Nice story but bad soundtrack","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While I was in the theater I thought that I would like to meet the characters in real life but to follow their days on a movie screen was more than slow. I realized later that the slow pace was an advantage. When I had left the theater I felt I had lived the story in reality and the characters became sort of like my friends. Michael Winterbottom has obviously great respect for women and not so much for men. In his movie  male figures appear to be only sleepy heads. Not far from reality, you may think.And one reason why this film appears very authentic. The acting was very appropriate to the story. It was sometimes hard to look at it because the picture quality is not good. As far as I'm concerned the soundtrack is very boring and does not match with the lives and the city in this film. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not *that* good","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was an interesting movie, but judging by most of the comments logged on this site, you'd want to rush out and buy the studio, not just the DVD.  Well it's not *that* good.  The style is very reminiscent of London fringe stage drama of the ultra-realistic genre.  On the stage, this style works better as the audience feels intensely part of the drama.  On the screen, the style works occasionally, but not throughout.  The jerkiness of the hand-held camera technique does not have a realistic impact on this reviewer - rather it acts as a constant reminder that one is watching film rather than life.  Only in the non-chamber scenes do we benefit from the use of film rather than stage for this piece.The subject matter and locations remind one of Poliakoff, but in my view Poliakoff usually does this stuff much better.  You feel that the characters in this movie have more to them than their drab lives reveal, but (unlike in a Poliakoff) none of them has sufficient get up and go to try to change anything about their lives.  The result is that the film goes nowhere.  Admittedly it goes nowhere elegantly, well-acted, in parts movingly, but it is still nowhere.Real talent on show - would love to see similar cast and same director working with a more interesting script.  Would someone please sponsor them a couple of tripods for their next attempt.  "},{"Title":"Wong-kar Wai comes to Sarf London","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a beautifully made movie which brings Michael Winterbottom back to similar territory explored in his first two, and best movies. It's saubject matter and acting are wonderfully naturalistic, but it's cinematogrphic style owes more, with it's constantly moving camera and exquisite use of filters that make Lambeth appear more beautiful than it could ever do in reality, to the movies of Wong-kar Wai. It's the sort of movie that would be demeaned by having it's plot explained, like trying to explain Beethoven's Ninth symphony to a deaf person in sign language. Actaully, it's so beautiful visually and it's humanism is so deep that a deaf person might enjoy it. Please go and see it.  "},{"Title":"Not fun.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Seriously don't bother. If you're bored and looking for watch a film to fill in some time, don't make it this one. It might be alright if you're specifically looking to watch some pretentious pseudo verite bullsht. Maybe. The attempt to create realism through jerky hand-held camera work is distracting and enough to give you motion-sickness, the film-stock is grainy and unattractive, the characters are grating and impossible to empathize with and the music was craptastic. Everything about this film irritated me, from the over-used disjointed jump cuts to the ridiculously heavy-handed and out of place piano scoring, and the boring plot (and I hesitate to bestow 'plot' on the disjointed wreck that is Wonderland). I also disliked Wonderland's recurring gimmicky motifs - eg. character's moment of reflection = fast motion + slow motion + shitty *emotive* piano music. (Quick! A character is thinking! Cue the piano music and stock city footage! My, how ironic it is that despite being in a city surrounded by people this character is so isolated. How *profound*. In fact, it's so profound, lets use it again!.... and again!.... and again!) I'm guessing Wonderland was an attempt to be an insightful meditation on the reality of the lives of a bunch of everyday people dealing with modern life or some crap like that. The problem with that is that real life is boring. So why bother to make a film of what people see everyday? Without offering any kind of different insight or narrative or point of difference to create ANY sort of interest AT ALL? What I did last week is as interesting as any one of Wonderland's inconsequential narratives. In fact if Wonderland's plot is what passes as film-worthy these days, I think I could make a living shitting out weekly screenplays of what I've done each week. It's cinema verite! It's art! It's genius! It's... totally boring. If you want real life boredom, turn off your TV and go talk to some real life vapid morons. At least that way you don't have to fork out for video rental.Watching Wonderland is like going to a bad party - the music is bad, the people are boring, pretentious and unattractive, and while it's only a couple of hours until it's over, it seems like much, much, longer. "},{"Title":"British Working Class Life in the 30's","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very poignant tale that reflects working class life in the UK in the 1930's. I know. I was there and can relate to Liam because I was also a stutterer. I lived in a bleak London working class suburb in a ubiquitous row house, altho' a little better the one depicted in this movie. Liam reflects the lives of quiet desperation that most of the working class Brits lived. Bread and drippin', and bubble and squeak, were part of our everyday diet. Anti-Catholic? I don't think so. I think a more true reflection of what churches practice to impose their control and cook the minds of young children. The movie was very sad and brought back bitter memories for me. Fortunately I escaped the poverty and emigrated to the US. I know how poor Liam felt when his mother sent him on errands which required him to try to talk to the shop keepers and neighbors. For us stuttering children it is truly a terrifying experience. An unsatisfactory ending perhaps but for most working class families there is no satisfactory ending. "},{"Title":"A thrilled film about vulgar people","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I must say I understand Mr Winterbottom. I understand him, but don't share his feelings. He must think it's such a wonder that so many people living one around others don't know what to do to their lives. This is what this film speaks about. Normal people, even vulgar people, who don't know how to face their problems. It's some kind of kaleidoscope of the vulgar man. I suppose Mr Winterbottom finds it somewhat moving, but the question you should ask to yourself before seeing this movie is do I want to simply get moved seeing poor people? (intellectually poor, I mean. The fact that they have more or less money is unimportant) If the answer is yes, perhaps this will be a good film, but forget about obtaining nothing more from it, because its characters haven't got nothing for you; in fact, they haven't enough for themselves. For me, this film has nothing but a documentary interest, but probably the best you could do is see it and decide.In addition, the movie is intentionally style-less in its shooting. The music (by Michael Nyman) is the only talented detail. "},{"Title":"A cinematic Wonderland.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Contrary to the comment that it is not worth a second look, this film demands a second look.  You will miss too much of relevance the first time through.  If you view it on cable, be sure your VCR is running. In short, this is indeed a cinematic wonderland.  A few devices didn't work well, but in general, it is worth watching just for the  poignant acting and a camera style that perfectly fits the general chaotic nature of the subject matter. "}{"Title":"Uninspiring","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie on cable, crossing my fingers that the channel was not going to put another stupid movie on, since this tends to happen a lot. But after the first few minutes of watching this, noting that this was not some Hollywood disaster, I settled on it a little.Those movies that try to do character studies, particularly of uninspiring, unheroic, boring people tend to bore me. This film was no exception. The acting was an uninspiring mess, punctuated by the pretentious grainy look, silly speed-ups and the consecutive pace of scenes that didn't feel coherent at all.After awhile, I just got bored and left the television on just for the sound, and then came here to find that so many people actually enjoyed this, which is quite quizzical to me. "},{"Title":"And just why didn't I give this a 1 out of 10 rating?","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fact! People don't know trash unless they buy all their movies for $2.99. In British currency, that would be $1.25. Another fact! Who wants to watch the reality of life's dirt when they have already suffered working all day long in it? Don't we go to the movies to dream about being what only a few of us ever achieve? I mean, why watch pathetic actors acting like pathetic people! But I've got to give this movie a two, beloved movie goers, as I just might have a hot woman over sometime and, depending on her personality, it might pass as a babe flick. But then, who knows? Instead, we might just go straight to the coffee. Ahem. Fact! The gray rabbits teeth and the thick eyebrows on the women just doesn't do it for me! And why always have the act of sex happening when a mixed couple get together? I mean, that is so eighties while the endeavor really isn't as entertaining as it once was nor does it really anger anyone. Why not have them go shopping for cripes sake! You know, normal people having to suffer tremendously together as the poor African American bloke is having to go shopping with the ole' ball and chain rather than staying at home watching the cricket finals. Did I say African American? Hee hee. Fact! This movie starts off as something of a documentary and then mixes in with a lot of artistic goo. You know, that abract kind of stuff they do by smearing in a lot of pastel paint into the scenery. But then the tone develops a plot all of the sudden which kind of confused me. Look, either keep it all porn or make something socially valuable out of it! Fact! This movie sucks. "}]