[{"Title":"Brilliant but poor marketing...","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This gem hit box offices in 2000, though there's a large chance that you were sick the day it was in theaters.. Disney mistakenly bills this as a Sandra Bullock romantic- comedy, which it  isn't... If you want to see Sandra Bullock in a cutesy role, go see Miss Congeniality. If your tired of one-track crap like that, come see Gunshy. This is an honest, funny view of what happens when Liam Neeson's character, a former DEA golden-boy, starts getting job-related panic attacks... Add Oliver Platt as a high-strung gangster with marital problems, Jose Zuniga as a secretly-homosexual drug lord, and group therapy, and the result is GUNSHY, a smart, wicked, sweet, fast, and funny look at the modern gangster flick. You won't be disappointed... 10! "},{"Title":"Stressed out","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" No wonder Charlie, the man at the center of the film is suffering from the pressures of his job. He has too many things to worry about and all his problems affects his stomach functions producing funny noises at the worst moments. What's an undercover man to do? He gets involved more deeply into trying to do a decent job and in the process, he falls in love with the woman who understands what has to be done to relieve his symptoms.Erik Blakeney has written and directed a film that should have been seen by a wider audience, yet, this movie came and went without fanfare. It deserved a better fate because of the funny screen play Mr. Blakeney created and the wonderful cast that was gathered for the picture. The problem seems to have been in the marketing. This is clearly not a Sandra Bullock vehicle at all!Liam Neeson and Oliver Platt are about the best thing going for the movie. Liam Neeson's Charlie is one of the funniest roles he has done in his career. Mr. Neeson tends to gravitate toward more dramatic fare, but as Charlie, he proves he is an accomplished comedian. The same goes for Oliver Platt who plays a bad guy interested in domestic activities such as cleaning a messy kitchen, or even thinking about a life in Italy growing tomatoes.The minor roles are equally good. Jose Zuniga and Micahel DeLorenzo are hilarious as a pair of gay drug dealers. Sandra Bullock doesn't get as many opportunities in the movie, but she is seen in the pivotal role of Judy. The group therapy sessions involving Charlie and other law enforcing people are fun to watch.Erik Blakeney shows he can do good work if only he could have the right studio people behind him. "},{"Title":"great sublime satire...","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  what is wrong with this film? absolutely nothing. the story is MORE believable than analyze this to which this has been compared but there is no comparison-they're both great movies in there own right and totally different genres. analyze this is a straight up fantastical farce where gun shy is a dramatic romantic comedy more in the same vein as whole nine yards (but done much better). the soundtrack is excellent (you can't lose with tom waites!)the editing is wonderful(liam's perception in the 1st scene is hysterical) and the storyline flows.charlie and fulvio's developing fiendship shows insight to the harshness of choosing a dangerous perfession and being born into it. either way you look at it, they are just two guys that hate their jobs just like the guys in the group sessions. wheather your a cop, thug, banker, lawyer, or stockbroker; life gets to a point where it all blends into an unfulfilling mess and you feel as if your drowning.i noticed a lot of negitive reviews and am surprised at that. (like the gay thing-no one in this film is what they seem - get it?) maybe this is too complicated of a movie for everyone to enjoy. maybe hollywood has been putting out too much mission impossible eye candy that thinking about a movie and an underlying concept just shouldn't be expected anymore. this is a funny, sweet, real film. give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Within the great adversities of life, this flick wittingly demonstrates that good film making will get you to laugh under the most dire of circumstances!","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Gun Shy is apt title! This underrated comedy, will put a smile on your face,despite any insanities we'd project as insurmountable odds that you & I may sometime end up facing! I found it well written, with appropriate zingers that I find myself quoting, as certain situations arise! It contains great casting,an interesting plot,& the interaction of all the charismatic characters kept me glued as to what they'd say & do from one moment to the next! The spontaneous actions,style & quips of this zany grand insanity of unusual lifestyles & eclectic characters being thrust into an quite unusual situation,under the intense pressure of a bunch of grandiose yet charismatic lunatics,kept me constantly yearning for more of that unique chemistry,prolific dialog & unforeseen situations that earmarked this film as an all time favorite of mine! PS A Sugestion, place your brain on the shelf & don't knitpick,just enjoy a feel good, about feeling bad, kind of movie! ...And for Heavens sake, smile, as you may have the misfortune of being one of those dysfunctional, yet incredibly lovable, misfits! "},{"Title":"And You Thought You Had It Tough?","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Stress. It comes in many shapes and sizes, to many totally different people. Liam's character, Charlie was stressed to the max, but who wouldn't be, if your life is always on the line because of your chosen profession. Working for DEA, not the job for me, working for the Columbian Cartel, not for me, working for the Mafia, again, NOT FOR ME. Put these three groups of people together to launder money with an over the top type from wallstreet and you get a movie with a wonderful story line and an even more incredible ending. OLIVER PLATT, I LOVE YOU!!! He is one of Canada's best exports and very believable in whatever part he plays. Sandra Bullock shines in her character and turns out to be what Liams character, Charlie needs, period. The Columbian lovers cracked me up. I was reading other user comments and read that the script was non consistant because one minute the character is showing pictures of his wife and kids, but really he's gay. MANY men keep that part of themselves hidden in a homophobic world, especially when your father is one of the heads of the Colombian Cartel. The group therapy sessions, show that all people go through stressful moments, dosen't matter who you are. I recommend this movie to people who have suffered from stress, anxiety, and or depression. We're not alone!!! "},{"Title":"Good deal of enjoyment in this film, if you have the right sense of humor","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I truly enjoyed this movie.  It is one of those movies where it seems that the actors were just given free reign to have fun with their parts. Oliver Platt steals every scene he is in, and the Colombian Cartel members are quite amusing as well.  Liam Neeson and his group therapy session is quite enjoyable as well.  Even Sandra Bullock is amusing, especially when giving a colonic.  This is a movie that looks like it was fun to make, and it can be just as fun to watch.  This is not a taut thriller, a gritty cop film, a clever spy movie, or an intellectual comedy.  It is fun.  Have fun with it. If you don't like to have fun then go see the new Time Machine.  If you do like fun then watch Gun Shy. "},{"Title":"A brilliantly scripted, original and funny film.","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Gunshy (Gun Shy in the US) is a brilliantly scripted, original and funny film.  With great performances by Liam Neason as well as some of his supports, writer / director Eric Blakeney has managed to realise and create one of the most refreshing films to come out of the US for a long time. Too often it is the script that lets a film down - not with Gunshy!  And to then put words to the screen as successfully as Blakeney has managed himself is really encouraging.  After this directorial debut I can hardly wait to see what he can come up with next! It just leaves me wondering who screwed up the marketing for Gunshy, because this is definitely a film that deserved a much better reception than it got.  Categorising Gunshy as a Sandra Bullock romantic comedy is not only clearly wrong, but leaves those searching for such a film disappointed, and the audience that would most appreciate this film unaware of Gunshy´s existence.  I only saw Gunshy by chance, loved it, and would urge anyone to go and see it! "},{"Title":" Fear is the other's guy's  problem, . . Unfortunately,  I'm the other guy! ","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Liam Neeson was once a truck driver for a beer company, whether or not he was any good is a matter of conjecture. Fortunately, for movie audiences around the world, his talent for acting on the big screen has superseded and today he is known as one of the finest thespians in show business. Take this film for instance, it's called  Gun Shy.  In this story, he plays Charles 'Charlie' Mayeaux (pronounced - MAYO) a field operative working for the D.E.A. His job is to take on the big drug cartels and put them out of business. However, a bad experience in his last encounter with the drug lords, got him so shook up, it left him with a confidence problem, which has created a noticeable fear of death. So much so, he has begun seeing a therapist. In the meantime, his job continues and he must go undercover to confront the Columbia drug cartel and the America mafia, which could get him killed. Oliver Platt, is a gangster with anger management issues, José Zúñiga and Michael DeLorenzo play Columbian operatives out for the big score or big hit, whichever comes first. If that were not enough, Charlie must also attend Group therapy with Richard Schiff and other problem oriented patients. Mitch Pileggi, interestingly plays Dexter Helvenshaw a corrupt agent. Although there are several parts of the film which exercise Neeson's great gifts for interaction, most of the movie scenes are hampered with too many issues and little cohesion and this makes for awkward moments. Still, it's a good and interesting film and one which makes for entertainment and isn't that what movie making is all about? *** "},{"Title":"Too much bathroom humor","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I love Liam Neeson--I've seen nearly every movie he's ever been in. I'm curious about his life, and I buy the magazines he's featured in. But I NEVER, EVER needed to see him sitting on the toilet suffering with diarrhea. GROSS. Or passing gas. Or getting an enema. Or, for that matter, being weak and whiney. Nothing about his character in this movie is compelling, and it is a waste of his awesome talent. Also, he looks pale in this movie.Sandra Bullock plays the one imensional, wacky, unconventional sex kitten. The only interesting scenes are the opening ones, some of which reminded me of The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover. One positive thing the music is good, especially the inclusion of Tom Waits music.Bottom line Don't bother. "},{"Title":"A good movie with a twist of lime....","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I personally thought this film was good. 7 out of 10. I thought the acting was very good. But I have to admit the plot was interesting. Unusual. Different. But that is why I liked it. It wasn't like every other gangsta, mob, shoot 'em and kill 'em film I'd seen. There wasn't 60 minutes of blood and gore. Which I am glad about there is too much in this industry anyway.So if you want a movie that is a little different. And maybe even a bit unusual, go to your local video store and rent Gun Shy. "}{"Title":"Slapstick Mixed with Psychology","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" GUN SHY is a peculiar movie, one that purports to have a significant storyline but one that splinters ideas all over the place, leaving the viewer wondering what all the fuss is about.'Charlie' Mayeaux (Liam Neeson) is a bummed out DEA agent fresh from a bungled case yet given an important assignment to break a Columbian drug cartel represented by Fidel (José Zúñiga) and his boyfriend Estuvio (Michael DeLorenzo). Also caught up in this mélange is the Mafia represented, however reluctantly, by Fulvio Nestra (Oliver Platt), a nerdy but vicious bungler whose temper is uncontrollable, partly due to his insipid belittling wife Gloria (Mary McCormack) whose father demands Fulvio's crime life importance. Charlie is a mess, meets a psychologist who introduces him to group therapy (where Charlie idiotically relates all the DEA secrets openly) and to gastroenterology where nurse Judy (Sandra Bullock) administers a barium enema then other more herbal-sided treatments while she and Charlie become bonded. People are maimed (gunshot castration), killed, made to look foolish, all to the end of supposedly belly laughs on the part of the audience.True, Neeson shows a flair for comedy and Platt manages to convey a breakthrough role for him, but the rest is a jumbled mess. Made in 2000 with the Twin Towers of New York frequently visible during talk against Arabs and the Middle East, it is easy to see why the timing of this 'yet another Mafia vs law' film contributed to its short theater run (how many have even heard of it?). But in the final analysis it probably failed on its own merits - sad for a film filled to the brim with very fine actors. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"I had a lot of fun","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The movie has a crazy touch. The cutting may sometimes be a little confusing, but it serves the purpose. I did not know what to expect when I started looking. Was this a dark, depressing thing or a comedy? It was something of both. It was very fun, but still it had a serious and solid base. Why is a bad guy bad? Can the tough guy never get a nervous breakdown? "},{"Title":"A Poor Fry","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" 'Gunshy' tries to mingle too many things into one and fails. There's the whole 'psychology' aspect, the friends-with-the-gangster theme, the thriller aspect and so on and all try to be part of one story. Blakeney's fails to give it the energy and slickness that it needed. The story drags too much. The romantic track between Judy and Charles is poorly developed. Liam Neeson demonstrates a flair for comedy but it is Oliver Platt and Mary McCormack who steal the show. Their scenes together are some of the best moments of the film. I was also amused by the sequences that involved Charles and his group therapy buddies and the final sequences with the two gay Colombians. Sandra Bullock does not get much scope (ironically, she produced the film). In addition, I loved the soundtrack which is an impressive eclectic mixture. "},{"Title":"Cute, funny, but somewhat unrealistic...","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Despite its flaws, I enjoyed the picture.  There was enough comedy to make me forget about those minor details overlooked during the production.  I liked the group therapy tie-in, and thought that its purpose later in the film was interesting, but a little predictable.  Overall, Neeson gave a strong performance, and Bullock played herself.  I would give it **1/2  (on a four star scale). "},{"Title":"A hit-or-miss proposition, depending on who you ask.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A much maligned film, Gun Shy bets on an increasingly common premise, encapsulated by novelist and comics writer Peter David  Cliches can be your friend.  Many people have blasted the film as being a weak retread of the cliche-busting humour that found great success in Analyze This, Grosse Pointe Blank and The Sopranos.  While Gun Shy definitely does have some glaring weaknesses, it does have at least three things going for it in my mind  the performances of Liam Neeson and Oliver Platt, and some clever editing.I found that Neeson struck a terrific balance between presenting the steely, fearless undercover persona and the shell-shocked cop underneath.  The contrast is played up well, especially in the first scene at the psychiatrist's and the scenes where Charlie is caught between Fulvio and the Colombians.Oliver Platt is utterly hilarious as a sadistic leg-breaker with a heart of gold, and his portrayal steals the show.  I thought his portrayal of Fulvio had a great deal more realism and sympathy to him than DeNiro's Paul Viti. Platt's Life could be sweet speech is far more convincing than DeNiro's comical bawling.Finally, the editor did a terrific job, playing up Charlie's crumbling facade of fearlessness, constructing Fulvio's introduction as simultaneously menacing and absurd, and using an odd kind of show-and-tell technique in the bar scene towards the end.One little point I enjoyed was Charlie's discussion of the undercover lifestyle, which reminded me of how the movie Rounders offered an insider's angle on the psychology and tricks involved in gambling.  A minor element, but it contributed greatly to my enjoyment of both films.All that said, there are some things I could have lived without.  Take out the gastrointestinal problems (and the throwaway romantic subplot it leads into), and you would have a much improved film.  The essential concept *is* heavily reminiscent of the three aforementioned  flicks, and it could have used a bit more focus.  As it is, it tries hard to work in several comedic and dramatic angles, but only a few come off smoothly.  I would recommend it as a light diversion to watch with friends, as even a cursory analysis draws unwelcome comparisons to its more successful predecessors.  I went in with middling expectations and had a blast the first rental.  Surprisingly enough, I watched Gun Shy again with friends after watching Analyze This, and I still enjoyed it.  Give it a spin. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance, watch the whole film.","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" My wife and I had never heard of this one. We happened to see the summary on the TV satellite summary screen and were intrigued. With the cast list containing both Liam Neeson and Sandra Bullock we though we could give it a try.We nearly turned this one off after the first 30 minutes. We commented that it was no wonder we'd never heard of it before. I was personally worried this would be another Bullock movie like Hangmen, a TRULY horrific flick, but that's another story.At the beginning the plot was all over the place. But the acting was good and soon after this we both started liking the characters. By the end we were both happy we stuck it out. The movie isn't about the guns and violence. Very nice for a change.This movie could help folks get a little perspective on their lives. "},{"Title":"Suspend disbelief and enjoy the fun","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I love this movie! I must have watched it at least 20 times - and it doesn't get old! Oliver Platt is brilliant as the downtrodden would-be mobster - gruff and domineering, yet extremely likable. Liam Neeson plays the 'once incredibly capable and now a quivering bundle of flatulence' undercover agent with finesse - and the situations he finds himself in are ludicrous and hilarious. Sandra Bullock is,as always, gorgeous, and in this film, very understated as the love interest, giving her an edge I haven't seen in her work before. The soundtrack scores well too, as any would that includes Tom Waits and music of a similar ilk. Definitely one for those who like their comedy with a good twisting tale. Suspend disbelief and enjoy the journey, it's a blast! "},{"Title":"Oddball fish-out-of-water/screwball comedy","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" GUN SHY (2000) ** Liam Neeson, Oliver Platt, Sandra Bullock, Jose Zuniga, Michael DeLorenzo, Andy Lauer, Richard Schiff, Paul Ben-Victor, Mitch Pileggi, Gregg Daniel, Ben Weber, Mary McCormack, Michael Mantell.Liam Neeson may not be known for his comic flair in spite of his wide dramatic range in serious films but here he displays a low underwhelming charm that has a distinct world-weary sarcasm that helps make his nearly burnt out federal undercover agent Charlie a somewhat put-upon likable good guy.Charlie is on the verge of some kind of nervous breakdown ever since a botched assignment nearly got him killed and an aversion to watermelon (he was forced in a compromising position a la a roasted pig during the melee), that unless he can pull himself together the next job may send him over the edge.That's why while en route to his debriefing for a small-time made man in New York he makes small talk on the plane with a man who turns out to be a therapist and before he knows it is on the couch and later in group therapy with a quartet of stressed businessmen who seem to all share a common thread fear of repercussions and termination.Charlie is so bent out of shape in his recovery from his life-threatening incident and the upcoming ploy to oust the violent tempered Fulvio Nesstra (Platt, one of our best comic actors playing it to the hilt a la Paul Sorvino) that the therapist recommend him to a gastrointestinal clinic where in arguably the oddest meet-cute in film history is ministered by the sunny Judy Tipp (wholesomely sexy Bullock, who also produced the comedy) and wind up falling in love with her post-enema treatment (!) What makes the film its own is its blend of the out-of-sort comic elements of Charlie's high stressed work and the group therapy's oddball patients , especially Richard Schiff (best know as the human wishbone in 'The Lost World Jurassic Park' and currently on tv's dramedy 'The West Wing') who is so beyond frazzled at his workplace he has to resort to some bizarre tactics to avoid blurting out a Tourette's Syndromelike spurt of vitriol (at least until the film needs it as a closure).Maybe because of the unusual hybrid of comedy a la 'Analyze This' with the broad character of Platt's Fulvio and the somewhat sardonic tone of Neeson's Charlie does it mesh often on the mark. Yet the film suffers from trying to balance too much on its scales to begin with but comes across as a game effort with a fine ensemble and clever screenplay by new filmmaker Eric Blakeney.Give it an A for effort in attempting to make an original spin on a chestnut like the screwball comedy and fish out-of-water genre. "},{"Title":"An unpromoted movie with a good cast list and odd plot twist","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The cast of characters surprised me and gave me the initial impetus to view.  Charlie (Liam Nessam) played a role that seemed so pathetic and vulnerable, that I had a hard time adjusting at first but eventually Mr. Nessam fine acting overcame my preconceptions. Oliver Platt seemed to me the character that molded the plot together. His angry neurotic personna along with the group gave another dimension to the movie. While the deal going down might seem a bit confusing at the beginning, the idea was reenforced several times along with added twists to the plot.  Mr. X-File guy fit his role well and the good ending was a nice surprise. 6 Stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"fun with a twist","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If you are after a movie with humour, a touch of romance, and a  new twist on the hero undercover cop, then this is the movie. Liam Neeson shows he can equally well play the frightened neurotic as the solid heroes of Star Wars and Michael Collins. Sandra Bullock is the executive producer, as well as playing the Queen of Enemas. A movie that leaves you feeling good at the end.  "}{"Title":"Vastly under-rated; is funnier at each repeat viewing","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I don't know why none of the reviewers remarked on the truly remarkable ensemble of actors in Gun Shy. What superb casting! And writing? Just the psychotherapy subplot is a masterpiece. The Latin lovers? Where have these guys been all my life? All the reviewers focussed on Liam N. Why? He and la Bullock are good, but they are like two good, big sunflowers surrounded by many rare and refined blossoms. True, that awful bit in her roof garden was almost enough to make one want to quit watching, and the enema episode... But everything else that involved the ensemble, whether the bad guys at HQs, the Mob, the group in therapy.... How could a decent reviewer miss the great writing and acting in the therapy sessions?I think one key reviewer's initial review may set the stage for the rest. It is said that one weekend the NYTimes book reviewer forgot to read By Love Possessed, by James Cousins (sp?), so the last minute he grabbed a trade journal and just paraphrased it. The trade journal was very favorable, and, following the Times lead, the book became a best-seller and Book-of-the-Month selection and the author became famous. Yet most of the reviewers had never read it!Did this happen with Gun Shy? The scene at the urinal is an all time comic high. The only urinal scene as funny was the one at the start of Buffalo 66. Sorry for those that saw it once AT MOST and failed to see its great humor, casting, writing, acting. I've almost lost trace of how many times I've watched the DVD.  We dethign clotheth! "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie makes a witty play against the typical stereotypes.  You have a Colombian Drug Lord, Mafia Hit man, and a DEA agent who just wants to retire.  None of them is what they seem.  This character contrast with some tight dialogue provides for a very entertaining movie.Of course Oliver Platt steals every scene he is in. "},{"Title":"A few words..","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I must say I was surprised at how many people seemed to really dislike this film. Albeit it wasn't terribly original nor unpredictable and certain elements (chiefly the love subplot) felt unnecessary, overall the movie kept me laughing from start to finish.Even now, recalling the mobsters 'flying' through the air when being shot in the beginning brings a smile to my lips. The friend with whom I watched the movie enjoyed it and neither of us felt we had wasted three dollars on the rental fee. I would have liked to have seen some deleted scenes or outtakes on the DVD but it was enjoyable nonetheless. "},{"Title":"An entertaining dark comedy.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Although the critics may have been wishy-washy when reviewing this film, I had only one word going through my mind while watching it brilliant.  This movie was excellently written, and outstanding performances were turned in by many of the performers.  The most amazing of which was Oliver Platt's. His portrayal of a mafia muscle man who is really a good guy at heart was both comedic and memorable.The story itself did a good job of showing all the aspects of its protagonist's chaotic life.  Each of these aspects developed humorously and nicely (except his relationship with Bullock's character seemed to begin abruptly), and were tied together for the film's climax.All in all, Gun Shy is probably the first good comedy of the year 2000 (which is not the new millenium, that starts in 2001). "},{"Title":"Narco-sleepy. Something sleepy.","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I was very surprised by this film. I had overhead so many negative reviews of this feature that I think it had seeped to deeply into my mind when I chose to pick it up. I had already thought that it was going to be a poor excuse of a film when I placed it in my DVD player, but to my surprise (literally), this was actually a well developed, superbly acted film. Now, it wasn't the greatest movie that I have ever seen, but as far as entertainment goes, this film did lift an eyebrow. The script was loose, but well thought out, the acting was well above your average independent feature, and the tone was light. I think that is what I liked most about this film (outside of the acting) was that it never went too deep into itself, but instead kept it light and seemingly fluffy. In an era of over-zealous directors, Eric Blakeney proved to me that he could gather great actors, place them in a decent story, and produce amazing results. I wish other directors would take his lead and push more towards this than just giving up and relying on the name of the actor to sell their film.There are three elements that really caught my attention while watching this film, and I must begin with the acting. You had in this film some of Hollywood's most dramatic, comedic, and talented people doing their best work in this little film called Gun Shy. Liam Neeson represented his character so well, that I nearly forgot most of the time that he was Neeson from Schindler's List, but instead this neurotic agent with problems around every bend. The twitching of his hands, the ability to bring life to his words and his comedic timing was brilliant. He really was a shining light in this film. This rubbed off onto the others in this film causing greatness from everyone. Oliver Platt was hysterical playing off of every Italian stereotype that can be seen in such hits as The Sopranos and The Godfather, but he does it with so much originality and creativity that it feels and smells fresh. I found myself laughing at everything Platt did, and he played so well against Neeson that I am surprised that the two haven't made more films together. Then there was Sandra. While this wasn't the mightiest role for her, she was enjoyable to watch. She didn't overdo it, nor was she lacking. She was the only average character in the film, and I blame this in part to only having a few short scenes in the film (kinda underdeveloped). The rest of the cast was well above par. What was interesting about the characters and actors of Gun Shy is that I wanted to watch them. They, unlike some recent Hollywood blockbusters, brought life into the film and they had fun (a Hollywood curse word) with this production. You could tell, and it provided some enjoyable cinema.The next element was the story. Director/writer Eric Blakeney did a great job of complementing the actors with a simple script. This may sound like an insult, but so many times we watch films that have this overdeveloped story that causes are actors to get lost, our audience to get lost, and ultimately our film to get lost. By keeping the story simple, Blakeney was able to bring the best from the actors. I do believe that the script complimented the actors and pushed them to explore new possibilities of characters. It was a story that we had seen time and time again, but again, like the acting, it seemed original and fresh because it was simple and complete. My only gripes about the story is that it could have developed Bullock's character a bit more and sharpened the ending a bit, but that is all. Honestly, I thought the film worked the way the script was written, no changes were needed, but healthy constructive feedback is always welcomed.Finally, I would like to say that I loved the theme of this film. Perhaps it is where I am in my life that allowed it to hit me so hard, but for me it was sheer bliss. Here you have a story, which all the central characters hate, loathe, and dislike their lives. From Charlie's hatred and fear of getting killed by his job, to Fulvio's passion for a better life, to the Colombian's wanting to escape in love together, to even all of Charlie's friends in his group therapy that hate their lives as well, there is just this overwhelming sense of dislike for the world when this film begins. As we grow with our characters, they begin to see the brighter side of life and that we all need that moment of change to help us grow and develop ourselves. I thought this was a great theme to bring into a zany mob comedy, but it worked. So many times in Hollywood we see the happy family man who gets caught up in the mob mess, but never have we seen so many disillusioned people gathered in one film and still make it a comedy. It was very close to perfection.Overall, I enjoyed this film. I will say it again, it wasn't the best I have ever seen, but it did provide two hours of entertainment and sometimes that is all you can ask of a film (though lately it is becoming harder and harder). The acting is what pulled me into the picture, and the depressing beginning theme kept me glued to the screen. I surprise myself sometimes because this was not a crazy film. It was a generic story that allowed the actors and the director to be original and creative. You don't see that much anymore, and it was sheer bliss to finally witness it in the film Gun Shy.Grade **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Witty and Wonderful","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I went to my local Blockbuster looking for something new, and I'm glad I found it. The cover of Gun Shy caught my eye, as well as my memory of a freind's reccomendation. The writing and directing were both great, I loved the high-flying action when the bad guys were getting shot. This movie was a great example of FICTION, and it's humor made it very unrealistic. If you didn't like it, you probably just didn't understand it. If you hated it, you probably saw it with a bad state of mind. I'm not a huge fan of any specific actor in it, but overall, I think they did a marvelous job. "},{"Title":"This movie gets funnier each time I watch it. Spoilers","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I really didn't like this movie that much the first time I watched it. But when you watch a movie more than once, that's when you notice the little things; and the little things are what set a movie apart from every other run of the mill Hollywood manufacturing. This movie isn't supposed to be a typical action comedy. This movie is a lesson in taking control of your life and realizing that everyone else is at least as unhappy as you are, that also happens to be pretty funny.I think my favorite character is easily Fulvio. Fulvio will kill someone just for looking at him the wrong way, but all he really wants to do is grow tomatoes like his grandfather. He's about to cut the neighbor's hand off stealing his newspaper, but all he does when he comes home from a bad day is clean the kitchen.Personally, I think the movie is well done. If you don't like it the first time, try it again, you might catch something that you missed previously.  "},{"Title":"Reminded me of Alec Guinness comedies","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Gun Shyis a comedy posing as an action film. It actually starts out as an interesting post-traumatic stress special agent story. But it is at the climax when it gets hilarious.I was a big fan of the Alec Guinness comedies, including his crime films, The Lavender Hill Mob and The Ladykillers. The cinematic style is different but the understated humor is similar.Charlie Mayeaux (Liam Neeson) is an undercover agent suffering from post traumatic stress disorder. He is on a case involving an unpredictable psychotic killer, Fulvio (Oliver Platt). He is sure that he will die in this assignment. It's a follow up to an earlier assignment in which he was about to be killed when he was saved by his task force. All the bad guys were killed, except for one. The gangsters killed in that raid worked for Fulvio, and the DEA wants Charlie to renew his contact with Fulvio's people in the hope that Charlie will meet Fulvio (whom he has never seen except as imagined in his nightmares). They are less interested in catching Fulvio than having him lead them to the big drug cartel bosses.I agree with the critics who complain that the ending of the film doesn't fit with what came before, but by then we know not to take the story as a serious one anyhow. "},{"Title":"not what I expected...yay!!!","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I bought this on VHS. Used. Took eight years to get around to watching it. Lord is this funny! It pretty well taps into every comedic vein in the whole body of comedy. It manages to be hardcore drama peopled by nuts.... not unlike Snatch but with really nutty characters and wackier circumstances. Sandra Bullock, who I have always wanted to hate but always love every time I watch a film of hers is just hot and clever as hell in this. Liam Nessom is funny. Oliver Platt is hilarious. Hell, everyone is funny.This is just one of the films you will be glad you found and were in the right mood the night you watched it.I will say.. there is one scene that in an of itself is very, very funny that comes too early in the film and kind of gives away too much about one of the principal characters. You might agree with me on this. "},{"Title":"Superb Film","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" These are the day to day events of peoples lives, the characters are out there, you've met them, you just don't know it and they just don't show it. 'Charlie' Liam Neeson doesn't convince 'Fulvio's' Oliver Platt step-father to invest in the soy bean market, he just convinces him to put the money in up in order to double it, in which he takes out a little insurance with a crooked DEA agent to guarantee it and the bowel movements 'Charlie can't control' are no such thing. They have a tendency to turn up when he feels he's in danger or relief, of just scraping through another 'would be c*ck up', almost not going to plan. Think about it, your life isn't that eventful, but, take several and intertwine them and the events throughout the day, night and week would be non stop, even if you weren't on hand to witness each persons activities, that doesn't mean they don't happen, that's the point of the group therapy session, to paint a picture of their background menaces in which they all seem to find in the work place, 'Charlie' included. 'Charlie' thinks he's cracking up, beginning to doubt himself and thinks he's losing his edge, what he doesn't realise is, all he needs is a pat on the back and a push in the right direction, that's where 'Judy Tipp' (Sandra Bullock) comes in, she puts his life to one side (which is something he can't do) and focuses on the man and tells him you are still the man you always were. You got to understand,people aren't people, I mean they aren't themselves generally, some friends may think they know you and likewise, but, what they only know are your characteristics and your preferences, but, not the real you, therefore, there's YOU and then person the world sees. This is what 'Charlie' is trying to desperately to keep together and his bowel movements are the tightrope between the two, never letting him forget it. The only way any person will see the real you and the only way your going to show them and let go completely and allow them to do this is if you trust, (in his case) love and have 100% faith in them. That's what it's about faith. You need to have faith in your actions, decisions, the people you choose to be around you and yourself or nothing will ever work out. Fidel had faith in Estuvio, Estuvio had faith in Fidel, a lot of people had faith in Charlie (His boss, Fulvio,Fidel), Charlie had faith in Judy, Judy had faith in herself, Fulvio had faith in himself to get out of the lifestyle (that's why he grew his tomatoes), Helvenshaw had faith in the system (his intentions were crooked, but he still had faith), Fidel and Estuvio's dream was to be together, Charlie's was the ocean view, Judy's was to remain happy, Fulvio's was to be someone HE liked, Bennett's was to be wealthy and the therapy groups was to change the monotonous, predictable, soundtrack to their lives You see in order to have faith you need a dream or a plan to sustain it, not everyone, but most. Every critic is screaming from the rooftops, about how there's no plot, but that's just it, there is no plot to life, yet how it's fused is brilliant,everybody wants something, money, happiness, peace and quiet, but in order to get it, you got to have faith, that's the point, you want a plot go watch a bond movie. "}{"Title":"Nervous?  Me?","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Liam Neeson is an undercover narc who is mediating an exchange between the Italian Mafia, represented by an ominous Oliver Platt, and the Colombian drug cartel. Neither side trusts the other. Neeson begs his superiors to bust them all before he gets found out and shot. He's so filled with anxiety that he has trouble with his bowels and is a nervous wreck.Neeson joins a psychiatrist's group therapy session and is referred to a doc who gives him a barium enema and eventually becomes his lover. That would be Sandra Bullock.It's a comedy and it has its moments. Neeson handles the ludic elements well, which is a bit of a surprise considering how much drama he's done. Example At the first meeting of the therapy group, Neeson listens barely interested while the others runs through their usual complaints. One patient has an impulse to do something improper in public so he deals with it by biting his hand. Another's wife always buys the flavor of ice cream that she KNOWS he hates because it has a chemical taste. Finally the leader says, We haven't heard from Charlie here. And Neeson matter-of-factly describes his feelings having a revolver shoved up his rear end while he's stretched out on a table like a Cornish rock hen. There is a moment of silence.And, later, when he meets Oliver Platt -- he of the ominous beard and barely contained anger, Platt does nothing but stare at him without blinking. Neeson, a neural shambles, has taken more tranquilizers than was wise, plus some booze on top of it, and he stares back, hardly able to keep awake. Even when Platt pulls an automatic and aims it at Neeson's face, his eyes half close and he drifts off. The monumental tranquility amazes and impresses Platt.It's a low-key comedy that aims mostly for smiles rather than laughs and it wants to charm the audience -- rather like Moonstruck and Analyze This did in the previous two years. The problem is that it doesn't have enough funny moments. And, while Neeson gets along okay, Sandra Bullock as the eccentric gastroenterologist drags the movie down. She does a character part well in Infamous, in which she was Harper Lee, but when left to her own devices she's not really very convincing.Part of whatever success the movie has, as comedy, is due to Liam Neeson's physical structure. He's six feet, four inches tall, and he's sinewy. His nose is monstrous. He looms in every shot. He's the last person you'd expect to be gobbling pills to quiet his nerves, while farting in public. "},{"Title":"A Decent Comedy Caper Romp","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" An over the top but entertaining comedy with some sharp violent edges that keeps Sandra Bullock in a surprisingly lower key but important role while Liam Neeson and Oliver Platt given the starring roles that offer them some rather exotic opportunities to stretch their comedic talents in terms of gastrointestinal distress or the put down psychotic mobster that one can even begin to have sympathy for. There are twists and criss-crosses.Overall, this movie keeps the attention but never really presents itself seriously and as such can't be considered a classic or a standout movie...it is more of a playful, take your mind off current everyday shit and enjoy life, take risks, but have some integrity even if you think you're crazy, because maybe you're really not. This is one of those good guys and seeming bad guys who are good guy end up with the goods. "},{"Title":"A lovely film witty, well-acted, well-paced.","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I can't recall how I heard of this movie, but having seen it once, I immediately bought the DVD. This is a fine oddball comedy, propelled by a script that doesn't waste a singled word and brilliant casting. Everyone is perfect in his or her role, from Liam Neeson as the undercover DEA agent who has lost his nerve, to Sandra Bullock as the love interest. Oliver Platt turns in a wonderful performance as the Jeffrey Dahmer of Mafia hit men, and Richard Schiff is hilarious in his role as a overstressed member of Neeson's therapy group, who resorts to biting his hand to repress his anger impulses. Gun Shy is well balanced, well paced, and full of satisfying small surprises and twists -- especially the hilarious closing line of dialog. See it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"This is a very underrated comedy movie","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The script flows along very well as Liam Neeson plays Charlie Mayeaux, an undercover cop who has lost his nerve. Neeson really balances the dramatic parts with the humorous parts, and pulls it off without a hitch. It's nice to see his lighter side after so many dramatic parts.Oliver Platt plays gangster wannabee Fulvio Nesstra to perfection and he's s scene stealer. Platt has never been funnier ... this could be his defining role as an actor.This is just a cleverly crafted movie, nicely directed by Eric Blakeney, that is smart and funny. This is a must-rent DVD and would be a nice addition to any DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Really not a bad rental","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Two things make this movie worth it as a rental.  First, the premise, in which the mob/druglords/dea agents meet new age psychotherapy, was kind of funny.  Second, Oliver Platt is hysterical as a two bit hood married to the don's nasty daughter.  Sandra Bullock and the entire romance angle drag things down.  Rent it without high hopes and you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Big surprise - genuinely funny","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I watched this film purely because I'm a Liam Neeson fan and couldn't resist the opportunity to perv on him in a lead role for an hour and a half. I completely expected the film itself to be total dross, the kind of unmemorable, bland comedy I associate (fairly or otherwise) with Sandra Bullock.Actually I have to say that Bullock felt a bit wedged in; they needed a love interest for Neeson's character, but she didn't need to be a big name - in fact, I think it might have been better if they'd taken on a relative unknown, as it would have saved this actually-quite-good comedy from being billed as a Sandra Bullock Romantic Comedy, thereby alienating a large proportion of the people who might otherwise have wanted to watch it.Bullock's character is very bland and does not seem to have required her to wake up at any point during filming - the kind of character film-makers would probably describe as kooky, but which the rest of us find moderately endearing to start with, edging towards slightly irritating by the end of the film. The only matter of real interest in Bullock's role lay in trying to work out what precisely was supposed to be so special about her - her unusual way of meeting Neeson's character could only carry her so far.Neeson, meanwhile, was far more entertaining. I am biased, but I've seen Neeson play some godawful parts (Clash of the Titans springs to mind) and this was a decent effort. A former golden-boy DEA agent who seeks psychiatric help and gets into group therapy because he's suffering from PTSD and acute intermittent flatulence had the potential to get pretty gimmicky, but he balances it well and saves Charles from becoming a mere caricature. I actually think Neeson doesn't get enough credit as a comic actor, and he and Oliver Platt (who comes as a bit of a surprise if the last thing you saw him in was Beethoven) bounce very well off each other.There's a few cheap laughs that feel a bit tacked on, like Columbian badass Fidel turning out to be in a relationship with his lisping, one- balled bodyguard, but fortunately the makers have had the sense not to labour these points and they remain just surprising and mildly amusing minor elements against the backdrop of a good cast and a decent comic premise.Worth seeing, just try to ignore Sandra Bullock as she's nowhere near as central as you'd expect and feels a bit unnecessary. The only comparison that springs to mind in terms of misguided marketing is Blow Dry - an excellent film with a fantastic cast that they tried to market off the back of its two weakest actors and the worst attempt at a Yorkshire accent in history. "},{"Title":"I picked this movie out for the wrong reasons","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I was in the used video store down at the mall. I saw this in the rack and I remembered looking at the box and not watching this movie for years. Something just didn't seem right about it. Now I know what it was. The box blurb is utterly useless. I don't think the title helped either. A marvelous effort for all concerned. Not a major film, by any means, but a good movie. There are some odd plot holes... but WHO CARES? It's that good. Thank you, Sandra Bullock, for your producer's eye and ear, and for your ability, in this movie at least, to settle for a relatively minor role and still get mileage out of it. By the way, I love the socks and shirt thing. You really do that well. For Liam Neeson, a hearty BRAVO. Good work in a role that a lesser actor might have made, well, less of. Your silences were just as eloquent as your speeches. And to Oliver Platt... really, I must say the same thing. You rose to the occasion and served well in good company. My final credit is to the set designer for the before and after shots of the kitchen. Marvelous. 1951 all the way! "},{"Title":"had Sandy, that's all I need to know","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" First of all Sandy is in it. She is an absolute doll in this movie and that makes it worth while to view. She's just so lovable. However this movie isn't about her, it's about Charlie and Fulvio. A lot of laughs in this one. A bit hard to follow trying to figure out who the bad guys are and who the good guys are. How could you not like Fulvio? He has several scenes that are really funny. When he's trying to grow tomatoes was really funny. The ending was kind of dumb. I mean all those bullets going off and no one get's killed? Then they all get into a small tug boat and go where? All in all well worth seeing. Back to Sandy. Plays a great part but she looks so small compared to Charlie. Don't know how she figured Charlie was so full of fear in thirty seconds. I guess I don't have to know. This movie taught me to get a bowl of strawberries sit down relax and enjoy life and stop worrying about death. That will come when it comes. "},{"Title":"Gender/genre confusion","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  In an interview on the DVD, Sandra Bullock describes this as a chick-flick for guys. Since she was the film's producer, I'd say that was a reasonable guide to what the filmmakers were aiming at. Certainly, somebody's a bit uncertain as to the film's genre. My local Blockbuster had the DVD in the Action section but, while it has two set-piece shootouts, one near the beginning and one at the end, this is not a film that has much in common with Face/Off or Die Hard.Charlie Mayo (Liam Neeson) is an undercover DEA agent whose bosses are very keen that he should single-handedly close down a Colombian drug cartel. However, Charlie has been betrayed and has narrowly escaped being killed, and as a result has lost his nerve. He starts to attend a group therapy session, where he meets a number of unhappy business types. What they've all got in common is fear. Charlie's fear is of dying in a hail of bullets, but he is sympathetic to the other members of the group, who mostly fear losing status.There's a lot of bonding, revelation of true feelings and surprising reversals of expectation. Most of it's pretty unsubtle but strong performances from Neeson, Bullock and Oliver Platt help.The best things about the film are plot-related. The Colombian cartel has billions of dollars that it needs to launder. Platt plays Fulvio, the terrifying but incompetent son-in-law of a Mafia don who is providing unspecified services to facilitate the laundering, and taking a substantial cut in return. A scene that I particularly like cuts between three different meetings, one between Charlie and his bosses, another between Platt's character and his don and the third between the Colombians. While Charlie vainly insists that the deal has to be abandoned because he can't hold it together, Fulvio reassures his father-in-law that, despite the problems, Charlie can hold the deal together. Unfortunately, the plot is apparently of secondary importance to the writer/director who provides a perfunctory and unsatisfactory resolution. One funny plot development near the end is completely wasted. "},{"Title":"Quirky & interesting characters, but not much else","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The characters were interesting, with many not what they seem on the outside, but besides that, there is not much of anything else.  The Sandra Bullock side plot doesn't go anywhere, we don't know what eased Liam Neeson's problem, and the ending seems too improbable for everything to go as it did.Still, not a disaster due to the characters. "}{"Title":"Thin, Thin Fun","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is the story of a neurotic anti-drug agent, who has to go on with his job, against his fear and his instincts. Good premises for a situation comedy, good actors - however the overall impression is one of disappointment. Not even the stars in the credits can save the movie from getting deep into incredibility and vulgarity. What a waste for talents like Bullock and Nelson.  "},{"Title":"Good fun.  Nice way to kill some time.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  On a scale of 5 stars, I give this 3, which is good.  Once in a while a movie will change how you look at life.  This is not one of those movies. It's not meant to be.  It's not an action adventure blow 'em up and shoot the bad guys movie.  It's a light comedy.  It's a lot of fun, and if you're not doin' nothin' then check it out. "},{"Title":"Sort of a cross between The Sopranos, Analyze this, and Miami Vice","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie.  Quirky arythmic, and Sandra Bullock!  What's not to like?  Neeson's fear was genuine, the group's response to his situation played out as plausibly as anything it the flick, and Bullock's solution (even though here character goes from zero to hero in no time flat) fits and accentuates the wierdness of the film.  If you are looking for a serious mob flick, f-gedda-bou-dit!  If however you find it amusing that gangsters and drug dealers might be as mixed up about relationships or why they hate their bosses, as normal working folk, go see!  Very enjoyable! "},{"Title":"Well, Sandra Bullock's nice...","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This starts out as an interesting concept, but gets more and more absurd as it progresses - with the ending feeling contrived and unsatisfying.The title and cover art promise a decent amount of action - but you don't even get that.By far the best thing is that Sandra Bullock is superb - funny, a great actress...did I mention stunning?A few nice ideas, but overall unsuccessful as a comedy, or an action film. "},{"Title":"Amusing, with good performances, but sloppy overall","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Considering Sandra Bullock is not exactly a veteran producer, this is surprisingly good.  The story is very unique; not your typical American cop comedy.  It's actually quite intelligent.  Great cast, for such a lightweight flick.Its overall flow is inconsistent and there are irritating loose ends and missing links, as well as coincidences that are just-too-much.My advice wait for it to get off the New Release shelf, and focus on the scenes of this economy sized sitcom rather than its lacking logic. "},{"Title":"was this supposed to be funny?","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie leaves you wondering whether this was supposed to be a comedy or taken seriously. Either way is was boring, Liam Neeson may be tall but he certainly should stick to more serious parts. It also is the strangest role by Sandra Bullock. I didn't get it, but neither did half of the audience since they left during the intermission. "},{"Title":"Terrific Cast, excellent concept, but...","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  the script never lives up to it's potential.  A DEA agent who's lost his nerve, is in group therapy, and who's dating his nurse all while attempting to seal a multi-million money laundering scheme has lots of comic possibility.  Sadly much of the promise never materialises and while there are a few laughs here and there...good ones too...over all a real disappointment. Neesan and Bullock are wasted and Platt, who is arguably one of the best character actors on the planet, deserved better than the choppy and uneven character he was given. Watch it to see the cast, the story is average at best.  "},{"Title":"Funny and Enjoyable Comedy","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I had read a number of negative reviews before renting this movie. I, too, had wondered why a movie with stars like these had not stayed in theaters for more than a blink. With all of that in mind, I sat down with no expectations and was pleasantly surprised.Liam Neesom plays an undercover cop with a failing digestive system after coming too close to death following his last assignment. He plays the part only moderately well, certainly not as well as would be expected when compared to some of his better movies, but nothing to complain about. Oliver Platt was wonderful; he played a loser killer, hopelessly desperate and hating himself. He was a mediocre bad guy, but he was supposed to be a mediocre bad guy. His posing mean expressions were hilarious and well matched for his character.Don't expect a lot. It has funny lines (such as Neeson describing the dirty details of his job to a mostly yuppie support group), and some visual humor. The plot is tight, but I will say that the love interest (Sandra Bullock, who he meets when he visits for an enema) could have been completely taken out of the movie and it would not have lost anything. She felt like almost an afterthought for how much she contributed to the development of the movie.The ending threw me off as being very far-fetched, but Hollywood will do that in order to get a happily ever after ending. It tied up the loose ends well but was just a little too hard to believe.Had I watched it in theaters, I might have been disappointed. Since I would have otherwise just played on the Internet, I enjoyed myself while watching this. I thought it was fun, and I'd recommend it to others.  "},{"Title":"Not too great really...","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I had problems with this movie (DVD version), because for example, in one scene, Michael DeLorenzo was suppose to have some kind of accent. As he and his gay partner were doing this 'water scene', his retainer dropped down or something, and you could see it the few minutes he said what he had to say. The accent was so unreal, I cannot believe he allowed them to fake him out like that being a real Latino and all.It was totally silly and is understandable why it was in 'limited release'. It was not going to fan out well anywhere else.  In my opinion the actors/tress talents were not used to the best they could have been.  But this is totally my opinion here. "},{"Title":"Average Liam Neeson Film","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Gun Shy (2000)Review in a sentence  Unique cop/mobster plot lifts movie up; old and tired romance subplot drags it down.This movie enforces the point -- not every film needs a romantic angle. Normally, this angle is simply a nuisance to the main plot; here it actually drags the movie down.  I read an interview somewhere that quoted Bullock as saying that she wanted to move away from the type casting in the romantic comedy/drama.  Fantastic - she seems like a talented actress - so why does she keep doing these kind of films??  And in what life do people jump into bed (or a mud pit) together after knowing each other for one day?  It must be nice to live in movie world.Now, the whole story between Liam Neeson and Oliver Platt was fun and interesting.  As usual, there weren't many surprises, you could guess most of what was going to happen, but it was a nice ride getting to that point. I'm a Neeson fan, and it's fun to see him do such an odd comedy as this. GUN SHY is definitely a step up from THE HAUNTING, but also a step down from just about everything else in his filmography.  5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"analyze this style","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  In the beginning the film was a bit boring but as it went on it got better and better. I find it quite amusing with a good end. I think it follows the style of analyse this, grosse point blank and other movies where a contract killer or mafia guy , in this case an undercover agent starts pursues therapy. If you liked any of these, go watch it.  "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have never commented on a movie here before, but this poor flick is so maligned that I couldn't help myself.  Don't get me wrong; it is definitely not a great film, but it isn't as bad as its reputation.First of all, there are NO plot holes, but you definitely have to use your brain to get all of the plot.  This is not a movie for those who like to turn their brains off while watching.  Secondly, those who commented that the movie couldn't make up its mind whether it was serious or comedic were generally correct.  Once you decide that the movie is supposed to be funny (but not side-slapping), you can relax and enjoy it.  If you view it in that context, the dialogue is no longer silly, and the plot is no longer forced--it's exactly what it should be.Lastly, I do not see _Gun Shy_ as a rip-off of _Analyze This_ (or any other movie, for that matter).  The comedy is much more subtle, the drama is much more real, and the theme is very different.  Sure there are plot similarities, but that's kind of like saying _Star Wars_ is like _Alien_ because they both take place in outer space.  The therapy aspect of _Gun Shy_ is not even the main thread.The downsides are mostly technical.  I didn't see any boom mikes, but there were several shots where the background was so overwhelming that the actors were drowned out; surely a more experienced director would have noticed that.  And the plot, while interestingly presented in a non-linear fashion, is so predictable when you finally do figure it out that you wonder if it was worth it.Nonetheless, it's a moderately entertaining movie.  I personally thought it was a direct-to-video release, since it was out of the theaters so quickly I completely missed it.  Perhaps my consequently low expectations led to my positive take on it.  So keep your expectations low, and you too may be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Another Mob Comedy","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is just another mob comedy for Gun Shy. It stars Liam Neeson as a DEA agent with problems, not just mental but physical. He is sent undercover to expose a money laundry scam and take down a hitman(Oliver Platt). Sandra Bullock makes a small appearance as a nurse who falls for Neeson. The film starts off good as a cop drama but falls into the obligatory mob comedy/romantic comedy/guy with problems. Throughout the film it can't decide to be one or the other or all of them. All of them together in one film, don't work. Other than Neeson and Bullock this film doesn't really work. It's OK, better than that aweful  Mickey Blue Eyes. If you feel like renting a flick go get it but there are much better films out there.      "},{"Title":"Worth a matinee ticket!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Having waited for this film because it stars three of my favorite Hollywood people, Liam, Sandra, and Oliver, I finally viewed it this evening.  If you are a big fan of these three, see a matinee showing.  If not, wait until you can rent it for a buck.  It has its moments, but is completely disorganized in its direction and has some very major plot holes that I chose to overlook.  (I really wanted it to be good!)  Maybe 28 Days will be a better film for Sandra who just keeps getting better looking. "},{"Title":"Shy away from this one","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so full of inconsistencies. (Warning, part of the ending is going to be revealed).The biggest one being the ending when a mafia crime boss fails to show up to steal twenty million dollars as earlier planned in the movie. No reason is given why this change in plot occurs. Also, one character in the movie goes from being straight to suddenly gay just for comic effect...very poor indeed. "},{"Title":"Love This Movie","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Where'd this film come from and how come it took me til now to see it??? It's a comic masterpiece, hard laughs from start to finish, a wry satire of the tough guy genre. Great cast, especially Liam Neeson who shows a remarkable comic flair. Kudos for that, no doubt, belong to the director (who also wrote it), who assembled a remarkably colorful group of actors and fashioned one of the funniest ensemble performances I've ever seen on the screen, a comedy that unfolds with a paradoxically poetic visual style that keeps you howling even when the actors aren't speaking. Does for James Bond what Strangelove did for the Doomsday Thriller. My advice, if you're the sort who appreciates intelligent satire and understands that pop culture garbage like How I Met Your Mother isn't at all funny; get a copy asap, make some popcorn, take the phone off the hook and put aside enough time to watch it twice (you will). One last question; where's the darn sequel??? "},{"Title":"The Enema Makes It's Screen Debut","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" So ban me from IMDb for spoiling about the true star. In the long run,this film will make it's way to the Top Comedy list, believe me. Well written, well acted, a bit slow in the editing. And the direction should have paced the scenes with more tempo. But generally one can say it's a true comedy film, not a movie. Either it was the recording or the mixing and maybe it's only the mastering - the ONLY negative is that it sounds lousy. Maybe it's just my DVD copy. The sound will never win an Oscar. But please ignore the comments and votes from the anally sensitive. This is a wonderful story and deserves to be seen and talked about. "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock  was Charming in this Film","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Enjoyed this film greatly, Liam Neeson,(Charlie), showed his great acting abilities in both comedy and drama through out this film. Charlie needed help in many ways and went to a head shrink and his group therapy friends managed to help him with Columbian drug lords and the mob, when things started to fall a part for Charlie. Charlie ran into Judy Tipp,(Sandra Bullock), who went along with his crazy ideas and got his mind off his problems by going to bed with her and making love quite often. There are scenes where Judy Tipp manages to get a tug boat in order to rescue Charlie and all his weird friends aboard. There are great helicopter pictures of Manhattan and the great skyline and our former Twin Towers. Sandra Bullock directed this picture and made this a very entertaining film. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Audience Shy (dvd)","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Or how to turn a imaginative idea (an anxious cop)into a movie crap...This isn't a comedy (I never laugh at the so-called moments however I think I am an average funny guy), this isn't a thriller, but there is a bit of melodrama (with the Don) and romance (with Sandra Bullock). So, the director having not chosen for a genre, this movie is what I called a Frankenstein monster, where all the scene are loosely tied by whatever bits of a bad screenplay.So, sequences are long and boring. The chats are ridiculous for a Mafia gang. But, in all this crap, one thing stay immutable Mitch Pileggi as a FBI Director.My worst movie of the year, and again starring Sandra Bullock !!! But, no prejudice to her, really&#x85; "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but a darn good one!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why, but I liked this movie alot, so much so I saw it three times.  I was surprised to find it was barely distributed, as I told a few friends in other parts of the country to go see it, but it wasn't showing in their towns.  Liam Neeson (who I feel is terribly underated) takes the lead as an incredibly screwed up special agent, and Sandy B. (along with a shrink) tries to show him life's better sides.  I saw this movie again recently on TV, and while the best parts were cut, the movie still shines. "}{"Title":"Good fun!","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie! I left it at the blockbuster for quite a while because I thought it would be no good. No promotion in Holland at all. Now after seeing it I'm glad I eventually picked it up. It's just fun, nothing more nothing less and not pretending to be more than that. Fun characters, actors obviously had a whole lot of fun making the movie, fun story and twists. If you dig some humor even at times subtle take a look at this one. Don't understand all the negative reviews. Belief me I've seen very very much worse comedy's. "},{"Title":"A different kind of gangster flick. Intelligent, unique, and witty!!","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If you're like me, and you're tired of seeing the same old crap come out of Hollywood year after year, add this movie to your watch list.  'Gun Shy' is a witty, off-beat comedy with an all-star cast.  Liam Neeson stars as a nervous undercover DEA agent that must bring an old world mafia thug, Oliver Platt, and Columbian drug kingpins together in a multi-million dollar sting operation.  At the same time, Neeson must also deal with an increasingly volatile digestive system and a horrifying fear of being found out. Produced by co-star Sandra Bullock.  WARNING Dumb people may find this movie boring or confusing.   "},{"Title":"terrific on all levels","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A great cast like the one assembled for this film is often a warningsign. How many movies have you gone to see because of the cast,only to see their talents wasted? 'Gun Shy' breaks that curse; it is agreat, imaginative and fun film.  At first the storyline may seem disjointed, but wait; the threads are woven together and culminatein a lovely ending which I found refreshingly sweet. Liam Neeson's is one of many great performances--he must haveloved this role as an antidote to the turgid mess that was 'PhantomMenace.' Oliver Platt and Richard Schiff are fine as well.Highly recommended to those who look for a little intelligence andhumanity in their entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Fun movie, interesting characters","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie in the one-last-score genre a cop/robber/hustler/whatever needs to just finish this one last job for his ego/kidnapped daughter/boss/whatever, and then he can collapse in a heap in his retirement/familial bliss/newly won $100 bills. Whatever.So, we've all seen this movie many times.  Yet, look at me, I'm smiling! I liked this movie, even though I was sure it was going to be a picked-over buffet of cliches and tough guys.I knew I was going to like it when the toughest guy turned out to be Oliver Platt's wife.  Great introductory scene! And each scene after that was finely crafted, with excellent dialogue and good acting.  But even better than all of that, I actually understood the ending.  Too often, in these caper movies, the filmmakers seem to hurry their way to a finish,  casting out sense as unnecessary ballast.  This ending made sense (although still comic), and it provided a realistic outcome to the relationship between Liam Neeson and Oliver Platt.Only one complaint-- do we really need to have our movie homosexuals portrayed as lisping wannabe dress designers? Sure, be a dress designer, but lose that lisp, Hollywood. It was plenty original, until that little bit of stereotyping. If you can write a screenplay this good, then gay-baiting is beneath you. Really. "},{"Title":"A watchable, likeable and deeper-than-most comedy satire.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is an understated comedy, more of a character study with a strong plot. Some old ground is trodden like cop wanting out and the mobster too but with such talented veterans in all the roles it comes off as likeable. Eternal bit-parter Richard Schiff gets another prominent role, one of his first since Dr Dolittle and his big turn as Eddie Carr in The Lost World. He plays the same sort of character as usual in this one, a recessive nice guy and does not detract at all from the artiness of the film. Neeson certainly turns in a good performance as he always has done but the true standout is Oliver Platt.His best role remains Porthos the Pirate just in watchability but with an accent he brings some depth and realism to his role, departing from the comedy nice guy he usually plays and turning into a 100% believable leg breaker, he has an air of confidence but also in his dialogue scenes the vulnerability that fits right in, a gangster you end up rooting for. Bullock once again has to open up the up tight leading man, she has not yet really demonstrated diversity. Her best role is still Annie in speed, she does not reach prominence in this movie.This a creative, mostly realistic, once or twice unrealistic tale that speaks on human being and the thoughts behind our motivations, a very watchable and prominent acheivment. Well worth seeing, nothing really rates it down.9/10 "},{"Title":"one of the funniest movie","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  this movie is genius! I laughed through the entire thing.it had the best lines, great actor and acting and a creative plot! I recommend this to everyone!!! "},{"Title":"Give this one a second chance","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Gun Shy is the story of a drug bust gone bad and the agent who has been caught in the middle of a world gone crazy. He falls in love when he least expects it, finds friends in a very unlikely group, and manages to keep going despite the circumstances.This is a wonderful farce that happens to contain some really talented actors. Most notably Liam Neeson, who has been seen most recently as Qui-Gon Jinn in Star Wars Episode I (1999). He plays Charlie, an undercover DEA agent who is going through a nervous breakdown. Oliver Platt who most recently caught my attention as Hector Cyr, an eccentric expert on crocodiles in Lake Placid (1999). Oliver plays Fulvio, the son-in-law of Italian Mobster Don Carmine Minetti. Sandra Bullock plays Judy Tipp, a nurse who takes ailing Charlie under her wing. Honorable mention in the movie goes to Mitch Pileggi, who does an excellent job portraying the somewhat shallow character of Dexter Helvenshaw, one of Charlie's superiors.I must say I had never heard of director/writer Eric Blakeney. He has a great wit, lets hope he produces more. I found many scenes in this movie very compelling. One in the middle of the movie stands out.Fulvio (Oliver Platt) comes home after a particularly stressful confrontation and enters the dingy, cluttered kitchen of the home he shares with his wife, Gloria. They are not having a good time of it and she angrily tells him he better shape up. She storms off and you expect him to blow up.  He has that mad gleam in his eyes. He seizes a knife... ...and then throws it in the sink and starts cleaning the kitchen frantically, not stopping until it is spotless. Priceless. "},{"Title":"My favorite comedy since Raising Arizona","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What a scream!Oliver Platt reinforced his greatness with me, perfecting his role as a neurotic Mafia man, and there were so many classic lines in this movie (I can't even go to the bathroom without getting in a pissing contest.) that I will have to add this to my personal movie collection soon.I would think that this is a love/hate movie with most people, but I can't imagine anyone not laughing during the newspaper theft scene (with Oliver Platt and his neighbor).  I am glad my eye caught this movie at the movie rental place!! "},{"Title":"worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I think the subject line sums it up best.  But what makes this movie really terrible is the fact that the story line is REALLY unbelievable.  There is no character development, all of a sudden Sandra Bullock is in love with Liam Neeson, all of a sudden the two Columbians are Gay, and all of a sudden the therapy group is willing to help this guy.  I don't think so...Stay away from this movie "},{"Title":"I liked it...","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  But, I'm a sucker for scam plots like The Sting, or more recently, Payback. Or the type that start out with a character who is, presently, not what is needed for the job though we find out later that he/she has hidden talents. e.g., Under Siege, and earlier Mr. Majestyk and Raven Hawk.Or any caper movie from Topkapi to the Thomas Crown Affair.If you have trouble suspending your disbelief by assuming that Liam Neeson is only a serious, dramatic actor, go back and watch High Spirits. Schindler's List, Rob Roy, and Nell not withstanding, I feel that High Spirits and Gun Shy are his best work.  Comedy is far tougher than drama.And, obviously from what's been said before, once you decide you don't like this movie, then it is necessary to find a bunch of nit picks to prove your case.  Or, at least that's what I do.  But, then I remember that a movie isn't about what it's about but how it's about it...Three great scenes and no bad ones.One great scene is Neeson's first speech to the group.  It has bad ones, so it's not a Great movie, but I liked it. "}{"Title":"surprisingly good film!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Big surprise of a movie!  Very well written, with excellent performances by Liam Neeson and Oliver Platt.  Some very witty humor, combined with lots of suspense/tension made for a rivetting film.  The downsides were a few holes in the plot, as well as a somewhat Hollywood type of ending; a little too-neatly wrapped up.  But all in all, a pleasant surprise! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good character based comedy","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This rental was a surprise hit at my house.  It takes a bit of time to get into, but each one of the main characters is well written and acted.  The flatulent and nervous Charlie is a comedic turn by Liam Neeson like I've never seen him; Oliver Platt's psychotic Mafia hitman Fulvio (who just wants to grow some great tomatoes) is tremendous - the next-door-neighbor scene had us rolling. The gay drug lords, Sandra Bullock's Enema Queen, Fulvio's equally psychotic wife, and the men's support group are icing on the cake.You do have to pay some attention to this flick because the humor is character-based and until they develop it's slow. But the payoff is great as Charlie tries to hold together a deal between drug lords and Mafiosos who are all too ready to use guns to resolve their differences. "},{"Title":"Entertaining film with a fresh plot - recommended.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Gun Shy isn't intended to be Oscar material, just a fun film. The plot was fresh - not the tired, worn-out same-old story-line - and Liam Neeson's character is much more human than the Hollywood-cloned macho pistols-pressed-to-right-cheek cops.I also smiled at the inside X-Files joke, with Neeson's character smoking Morley's. I saw that and said there had to be an X-Filer in here - and, within seconds, up popped Mitch Pileggi (Skinner) at the other end of the conference table.This is a film you can sit back and relax to and have a fairly enjoyable time, getting in some laughs. Acting is well done, and the characters are not caricatures.  A definite recommend, despite some rough language. "},{"Title":"If you like off-beat comedies, find gun shy for a few laughs","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Pretty funny movie...if you like trying to figure things out...this is for you!!  Starts off slow, but it has so many funny one-liners that it is worth the wait.  Good performance by Oliver Platt.  Funniest moment in the movie...2 guys using the urinal...one says, hey, havin' some trouble there...don't worry not everyone has it all like me.....the other replies, ok, ok, you win the pissin contest, (pulls out a gun) but I win the shootin contest (shoots off one of his balls!!)  CLASSIC "},{"Title":"Nothing else to do in bus queue","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Gone are the days when Liam Neeson participated in some decent films like The Mission (1986)(qv), Schindler's List (1993), Nell (1994), Rob Roy (1995) or even The Haunting (1999) today he is lined up for all the worst possible outcomes, like any other Keanu Reeves and such like indistinguishable from anybody else queueing up for a number 57 bus in southern London.Such is this apology of a film; I only put it on as the first channel was showing the 111th flick with Sylvester Stallone being a tough guy, and a US-Mexican coproduction with some bloke doing more or less the same with lots of blood and gore thrown in for bad measure. Liam Neeson with an always sexy Sandra Bullock seemed more attractive, though not much; I should have got a book off the bookshelf... Too late now to feel sorry for myself, or even for Liam and Sandra.Any silly attempts at touches of humour were so badly done that they had the subtlety of walking into a cement wall at over 8kph (which is about 5mph for you lot over there). Such that after about eleven and a half minutes one cannot help thinking that Liam Neeson must have had severe tax problems somewhere and had no choice but to throw himself into this mindless charade. If I had known I might have lent him a few pennies/pesetas/lira/cents, so that he could at least have thrown himself into Ms. Bullock's arms without the camera looking on. Then, I suppose, I would have been spared the torture of excrutiating belly-ache watching this total waste of time for everyone concerned in making it and afterwards watching it.When a few moments of pseudo-imitation Morricone-styled music turned up I almost threw a flower-pot of my wife's at the screen, but refrained from doing so for two very unquestionable motives one, my wife would not speak to me for weeks (which might just be a blessing in disguise), and two, given the present rate of Dollar-Euro, it would cost me nearly a thousand of either to replace it with a new set.Who said that watching the cathode tube was one of the most effortless of occupations? Well, he was wrong, precisely because trying to stomache this kind of tripe requires enormous strength of character, patience and supranatural effort.So save your money on buying/renting this one and send it to your favourite non-government organization. You will be doing far more good to somebody in the world and neither Liam nor Sandra will notice or care. "},{"Title":"A marginally funny spoof about an undercover DEA agent","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Neeson is a top undercover DEA agent suffering from loss of confidence and flatulence. In this nominal comedy, he is caught in a crossfire between a Colombian cartel, an Italian Mafia, and DEA corruption. Can his gastroenterologist's beautiful assistant (Bullock) bail him out? That's the question the film sets up and then answers with lots of tongue-in-cheek humor. Neeson, Platt, and Bullock manage to shore up this marginally funny flick and make it worth watching. Barely. "},{"Title":"Great cast wasted","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a classic example of how a good cast can't save a bad writer/director.  Someone must have called in a lot of favors to get this cast paired with Eric Blakeney in his first feature film.  The story was ininspired and the directing was awful.This film attempts to be a cross between &#145;Donnie Brasco' and &#145;Analyze This' and is a poor imitation on both counts.  The comedy was sophomoric slapstick and just didn't fit well with the police story.  At times I wasn't sure whether Blakeney intended this to be a lampoon of cop movies or a comedy cop caper.  It doesn't really matter.  It didn't work either way.It was incongruous to see actors like Liam Neeson and Sandra Bullock in a film with such a low budget look and such poor direction.  The dialogue was eyerolling bad.  Blakeney tried to be clever, but just succeeded in making a fool of everyone, especially himself for writing this tripe.Liam Neeson was miscast in this role.  He is a great dramatic actor, but a comedian he will never be.  Sandra Bullock didn't really have much to do here other than bring another name to the marquee.  Oliver Platt was the closest thing to providing saving grace to this film as he was consistently funny.Eric Blakeney and Hollywood Pictures should be tried and convicted for actor and audience abuse with this film.  I rated it a 3/10.  Even Neeson and Bullock fans will want to miss this one.   "},{"Title":"Great Film By Eric Blakeney","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Eric Blakeney is a very talented writer/director. I love his movie Gun Shy, and its all star cast.The director really has a knack for comedy. I recently received another film directed by Eric Blakeney,Date For Hire, Blakeney's new laugh out loud DVD, hitting shelves later this summer. If you liked Gun Shy you'll be sure to love this film. Synopsis To show his friends that he isn't the loser they have made him to be, Marcus bets them that he can get a date with the next girl that walks into the bar. But things don't go quite as planned when the girl puts a price tag on their night out. Now a simple bet has turned into an all night adventure, where money, stalkers, and craziness collide. Check Youtube for the official trailer posted by Maverick Entertainment, or go to their website- http//www.maverickentertainment.cc/movies/810/date-for-hire "},{"Title":"A Bit Boring","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Reviews on Gun Shy might be slightly misleading to me especially people with the same movie taste with me, as I don't think Gun Shy should get full stars or marks. I think it was just an okay film with lots of up and down moments. What I mean with that is it was not a gripping film from start to end.(Gives opportunity to people who likes to doze off in movies) Gun Shy tells us the story of an undercover DEA AGENT(Liam Neeson)who is almost killed by gangsters. He only wants to retire but reluctantly accepts a final job. Being stressed up he starts therapy and he also meets with a quirky nurse(Sandra Bullock)whom he falls for in another treatment.Meanwhile, his final case brings him into contact with Fulvio Nesstra(Oliver Platt)an insanely violent mobster with a surprisingly tender side. Fulvio's secret passion is his failing tomato garden.Liam Neeson and most of the cast look uncomfortable and lost in their roles. I only found Sandra Bullock better than the rest only in terms of acting not producing part.Contains frequent strong language, scenes of a sexual nature and some strong violence. ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"What I watched of this movie was a shocker.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so bad I could not watch all of it. What annoyed me most was the gratuitous bad language and incoherent plot structure. Also, the acting was not all that impressive - Liam Neeson (Charlie) was not appropriate for the part. I was not able to hang on until Sandra Bullock appeared. Overall I would not recommend this movie. "}{"Title":"Complete failure on every level","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Get Shorty humor wannabe. This movie is awful just for the simple reason that you can see what they are trying to do but it never quite gets there. It is almost funny. It is almost clever. It is almost good. It could even be almost great. But it never comes close to these things.It takes about ten minutes for you to figure out whats going on. Then the rest of the movie is waiting for it to happen. Waiting in boredom. Waiting in vain.Oliver Platt is the best thing here and he still seems out of place.Liam Neeson is embarrassingly bad. Sandra Bullock should be billed a cameo.Awful. No wonder it was gone from the theaters in a flash. "},{"Title":"watch it on video","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I went to this film with a friend, just to go to a movie. We joked that the trailers would be the best part, as our expectations were extremely low.That said, I enjoyed the film quite a bit. It's not a great film, it's not even a good film. It's Hollywood junk food. But it was entertaining Hollywood junk food.First, the opening scene was a lot of fun, and very unexpected. Then, the movie turns very similar to Billy Crystal in Analyze This -- with similar results. There is no need to see this movie on the big screen, and one must push away any logic, as the plot is as forced as it can get. But I did laugh, and somehow, Sandra Bullock did not annoy me for most of the movie! That alone is an amazing feat.PS - Liam Neeson is always great, and Oliver Platt... well, he can't play the 20-something anymore, but he does a good grownup. "},{"Title":"Sandra's role","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The person who said Sandra Bullock only has 2-3 minutes of actual screen time evidently did not watch the whole movie.  the third time she was on screen I timed that scene and it was 6 minutes long and then she was on for a fourth time after that.  So she was in the movie quite a bit.  Evidently he quit watching after her first scene.   "},{"Title":"At least it has Sandra Bullock","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Charlie is an undercover cop who is having digestive problems due to stress.  He happens to meet a psychiatrist on an airplane and later becomes his patient.  He also joins group therapy and disgusts the other members of the group with stories about what causes his stress (and, unfortunately, we see these scenes he is describing, in flashbacks at various times in the movie).  As part of his treatment of his digestive situation, he gets a barium enema from Sandra Bullock (this is the source of just one of the many crude jokes).  Bullock takes Charlie home after getting off work and encourages him to change his lifestyle.  Her efforts lead to a romantic relationship between the two.  As for the primary plot line, I'm not sure just what it is except that it involves millions of dollars and men of foreign descent who carry guns.  One of those men is so mean he nearly cuts off a neighbor's hand with an axe, but fortunately the bad guy's wife walks up with the newspaper.  After that the two men are talking like friends.  This same bad guy, when another man makes fun of him due to his own difficulties in the bathroom, shoots the other guy (appropriately?) where a man would least want to be shot and survive.  The movie is funny at times, but occasionally quite violent and not really my taste.  I hope the number of uses of network TV's F-word is not an indication of the number of times THE F-word was used, though there appeared to be other times when the character was saying the F-word while those of us watching TV heard something completely different. Sandra Bullock, of course, is beautiful, confident and funny, and she almost makes the movie work. SPOILER  The ending, however, finally made the movie worthwhile for me.  Just before the movie ends, you will think you know what is going on and what is about to happen.  You will be wrong.  "},{"Title":"Great actors - bad movie - don't bother","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Some movies have an exciting plot, and some movies sell because of the talent they group together in the field of actors.  Gun Shy is a superb example of great talent wasted in a terrible film.  While the performances of Neeson, Platt and Bullock are credible, the plot of the movie and the final cut lacks any sense of cohesion.  The movie contains every cliche in the book, and can't seem to remember if Oliver Platt plays an Arab or an Italian!The romance of Neeson and Bullock is forced, and the sets where the Mafia leaders, Columbian guys, and police all meet look so fake, it's hard to understand how the director thought his movie might pass for an intelligent film.  Liam Neeson spends more time in the bathroom and in spilling out his guts to a psychotherapy group - in a more open way than DeNiro does it in Analyze This.  The bathroom stuff is more stressed than Tom Hanks' urinary infection in Green Mile, while his stomach rumbling reminded me of all the bathroom jokes in Dumb and Dumber (a VERY stupid movie).  Though he gains some friends in the group therapy, the whole approach is bland and unoriginal.There is one recurring theme that I will give credit to.  There are a number of times when all three focal groups of the business deal have very similar conversations, deciding whether or not to stick with the deal, or how to deal with the other people.  In this instance, though the idea is to piece together a comedic montage, but is, in fact, rather cheezy, the editing in these instances is done rather skillfully.But since it's not worth it for that, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Why oh why?","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Gun Shy is one of the worst films I've ever seen. There is not a single sympathetic character, one that you actually want to watch, and it ends up getting tedious after a while. Even though passed off as a comedy, I think I got more laughs out of 'Halloween' than I did this, it sets a new record for number of chuckles 1.Sandra Bullock is third billed, but only has a minute or two of actual screen time, disappointing considering I rented it because of her... Neeson is wasted here. Given an awful character, there is little he can do to save it, and ends up as a bore. Platt fares even worse. Oliver Platt as a menacing mafia killer!?! Don't think so. Most of the scenes he's in are laughable... though not enough to garner another coveted chuckle. The only bright spot among the cast was 'The West Wing's Richard Schiff, who displays that he can play characters other than his annoying, by-the-books Tobey...Avoid this flick as best you can. It has almost no redeeming qualities, and Disney's attempt to call it a comedy makes me think twice about them.1.5/10 "},{"Title":"I give it two stars, because one star means I walk out.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I went to this showing only to hear a band that I like called, The Scabs.  Though they had their 30seconds (at most) of fame I felt like this movie overall a gip.  Though there were a few parts of the movie that I chuckled at, the whole though process of the movie was inconsistent.  First, and far most obvious, you had this fella that had an uncle (head of a columbian cartel), and a family with kids and pictures to prove it.  Later on the story he is gay...now what in the hell were the  producers-directors thinking.  Did they just simply forget the fact that this guy was strait, or was he married with children and gay?  Wait for this one to come out "},{"Title":"director should be shot","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I was half-enjoying this movie on cable TV until we got to the scene where Liam (who is apparently a chronic farter in the movie) is getting some kind of enema action from Sandra Bullock ... she has some squeeze-bulb action going on ... and the music playing is It's a Man's World by James Brown ... this is an abomination. It is blasphemy. It is a crime. What unbelievable bad taste. Imagine that, coming out of Hollywood.i don't have much more to say, but I guess IMDb doesn't allow short, succinct posts. so blah blah blah watched the Cockettes documentary today, found a great andy warhol superstar website, played with new kitties, cooked dinner ... this should fill it out enough ...and I hope the children of the man responsible for putting James Brown in a Sandra Bullock enema scene live in interesting times. "},{"Title":"Neeson, Bullock, Platt. Can't be all bad?  Wrong!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I rented this one because of Liam Neeson, Sandra Bullock, and Oliver Platt. Boy was I fooled.  Are they really that hard up for a paycheck?  This movie must be a dark comedy, as some have stated, because I couldn't see anything watchable about it. "},{"Title":"Amateur Hour/Did you even want to see a boom mike?","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to see this movie from the previews, but then I heard nothing about it for 3 months.  28 days was coming out shortly, and I noticed that Gun Shy had come and went.  Luckilly, some theatres brought Gun Shy back to gain from Sandra's presence in 28 Days, but...  Well, the movie is disappointing.  Not because of the writing, the acting, or the main plot.  For the most part these are all good.  Of course the slow transformation of one character's voice into ultra guy stereotype could have been written better, but it was oscar quality considering the filming style of the first 40min/hour.Maybe I saw a work print, and the projectionist was using the wrong lens, so the movie was out of focus for a while, but--> During the first 40min there were boom-mikes all over the place.  I was seriously laughing out loud because I had not seen them (so obtusely) in a film before.  Surprisingly, the mikes were not brushed out or anything and they were all over the place (from over the characters at a table (very top of screen) or to the blatently obvious, the entire mike (poll and all galavent in the background (about 5 min in and in the side view in the office building about 20 min in)).This was just terrible movie making and I'm surprised they did not take better pride in their work.After this the last half of the show was a gem, the focus was fixed and the boom mikes disappeared, but still very low on the vote scale here.   viewed in theatre with refund. "}]