[{"Title":"Disturbing and powerful film","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"175 out of 221 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a poignant and powerful film.  It is the true story of Teena Brandon, a young woman who is in the throes of a sexual identity crisis. She cuts her hair and dresses like a man to see if she can pass for one. What starts out as an experiment turns into a full fledged alter ego as she is accepted as a man by a group she meets in a bar.  The story follows the group's escapades, including Brandon's love affair with Lana, who falls in love with Brandon, thinking she's a man.  It culminates with the discovery that Brandon is actually a woman with a dramatic confrontation in the finale.This is film noir at it's finest.  A lot of people think that this is a story about courage and lesbianism but it is really about neither.  It is about the search for identity; not just sexual identity but the search for a deeper self .  All the characters in this film were lost and confused, but Brandon was the only one who realized it of herself.  The rest were basically playing out their despondent lives trying not to think of who or what they were.  Here was a person they loved and accepted, but who turned out to be the most heinous of deviants as defined by their own prejudices and fears. This is why they were so fundamentally shaken upon the revelation of Brandon's true identity.  It left them to confront their own flimsy identities.  They were left with no respite from the emotional vortex. Brandon presented a terrifying threat to the way they viewed themselves. They were compelled to change who they were or hate someone they had grown to love.This film was also about obsession.  Brandon takes extraordinary risks to live the male role, not out of courage, but out of an obsession to know and understand it, and to see if she can find comfort and a sense of belonging. Likewise, writer/director Kimberly Peirce had been obsessed with this story and researched it for five years before finally making the film.  Obsession generally leads to one of two places greatness or death.  For Peirce, at least for the moment, it has lead to greatness in the production of this film.Strictly from a technical directorial standpoint there was nothing special here.  The lighting was amateurish, the shots were mostly mundane. The sets and locations were realistically trashy, but it is a lot easier to create realistic trash than realistic elegance.  Peirce also bogs the film down occasionally with excessive character development.  However, Peirce captures in the story and the filming, the essence of rural lower class crudenes, bigotry and hatred and fear.  It is the raw emotion that reaches out and grabs us.  Her lens brought into sharp focus the base reality of inescapable despair and deluded hope.  Reality often has fangs, and Peirce was undaunted in showing them and then ripping us to shreds.As to Hilary Swank, I can only add one more rose to the bouquet of praise that has been heaped on her.  If there was any courage in this story, it was the courage of Swank to take such a complex and disturbing role.  The subtlety of her performance was astounding.  She needed not just to be a woman playing a man.  She needed to be a woman playing a woman playing a man, trying to look convincing yet insecure and unsure of how she was being perceived by the other characters.  When in character, her many skillful lapses into moments of femininity, only to snap back into masculinity were masterfully done.  For Swank, this was a meteoric rise from obscurity.  It remains to be seen if it was just the perfect alignment of actor and role, or something more.  I hope for the latter and look forward to seeing her next project.Greatly obscured by Swankmania, was the performance by Chloe Sevigny as Lana, Brandon's love interest.  She gave an outstanding performance in another extraordinarily difficult role.  Her conflict over the implications of her sexual and emotional feelings for Brandon were sensitively and delicately portrayed.  She played the part with a tentative eagerness, just as one would expect of someone whose sexual identity had been thrown into upheaval.  It was also no easy career choice to be cast in a role with so many explicit sexual scenes with another woman.This film was stark reality with no holds barred.  The filmmaking was technically unsophisticated (and I'm usually a real stickler about that), but I rated it a 9/10 on pure emotional power.  This film is not for you if you are offended by lesbianism, graphic violence or profanity.  But if you are not intimidated by the naked reality of the darker side of life, this is a film you must experience.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes they do","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"117 out of 153 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)This movie really made me think about sexual differences and what it means to have a sex change or to want one, or to be trapped in a gender you don't want. It was very effective to have us see Hilary Swank (who plays Brandon Teena/Teena Brandon) with short hair and male facial expressions and gestures without giving us a glimpse of her as Teena. (Actually we did get a brief glimpse in a photo.) Swank looks like a boy, acts like a boy, in fact works hard to be a boy; indeed that is (sadly) part of what this movie is about, what it means to be a boy in middle America as opposed to being a girl. And then when we have the scene with the tampons and the breast wrapping and we see her legs, the effect is startling, an effect possibly lost on those who knew that the person playing Brandon was a woman. It was when I saw her legs and could tell at a glance that she was a woman with a woman's legs that I realized just how subtle, but unmistakable are the anatomical sexual differences, and how convincing Swank's portrayal was.I was reminded as I watched this of being a young person, of being a teenager and going through all the rituals and rites, unspoken, unplanned, without social sanction, that we all go through to prove our identity, because that is what Brandon was so eager to do, to prove his identity as a boy. I thought, ah such an advantage he has with the girls because he knows what they like and what they want. He can be smooth, and how pretty he looks. It was strange. I actually knew some guys in my youth who had such talent, and the girls did love them.The direction by Kimberly Peirce is nicely paced and the forebodings of horror to come are sprinkled lightly throughout so that we don't really think about the resolution perhaps until the campfire scene in which John Lotter shows his self-inflicted scars and tosses the knife to Brandon. Then we know for sure, something bad is going to happen.Hilary Swank is very convincing. Her performance is stunning, and she deserved the Academy Award she won for Best Actress. She is the type of tomboy/girl so beloved of the French cinema, tomboyish, but obvious a girl like, for example, Zouzou as seen in Chloe in the Afternoon (1972) or Élodie Bouchez in the The Dreamlife of Angels (1998), or many others. Indeed, one is even reminded of Juliette Binoche, who of course can play anything, or going way back, Leslie Caron in Gigi (1958). Chloe Signvey, who plays Lana Tisdel, the girl Brandon loves, whom I first saw in Palmetto (1998), where she stole a scene or two from Woody Allen and Elisabeth Shue, really comes off ironically as butch to Swank, yet manages a sexy, blue collar girl next door femininity. She also does a great job. Peter Sarsgaard is perfect as John Lotter, trailer trash car thief and homophobic redneck degenerate.Very disturbing is the ending. If you know the story, you know the ending. Just how true this was to the real life story it is based on is really irrelevant. I knew nothing about the story, but I know that film makers always take license to tell it the way they think it will play best, and so it's best to just experience the film as the film, independent of the real story, which, like all real stories, can never be totally told.Obviously this is not for the kiddies and comes as close to an X rating as any R movie you'll ever see. It will make most viewers uncomfortable, but it is the kind of story that needs to be told. "},{"Title":"powerful, disturbing human drama","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"97 out of 124 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most impressive aspect of  `Boys Don't Cry' is that it refuses to shy away from the sordid details of much of its protagonist's life, yet manages to convert her (or him if you prefer) into a sympathetic and comprehensible figure. In our most honest moments, we can all acknowledge aspects of our own lives and personalities that we don't understand, that we would love to change and that often make us feel alienated from the `norm' of society at large.  In the case of Teena Brandon &#150; a young man `trapped' in a woman's body - the anomaly happens to be a more pronounced and certainly less socially acceptable one than most of us are forced to endure in our lives. And she paid the ultimate price society demands from those it fears and does not understand  she was murdered in Nebraska in 1993, simply for being `different.'The film builds a convincing case for compassionate understanding without converting Brandon into a saint-like figure.  Not only do we witness the petty criminality of her life, but we see her propensity for duplicity and deception, a personality trait that actually leads in part to many of the troubles she encounters, playing a crucial role to a large extent even in her death itself.  Yet, given society's out-of-hand rejection of transgendered people, what real options but a life of dishonesty is Brandon really given?  Similarly, Lana, the young woman with whom Brandon falls in love and the one person who has ever accepted Brandon unconditionally for what she is, suffers from a number of her own demons.Credit writer/director Kimberly Pierce and co-writer Andy Bienen for not taking the easy commercial path of reducing the moral complexities of the personalities involved to a black-and-white world where good and evil are displayed in neatly arranged patterns for our easy consumption.  There are many times in this  film when literally none of the people we are involved with are the slightest bit appealing.  The filmmakers, in their faith in our maturity, ask us to go along on a pretty harrowing journey at times, but it is one that leads us to a very rewarding destination.  The scenes in which Brandon's companions expose her secret is riveting and terrifying in its dramatic intensity and human sadness.  The utter humiliation Brandon is forced to endure at the hands of the hooligans who are tormenting her broadens to become a symbolic representation of every person who has suffered such an injustice at the hands of unreasoning ignorance for whatever reason.  It is a chilling reminder of the danger of the mob mentality unrestrained by empathy and enlightenment.Like so many of the best off-Hollywood independent productions,  `Boys Don't Cry' finds its truth in two crucial elements  the canny depiction of  the bleak sterility and stifling provincialism of its Midwest setting  and the uniformly first-rate performances by a largely unknown set of actors.Hilary Swank, in her Oscar-winning turn as Brandon, and Chloe Sevigny as Lana achieve a naturalism in their portrayals that neutralizes any theatricality that might have robbed the film of its indispensable quality of immediacy and believability.  They convert what might, in less capable hands, have become little more than a sensationalized freak show into a powerful and understandable drama about real, thoroughly recognizable human beings.  For that alone, `Boys Don't Cry' becomes a cinematic experience impossible to forget  "},{"Title":"A Moving Piece of Filmmaking.","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"101 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry was a major success with the critics and the Academy Award's, so I looked forward to seeing it. Easily one of the best films of the past year, Boys Don't Cry is a moving experience that deserved all the credit it got, and then some.The film takes for its source material the true story of Brandon Teena (Hilary Swank), a girl who, well, just wants to be a boy. A sex-changing (getting her hair cut and sticking a dildo down her pants) credit sequence sees our hero(ine) at first on the pull, duping a local girl into a bit of nookie, and then on the run, when the truth about her sexuality rears its bizarre head. A fugitive of the law, as well as a few irate townsfolk, a twist of fate leads to her befriending a bunch of trailer-trash misfits and, temporarily, enjoying a new-found freedom under her manly guise. Of course, it's all going to go horribly wrong - particularly when she falls in love with the local girlie sweetheart (Chloe Sevigny).Chloe Sevigny, who plays the girl Brandon falls in love with, deserved to win an Academy Award. Her performance still lives in my memory, and it has been some time since I first saw Boys Don't Cry. Hilary Swank, who did receive an Oscar, pulls off an absolute barnstormer of a performance as Brandon Teena, it is easily one of the boldest and most memorable performances I saw in the 20th century. Kimberley Pierce is also another stand-out, she is in the director's chair, and she hardly got any praise for her amazing effort that she put into this film. I applaud everyone involved in Boys Don't Cry, even the one's who got little credit, particularly Brendan Sexton III (who plays a trouble-making misfit) and Andy Bienen (co-writer).Groundbreaking performances and a brilliant debut directing effort make this film unmissable.I rate Boys Don't Cry 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Remarkable depiction of real life drama","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"62 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After finally getting the chance to see this film, I have to say it was worth the wait. Hillary Swank's performance was outstanding, she certainly deserves the golden globe she's already won and the oscar, she's sure to be nominated for. Brandon Teena was real, no questions. The director, Kimberly Pierce deserves much credit for telling the story subtlety, no black and white, he's wrong, she's right. I came away from this movie realizing the courage you have to possess to be different, the dangers from it are real and we must admire those brave enough among us to be. "},{"Title":"Sensational subject matter masking a true romance","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"51 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very powerful, and in many ways very disturbing, film that ultimately lingers with me not for its sensational subject matter but for its tragic and rewarding love story.  Here we have two troubled strangers, both horribly at odds with their surroundings, finding each other, falling in love despite the many factors against them, and finally becoming the victims of the perception of their love.  Like many others, I was tremendously impressed by the performance of Hilary Swank  but I think the glue that holds the film together and gives it amazing hope and humanity is Chloe Sevigny.  She takes a role that could have easily fallen apart in a lesser actress's hands and gives it complexity and depth that goes well beyond the script. To watch her  is a breathtaking journey. Watch the way she uses her face in this movie &#150; this is an actress of remarkable expressiveness and skill! Overall, it is a very fine film that merits any serious moviegoer's rapt attention. "},{"Title":"Unflinchingly honest, disturbing, and heart-breaking","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"48 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was stunned by the simplicity and power of this fine film. It tells the true and tragic story of Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena, a woman living as a man in a small town in Nebraska. No matter what your personal opinions may be, this film does not preach. It tells the story in a matter-of-fact, honest and gritty way, but leaves you shaking your head in shock that such anger and hatred exists in these modern times, for someone who is different merely because of their sexual preference.Relative newcomer Hilary Swank gives a heartfelt and courageous performance as Brandon. I say courageous not only because of the subject matter, but also because she is able to strip away her youthful, movie star glamour and become the character she plays. She is entirely convincing. Also, she shows a tremendous amount of guts for being able to get through the gut-wrenchingly violent rape scene. This was a brave choice, and a wise one.Chloe Sevigny plays Lana, the girl Brandon loves. She is the only person who truly understands Brandon. Brandon finds himself in a world of drunken trailer trash and convicted felons. No one is free from guilt, but there is always the unspoken sin of being different. Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny play their tastefully erotic love scenes without seeming self-conscious. So many actors of their generation might be afraid to tackle these types of roles, but they do their jobs with aplomb.The film was another that haunted me the day after seeing it. Kimberly Peirce manages to make a simple film about a very difficult subject, and she doesn't resort to Hollywood gloss or preachiness. It is a risky film, very difficult to watch in places, with several very violent and disturbing scenes. It is a story that needs to be told, and with the two Oscar-nominated performances from Ms. Swank and Ms. Sevigny, it succeeds. "},{"Title":"WOW! One of the most powerful films EVER!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"35 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For a movie to be able to start off a little (emphasis on little) slow, and turn into a spectacle of both amazing acting, directing, and an amazing script is not only a rarity, but is almost unheard of. Boys Don't Cry is one of the most powerful films that I have ever seen. Ms. Hilary Swank embraced her character with open arms, and turned him into a hero. A incredibly hard task, considering a few minor 'glitches'. The fact that this movie is based upon a true story only emphasizes the themes it is trying to portray. As a human race, it only makes sense that we should strive to accept our originality and differences, and celebrate them, rather than diminish them, and look upon them as being bad. This movie is one that gives the audience the complete package, and not just a pretty actress or soundtrack. As an all encompassing film, Boys Don't Cry is brilliant. "},{"Title":"#7 on my 1999 Ten Best List","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"40 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Title BOYS DON'T CRYRating **** (out of 4)Review  I wasn't able to see this film, unfortunately, until after the Oscars when I was able to go back to the U.S. in April  of this year.  When I had heard that Hilary Swank won the Best Actress Oscar for this film, I had to put it on my must-see list.  As it turned out, the film came out on video just three days before I had to go back to my station in Japan.  All I really knew about the film was that it was based on a true story about a woman who lived his life and as a man and was brutally raped and murdered in 1993.  That's all I knew, and after watching this film I couldn't believe my eyes.  Out of all the true stories that Hollywood has put on film, this stands out, mostly because of its disturbingly honest presentation and unforgettable performances that even the real-life characters that there based on even said how real they were.  Like the same year's OCTOBER SKY (which got #2 on my Ten Best List) the story is dramatized, filmmaking-wise, but it dare doesn't turn away from being an unforgettable potrayal of a truly unique and unfairly misjudged human being. The story originates in Lincoln, Nebraska, 1993 which is where Brandon Teena came from.  We discover early on that Brandon is a female that develops a sexual identity crisis and becomes a male, and eventually becomes one of the most desired guys in Nebraska.  We also learn that Brandon, under the name of Teena, has been criminally charged several times, most notably for grand theft auto.  Moving to Falls City, Brandon strikes up a friendship with circle of aimless residents, including Candice, a single mother who works as a bartender, John Lotter and Tom Nissen, a couple of guys who've served time for various reasons, and finally Lana Tisdel, a girl who Brandon falls in love with.  The bulk of the film showcases Brandon and Lana's growing relationship, and first-time co-writer/director Kimberly Pierce handles this so beautifully despite the addition of a graphic sex scene, which the real Lana Tisdel reports never happened.  Eventually, Brandon's new friends soon discover he is not who he says he his, and eventually becomes the victim of a hate crime. Pierce makes the story so compelling from the beginning that the film doesn't become a simple cross-dressing tale but of a powerful examination of a human being who was just different and also of the friends that he made who just wouldn't accept him for who he really was (all of them except for Lana, who surprisingly does).   The haunting theme The Bluest Eyes in Texas, sung by Nina Persson and Nathan Larson, also adds perfect punctuation.  Still, what really makes this sleeper praiseworthy are the performances, starting with Hilary Swank's moving, perfectly tuned potrayal of Brandon, who recieved the well-deserved Best Actress, as well as a long list of other honors.  Chloe Sevigny, who I've fallen in love with in every film I've seen her in (from her breakout role as an AIDS victim in the controversial 1995 film KIDS, to her shy and smart lead character in last year's underrated THE LAST DAYS OF DISCO) shines as Lana, and has won a score of acting honors as well.  Peter Sarsgaard and Brendan Sexton III are fine as the antagonists John and Tom, and finally Jeanette Arnette is great in a smallish role as Lana's mother who, of course, turns the other way at her daughter's new boyfriend.Although some viewers may be turned off at the high volume of profanity and rape sequences, this film should be given a chance if not only for the fact of it being a true story, but also for it's respect to a unique and unfairly misjudged human being who didn't live his life to the fullest. "},{"Title":"Swank is not a lesbian at all but a transgendered individual, thus blurring the sexual divide in the best queer tradition&#133;","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"36 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Teena Brandon (Hilary Swank) is a girl who wishes to become a boy&#133; Arriving in the small Nebraska town of Falls City, Teena binds her breasts, cuts her hair and calls herself Brandon Teena&#133; When Brandon meets Lana (wonderfully played by Chloë Sevigny), a love affair develops in the course of which sexual identities and gender stereotype is turned upside down&#133; Eventually Lana comes to realize Brandon is anatomically female, but by then she does not care&#133; Brandon offers her a caring relationship such as she has never known&#133; Unfortunately, Brandon's secret is eventually discovered by two young men, John and Tom, who have befriended him&#133; The knowledge that they have been deceived is deeply disturbing to their male pride&#133; The film is based on a true story, which also the subject of a documentary, 'The Brandon Teena Story' (1998). But it is less its status as a true-crime document, more its subtle power to subvert our usual assumptions about sexuality that makes this a notable film, and a key text of the so-called 'queer' cinema&#133; Unlike militant films which proselytize for homosexuality, 'queer' films adopt a more insidious strategy, seeking to undermine such rigid categories as gay and straight&#133; Thus Brandon, in Hilary Swank's excellent interpretation of the role, alert to all the ambiguities, is not a lesbian though he/she has sex with women&#133; And while he/she has adopted some of the physical attributes of a man (clothes, hair-style, certain mannerisms), Brandon has retained a softness and sensuality which implies a critique of conventional masculinity, and which is the secret of his/her sexual success with women&#133; No wonder he arouses the rage of other men&#133; "}{"Title":"Audacious, painful and heartbreaking.","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film could be easily dismissed, given its subject, as a lesbian love story or, as some called it, a chick-with-a-d*ck-flick (actually, that's what they said of Transamerica, but in a way it works for this one, too). Those definitions are disrespectful and very reductive. Boys Don't Cry is one of the most gripping and brutal dramas ever made, and it stands the test of time thanks to its audacity and its brilliant central performance, courtesy of the heartbreaking Hilary Swank.Swank stars as Teena Brandon, a 20-year old girl from Lincoln, Nebraska, who's right in the middle of a sexual identity crisis (her own words). This crisis causes her some trouble with the law, and she decides to run away, more specifically to Falls City. Once there, she starts a new life, with a new name (Brandon Teen), a new haircut and socks down her pants. It's under these circumstances that she meets Lana (Chloe Sevigny), who will begin a passionate relationship with Brandon, unaware of his real nature. But what's gonna happen when the truth leaks out?On the surface, Boys Don't Cry could sound like a simple lesbian flick, but that would be like saying American History X is just about skinheads. True, this film is about love, but it's also a careful, unflinching study of identity, hope and fear. The last one plays a significant part in the third act, as some of the characters' (most notably John, cunningly played by Peter Sarsgaard) fear of something they don't understand will have tragic consequences.Director Kimberly Peirce tells this painful true story without judging anyone, so that the performances can speak for themselves Swank is staggering in a role rivaled only by her equally tear-inducing turn in Million Dollar Baby (she deservedly won an Oscar for both performances). She makes Brandon appear like a human being, not a freak, and that makes her story even more uncomfortable to watch in certain parts. The supporting players excel as well, Sevigny (who was Oscar-nominated for the role of Lana) and Sarsgaard delivering the first of many riveting contributions to independent cinema.Consistently moving, occasionally hard to watch (there's a rape scene which might upset the weak of stomach), Boys Don't Cry is a daring, powerful effort that demands to be seen. And despite its title, it's very likely to make all audiences shed a tear, no matter the gender or inclination. This is a movie that won't leave you indifferent. "},{"Title":"Everybody should watch that movie","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched Boys don´t cry, and I am really sad about what I saw here. It is so hard to understand that there are still people out there (in America) who feel threatened if there is a queer, transsexual or just DIFFERENT person.... Hillary Swank´s outstanding,natural performance among the other great ones... the beautiful scenery and great music... the realistic setting of a hick, disillusioned village ... it all comes together to have created a wonderful, touching film that should everybody make thoughtful about why they don´t like some other people or what kind of prejudices they have.... watch that film!!  "},{"Title":"Awesome, frightening, sad, eye-opening flick about transgendered people in closed-minded, small town America","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was touched and stunned by this awesome work of art. Boys Don't Cry is the story of Brandon Teena's fight to be who he was, and his search for exactly how to get there. In Lincoln, NE..or Falls City, NE where he was murdered, no one around him, except his girlfriend offered support for who he was (-a young transgendered man who was born with the genitals of a female). He was scorned, ridiculed, raped, and ultimately murdered at age 21..just because he was a little different, and because tolerance for those who were different just isn't always part of small town life in Nebraska, USA.>I haven't cried at a movie in several years, at least. I cried several times during the course of this powerful movie. See it. And when it comes to cable watch it. And when it comes to video rent it. And when it comes to DVD/video for sale, buy it. If it's on Pay Per View, order it.Newsweek, The New York Times, and other serious publications have deemed this an amazing film, and how much more so an amazing FIRST film. "},{"Title":"This is a truly well made and well acted film. I would recommend it to anyone who doesn't have a bias against unique people...","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie so much that I've seen it three times.  This is a must see movie for all who are open-minded individuals.  Congratulations, Hilary, on your well-deserved academy award, and congratulations to the entire cast for a truly beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Boys Don't Lie (well)","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry is an ambitious movie, which chronicles the tragedy of a transgender attempt by its main character, played by Hilary Swank, to be the male she believes she was meant to be. Swank does not have to persuade us, the viewers, that she is a male. We know she is Hilary Swank, actress. What she has to do is persuade us that her character can fool the other characters in the movie that she is a guy. This I never bought for even a flashing moment.Given her small hands, slight build, delicate features, and female voice, I am certain Brandon (Swank) would have been 'clocked', or outed, in a few seconds, both by men and by women. I never for one moment believed she could have fooled a soul, let alone a girl-friend and some beer-buddies. This, of course, is the ruination of the film's power for me. Also, it is the total depreciation of Swank's character for me.That said, that the critical linchpin of the story was a farce for me, the movie sinks into the realm of disbelief. Further, I found neither the rape scene nor the murder scene shocking or particularly repulsive. Just another instance of movie violence.I have used the term 'for me' quite often in this review. That is because I realize that many reviewers were convinced, shocked, and impressed. It is just that I was not. Worth seeing to draw your own conclusions. "},{"Title":"Repulsive","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The present-day persecution of homosexuals and transsexuals will (hopefully) be seen by future generations as an ugly blemish upon the historical fabric of the United States, the inevitable result of our continued obsession with preserving traditional values. But movies like Boys Don't Cry won't be the catalyst that brings this change in heart about. Here is a film that manages to be as repugnant as the tragedies it depicts. It is filled with exceptionally well-played characters, not one of which is at all likable. Brandon, (portrayed wonderfully by Hilary Swank) the proverbial man trapped inside a woman's body, is undoubtedly intended as the story's protagonist, but aside from the love he feels for Lana (another fine performance from Chloe Sevigny), he possesses no admirable characteristics; he is profoundly stupid in the choices he makes, and doesn't seem to realize just how precarious his position is. He's a sheep surrounded by a pack of wolves but is either too naive or too lovestruck to notice. His constant run-ins with the authorities certainly don't make things much easier. The rest of the characters are your stereotypical Midwest lowlifes their activities consist of drinking, smoking, and working dead-end jobs. It is not at all difficult to predict what will ultimately happen to Brandon in an environment such as this. If Hollywood wanted to send a message about the dangers of sexual discrimination, they couldn't have picked a worse story. "},{"Title":"A true story about finding the courage to be yourself.","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am glad that any other actress besides Hilary Swank have won the role of Teena Brandon, because I cannot imagine anyone else to do it. (Hilary by the way, is a great actress, and I remember until today that the first movie I watched with her was one of the ''KARATE KID''.) It's strange to me to think that all the actresses in this film auditioned for the role of Teena,specially Chloë Sevigny, who plays Lana, that is so feminine. Anyway... this story is very beautiful and touching, but I personally don't see how someone can think Teena was guy, or how Lana didn't figure out that she was a girl while they were going out.The film has also been criticized for, erasing the real-life character of Phillip DeVine, a disabled black man who was friends with Brandon, and who was killed by John Lotter and Marvin Nissen in the same incident. "},{"Title":"An Incredible, Moving Film","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An amazing experience about one ma.. woma.. PERSONS life.  Hilary Swank's performance is first class and well deserving of the Oscar, she portrays Brandon as the young adventurer who after finding himself is brutally slain, with vivid honesty and daring realism. For a first time director Kimberly Pearce has created an amazing film that is all about what is wrong and what is right in the world.  I cant wait for her next film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"excellent! this boy cried!","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all i cannot say ANYTHING bad about this movie. This movie is shocking, thought provoking, emotionally moving, endearing and at times sweet. The film follows the life of Brendon Teena aka Tina Brendon, a girl who has always wanted to be a boy. No one understands her plight of becoming the boy she has always wanted to be, Brendon moves to falls city and becomes infatuated with Lana (Chloe Sevigny) a local girl going nowhere in life. The two embark on a passionate love affair, which doesn't go according to plan. This is a brief overview of the film, as i don't want to give the plot away! what i said doesn't do it justice! WATCH IT! Hilary Swank won an Oscar(which she deserved) for her amazing portrayal of an unbelievably courageous woman. I for one could not think of a better actress to play the role of the real life hero, Tina Brendon!Thank you Hilary Swank, i cannot recommend this film enough! "},{"Title":"A moving film","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film a few years back late at night on BBC2 (the time when all those unknown gems are shown) and was moved to tears. This movie has an amazingly talented cast, and the plot is perfect, it doesn't move too fast or too slow.This is a film that will make you think, you can't help but start thinking about prejudice in the past decade, so much has changed, but a film like this reminds you that there is still much that needs to be improved.To be honest, having read the description afterwards in the TV guide, i realised that the critic truly didn't do this film justice. Yes, it is shocking, and brutal and violent, and sure, you may want to turn away in certain scenes. But there are scenes that are so tender and beautiful that you won't be able to stop watching.This is a film you won't forget once seeing, as it will hold a small place in your heart until the end of time. This is a film that will move you that much. This film will make you cry, again and again and again.Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Poignant, but strangely distant","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have just watched this film, my impressions are still fresh. Actually, I watched the film before informing myself here on IMDb and should have done it, apparently, to understand it better. If you watch the film without any background information, you are thrown in cold in a person's life and destiny that is completely unbelievable, unlikely and utterly disturbing. Here actually lies my point of criticism This movie does NOT explain, WHY Brandon is like he/she is. Where does this condition come from, what has happened to her/him? The film should have started earlier to put us in the picture. It would have been much more convincing, had we been given the chance to see a more feminine character first. Or get some sort of empathy. For a person with normal sexual orientation, it is virtually impossible to relate to Brandon's behaviour, in my humble opinion. I was left shaking my head more than once thinking a person behaving like that calls for trouble. Why couldn't Brandon have been more discreet? Why so blatantly offend those small-town hillbillies? He/she must have known that stupid country people cannot relate to persons behaving otherwise than according to fixed, pre-established behavioural patterns. In a big city you do what you want, but in the countryside, stay low-key, for heaven's sake.Aside from this, Hilary Swank's performance was astounding and small wonder she won a deserved Oscar. I consider Hilary Swank to be one of the most beautiful women in the world, by the way. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and Powerful","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I picked this video up by chance having heard of the hype surrounding Hilary Swank and her Oscar. I was unaware of the story at the time and went home to watch it straight away. For the next two hours I was totally moved and disturbed by this true story. Hilary Swank (Million Dollar Baby) plays a transgendered woman Teena Brandon, who cuts her hair, dresses as a guy and goes by the name of Brandon Teena. After been saved in a bar room brawl by volatile John (Peter Sarsgaard), Brandon takes up his new friend's offer of a trip to Falls City, Nebraska, accompanied by John's mates Tom (Brendan Sexton III) and Candice. A devastating decision.There he is introduced to another friend of John's, lonely trailer trash Lana (Chloe Sevigny)- a girl who is bored with her life. Brandon becomes a popular new addition to group and soon he and Lana (unaware of his true gender) fall for each other and enter into a sexual relationship. Following a minor traffic offence, Brandon's true identity is revealed and events take a dramatic turn. Furious at Brandon's lies, Tom and John strip him to prove to Lana that he is a woman. They then proceed to kidnap Brandon and rape him. Brandon reports the rape to the police, who are less than sympathetic, and retreats to Candice's house where he plans to stay the night. Despite being revealed as a woman, Lana demonstrates her love for Brandon by visiting Brandon at the house. There they spend the night together and agree to runaway. However, when Lana goes to collect her belongings she discovers John and Tom, in an attempt to cover up the rape, setting out to find Brandon. The film ends with Brandon and Candice being brutally murdered at the hands of their former friends, leaving Lana devastated at her lover's side.This film is incredibly effective, if a little factually incorrect. The last half an hour (following Brandon's reveal) is very graphic making it an extremely powerful piece of film making that is hard to watch. The love story between Brandon and Lana is touching and yet there is always a feeling of impending doom lurking. Hilary Swank's Oscar was most certainly well deserved. She is totally believable as the charismatic young man Brandon, yet you are always aware of his vulnerability, particularly following the horrific rape. Chloe Sevigny, Brendan Sexton III and the superbly menacing Peter Sarsgaard are also exceptional in their supporting roles and deserve as much credit as Swank. Be warned, this film is not for everybody, especially those who are easily affected- the language and sexual content is explicit. However, I would advised anybody over 18 to watch it(keep in mind it is a true story) and I defy you not to be moved. "},{"Title":"A great movie with an amazing strength","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry, the debut film of director Kimberly Peirce, is more than anything a movie about who you really are to yourself and to the others. It's a story about courage, strength, love. Not only because of the strong sexuality and violence, but also because of its serious thematics and the way it treats these subjects, Boys Don't Cry is the strongest film of '99.The story, which has been shocking many people, is about a girl named Teena Brandon (Hilary Swank) who dresses like and considers herself a boy, and changes her name for Brandon Teena. After some trouble in his town, Brandon meets a group of people and go with them to Falls City, in Nebraska. There his life will change even more, specially after he meets Lana (Chloe Sevigny), a girl who is tired of her life. Many things will happen, and I'm not able to tell this here, even this being a true story.What is special in this film is that we forget that it is based on real life. And this is because of the amazing performance by Hilary Swank. I was quite unsure if she deserved to win the Oscar, because she was competing with Annette Bening and Julianne Moore! But she won, and now I can understand why. The film has many qualities, but it wouldn't have been so good without Hilary. It is one of the best female performances of the '90s. But Chloe Sevigny shouldn't be forgotten. She is worth of as much recognition as Ms. Swank, in a very difficult role too.With a great film editing and a very well written screenplay, Boys Don't Cry is a must-see. However, it is not for everyone. Some scenes can shock many people, and people who are not mature enough shouldn't see it.When the film ends, we get back to reality and realize that it was all true. It's so sad, unfair and absurd how things like that happen because of a dirty feeling. It gives a great discussion about how truly unfair and ugly inside some people are. But the world is not lost...9/10 "},{"Title":"Powerful, thoughtful","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not the story of a woman living as a man, because that would imply that this woman merely dressed up and fooled people.  That's not at all what's going on.This is the story of a male who thought male, felt male, and WAS male, but looked down at the body God gave him, and saw that of a female.  It's not homosexuality, or cross-dressing.  The name given to it, in the film, is Sexual Identity Crisis, but I don't really think it's a crisis.  I don't think there's anything wrong with Brandon Teena, or Teena Brandon, thinking that.  It is merely who he is.And this movie did make me think about it, and that is its success. Powerful at times, repulsive at times, those whose lives this story affected may not approve of the final film, but it can still open the eyes of people toward things in this world that they previously might not have understood... which may help the next Brandon find and keep happiness in his or her life.Worth seeing, but not for the weak of stomach or easily offended. "},{"Title":"Compelling and thought-provoking drama - a must see!","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've had ample opportunities to see Boys Don't Cry over my film viewing career, but have always neglected to do so because of the themes of it's story. Simply put, the idea behind this film doesn't interest me much and that is the reason for me not bothering to finally see the film. However, now that I have seen it, I don't know why I waited so long; Boys Don't Cry is an excellent film. As rich in themes and life lessons as it is compelling, the film works on a number of levels and is topped off by a truly excellent cast of young performers that give it their all and help to ensure that Boys Don't Cry is the success that it so richly deserves to be. The film follows the intriguing, and oddly true, story of Brandon Teena, or rather Teena Brandon; a girl who is in the midst of a gender identity crisis and decides to live her life as a boy. After finding a young man and woman in a bar, Brandon quickly finds herself on her way to a small town in Nebraska, where she quickly becomes friends with the locals...all the while harbouring her secret.When it comes to good films that are directed by women, there isn't many to list; but Boys Don't Cry is certainly one that belongs towards the top of that short list. Kimberly Peirce excellently directs the film, and after viewing her past filmography it is evident that Peirce was very dedicated to this story as she produced a short film version of it in 1995. While Peirce's direction stands out, it is certainly not the star of the show, as that accolade falls to the scintillatingly brilliant Hilary Swank. Swank picked up an Oscar for her performance in this movie, and that momentous event represents one of the few times that the Academy has given the award to the right person. The central role of this movie is the sort of role that every performer wants to get as it allows them to really get their teeth into it, and that is certainly what Swank does. The rest of the cast also does well in their roles, with Chloë Sevigny and Peter Sarsgaard being the standouts among them.Every scene in the movie is rich with substance and double meaning, and as we spend the whole movie getting acquainted with the various parties; what happens at it's conclusion is both shocking and heart-breakingly tragic. The way that the film pulls off it's climax is skilfully handled, and it's also detached enough for the audience to make their own mind up about, which beats the sickening thickly laid substance approach that so many films latch onto. The substance emancipates from the girl wanting to be the other sex, but if you look deeper into the film, it is not just this element that lends it substance. The meaning of Boys Don't Cry can be stretched to any and all moments in life when you're not the person you want to be, and the story while tragic and shocking, is ultimately uplifting, which only adds more confusion to the already potent cocktail of emotions that Boys Don't Cry forces you into. If, like I was, you aren't watching this film because it's subject doesn't appeal to you; you should book your ideas up. There is something for everyone in this compelling drama. "},{"Title":"Just watching it hurts","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this film, many years ago, I thought it was both amazing and horrible. I was 10 or 11 and I wasn't ready for this, having lived all of life in a sweet little town in Sweden. I still remember how painful it was to watch is. It certainly reminds you of how horrible the world can be, and how cruel and narrow-minded people are. I couldn't stop thinking about it for days.Everybody should see this film. This is the kind of film where it doesn't really matter if the lighting is perfect or if the art direction is good or if the camera angles are correct, because this film has got such an important message. However, it just so happens that this film also has good lighting and camera work etc. Everything about this film shows the pain and the fear, the loneliness and it really shows how much we are willing to do just to be accepted, and to be loved. I am so happy Hilary Swank got an Oscar for this, because she is Excellent!We must never stop fighting for what is right, and we have to start accepting people. Making other people feel bad won't make you feel good. Hitting back is not going to stop the pain from the first punch. This films won't leave anyone feeling nothing, it really touches you. It's painful seeing how horrible life is for some people, and just watching this film hurts you. It's really painful. So once again, See this film if you haven't already. People need to see this, people need to feel this. "},{"Title":"Boys Don't Cry - Exceptional Swank, Exceptional Movie","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard not to come back at posters who have given this film such a poor rating when this is clearly exceptional movie making. One wonders too whether some viewers were voting their personal discomfort with the protagonist's problems with sexual identity, rather than assessing a movie. Hilary Swank's is a truly exceptional performance gut-wrenchingly real, winning you over with her stunning ability to create a living character that is so real one forgets that one is watching fiction. The fiction is merely apparent in this case. The writing and direction too is superlative. There are only 2 problems with Boys Don't Cry 1) it is so convincing that it is truly upsetting to watch. 2) it's hard for Swank to go anywhere other than down in terms of performance. Having watched her last night in the also excellent Million Dollar Baby, attempting to assess her work for me is very difficult; one can't help comparing her performance to BDC and finding yourself thinking that she hasn't had to produce that much out of her locker. The fault is mine, I'm sure, not Swank's. In short, though, Boys Don't Cry, a film that got almost no release in the UK, is one of the most under-known and underrated movie in recent times.CT "},{"Title":"Tough !","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A weird and squalid story ? A terrible and true story ! Teena Brandon really existed and lived as Brandon Teena. All is shown in this film is about nothing but truth, Kimberly Peirce (and her co-screen-writer Andy Bienen) invented nothing, only changed Candace's name (actually Lisa Lambert)... Strictly relying on a documentary, The Brandon Teena Story (Susan Muska and Greta Olafsdottir, 1998), the director sticks to Teena Brandon's terrible story to the letter. To such an extent that Lana Tisdel (the real Lana) withdrew the complaint she had lodged against the film (driven to do it by her family, after having helped to the script writing). When she watched the film, she could do nothing but ascertain its accuracy... BOYS DON'T CRY is a sensational film. Some viewers hate it maybe. Those highly disturbed by Teena Brandon's story, those who maybe identify with her/his pathetic persecutors and murderers. A film which clashes with its audience head-on, which leaves it flabbergasted and which is food for thought. We are confronted with one of the worst examples of intolerance and stupidity, with brute savagery Man is sadly able too often. The certainty that there will be no happy end creates a tension which quickly takes hold of the viewer without giving him a break. The final half-hour explodes to our faces, the director doesn't spare us any violence. One may wonder whether Brandon's rape sequence (by John and Brendan), exposed in such full details on the screen, was really necessary or not. Maybe an ellipsis showing only Brandon's swollen face in the vile sheriff's office, forced to tell his/her rape would have been just as well. Maybe, one can argue about that... On the other hand, the sequence in which the two freaks force Brandon (with physical violence again) to expose her real sexual gender is obvious, in spite of the hardly bearable and physical disgust we can feel watching it... Kimberly Peirce's direction (she is a 31 years old young woman) is tremendously effective. Present time shots alternate with past ones, and the unstoppable chain of events is forged forward, shot after shot. The story's bleakness can be seen in the film's tones (a lot of indoor shots and oudoor location night ones) and the director (successfully) tried not to use over-dramatic grandiloquence. Objective truth is the only thing she is interested in. And this one is terrible enough ! It is interesting to note that we don't see Teena Brandon's character, as a liar and thief she is, as particularly pleasant at the beginning of the film. She becomes likeable little by little, actually more we can feel danger growing and more the other characters show us their true faces.  She is not an heroin, only a sad victim. And now, of course, I must talk about the actress' performance. Hillary Swank, 25 years old when the film was shot, hardly noticed in such stupid films as Buffy, Vampires Killer or Miss Karate Kid (!), worked wonders and deserved the Best Actress Academy Award she won for this role. Her acting perfectly displays Teena/Brandon's enthusiasm for a new life, her naivety in believing that everything will be right, her natural and devastating charm, but also her fragility, her mind's confusion and the uncertainty about her own identity. She becomes very moving in the last thirty minutes, particularly in her relations with Lana. Chloe Sevigny, who is Lana, had unanimous support from critics too and won a Golden Globe. She plays Lana's grunge side with excellence, quite retiring and not very self-confident at the start, physically somewhere between Courtney Love and Madonna. But she slowly changes after her meeting with Brandon, and the love given by the one she believes a boy transforms her into a different girl. And that is all Chloe Sevigny's talent to know how making this low evolution perceptible to us and this character really engaging... The rest of the cast is very good too. Teena Brandon, 21 years old, was murdered on December 30th 1993, as well as her two friends, Lisa Lambert (Candace in the film) and Philip Devine (and not Candace's child). Her two murderers were sentenced, one to Death penalty (by lethal injection), the other one to Life imprisonment... A film not to be missed, in spite of its toughness ! Note 1 The screenplay, refused by US big studios, was eventually shot by an independant director, Kimberly Peirce. Note 2 BOYS DON'T CRY (traditional English saying) has also something to do with English pop group The Cure's song of the same title, song that can be briefly heard in the film. "},{"Title":"One of the most overrated movies of 1999.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hilary Swank is brilliant--almost brilliant enough to carry this naieve interpretation of a modern tragedy. Even if you don't know the story, it is predictable, and-- worse-- maudlin as presented here. All the characters except Chloe Sevigny's are cliches, and only Swank rises above the screenplay's weaknesses. "},{"Title":"Arguably the Best Film of 1999","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The true story of young Teena Brandon, a girl who decided to live as a man and was murdered brutally in Nebraska in 1993.  Oscar-winner Hilary Swank gives one of the greatest performances ever shown on the big screen as the doomed youth.  She happens upon a small town in the state and quickly falls for a local girl (Chloe Sevigny, in an Oscar-nominated role).  However, the company that Sevigny keeps is unsavory to say the least.  While it appears that everything is the way that Brandon wants it finally, darkness looms overhead.  Hate and violence will be the key things that lead to the untimely end of the youth.  Boys Don't Cry is strong in every area. First-time director Kimberly Peirce shows an amazing amount of potential. The screenplay is gritty, realistic, smart, and overall brilliant.  All the performances are top-notch as well.  As previously mentioned, Hilary Swank is a revelation.  She adds layers upon layers of depth to the character.  It is very easy to forget that Swank is indeed a woman during the viewing of this film.  Chloe Sevigny is almost as good.  Her role is very complicated and she shows a great range at a young age.  Everyone else has their moments as well, but Swank and Sevigny definitely stand out among the players. Along with American Beauty and Eyes Wide Shut, I would have to say that this is easily one of the top five films of 1999.  Many say that it was the best film from last year and I would have a lot of trouble arguing against that view.  4.5 out of 5 stars.     "}{"Title":"A missed opportunity","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" * This review contains a spoiler for the movie Predestination *I've watched this movie 2-3 times before, but not in quite some time. The movie is just as flawed as I remembered it. There are so many things about it that just don't work.First of all the writing and direction They are just bad. Here is such an interesting subject for a movie and yet they managed to present it in such a boring way. It's slow, during at least half the movie almost nothing happens and we are slowly introduced to very boring and one- dimensional characters and environment.Now, Hilary Swank She is a good actress - I came to like her only from this movie and Million Dollar Baby, which both earned her pretty deserving Oscars. Still, during the entire time I couldn't stop thinking This is Hilary Swank and this is a girl, not a boy. It's usually a very bad sign, when I watch a movie and can't stop thinking about seeing the actual actor and not the character. It's very distracting, too. A movie should be good enough to have the suspension of disbelief make you forget you're watching actors doing their job. I don't know if that's the fault of Hilary Swank (I do think she gave a good performance), or maybe she needed more makeup/prosthetics or maybe it's a problem with the direction. What I'm quite certain is that she DID need to change her voice - it would have helped a lot.Now compare this movie to Predestination (my favorite movie of 2014), with the brilliant performance of Sarah Snook. I'd take Predestination anytime over Boys Don't Cry. Snook's performance, together with the makeup and prosthetics made an amazing character - it was extremely convincing (at least for me), to the point that I needed to go check IMDb the first time I watched the movie (and thus ruin it a little bit for myself) in order to understand what is going on and find out whether the role is played by two actors or just one. If I'd have to choose between Swank's performance and Snook's performance, I'd definitely choose the latter - it's so much more believable and makes you forget you're watching an actress in makeup even when you know that.Peter Sarsgaard is very good in his poorly-written role and almost unrecognizable; Chloe Sevigny is also very good in her poorly-written role.All in all, this is a very missed opportunity, which could have been made into a MUCH better movie in the hands of more capable writer and director. "},{"Title":"A Destined Tragedy A Review of Boys Don't Cry","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some people say that Boys Don't Cry can't be simply defined as a lesbian movie because the female lead in this film actually believes she herself is a male and she thinks she is not a lesbian at all but a transgendered individual. But I still considered Boys Don't Cry as a movie about a lesbian, a lesbian who doesn't have the courage to face the reality and admit she is a female lesbian, not a man. And I think the belief of she herself is a man but not a woman is the key reason of her tragedy and makes a big contribution to her death in the end.Brandon Teena is the popular new guy in a tiny Nebraska town. He hangs out with the guys, drinking, cussing, and bumper surfing, and he charms the young women, who've never met a more sensitive and considerate young man. But the fact all his friends don't know about is, Brandon actually is a woman who wraps her chest tightly with a piece of cloth to make it look flat and puts another piece of cloth into her pants to make it look like a man's penis.When she is making love to her girlfriend Lana, who does not know she is actually a woman at that time, Lana sees her cleavage and the cloth wrapped around her breast. Though Lana is shocked by the truth she sees, she doesn't expose Brandon's lie. She keeps being Brandon's girlfriend and loving her. She is so nice that she pretends Brandon was a true man and Brandon doesn't know that her girlfriend already finds out her secret.Brandon lies about her sex, but Lana forgives her and ignores it. I can't tell Lana is helping or harming Brandon. Even when Brandon's lie is debunked by other two young men in town, Lana still covers Brandon by saying  I've seen him in the full flesh. I've seen it. I know he is a man. Problem's done? But her saying just makes the two young men even angrier. To prove what the fact is, the two .young men brutally take Brandon's pants off in front of Lana and force her to look at Brandon's private part which is just as normal as an ordinary woman. I think the saddest thing about Brandon is that she considers her woman's body as a defect. Brandon keeps telling everyone that she is born with this weirdness, like a birth defect and she still believes that she is a man when the two angry young men rape and kill her at the end of this movie. At the police station, she doesn't want to admit that she is raped at first. She just says I don't know what he did. When the police officer asks where did they try to pop it in first, it takes so much effort for Brandon to say out the word vagina. And when the police asks her why do you go around kissing girls being you're a girl yourself, she finally admit she has sexual identity crisis instead of emphasizing she is a man.From the beginning to the end, she couldn't accept her sexual identity and lies about it. She doesn't admit that she is a lesbian by reiterating to herself and others time and time again that she is just a transgendered individual. If anyone of Brandon and Lana could stop lying about the fact, maybe Brandon could escape the death. Brandon's tragedy has been destined from the very beginning because of herself.As to me, I have to say I don't like this film at all. The characters in this story are all so abhorrent, including the female lead Brandon. It's based on a true story and the film goes just like how Brandon's life goes on in the real world. It's a destined tragedy and I can feel nothing else but only hopeless after I finished seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"An important story","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the true story of a young adult female transsexual, Teena Brandon, who was unlucky enough to live in a small American Plains town where neither resources nor support were available to her during her adolescence. Had she been born in New York City or London, she might have made the transition to Brandon Teena, not without struggle and trauma, but perhaps not so alone and self-destructive. The film, by debut director Kimberly Pierce, is extremely intense, the very small cast magnifying our involvement with each character. There's no limit to the praise for Hilary Swank's performance as the androgynous protagonist she took both the Oscar and the Golden Globe as well as numerous other awards. Chloe Sevigny also garnered wide recognition for her portrayal of the young woman who ultimately accepted Brandon for himself. Surprisingly, this movie manages to be entertaining, and even elicits a few smiles, as it progresses ineluctably to its conclusion. At the end, I felt pretty battered, but with the quite rare satisfaction of having watched an important story about an important life. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, moving and highly disturbing","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on a true story (words that usually strike fear into the hearts of critics and audiences alike), Boys Don't Cry is the tale of Brandon Teena (Hilary Swank), a young man from the tiny town of Lincoln, Nebraska, who is, in fact, a woman. Born Teena Brandon and in and out of trouble with the law his whole life, Brandon had a serious problem with his sexual identity, which led to a life on the run from irate and confused people. The girls he seduced described him as the best boyfriend they ever had, and this film, the result of extensive research by director and co-writer Kimberley Pierce, tells his story.Kicked out by his brother, Brandon goes on a drinking binge and ends up going off into the night with the kind-hearted Candace (Alicia Goranson) and her big brother John (Peter Sarsgaard). He ends up staying with them and their friends in the backwater of Falls City. There he falls for a depressed local girl, Lana (Chloë Sevigny), who is similarly enchanted by Brandon's dreams and romantic nature. Their innocent love affair is beautifully drawn against the endless skies and ramshackle houses of the American Mid-West, with Pierce's hypnotic time-lapse photography capturing perfectly the lack of a sense of time passing. Inevitably, though, with the law and Lana's family getting closer to Brandon's true identity, events spiral towards a horrible, harrowing conclusion.Pierce has undoubtedly created something exceptional here. Her camera never turns away from the terrible events it witnesses and this makes the touching central relationship even more affecting. The entire cast are brilliant, portraying the bored frustration of small town teenagers with intense commitment. It is Swank and Sevigny that stand out, though, their characters giving warmth and beauty to a cold, hard landscape.  "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great film depicting a tragic yet fascinating story that gives us some insight into the dynamics of and difference between sexual identity and sexual orientation.  After watching this movie, my friends and I wanted to know more about her (sign of a great film). "},{"Title":"The most horrible part of this movie is that it is true....","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How sad that this could have happened in our 'civilized' society. This movie made me want to slink down under the seat and hide for being a male!Chloe Sevigny and Hillary Swank are superb.....Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Excellent film, often hard to watch","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's no secret that the main character was brutally murdered in real life. Knowing this makes watching the film all the harder to take. The viewer watches every confrontation in trembling fear, waiting for the inevitable. When it finally comes, it is as unsettling as any movie scene in history. Several of my friends refused to accompany me to this film, citing its subject matter as too depressing. Indeed it is. Why would somebody want to spend two hours to watch a profoundly confused human being stumble through a world filled with violent morons and creeps? I'm not sure of the answer. Perhaps it's good to be reminded ofthe evil in the world, of how some men live where fear,ignorance, and violence converge. All I know is, I'm damn well keeping far away from Nebraska forthe rest  "},{"Title":"Shakes You to the Core","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wide open spaces, racing to nowhere, to oblivion at the end of a bluff. The race scene depicted at the beginning of Boys Don't Cry says much about the occupants racing in that car to certain death.  A death delayed as friendships are formed and love, achingly, sweet love between Brandon and Lana is realized. Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny give performances not experienced on film for quite some time.  They are more than believable as fated lovers; they make us cry, we hold them in our hearts and remember them long after the film has ended. Kimberly Peirce has given us much more than a film.  She has shaken us to the core by dispelling stereotypic beliefs about love and desire.  She has made a poignant tribute to a misunderstood human being.  It has shaken us and will stay with us forever.   "},{"Title":"like Schindler's List for gay people","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would rate Boys Don't Cry as one of the better films of the year, if not the best.  Don't deprive yourself of a rare cinematic masterpiece because of the uncomfortable subject matter.I would also ask anyone who professes to hate gay people to see this film. The absurdity of homophobia is taken to its logical conclusion here and the film pulls no punches in showing the human consequences.  As we exited the theater, in stunned silence, I turned to my wife and said that was like Schindler's List for gay people.  She looked up at me with a gasp, because she was thinking the very same thing.  It opened my eyes and *taught* me something.  What more can you ask except that the drama be suitable to the theme, and in this case it certainly is.Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny deserve Oscars for their dead on and subtle performances.  It's a pity that this is the sort of movie not likely to be considered an Oscar contender.  At just 30 years of age, let's hope Kimberly Peirce has many more films in her.  I eagerly await her next one. "},{"Title":"I was blown away by this incredibly well done movie.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most powerful films I've ever seen.  The first half, while a little slow, masterfully allows you to meet the characters and feel like you've actually gotten to know them.  And the time spent learning about their attitudes, feelings, and relationships is not only interesting, but also important.  Because the second half rips you apart inside as one horrifying act follows another, hitting you like a sledgehammer and forcing you to believe in the inhumanity that people can show each other.The acting is superb for all of the main characters.  And the appearance of the film is excellent, on both the overall level and right down to the minute details.  You feel like you're really there, observing the real events from behind a one-way piece of glass.Everyone should see this movie (based on a true story), if only to understand intolerance better. "}{"Title":"Another tragic but true story about a girl who dresses like a boy","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How ironic that this film is being released at the same time as The Messenger - the newest re-telling of the original tragic but true story of a young woman who sheds female trappings, becomes like a male and attempts to grasp traditional male power (war leadership in this case, not sexual control) and is murdered tragically by those she had come to trust. Unlike The Messenger, however, Boys Don't Cry is a brilliant film, disturbing in how well it depicts the fragility of self and the innocence of the belief one has in those one loves (the blindness with which Lana sees her man). A classic of tragic love - but with powerful resonances across  multiple lines of gender issues, sexuality, alienation, class and lost youth. "},{"Title":"Tormented From Within!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Torment and anguish are the feelings provoked by this film.  The story is thoughtfully guided by Ms. Peirce and the portrayal of Brandon Teena by Hilary Swank is outstanding.  I knew of the true story prior to seeing the film and was reluctant to see the film.  I have no regrets and am thankful that someone has the talent and courage to tell this story.  "},{"Title":"Uneven but haunting","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is powerful and proves once again that life is stranger than fiction. A true story that shows how small town and small minds can drive confused young people deeper and deeper into lies about who they really are. I felt the film meanders in the beginning and is quite slow and aimless, but Hilary Swank's performance is a laser beam throughout the movie. (All the performances are good actually). Once the truth is discovered about Brandon/Teena and the exc-cons decide to do something about it, the film kicks into a disturbing high gear that reminded me of In Cold Blood, where you are witnessing a true crime pull off by small pathetic minds, but with a gun, anything is possible and lives will forever be ruined. I am quite interested to see the documentary on this case that is already out there. I have definitely been thinking about the film since I saw it. It stays with you and Swank should get nominated come Oscar time (but probably won't). "},{"Title":"The way I see it!","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A gripping, brutally descriptive, sometimes difficult to watch film.Hilary Swank is excellent as the sexually confused Brandon. This is what acting is all about! This is not the typical Hollywood fluff that fills the multiplex screens on a weekly basis, but a fine film about a difficult subject.Although the film is not for the masses, (a few chuckles came from the audience at the screening I attended) this is a film that should be seen. The performances are first rate!One of the better if not best films of the year.  "},{"Title":"Deeply disturbing in its uncovering of the evil lurking behind fear of difference.","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hilary Swank shines in the role of Brandon Teena.  Swank can be counted among one of Hollywood's most promising young rising stars.  Chloe Sevigny was in top form.  However, the film was deeply disturbing and my stomach was still hurting three hours after I left the cinema. "},{"Title":"A very fine, humane film","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Brandon Teena story is just the kind of thing one can imagine being butchered in some awful MOW. Instead, the makers of this film have gone for something much deeper, more complicated, and more resonant. Characters in this film relate to each other clumsily and inconsistently, just as in real life. And the script treats Brandon neither hagiographically nor exploitively there is no clumsy scene in which someone explains why Brandon does what he does -- it's just taken for granted, as a mystery, and that makes it easier in a way to understand why it might have constituted such a threat to the fragile masculinities of the men who ultimately turned into murderers. (The stunning essay on Matthew Shepard's killers that ran in an issue of Harper's Magazine is a thought-provoking companion piece to this film). Boys Don't Cry also boasts a star-making performance by Hilary Swank, and an excellent supporting cast.Chloe Sevigny's quality has never been put to better effect -- especially when, in a brief sex scene with Brandon, director Kimberly Pierce lets her break out of her ordinariness, and shoots her like a Botticelli -- she suddenly looks ravishing, and it's a fitting visual entry point into the transforming power of that moment in the character's life. In all, a very fine movie indeed, one that feels truthful to the complexities of a strange and disturbing American tragedy. "},{"Title":"One of the best American indie films of 1999.","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Brandon Teena, 21.  A brash, cocky, charming young man who's a man's man (he can drink a beer with you, back you up in a barroom fight, bull**it with you by the fire all night long) and a ladies' man, showing a remarkable courtesy, charm and charisma, tough but tender.Of course, anyone who is familiar with the Brandon Teena story knows that he was a she - a young woman who taped down her breasts, stuffed a sock in her pants, wore her hair very short and had a slight swagger in her walk.  She rolled into Falls City, Nebraska and successfully convinced the locals that she was a he.  Brandon falls in love with a local girl, and teaches her to open herself up - like some small town girls, she's bitter, angry and filled with claustrophobic malaise - but Brandon offers her a way out, the dream of going to Memphis. The story made national headlines when Brandon is discovered by the local roughnecks who were once his friends, and is subsequently brutally exposed, raped and, two days later, murdered.From the opening shots, we feel safe in the hands of a confident filmmaker. Kimberly Pierce doesn't push the envelope with any new stylistic devices, telling her story simply and shooting it like a traditional indie film. Yet this serves the story better than you might expect - it never reaches for its moments of joy, tenderness, or intensity, and keeps the film focused entirely on its well written characters.The team in front of and behind the camera is impeccable.  The always reliable Jim Denault continues his impressive career as a cinematographer whose images emote a strange beauty and lyricism.  Randall Poster is the music supervisor (you may remember the name from Velvet Goldmine), and he has become *the* name for music supervision.And what a cast.  Every performance shines, down to the smaller supporting roles.  Every performance, starting from Hilary Swank's startling transformation into Brandon Teena.  After this role, she will without a doubt become the next Lili Taylor of the indie film scene.  Smart, sassy, charming, with an expressive face and a strong screen presence, she blazes across the screen.  It's always something to see the birth of a star, and Swank far surpassed any expectation I had.  Great work.Also very strong is Chloe Sevigny's subtle performance as Lana, Brandon's girlfriend.  The role could easily have been laughable - starting off as sullen, reserved and angry, then showing the light in her eyes when she slowly falls for Brandon's charms to the difficult scenes where she seems to know that Brandon is a girl, but loves her all the same.  Sevigny never seems to be reaching for the right emotional notes - it just seems honest, truthful and always real.  The gentle scenes of lovemaking or just hanging out and talking play with a sweetness uncommon in films, and make this tragedy deeply moving.By the time the horrific events occur in the final third of the film, I cared very deeply for Brandon and Lana, and was shaking and crying as Brandon's friends turn on her.  What makes it so intense is how likable the two guys are who ultimately assault and rape her.  Peter Sasgaard and Brendan Sexton III each invest their characters with a lot of depth and humor.  John and Tom spend a lot of time with Brandon during the early part of the story - she's one of the guys.  They drink beers together, brook philosophical, talk about their lives, back each other up most of the time (except when Sasgaard's John loses his temper in drunken fits, whose extremity and intensity become deeper in retrospect.) These two roles could easily have lapsed into caricature or contrivance - and as much as I enjoyed Sling Blade, the abusive dad in that was still a *movie* character while these guys are the boys next door, raising hell, going in and out of jail for petty crimes.  I grew up with lots of guys just like them, who were pi**ers to hang out with - kinda scary to see how human the face of evil can really be.More scary when you take note of the fact that during a particularly cruel scene toward the end of the film when Brandon is exposed, abused and beaten, one or two insensitive members of the audience were laughing.* * * * for Boys Don't Cry "},{"Title":"A Rough Little Gem","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meet one of Hilary Swank's newest fans. I watched Director Kim Pierce's newest (and I assume first)film wondering where she found this little gem of an actress. Swank is heartbreakingly real in this true story. She plays Brandon Teena, a young girl who desperately wanted to be of the boys but with terrible consequences. It was shot here in North Texas (doubling for Nebraska) and the low-budget look of the film actually contributes to the tacky, boozing world that Brandon and her redneck friends inhabit. Thanks to a great cast and Ms. Pierce's fine direction, Boys Don't Cry exudes a tragic tenderness. But the lead, Hilary Swank, is the one you'll be watching.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the year","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dealing with such a controversial subject matter, Boy's Don't Cry could have told the story of Brandon Teena simply or exploitively. But with excellent direction, outstanding performances (particularly from Swank and Sevigny) the movie not only invokes a strong emotional response from its audience, but also brings up important issues of gender politics and homophobia that are rarely dealt with so honestly and candidly. It is a shame that its lack of a rating will keep it from playing in certain areas; it is a great directorial debut, and one of the most important films of the year, if not the decade. "},{"Title":"A boy too many","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry is a powerful experience. So is root canal therapy. Although the film cannot be considered entertainment, it is a compelling document that makes the point that being different can get one into a lot of trouble.Set in Nebraska, the movie takes place in bars, trailer parks and rural locations, which may possess rustic charm in other films, but in this one are just depressing. However, the locale is secondary to the film's universal themes of prejudice and the search for identity.The story is based on real events. Teena Brandon (Hilary Swank), is a woman who prefers to live as a man &#x96; Brandon Teena. He has already commenced the hormone treatments that will help him achieve the change physically. There is little doubt that if he had pursued this gender choice in a large city, he probably wouldn't have attracted undue attention. However, he rejected this course, refusing easy classification. Brandon is referred to as him in nearly all the serious reports of the case. It is as though the media has accorded him the dignity and acceptance that was denied him while he lived. Brandon chose to try and lead the life of a man in a small, semi-rural environment where anonymity was almost impossible. He was attracted to a group of people who were fringe-dwellers with petty crime and anti-social behaviour almost a given. Befriended by John Lotter and Tom Nissen played by Peter Sarsgaard and Brendan Sexton III, he comes to know three women associated with them, an ex-girlfriend named Lana played by Chloë Sevigny, her mother, and another friend Candace, who features in the film's tragic ending. All accept Brandon as a boy, albeit a pretty and slightly built one. Brandon and Lana begin an affair. At first Lana doesn't realise Brandon's true physiology but as time goes on, seems to accept the situation. The affair creates tension among the others, especially John, who is jealous of Lana's attention to Brandon.The discovery by John and Tom that Brandon is still physically a girl leads to ugly events. The final scenes of this film are brutal and haunting. Hilary Swank won the academy award for best actress. It is a searing portrayal that blew away all the other contenders that year. One must feel sorry for those other actors who came up against this tour de force of a performance. Swank lived as a man for a month to prepare for the part. With chest taped and a sock in her jeans, the transformation is startling. The two boys, John and Tom, swagger, brawl and drink in a reckless way that is disturbingly real. Their dysfunctional personalities are painfully revealed. Despite the fact that John and Tom break the law whenever they can get away with it, they are in fact rigid conformists, shaped by an environment that has little tolerance of difference and none at all for gender conflict. The danger they generate is palpable, and it is into this environment that Brandon walks with a degree of innocence. The film is unique in subject matter. It is a disturbing work on every level. Even after another Academy Award, it still marks a career highlight for Hilary Swank, and for Kimberly Peirce, the woman whose creative drive brought it to fruition. Between them, they have created a work that is more of an experience than a film. "}{"Title":"Took me 13 years to watch","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always wanted to watch this but its a topic very familiar with me. as I've witnessed sexual identity with in an old friend of mine myself.brandon was obviously just looking for acceptance, and fount it. but the when the truth came out it was just horrific how the people he though accepted him just turned on him like that.the film makes me wanna help him do something to help him and its so sad to think i couldn't of done anything to help him.. the performance by chloe sevigny was amazing. lana saw brandon for who he was as a person.this film is a disturbing and powerful film that should be shown all over the world to stop people with differences being treated like wild animals. "},{"Title":"I'm a boy and I cry thanks to this movie (DVD)","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tatjana, a Swedish friend (that I lost) recommended me this movie a long time ago and i can't remember what have we done about this. Every time time i watch it, I cry and in the same time, i find that life is an extraordinary gift. I am just so moved by the courage and vision of Brandon and Lana. They live in such a crappy world but they don't care because their love lights everything. Rejected, bruised, raped, poor, jailed and disoriented, they are still the happier couple on earth. What better definition of love is that, what better movie can you find and what do you want me to add except that it's strange for my favorite movie that i NEVER watch the end. "},{"Title":"A Must Watch!","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Brandon Teena (December 12, 1972 &#x96; December 31, 1993) was an American trans man who was raped and murdered in Humboldt, Nebraska in December 1993. Does this wikipedia information attract you to watch 'Boys Don't Cry'? Honestly, some true stories are hard to even listen. And harder to watch them on the Silver-Screen! 'Boys Don't Cry' is an incredible film. Biopics on people who became a topic and remained as such, are easier to make. For example, a Alexander or a Ray don't need an introduction. But a Brandon Teena, his emotions, are tough to explore. Sad, but fact, Teena died at the age of 21 of a brutal murder. Controversy caught the film, many claiming it as a half-hearted attempt.As a film, 'Boys Don't Cry', as mentioned, is an incredible film. Kimberly Peirce & Andy Bienen write a biopic, on a short-lived Trans Man with high volume. People say 'You Know, The Final 30-Minutes are Very Depressing'. I damn-en those comments, because... This isn't an easy film to watch right from the beginning. You need a strong heart to watch this film. It tears you apart, it makes you feel like a loser. In it's intentions, 'Boys Don't Cry' succeeds big time.Hilary Swank as Brandon Teena, is magnificent. The actress who won wide acclaim and numerous awards for her performance here, is actually a under statement. She delivers a performance what an actor only dreams about! It's a Hallmark Performance! Chloë Sevigny as Brandon's girlfriend, Lana, is another topper. She is fantastic. Peter Sarsgaard delivers a bravura performance, as well.On the whole, A Must Watch film! WOW! "},{"Title":"Touching and affecting film","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a sexually confused teenage girl, living as a man, with drastic consequences.This film is so powerful. Brandon alone is a very intriguing character. Hilary Swank is amazing in her transformation into a man. For years, I thought the person on the cover was a guy! Hilary Swank walks, talks and acts like a guy in the film, and she is so convincing. her Oscar is well deserved. Chloe Sevigny is also great, as she is so natural in her affection towards Brandon. Her fear and confusion is also well portrayed. Brandon's psychological trauma in the latter half of the movie is highlighted well, especially in the scene where he got questioned by the police. Lana's unconditional acceptance for Brandon is very touching. It brings hope to people who is about to lose faith in humanity.The plot is touching and gripping. It shocks me that even supposed friends can hurt each other so much. I have always wondered, what good does it do to hurt people like Brandon? People are still rather intolerant, and I hope one day it will change. "},{"Title":"And this is What Happens When They Do Cry...","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the true story of, Teena Brandon, 'Boys Don't Cry' tells the story of a young woman who goes through a sexual identity crisis. As a personal experiment, she disguises herself as a man to see how she'd fit in society. After befriending (and being accepted by) a group in a bar she becomes more comfortable in her new identity (alter ego). Gradually, Brandon and Lana (one of the group members) fall in love (while no one is yet aware that Brandon is a woman. But when the truth comes out, events take a drastic turn. Lana being the only one to stand by Brandon is helpless while matters change from bad to worse.To quote another fellow reviewer, 'Boys Don't Cry' is about discovering one's own identity. While we are introduced to numerous characters who are lost, Brandon is the one who discovers herself and so does Lana (at a later stage in the movie). While we initially see the rest of the group accepting Brandon as one of their own, it doesn't take long for them to react when Brandon turns out to be what they resent (based on their own prejudice). The surprise discovery of her identity threatens and confuses their view of their own identity.The plot initially moves at a lethargic pace before picking up on the way. Cinematography is OK and lighting is terrible. The setting though fits the movie tends to be a bit dull at times. However, it could be argued that director Peirce wanted the audience to focus more on the story and characters. She has created the feel of the atmosphere of 'lower class' people. There are several very disturbing and graphic scenes that many might not be able to sit through.Hilary Swank delivers an astounding performance. She seems to have played one of the most challenging and difficult roles (that I've witnessed on screen) with ease. She delicately underplays her part. Chloe Sevigny also gives a superb performance in a difficult role and deserves equal praise (though it is Swank who got most of the attention).'Boy's Don't Cry' shows us the rawness of a certain part of reality. One that many may not be aware of or may feel intimidated by. It is shocking, disturbing, horrifying and a dark experience in a very real way and it is very moving and thought provoking. "},{"Title":"Brandon Teena  ---  1972-1993","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" At the tender of age 21 it was all over for Brandon Teena as young Teena Brandon had presented himself to the world. Two young men murdered him in the small town of Humboldt, Nebraska, unable to cope with the existence of someone outside of the norms they were carefully taught. The world took little notice of Brandon's passing back then. But when the relatively inexpensive production of Boy's Don't Cry got rave reviews resulting in an first Oscar for Hilary Swank, his story became known the world over.It's only been in the past decade that the transgender right movement spun out on its own from the general gay/lesbian civil rights cause. Stories like Brandon Teena's or Gwen Araujo's or one of Moses Preston Waller, a case that I was familiar with back in my working days at the New York State Crime Victims Board have brought the ugliest manifestation of discrimination that transgendered people face, that of loss of life. A terrible price to raise the consciousness of the general public. Teena Brandon was born in Lincoln, Nebraska a biological woman and moved to Humboldt later on where she reversed her name and presented himself to the public as Brandon Teena. It's what Brandon saw inside himself, what he felt to the depths of his soul. As a man he won and wooed a woman played in the film by Chloe Sevigny, but some of the redneck crowd Brandon hung out with suspected something afoot. Including some of Chloe Sevigny's relatives.The brutal rape and killing of Brandon Teena is probably only comparable to the honor killings that are sanctioned by some extreme branches of Islam. It was as if their own honor, their own sense of masculine self was compromised by him even touching a woman. They reaffirmed their flagging masculinity with rape and purged the family of dishonor with a homicide. And they felt totally justified in doing it which is the real scary part.When I was a kid of eleven I remember when it was a foregone conclusion that Susan Hayward would be an Oscar winner for I'll Cry Tomorrow. Years later it was also concluded for Jack Palance for Supporting Actor in City Slickers. The only other time odds weren't even given in an Oscar race for Hilary Swank in Boys Don't Cry. In the memory of most of the movie-going public this was something that just didn't happen. But Hilary Swank pulled something from the depths of her own soul, that's something seen a few times in a life when she played Brandon Teena. For me, Boy's Don't Cry was a cathartic experience that I had never had before watching a film. It was brilliant, but terribly painful. I said at the time I probably would never see the film again, but I did in order to write this commentary. It was just as cathartic as before and even more so after the annual Transgender Day of Remembrance which I participated in my town of Buffalo, New York.Hilary Swank, Chloe Sevigny and the rest of the cast and crew have made an enduring classic. This review is dedicated with reverence to the life of Moses Preston Waller who questioned the package God put his soul in and like Brandon Teena paid for those questions with his life at too young an age. "},{"Title":"Boy's don't cry. But this film will make you.","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys don't cry. As soon as you hear that title you realise there is something powerful behind that title, and there is. breathtakingly played by Hilary Swank, Brandon Teenas tale of being sexually confused is told. Her portrayal of the woman who felt as though she was a man is mind blowing and Swank grabs this role with both hands and along with Chloë Sevigny the bitter love story is born. The movie is based on true events of the brutal rape and murder of Teena Bradon (Bradon Teena) in 1993.The hardships that Brandon (or Teena) had to deal with were captured more than perfectly by Hilary Swank, and the heartbreak and confusion of his girlfriend Lana Tisdel (Chloë Sevigny) are played with raw passion that have you gripping onto something to keep yourself from being bowled over by awe.Kimberly Peirce directed this movie with passion, emotion and such fire that it captivates you within the first few moments. She brought the characters out so well and each acted their own part in amazing ways.On a whole the film may make some viewers turn away or turn off with the graphic sex scene between Lana and Bradon, and the brutal rape scene towards the end of the film, violence and murder is also within this powerful movie but if you want to be stunned speechless this is the movie for you. brilliantly acted and well screen played. 10/10. Hilary Swank deserved every part of that Best Actress Award she received for the film. "},{"Title":"Very effective, showcasing some amazing performances from Swank and Sevigny","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The story of the life of Brandon Teena, a transsexual teen who preferred life in a male identity until it was discovered he was born biologically female.Boys Don't Cry is an outstanding film. It was one of the most alarming and important films of the year, Swank's performance as the young 'boy' Brandon Teena is a star-making turn, the centers and foundation of Kimberly Peirce's startling debut film. Chloe Sevigny who plays Lana (who falls in love with Brandon, thinking she's a man) is also top-noth as Swank's partner. The duo are a love story for the millennium, a mismatched couple that find perfection in imperfection. The two leads boast outstanding performances, Hilary Swank was just mesmerizing as Brandon, I shower her performance in praise, she sharply plays a character full of complexity. And Chloe Sevigny (who I have been a fan of ever since I was her in 1995's Kids), who was especially fine, as deserves as much praise as Hilary, Chloe (I feel) also deserved the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. She was just perfect and probably the only one capable of playing a frustrated teenager with a dead-end job in a tiny town. A teenager who has never been treated with sensitivity and respect. Who has never experienced real intimacy. Her performance burnt into my memory and will stay there. The screenplay by Peirce and Andy Bienen challenges us to take a hard look at role-playing in society. Pierce vividly conveys the excitement, the violence and strong danger in Brandon's gender-bending adventure.A truly unmissable film, beautifully made but not for the light-hearted or those that are easily offended (the film is often extraordinarily tough to watch at some points). But all the same it is groundbreaking and emotionally powerful experience.9.4/10 See It If You Liked Heavenly Creatures, Wild at Heart, The Brandon Teena Story "},{"Title":"Everybody has right to seek love","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although Teena was a girl, she did not like man at all. What she most likely to do was disguising herself as a cowboy to attract girl. When she encountered a good-looking girl Lana, she fell in love with Lana at the first sight. But Lana's boyfriend who was just set free from the prison would not look on with folded arms. Especially if he found that Teena was a girl, it would be a catastrophe for Teena.The present society is more and more tolerant for homosexuality. It is really the huge progress for mankind. Love should be free.Hilary Swank's heart-breaking performance is absolutely deserved to win Oscar award (best actress). I am happy to see that she won again this year. (best actress for Million dollar baby) An excellent drama. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Strong drama that is unforgettable.","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Brandon Teena (Two-Time Oscar WinnerHilary Swank) is the popular new guy in a small Nebraska town. He hangs out with the wrong kind of people, he drinks, he likes to cuss and he enjoys bumper surfing. But he charms the young ladies, who've never met a more sensitive and considerate young man. Life is starting to be good for Brandon, once he meets the hometown beauty Lana (Chloe Sevingy). It is love at first sight for Brandon. However, he's wanted for Grand Theft Auto and other assorted crimes. But there's one important detail that Brandon rather keeps a secret that Brandon is actually a young woman and her real name is Teena Brandon. When his best friends (Peter Sarsgaard, Brandon Sexton the Third and Alicia Goranson) make this discover. Brandon's life is ripped apart by betrayal, humiliation, rape and murder.Directed by Kimberly Peirce made an unforgettable drama that is actually based on true events. This film is definitely not for the faint of the heart or closed of mind. Since this film is based on a true story is stranger that fiction. DirectorPeirce remade this film, since it was originally a short film with a different cast members. Swank win her first Academy Award for her unforgettable in her positively stunning and mesmerizing lead performance. Sevigny is also very good as Brandon's love life (Who deliberately doesn't ask too many questions and a free-spirited). Sevigny was nominated for the Oscar as Best Supporting Actress. Sarsgaard is also good as the homophobic rapist. Some people will have a hard time watching the film's violent conclusion. But in any respect, this is a must see. One of the most important films of 1999. Same material is also seen in the documentaryThe Brandon Tenna Story. Written by the director and Andy Biener. (**** ½/*****). "}{"Title":"Boys Don't Cry...","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just recently had the opportunity to view Boys Don't Cry. I thought that this was an outstanding film. It was very disturbing, but very good. This motion picture made me feel so bad for people who have identity problems similar to Teena in the film. Hilary Swank who played Teena Brandon in Boys Don't Cry was amazing. Her role as a transgender was obviously very difficult to portray, but she did an outstanding job. The movie was very traumatic and upsetting. It left me with a pit in stomach for the people out in the world who relate to Teena. I would recommend this film to everyone, but warn them that it is a tear jerker. "},{"Title":"Pretty upsetting but good.","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" After I saw this movie one night, it was stuck in my head for like the next couple of days. It was just so brutal what happened to Brandon. The beginning of this film reminded me a lot of the film Monster which was made four years later after this film. Knowing this was a true story, like Monster, is the worst part. Knowing somebody really had to experience all of the pain she did. I was drawn in right from the start of the movie. I wouldn't watch this with anybody if I were you. Its better to watch things like this alone, because it may make you uncomfortable if your eyes begin to water and they see you. I didn't expect this film to be as good as it was, but man, Boys Don't Cry rocks. If you enjoy upsetting romantic dramas, definitely check this out. I'm not really a romance fan but this film is just so good.5/5 "},{"Title":"Wow, this movie really blew me away...","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't really think of enough good things to say about this film. Every performance was memorable, from Hilary Swank's to Peter Sarsgaard's to Brendan Sexton III's. Even Alicia Goranson turned in a wonderful performance, and I haven't seen or heard from her since Roseanne. This film moved me in a way that no other film has before. I genuinely felt sympathy for the character of Brandon/Teena. I have seen the documentary about the real person who actually had who actually had a sexual identity crisis and had these atrocities committed upon her. That really crystallizes the whole experience as far as I'm concerned. Anyone who enjoys really good dramas should definitely check this out.  "},{"Title":"wow...amazing","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The worst thing about this movie was that the story was true. It's horrible to think that people go through stuff like that, but I think it's amazing that one would recreate this for others to learn tolerance and courage, etc...from. I cried through most of it, but I balled through the all of the credits and then some, just staring at the screen. I feel like a better person by just having seen the movie because it really made me think about the world around me and the people who I'm associated with. It's not a movie I could watch everyday, no, but I encourage everyone to see it at least once in their life...just have a huge box of tissues beside you! I was afraid when I saw Hillary Swank was the lead actress, but she did a fantastic job and I'm sorry I ever doubted her acting abilities.  "},{"Title":"Moving. Powerful. Tragic. A must see film.","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, I would like to say that I was stupid enough to see some spoilers prior to watching this move and I knew the ending. So I thought that the movie won't move me much. I was so wrong! That movie nearly brought me to tears and I am a person who just can't cry even if I want to. Watching the final scene I had a big lump in my throat and feeling so sad. That almost never happens when I watch movies. I won't explain the plot, a lot of people have already done that and it is not the most important thing in this film. It is a film about feeling, about being yourself, making mistakes and paying for them, against prejudice. Few movies actually feel so real as this one - the setting, the characters, the action. Hilary Swank was performed superbly in this movie, I just don't understand why does she gets so few good roles nowadays. You could see Brandon's desire to live the way he/she wants, the struggle he made in life. She was so believable pretending to be a boy. I really felt compassion for her.  And the love story with Lana(another powerful performance from Chloë Sevigny) was so beautiful, well done and moving... Another great feature is the portrayal of the characters - they all had some flaws,there aren't the perfectly innocent victims Hollywood loves to use,  even  Tom and John( the bad guys) showed some good sides of their personalities( although at the end of the movie I really wanted them to suffer terribly). Especially the actor who plays John did a really good job. His character was both scary and realistic. The music also played its part in  creating the great emotions this movie brings to us. Watch it.  "},{"Title":"a great, hard to watch, film","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is one of those films, as great as it is, that I will proably never watch again, atleast the last 45 minutes or so. The performances, most notably Hillary Swank's, are extrodinarily strong all round, and the story is a captivating one that will challenge many to think in different ways. The one downside to the movie is that it's based on actual events that people who see it will already know the outcome, however I was so captivated by the characters and the movies story that I went through long periods of time not even thinking about the real life story, and in the end somehow I was more shocked and saddened than I expected to be. This movie is not easy to watch. I will personally never watch it in it's entirety ever again, but am glad I seen it once because it's trully a great movie. I give it a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"outstanding","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was the best of 1999. Perhaps one of the best in the last ten years. When I saw this movie, I was moved to tears. The brutality of it all. Even though I knew the outcome before I saw the film, Pierce sets it up so that you get so involved in the story, you are still shocked when it happens. The acting was amazing as well. Hilary Swank, one of the most feminine actresses in the business today, pulled off this performance as no one else could. She was rightfully rewarded with the Oscar. I am so glad that an independent film actually got the recognition it deserves. Sevigny, Saarsgard and Sexton also pull off amazing performances. The realness and grittiness of the film fit so naturally into it. To anyone who truly appreciates movies, I recommend this film. I know that when I watch it, out of deep respect, I have to watch it all the way through.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful portrait of truth","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is one of the most touching and daring films in cinema history. Detailing the true story of Brandon Teena, a youth with a sexual identity disorder, this film touches its viewers in a way that most films aren't brave enough to. Hilary Swank's performance is brilliant, bringing Brandon to life, and giving a poignant insight into the character's troubled life. A brilliant film showing the true story of one individual with the courage to be their self. "},{"Title":"The most exciting film I've seen in years!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BOYS DON'T CRY is a rarity these days; a truly exciting film that grabs hold of you and mesmerizes you right to the end.  Hilary Swank's Oscar was well-deserved; she captures Brandon Teena in a way that is almost spooky. She is matched scene-for-scene by the enchanting Chloe Sevigny. They are surrounded by a uniformly splendid supporting cast.  Kimberly Peirce's brilliant direction perfectly captures the blue-collar milieu of Falls City, Nebraska.  This movie is not for the squeamish; it is sexually pretty explicit and extremely violent, but vivid, exciting, and unforgettable. "},{"Title":"The most exciting film of 1999!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BOYS DON'T CRY generates more real excitement than any film I've seen in a very long time.  The true-life story of Brandon Teena (Teena Brandon) is brought vividly to life by first-time director Kimberly Peirce.  Peirce's eye and ear are phenomenal; she captures the blue-collar milieu of her characters flawlessly.  She is aided in her task by an exceptional cast; these people are so real that it seems at times we are eavesdropping on them.  Hilary Swank is devastating as Brandon; Chloe Sevigny is enchanting as her love interest, and Peter Sarsgaard is terrifying as the violent, unpredictable John.  Jeneatta Arnette steals every scene she's in as Sevigny's mother.  An unforgettable tale of love and hate. "}{"Title":"Fascinating,controverial and darkly disturbing","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Hilary Swank stars in her breakthrough role as Brandon Teena/Teena Brandon,a girl who attempts to live life as a boy,succeeds but is brutally raped and murdered when is true identity is revealed.The most shocking thing about Boys Don't Cry you will find that everything that happened was true.Every brutal act of violence and sexualism occured in Falls city Nebraska,America in the year 1993.Boys Don't cry exposes every aspect and the nature of wanting to have a sex change,Brandon I guess was a man trapped inside the body of a woman.You will find throughout the whole film that Brandon is more of being a gentleman than any other man in the town.I have seen Hilary Swank in other movies such as The Gift and The Next Karate Kid and it is deeply shocking seeing her as a boy,but throughout the whole film you will discover that Brandon is better at being a boy and you will start to forget that she';s a girl.The story begins with Brandon experimenting with his new style,but when he is chased and nearly attacked by a group of sexist thugs,he meets up with some new people who take him under their wing.There's Marvin and Tom (Brandons killers,two ex convicts)Candice (who gives Brandon hospitality),then Lana (the girl he falls in love with).Lana had no idea that Brandon is a girl (even after having sex with him),but even after Brandons true identity is revealed,Lana refuses to end it and believes their is hope for the both of them.After seeing this film,you will be touched and shocked at the same time,and later overwhelmed by the whole thing which will keep you talking for weeks to come.Kimberly Pierce wrote and directed the whole movie and stayed faithful throughout the whole project. "},{"Title":"Good, Erotic, Tragic","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very good film about very dark subject manner.  This flick is all about the short, sweet, and in the end, horrific life of Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena.I was amazed to see Hilary Swank from The Next Karate Kid fame landing the role of Brandon.  She won an Oscar for this performance and deservedly so. She really slipped into this role and acted her guts out.This film takes daring, daring chances in terms of on screen sexuality. In fact, I'm amazed this got an R rating.  Let alone got made at all.  A fine film, by fine, gusty filmmakers.  Brandon Teena R.I.P.  "},{"Title":"A Undeniably powerful piece of filmmaking","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is a one of a kind movie masterpiece that depicts the struggles an individual must endure in order to be themselves.This is the true story of Teena Brandon, a young Nebraskan girl who preferred to live her life as a man named Brandon Teena. Brandon Teena is played excellently by Hilary Swank in a dynamite, Oscar-winning performance. The film chronicles Brandon's fun-loving, carefree, and self-destructive adventures through rural Nebraska as he tries to find the right girl. One day, he meets some new friends who whisk him off to the small, uncharted town of Falls City, Nebraska, where Brandon meets the lovely Lana (Chloe Sevigny) who was Oscar-nominated for her brilliant performance. Once Brandon is settled in, and has wooed Lana, the films becomes the most charming fairy tale come true love story. Things inevitably take a plunging turn for our young hero when problems with his gender rises. This film goes from sweet, to shocking, to an ultimately horrifyng climax. Based on true events, this film graphically depicts the events that brought the struggle of one boy's quest for love into a voyage of Hell. Peter Sarsgaard also gives a great performance as one of the friends.Director and co-writer Kimberly Peirce has made a masterpiece with her intimate portrait of American white trash and a truly moving story and blends into a riveting, intense, and thought-provoking movie experience. I strongly recommend this film to all who seek not just good entertainment, but a wonderful chance to see beautiful performances and a sad, but altogether beautiful film that has the courage to go where no film has gone before. This is a truly original love story that has some of the same sacrificial elements of Rome & Juliet. This film is NOT recommended for the close-minded, homophobic, or weak-hearted. This film is strong, but graceful. Sad, but brilliant. Hilary Swank's acting alone make this film worth watching. As an actress, Swank truly made wonders for herself is the breakthrough role that has to be seen to be believed. Kimberly Peirce was robbed of an Oscar nod for Best Director, she truly has a grip on the issue. I saw this in theaters and I was crying heavily by the film's unforgettable end. This film has an indescribable effect on the human heart. Don't miss this film! My Rating ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of 1999","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is a superb telling of what is sadly,a true story and is a great example of a great movie not always having the biggest names in its cast.When I saw this movie in the theater the day before the 1999 Oscars,I thought to myself afterwards,Don't be surprised if Hilary Swank won the Best Actress Oscar for this one.As it was,she deservedly won it.She truly looked and acted like a man in this movie. This movie did not shy away from Brandon Teena's past criminal history as Teena Brandon.When one watches this movie,one is drawn into an almost hypnotic state into where Brandon's girlfriend Lana Tisdel (superbly played by Chloe Sevigny,nominated for the Best Supporting Actress Oscar) is a woman who does not ask many questions and truly accepts who Brandon is,even after she finds out that she is a woman in a sexual identity crisis preferring her identity as a man.Peter Saarsgard and Brendon Sexton III are absolutely chilling as the killers of Brandon and 2 other people.The murder sequence that followed Brandon's rape and subsequent police report is probably one of the most chilling ending murder sequences in a movie since the ending of Looking For Mr. Goodbar.Also turning up in this movie is one of those actresses where one wonders,Didn't I see her before for a long time on television?-Alicia Goranson(formerly of the TV show, Roseanne.).Overall,this is a superb movie about a very courageous woman who had the courage to pass as a man and sadly, paid the ultimate price once her deception was found out.One also feels for Lisa and Phillip,the 2 others murdered with Brandon.The love sequences between Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny were also handled very well.As nice to the women as Brandon was,it is little wonder that Lana loved him so much.I give this movie a rating of 10 out of 10.It is one of 1999's best movies in a year that had a number of very well done movies. "},{"Title":"Too long, too slow, just plain boring...","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just couldn't get through this movie.  It was too long and painful to sit through.(Not painful as in gut-wrenching but painful as in just plain boring!)  Usually I like movies based on reality but I had trouble garnering any sympathy for this bunch.  I know I probably missed the best part by stopping the movie at about the 3/4 point, but I just couldn't take any more.  Whether they are real or imagined it gets tiring watching people self-destruct at a snail's pace.  I just didn't care what happened to them - good, bad or indifferent!  It was like watching paint dry....you know there are a thousand other things you could be doing that would be more stimulating! As for the acting, it was ok.  Nothing to write home about.  Would I recommend this movie to anyone?  Certainly, if they were having trouble sleeping!  3 out of 10     "},{"Title":"A perfect acting!!","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a beautiful love story of two star-crossed lovers, ends in an awful tragedy. There is so violent people & society. But their love is radiant like a star despite of all that violence. Calm camera-working in so sad scene,and powerful directing. Hilary swank' charming,so-real(looks like a REAL MAN) acting is the best!! You'll regret if you miss her acting & BOYS DON'T CRY. EXCELLENT MOVIE! "},{"Title":"I hated this movie","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I believe that each actor/actress gave an outstanding performance, the movie itself contained false facts and did not tell the entire story! It was a big let down for those involved, unfortunately.  It could have been a huge success for both the audience and the families but unfortunately people refused to get facts straight and insisted on making the film THEIR way.  I still feel for Phillip's family.  That's all. "},{"Title":"I'm only a kid but I know good movies","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can remeber about two summers ago my mom and me watched this documentery on Cinemax called the Brendan Tina Story.  We payed such close attention to who what where and when.  When it was over we sat there thinking wow.  For me as a kid but not a child I found it to be very intriguing so when I found out it was going to be turned into a movie I was so psyched.  This may sound trite but I can still remeber when my mom and I saw it.  It was after the Oscars so I was very interested in seeing Hilary Swank's perfomance and, especially, Chloe Siveny's perfromace.  As I watched I thought (about Hilary) she couldn't be a  women.  Her movement, her speech and her look, she so deserved that statue.  I loved Chloe's peformance, her presence was award winning and, even though I loved Angelina Jolie in Girl Interupted, it was Chloe who should have gotten the Oscar.I know a lot of people hated this movie because of its content and tragic ending but that's life.  If you did not want to walk away from a movie feeling like you may have you should not have gone to see i.  I mean it's not like you didnt know what it was about, it got enouph publicity.I enjoyed this movie because of its truth and performers and I hope all of you can take another look and see its real meaning.Don't be afraid to be yourself.  "},{"Title":"Powerful film","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This about the True story of Brandon-Teena.  A woman who lived her life in rural Nebraska as a boy suffering a gender identity crisis.  Once she is discovered and found out, she is viciously raped, and then later on after she goes to the police, is murdered by her same attacker in 1993.Since I knew about the story before hand, you know the film is going to be a tragic ending and perhaps somewhat predictable.  However, Hillary Swanks Academy Award performance as Brandon is AMAZING.  Hillary looks and acts so much like a guy it is fantastic.  Brandon-Teena seems like such an amazing character to go through the things he did.  What he had to go through, in such a place took a lot of guts.  Good cinematography as well.  A very important film.Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fascinating social commentary cum Greek tragedy","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's always nice to see indies get mainstream attention, but what I like best about this movie is how much more complex and insightful it is than most trendy indies. While Hillary Swank certainly deserves all the acclaim she received for her depiction of Brandon/Teena, what lifts the movie above the Issue-of-the-Week/After School Special premise is how the director captured small town life, and especially how masculinity is defined in such settings. Undergirding this is the contrast between the casual evil of the killers and the incredibly touching performance of Chloe Sevigny. "}{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant Performances, But It's Not For Everyone","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't rehash the plot of this movie nor wax philosophical about man's inhumanity to man.  There is one overriding reason to rent this movie  The sheer joy of watching a great artist give the performance of their life.Watching Hilary Swank(and to an only slightly lesser extent, Chloe Sevigny) here, is like watching Hendrix at Woodstock and Monterey, Michealangelo at the Sistine Chapel, Montana in the Super Bowl and Jordan in the NCAA/NBA Finals.  It is simply, IMHO, one of the two best acting jobs of the last thirty years, the other being Robert De Niro in Taxi Driver.  Swank is charismatic and mesmerizing in a way the real Brandon/Teena could've only dreamed about.  Her facial expressions and body movements are enthralling and letter perfect.  You can't look away from the screen for a second.Writer/director Kimberly Peirce accomplishes the near impossible by making these losers all seem much more dignified and sympathetic then they actually are/were(watch the documentary The Brandon Teena Story and read the book All She Wanted to see what I mean).WARNING  This movie is very depressing, profane and violent, and is only loosely based on what actually happened.  However, I think that Swank's glorious light brightens the gloom more than enough.  Peirce very wisely adds a nice coda(Swank voiceover) at the end.For a real trip, watch The Next Karate Kid right afterwards! )Story/filmmaking 8 outa 10, Acting 10+ outa 10. "},{"Title":"Maybe boys don't cry, but I did!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've been wanting to see this movie for 8 months now, since I first read about it in December, but since I don't like movie theaters I thought I'd wait till it got out on video. And that was lucky, because tears just kept streaming down my face. It was so sad! Probably the saddest movie I have ever seen. I usually don't cry when watching TV or movies, but this one really got to me. It may be the fact that it's based on a true story. How could they be so cruel to him/her, just because he/she was different?! And Hilary Swank was so great as Brandon, sometimes I forgot that she was a *she*. You have to see it!Lacci "},{"Title":"poor white trash brilliantly done","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I finally got around to seeing this movie on video. How anyone could think Annette Bening did a better job than Hilary Swank is very troubling. A powerful look at a culture and lifestyle that is foreign to most of us. A movie that will offend as well as astound us. A must see performance by a very gifted actress. "},{"Title":"One of the most powerful movies I've ever seen","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One way that I judge movies is by how many times I can watch them. There is no way I'm going to watch this movie again, because I don't think I have the emotional stamina to watch it twice. Only one other movie has had more effect on me and that is Saving Private Ryan. Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny give outstanding performances. I was simply astounded at the intensity of hatred some people have towards  those that are different from them. I would recommend that everyone watch this movie once.  It is not a movie you're likely to forget. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1999.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't expect to be wrapped up in Boys Don't Cry. And I wasn't. This movie did more than wrap me up, it enthralled me, touched me and moved me in a way no other film has ever before. The performances are absolutely unforgettable, Chloe Sevigny is mezmerising as Lana, while Hilary Swank really brings Brandon Teena to life.I highly recommend Boys Don't Cry to the movie-goers who enjoyed such films as Girl, Interrupted and This Boys Life, but, please note, there is alot of sexual violence, offensive language and drug use which may offend some of the more sensitive viewers.Overall, Boys Don't Cry is a brilliant film, and it now manages a place at #9 on My Top 150 Films of All Time.My Rating 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Powerful. Eye opening. True life story!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director/co-writer Kimberly Peirce puts on the screen a rather frank and sordid love story that ended in a tragic murder in 1993. A young girl in Lincoln, Nebraska leaves her home to try and live out her preferred life style, that as a boy. Suffering a gender identity, Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena lived a short alienated life; but found a soul mate that finally accepted the love of a lonely person.In Teena's mind, she is a young man trapped in a girl's body. After the trans-gender roll playing was discovered, Teena/Brandon was brutally raped and finally shot to death.This movie will not be for everyone. The profanity and violence is relevant to the tragic story. The rape scene is very intense and not easy to watch. The shock of the whole thing is that this is a true story. Sympathy and compassion are part of comprehension. This movie will be hard to forget.Hilary Swank's Oscar winning portrayal of Teena/Brandon is much to talk about. Chloe Sevigny, as the soul mate Lana, is worthy of praise as well. Also in the cast are Peter Sarsgaard, Brendan Sexton III, Jeanetta Arnette and Alicia Goranson. "},{"Title":"Hillary Swank is AMAZING","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was the most well deserved Oscar given to ANY actor for Mrs. Swank than I can remember. Her performance in this film was phenomenal. She even lived as a boy for 30 days before filming began and her dedication and hard work truly shows in this film.Kimberly Peirce did an amazing job in developing the love story between Lana and Brandon/Teena. Great acting by everyone in this film. I could watch this movie over and over again.9/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting study of hate","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a truly powerful film. Hilary Swank truly deserved to win the Oscar, as this had to be the trickiest role of all the Oscar nominees. She has to carry basically the entire film on her shoulders, and Ms. Swank does not disappoint. Chloe Sevigny also was fantastic, and I think her Oscar-nominated supporting role was better than Angelina Jolie's (who also was great in Girl Interrupted). These two are the perfect one-two punch. They have a natural, unforced chemistry together, which makes for some truly compelling scenes.This is a very difficult film to watch. It's not for the faint of heart, or those easily offended. There is extreme violence, profanity, and sexuality. All this does serve a purpose it shows how sick some people really are, and how the innocents (such as Lana) often get caught in between. An important film, and I'm surprised it wasn't nominated for best picture. "},{"Title":"Finally...","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first took notice of Hilary Swank, it was in the movie The Next Karate Kid.  She had wonderful acting ability then and I was hopeful she would one day get some recognition.  With Boys Don't Cry, she finally received it.  With amazing dialogue and her best performance yet, she really brought Teena Brandon to life.  The movie in itself is very brutal, but brings about the truth of what society does around us.  "},{"Title":"Epiphany versus reality.","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kimberley Peirce seems to want to mirror the effect Brandon Teena has on a sexually ultraconformist society in her film's form.  So that society is represented by the dominating 'true story' narrative, predictable, linear, conventional; while Brandon is figured in the epiphanical moments that suspend narrative, time, place - Van Sant-like infusions of pure colour, grace and magic.  As in real life, the former swamps the latter, and both thoroughly depress the viewer.  You expect an American film to evade social criticism, but the lack of a sense of landscape is surprising. "}{"Title":"Boys Don't Pry","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What's the price of reaching your dream? Probably your life. And what it takes to make it come true? Definitely your life.The tragic tale of Brandon Teena opens with an enormous effort from the moviemakers, to make the audience fell in love with him. We are supposed to understand his obsession, and most of his actions towards it.When you denying your deepest identity, you'll ended up denying yourself. Your life. He starts denying his sexual identity, his appearance, his life, and finally himself. It is so sad to see the cost of betrayal he has to pay, when the folks who welcomes him finally see the truth.In a stunning work, these darkest side of our morals' been exposed and interpret perfectly in this movie. The casts are perfect, and we can see directly into their own eyes and characters. Musical scores and cinematography are fair good. They respectfully stand down to let the story and message flow easily. In short, it's a fine work. And a tragic tale.We ended up wondering about ourselves; and how it is luxurious to be able to accept ourselves and others. With a slight pain to see that the boyish face often look things in a simple and very narrow way. If somehow she wanted to be seen and treated as a boy, then for that purpose she is referred as him in this review on Teena Brandon's behalf.Hillary Swank is definitely Brandon Teena. Very total and honest. In Kimberly Pierce's hand, she is him and he is us. A successful team work.It's definitely a must-see movie. You can learn and get so much from this movie. Despite the pain. Prepare yourself for this highly recommended movie.  "},{"Title":"Against intolerance","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw the most terrifying moments of this movie (the rape and the killing of Brandon / Teena) I thought that this was a true story. So I realized that in a moment of my life, while I was sleeping or eating or studying, Brandon was going to be raped and killed. I got shocked by this and now I think that this is the best movie of the year (much more better than American Beauty). Hilary Swank is fantastic as she portrays Brandon and all in this movie is so powerful, a hymn against intolerance. People must see this movie, people must understand this movie. And it would be fantastic if the sacrifice of Brandon will contribute to erase intolerance from this world.  "},{"Title":"Realistic, Brutal, Excellent","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that will be hard for me to watch again, but not because it is a bad film.  The inevitable violence that takes place in the movie is truly horrifying given the depth of the characters that have been created. The writing and acting and direction come together to present a true story that is as engrossing as it is terrible - we feel like we are looking through a window into real people's lives, each one victimized by the nightmare in which they inhabit.As the lead character, Brandon Teena is a deeply flawed person, a woman who lies to herself and others with such desperate conviction that I began to believe her as well.  I don't know if anyone but Hilary Swank could have pulled this off, but she does a perfect job.  Chloë Sevigny is wonderful as Lana, a woman who ultimately sees through the lies, but continues to embrace them and Brandon as her only chance of escape.Kimberly Peirce's direction is very good, only calling attention to itself in the stop-motion sequences that well-illustrate the suffocating monotany of the small town.  Time is flying by, and the rest of the world, too, but nothing is going to change in Falls City, Nebraska.  It is a place so in-bred and isolated that the inhabitants are forced to victimize themselves and each other in their struggle to keep things the same.  It is a place that still exists and needs to be witnessed and understood.  This movie makes sure that the tragic loss of those whose lives are destroyed by such place will not be forgotten.   "},{"Title":"Bravest movie of the year!","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only if there are more and more actors or actresses have the guts to try a challenging role such as Hillary Swank, then the movie industry will bloom beautifully and became more meaningful. I love this movie and i guess all the actors and actresses are great for their portrayal in their roles. Thumbs up! for all of you!   "},{"Title":"*** stars for amazing performances!","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is a movie that shocks you but are amazed by the acting especially by Hillary Swank that just blows you away. Even if you don't like the story you have to watch because Hillary Swank is incredible. The role she plays is so emotional and her acting is oscar winning. It goes to show you that you don't have to be a seasoned actress to be such a great actress. Honestly, Her acting and role is the reason to watch the movie. Along with Hillary, the other performances are so moving that all the major actors and actresses should have been up for oscar nominations.PLOT Hillary Swank plays a young woman who wants to become a man by becoming one through the motions and dressing like a man. She even falls in love with another woman. It is based on a true story.VIEWS The movie disturbs you because it is a true story and the outcome of what happens to Brandon who is really a woman but really wants to become a man. You feel for her throughout the whole movie. The movie is not a high priced studio film. That makes it all the more potent. Definitely take the chance and see this film, you will be moved to tears. I also think without Hillary Swank. the movie would not be as good as it would be.SCENE TO WATCH FOR Just be amazed by Hillary Swank! "},{"Title":"This movie makes you flinch as well as cry.","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie mainly because Hilary Swank won for best actress and not really understanding the story behind the film.  But as I watched the story unfold I was stunned at the courage portrayed by the main character and the brutality shown by the majority of those people around her.The movie is based on the true story of Teena Brandon aka Brandon Teena and the way in which she lived her life as a man in a local town.  Just as Brandon finally found love and began feeling as if she was fitting in, those close to her discovered her secret.After watching the movie I felt emotionally exhausted.  I was so angry at the ignorance of those in the film that were too close-minded to except Brandon and yet I was also just crying for Brandon.Go see this movie, Hilary Swank is brilliant, and you will never forget the message made by this film. "},{"Title":"The most moving performance in years","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Little known Hilary Swank delivers what may very well be the best performance by an actress during the last decade.  She allows the viewer to become one with her, to feel her pain, as well as her joy.  Ms. Swank's stunning portrayal of Teena Brandon is worth watching the movie by itself, however, the story is very moving and emotional.  You can't help but be overwhelmed by the reality of it all, and attempting to understand where Teena is coming from.  Boys Don't Cry is one great film, with an unbelievable cast and very deserving of all of the attention it has received from critics across the country.  Very wonderful film.  "},{"Title":"The best film I have ever seen","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film makes you answer the question  Why do I love cinema? This true story of Brandon Teena is the best film I have seen in all my life. The oscar for Hilary Swank is the most fair Oscar in 72 years of this prize; her performance is the best performance in cinema history, i am sure. The directing of Kim Peirce is just so heartbroken that you can't do any other thing except cry for this story of love and hate. Everybody has to see it.  "},{"Title":"Congratulations Hilary...","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just went to see this movie because I was very curious about the many-awards-winning acting of Hilary Swank, and to tell the truth I was dumbfounded by her courage and elegance in the way she acted.I think, despite her rather young age, she is a great actress and she will be one of the greatest in the history of Hollywood. For the first time I'm absolutely contented with the choice of the jury of The Academy Awards, in best actress category.... The movie is great and it deserves all appreciations, with its directing and its casting.... So you've succeeded Hilary...You'll be the favorite actress of many people (including me) from now on.....Go on like this....We're awaiting your next movie with great anxiety...   "},{"Title":"Just one of the 'boys'","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What do we call Teena Brandon? Transgendered seems inappropriately ideological, androgyne unfittingly futuristic and cross-dresser too whimsically flimsy. In Kimberly Peirce's harrowing first film, Teena Brandon simply called herself Brandon Teena and started living as a man. Because Brandon lived in the real life trailer park precincts of 1993 Nebraska, this quietly brazen disruption of easy categories proved fatal. Hilary Swank's Oscar winning portrayal of Brandon is perfect - perfectly staggering. Her Brandon is as honest imposter, with a solid core of confidence under layers of vulnerability. The gender confusion is all ours. "}{"Title":"Sad story well told","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning &#150;spoilers ahead.This is a brilliant film, and about as sad and depressing as the movies get. Hillary Swank (who I've never seen before) is heart-stoppingly good as poor, sexually confused, Brandon Teena/Teena Brandon. To see what happens to her is as agonizing as it is inevitable. The story is based on real events in late 1993 in and around the small town (pop. 5000) of Falls City, Nebraska, and the casual attitude of the authorities to Teena's assailants is staggering (just drop by the station in the morning, guys). Instead of course they go out and kill a few people. Apparently the filming was done near Dallas as memories around Falls City were still a little raw. I hope the good citizens of that town feel just a tiny bit of shame. At least the sheriff didn't get re-elected next time up.The film does present the killers, John and Tom, in a mildly sympathetic way &#150; white trash losers already with jail records unable to cope with discovering that their new mate Brandon, who has taken up with John's ex-girlfriend Lana, is actually a girl. It has to be said that they are not nice guys, being cruel, violent and unstable. I was relieved to discover that both got convicted of murder-it wouldn't have been surprising if they had got off before a Falls City jury. Perhaps their mistake was to have killed a couple of `normal' people as well as Brandon. After all, Brandon was just an `it'.Hillary Swank as Brandon and Chloe Sevigny as Lana, the boy-girl and the girl-woman, are excellent together. Brandon is not over-bright but he shares his trashy dream (flight to Memphis) with Lana, and she responds to a sensitivity she has not met in a man before. In the end when she realises Brandon is not a man she doesn't care.The only thing that bothered me about the film was that it's easy to portray in a harsh light white trash living in the boondocks. Perhaps the story would have even more impact if the events had occurred amongst `nicer' people. As it is, the viewer is inclined to say `Well, it's all horrible, but what to you expect from a bunch of ignorant white trash?' I'm not even sure `ignorant white trash' would necessarily behave like that. I think John and Tom were just stupid violent people who behaved accordingly.Anyway, a triumph for Hillary and director/co-screenwriter Kimberly Peirce, but not an easy movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"Hardhitting Drama","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a hardhitting drama about the events that lead to the murder of Brandon Teena, a young woman who passed herself as a man in Nebraska. This might not be thought of as a pleasant movie going experience but it is an excellent film beautifully acted and conceived. Hillary Swank is unforgettable as Brandon. Not only does she make a credible transition to a male but she shows the humanity of the character with great bravura. Chloe Sevigny, playing Brandon's love, Lana, is also excellent. She is a top notch actress whose eyes alone say a thousand words. The rest of the cast is also terrific. Director Kimberly Peirce creates an atmosphere so vivid and acute that one feels as if they are right there in the middle of the situation which is  brilliant in creating such powerful discomfort. This also adds to the foreboding feeling that haunts the film. It's quite a feat and Peirce pulls it off flawlessly. Unsettling and not soon forgotten. "},{"Title":"Depressing but Good Movie About Northern White Trash","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Boys Don't Cry a few days ago.  I would give it * * * (out of four). The acting is excellent.  I never heard of most of the cast before I saw it.  Hillary Swank got most of the publicity, and rightly so I guess, since she was the lead character and was nominated for the lead actress Oscar. (I saw it the night before the awards.)  However, I was real impressed with Chloe Sevigny and I didn't even know until I got home that she also was nominated as best supporting actress.Since I wasn't familiar with with the cast for the most part, and they were all great actors/actresses, that made their portrayals as the Northern (Nebraska) white trash characters extremely realistic.  However, to me that was both a plus and a minus.  They were so real and relentless in their white trash behavior that they all got on my nerves, like I was there with them instead of watching them in a movie.  It's sorta nauseating to realize that there are people just like that all around us.  That brings up another problem I had with the movie - about half of the characters had southern accents though it is set in Nebraska.  I noticed that it was filmed in Texas, so maybe they recruited some locals for roles in the movie, but it seems like it would perpetuate northerners' continuing perception that we're all white trash down here in the south, or that white trash people only exist in the south.The movie is very depressing at times, and I had a hard time forming an objective opinion without considering the depressing theme and the redneck factor.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, but not without problems","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that I went to this movie with an attitude of,Ok Miss Beverly Hills 90210 Oscar winner, impress me! And she did...Hilary Swank was great and really did deserve that award. She really came across as a young man, in fact I found her quite attractive. The entire cast were excellent in there roles and obviously well chosen. I went to this film with no knowledge of the true story that lay behind it and perhaps this affected my grasp of the film. What I mean by that is, it seemed that the director expected the audience to have some knowledge of Brandon Teena's story. This may be the reason why there was not enough understanding of character motivation on the audiences behalf. And the director also tended to fall into the trap of the retelling of events rather than character development. An excellent director can tell us everything about a character with one shot. This lack of development lead me to find the beginning of this movie very disjointed. All this aside the amazingly convincing performances from the entire cast held this film up to be a fascinating watch. The direction of the rape and love making scenes were brillantly executed and did make up for other direction flaws in the movie. I think the Academy finally got something right, Hilary Swank deserved her award, but the film as whole certainly didn't deserve an award. That said I really enjoyed this film. Go see it, just be prepared to be disturbed... "},{"Title":"The real American Beauty","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Normally, I'm very careful with superlatives, but this one is by far one of the best movies I've seen in a very long time! Hilary Swank is a must-see in her role as Brendan Teena. She's so stunningly convincing in portraying a girl who finds happiness and finally a tragic end in living as a boy that s/he will live on in your mind long after the end of the film. Hilary really deserved to win the Oscar for her brilliant performance.Whereas American Beauty is in my opinion too pretentious and overdone, BDC is much truer to the point in portraying and criticising the dark(er) side of American society. The depiction of Trailer Park life, working class and youth in this environment is remarkably realistic it helps a lot to understand Lana's 'belief' in Brendan being a guy and, on the other hand, in Tom and John's tragic reaction when they finally find out that he is actually a she. Under Kimberly Pierce's excellent (why wasn't she nominated for an Oscar??) direction the whole very talented cast gives its best to make this tragic but true story the real American Beauty. If you haven't seen this movie yet, do so now and you will encounter a memorable and mesmerising experience!     "},{"Title":"Praise for Hilary Swank","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  See this movie for Hilary Swank's performance if nothing else.  I saw this film amidst the Oscar hype surrounding it, and after seeing clips on many talk shows, I figured I knew what to expect.  Pretty convincing as a boy, I thought to myself after seeing Ms Swank butched up with short hair, bound breasts, and stuffed jeans.  That's only a small part of what makes this performance one of the best I've ever seen from any actor or actress.Throughout this tragic true story, Hilary Swank speaks with an accent so flawless, it rivals any performance by Meryl Streep.  The breadth of emotions that Ms Swank can convey using only her eyes without even speaking, that range from lust, to surprise, to terror, are so convincing, you don't need to understand what she's saying to understand what she's feeling.Boys Don't Cry introduces Hilary Swank as one of a small number of heavyweight actresses that can compete for the even smaller number of well written roles for young actresses these days.  Even though the story is sad & disturbing, you need to SEE THIS MOVIE.  "},{"Title":"Swank beats out Bening","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't think I would ever see anything better in 1999 than Annette Bening in American Beauty.  A powerful performance of despair in an unforgettable film.  But then I heard about Boys Don't Cry and had to check out Hillary Swank.In my 40 years of film fanaticism, I thought Meryl Streep's performance in Sophie's Choice was the best I'd seen.  Now I might have seen the topper.  I'm convinced that not only will Swank win the Oscar, but her performance will be remembered as one of the finest ever.The ultimate in the study of acting is to reveal that nugget of truth that convinces viewers they are witnessing reality. Swank has achieved this pinnacle.  It's one of those rare performances that made me believe I was watching a real person... made me want to love and protect her... made me ache and sob right along with Lana.For someone like me, a long-time movie fan and a lover of film craft, a performance like this-- stunning and breathtaking-- is that rare and precious jewel you always hoped you'd find "},{"Title":"POWERFUL WITH GREAT ACTING!","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You will not see a more traumatic film this year than Boys Don't Cry. The film is based on a true story about a young girl named Teena Brandon who disguises herself as a boy named Brandon Teena and ventures into an unfamiliar rural small town. There she befriends several young drunken-happy rebels and falls for one of them. Hilary Swank's unbelievable performance as Teena/Brandon will make any boy or girl cry. I project this girl crying when she picks up her Best Actress golden boy. Chloe Sevigny's supporting role as the small town no-lifer who falls for Brandon was stupendous. Peter Sarsgaard was amazing as the drunken rebel who first befriends Brandon and then rapes and kills Teena. Director Kimberly Pierce, along with Being John Malkovich director Spike Jonze, definitely deserve the rookie-of-the-year auteur distinctions. This film is not for the weak-hearted because of its poignant and traumatic rape and murder scenes during the film's last overture. However, if you could get pass by that then it will be really sad if u don't go see Boys Don't Cry. **** Good  "},{"Title":"I haven't cried so hard since Schindler's List.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  By the time this film reaches its inevitable climax, I had never so strongly wished that I wasn't watching a true story. Hilary Swank makes you love and want to protect Brandon as if he/she were your own child, and at the end I felt like I died with him/her. She WILL win the Oscar. Hilary, if you read these comments, know this I haven't cried so hard since Schindler's List. "},{"Title":"The impact movie of the year","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must share with you the experience I had viewing this movie.Even knowing the most of the ending I was enthralled with it.  Having the knowledge of the outcome gave it a tension that I have not felt since Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan.  The acting by all the cast is just magnificent; which you have to give credit to Kimberly Pierce. Hilary Swank gave a performance that took guts from every aspect possible.  Her believability as Brandon is simply amazing.  If you are a student of film or acting and don't see this movie you are doing yourself an injustice. "}{"Title":"Nothing to cry about...a real fine movie","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie does a superb job of portraying gender dysfunction which is totally different from lesbianism. The lead character, Brandon, is both soft and sweet as he/she tries desperately to fit in as a male. The fact that Boys don't cry is based on a true story, gives the movie and issue of gender dysfunction even greater weight. "},{"Title":"Hilary Swank a performance for the ages!","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After months of hearing strong word of mouth about Boys Don't Cry I finally decided to see if Hilary Swank was deserving of all the praise which has been showered upon her, after viewing Kimberly Pierce's film I must say I was impressed with the powerhouse performance of Ms. Swank and by Chloe Sevigny, both deserve to win the Oscars which they have been nominated for. Hilary Swank's performance reminded me of Linda Hunt's Oscar winning performance in The Year Of Living Dangerously (1983), both women were so outstanding you actually forget that they are not men, I recommend this disturbing but memorable film.   "},{"Title":"A hard, disturbing movie to watch, but it is worth it.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a big fan of movies that don't sugar-coat reality and involve rich character studies. After watching the Golden Globes and seeing Swank with her award, I wanted to see what all the fuss was about. Since I had a day off and a few hours to kill, I went to the movie by myself (the first time since I was 11) and was very shocked and disgusted by what I saw. It is a good movie though. It just doesn't pull any punches or glamorize what Brandon went through. That's why it is good. Swank gives a wonderful performance as Brandon. I can't imagine how she pulled this role off, it must have been very complicated and emotionally charging physically and mentally. That is what the Academy should recognize. Now, I loved American Beauty and Annette Bening's performance, but Swank is my front runner now. She deserves it. Now, I have my personal favorites in each category.  Come Oscar night, Swank has my vote and support. Awesome job Hilary! "},{"Title":"True, disturbing film is actress tour de force","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is one of the best movies of 1999.  Based on the true story of Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena, most everyone already knows that the main character is the victim of a hate crime against a girl who dares cross the gender boundaries allowable in a tiny Nebraska town, where the major events are drinking beer and bumper surfing.Hilary Swank is magnificent as the title character.  Not only does she pass as a believable young male, but she gives depth and sensitivity to the troubled hero/heroine.  It will be a major shock if Swank isn't rewarded with the Oscar for Best Actress.Equally deserving of a Supporting award is Chloe Sevigny, who plays Brandon's loyal lover.  Together they provide a sexual intensity not often found in American movies.This is a disturbing film that will linger with you long after the final scenes.  Don't expect the Academy to nominate it as Best film.  Not that it is undeserving, but its characters are white trash, it contains some brutally shocking and violent scenes, and its ending is atypical of Hollywood.This simply means that it will play well in foreign markets, at film festivals, with film critics, and film connoisseurs.  So don't miss it if you appreciate fine film making. "},{"Title":"Brilliant (possible spoilers)","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't seen a film before which has moved me so much or stirred up very strong feelings. After watching this film I felt like I have been through a hurricane. Hilary Swank is absolutely hands down brilliant as Brandon. Chloe Sevgny is equally impressive as Lana, I felt that she was the audiences way into Brandon. The supporting cast are also excellent.I have never seen a audience react with such revulsion and shock as they did during the final scenes, believe me its pretty unpleasant viewing. This film depicts hate crimes to a tee. First Brandon is humiliated and degraded, then raped and finally brutally killed and stabbed. I felt like I had been through every emotion I could possibly experience whilst watching a film.At the end of the film I felt for Brandon, the person. Regardless of his gender, not as a boy or a girl, but as a wonderful human being and a friend. Kimberly Pierce directs with great compassion and I am sure she will have a huge career ahead of her.  "},{"Title":"A well done performance in a real downer!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps the most ironic line in this Boys Don't Cry comes from Lana's mother, a drunk who utters Get that thing out this  house.  Of course she is talking about Brendan/Teena, the misguided, and certainly misunderstood, centerpiece of this film.This is the true story of a girl who truly believes that she should have been born a man.  As the film opens Teena (played by Hilary Swank) is making herself up to be the boy (Brendan) she always thought she should be.  She leaves one redneck town to find anonymity in another.  In a bar she meets Candace, (played by Alicia Goranson, Becky on TV's Roseanne).  They become fast friends and Brendan is quickly allowed into Candace's circle.The wonderful world of white trash is highlighted as we see a cast of characters who have already thrown away any chance of getting out of their circumstances, and who lack the moral integrity to see the foolishness of their lives.Peter Sarsgaard plays John, a maniacal dim wit who rules by fear and is ruled by his own short temper.  Lana (played by Cloe Sevigny)turns heads in her small town, and Brendan becomes quite smitten with her, but even she is a victim of her surroundings, continually getting drunk to the point of no return.For us big city folk who only venture into small towns at Christmas and Mother's Day, Boys Don't Cry only serves to make our blood boil.  Small town values enveloped in small minded views are the order of the day, as the people here seem to think that life revolves around them and god forbid that they be open to someone else's way of living.Hilary Swank seems destined for Oscar night in a performance that is beyond believable.  We feel sorry for this character because she is flawed and she does not see the problems in her life, but we don't, for one minute, doubt her own intelligence and right to live her life as she chooses.I am not too familiar with the actual events that surround this story, so it would be hard to comment on the accuracy of the characters depicted here. For the most part they are cardboard cut outs of what we think white trash ought to be.  The women are child bearing nymphs and the men are just pure evil.  Whatever the case, perhaps this is just the swift kick in the pants some of them folks out there need to see what monsters they can truly be.On the other hand, I doubt this will ever play at the movie-plex in Anytown, USA. "},{"Title":"Timely and Important film rattles your senses","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film may not get a lot of attention, as independent films are often over-looked. However, it features extremely impressive performances by the entire cast, but especially by Chloe Sevigny and Hilary Swank. Furthermore, it brings to the public an important narrative about the plurality of the self, in opposition to hardened ideas of a man is a man and a woman is a woman. It is also very timely, as violence against those who choose to live and love differently continues to occur, so much so that we might be getting inured to it.  This film will remind viewers of the real horror of such violent acts. "},{"Title":"Sad, powerful look at identity","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've read a couple of the negative comments on this film and was struck by one theme; the complaint that they couldn't relate to any of these people. I think that's incredibly short-sighted.  This movie is about someone who was struggling with questions about their own identity, and society's attitude towards it.  We may not be exactly like Brandon Teena/Teena Brandon, but who among us hasn't, at some point in our lives, struggled with some kind of identity question, at who we are and how we fit in, especially in today's world, when we're bombarded with how we're supposed to fit a perfect mold, and are left aside when we don't?So in addition to Brandon's story, we get the parallel story of Lana, played beautifully by Chloe Sevigny, who is fast emerging as one of our best young actresses.  Like Brandon, Lana struggles with questions of identity.  She works in a factory on the night shift, and lives in a small town where there's nothing to do(except the odd karaoke night) and no one new to be with.  She's headed for the stereotypical role we apply to woman at her stage in life, and while she knows she doesn't want that, she sees no way of escaping.  Then she meets Brandon, and for the first time, sees a hope of escaping.  For her, the talk of Memphis and singing for a living is more than just a dream, it's a way to open up new worlds for her.  This, perhaps, is why she denies to herself who Brandon really is.That feeling, initially, is also why Lana's friends, including John and Tom also deny to themselves who Brandon really is.  He brings something fresh and different to their world, just by being so gung-ho to join (even after Brandon screws up so many times early on when trying to ride on the back of a truck, we can see John cheered by his perseverance).  And as one reviewer up here pointed out, if Brandon did deceive everybody, it was a willing deception; they so wanted something new they wore blinders until things came to a head.  And yet while this was a horrible crime, director Kimberly Peirce manages to convince us that these weren't terrible people; they just did a terrible thing.Of course, I have to mention Hilary Swank in the main role, especially since I was going to pass this up because of her initially.  I had seen her in a couple of movies(BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER) and wasn't impressed, plus she was on Beverly Hills 90210.  But she's amazing here.  You can always sense the longing Brandon has to be accepted, as we all do, to be accepted for who we are. "},{"Title":"Indudibly awesome from another queer POV","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning some spoilers This is the best new film I've seen this year. I walked in skeptical of Hilary Swank and the film but walked out totally blown away by the humanity of the story and acting by the entire cast. I saw the film about a week ago and I'm still greatly affected by it, and will see it again this weekend. I love it that Brandon isn't a clearcut character but full of contradictions. He wasn't a crusader and martyr (though we can make him), just someone who wanted to live truthfully to his nature. Even in the gay community, transgenders get a lot of c**p.What struck me was when Brandon was in jail, convincing Lana desperately that he had a sexual disorder. He didn't want to go back living the way he was as a woman, but rather be abnormal and crazy in the eyes of others so long as he can be accepted as a man- living as he wanted to be. Being young and naive, that logic didn't work, but it shows Brandon's raw, joyous impulse to live honestly to his nature, and could never go back to the closet and be dishonest to himself. Therefore I don't see that scene as suggestion that transgenderism is pathological. And the scenes with the nurse who examined him, and the mother's disgust with John and Tom's assault struck me too, that not all people are a******s, when they are willing to connect on a human level they can begin to change. The scenes added to character development which made them more real and powerful. This film inspired me greatly more than frightened me.Hilary Swank is spectacular and made me a believer. Before this film I perceived her as another actress but glad that I'm wrong. She's not just an actress but an artist, and her ability to carry out all the ranges of emotional nuances and physical expressions made her character realer than real. At times during the film I certainly forgot that she's a woman. "},{"Title":"Strong, unpleasant--SPOILERS","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Graphic and VERY disturbing about a person born with both sexes. The female side is more developed but she/he chooses to live as a man. She falls in love with another woman, people discover her secret and all hell breaks loose. Based on a true story, this movie is very well-acted (especially Swank) and pulls no punches. Unfortunately, that also makes it very disturbing to watch. There's a rape sequence that's almost impossible to sit through, and some people walked out of the theatre I saw it in towards the end when it was clear she was going to be killed. I almost joined them! Still, I recommend it and find it great to see a movie that doesn't hold back. Just brace yourself for some truly horrific violence. "}{"Title":"a queer response to Boys Don't Cry and transgenderism","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a movie viewer, I thought this movie was incredibly made and amazingly acted; as a member of the queer community, I found it to be personally devastating.  I had seen The Brandon Teena Story before, and found that work to be profoundly moving and even life-changing.  But seeing the details brought so vividly and unflinchingly to life was deeply traumatic--and I am not usually disturbed by graphic movies.  I'm interested to hear what other progressive queers thought of the film; I myself identified strongly both with Brandon and with Lana, the woman who loved him in spite of the social consequences.  I walked out of the theater feeling utterly disgusted with the human race that is capable of such profound evil, and also feeling convinced of my own vulnerability, convinced that there is no reason why Brandon Teena's life was not my own, other than the sheer dumb luck of being from an urban, somewhat more accepting part of the world. I was a little disappointed that the movie strayed from the facts of Brandon's murder; I was unsure why the script decided to have Lana present for the shootings, other than to have her screaming dramatically in the background.  I think, also, that the director might have chosen to put a blurb at the end of the movie about the growing transgender movement. Brandon was transgendered, and every day the movement led by people like Leslie Feinberg and Kate Bornstein grows stronger.  Brandon described himself as having a sexual identity disorder; this hints at pathology, and it seems reviewers are picking up on the term as  if it were the correct classification.  The director might have used her last minute with the audience to educate about transgenderism, instead of merely thanking Kate Bornstein and transmen in the credits.  At the very least, a nod to Matthew Shepard or James Byrd would have been nice, to prod the audience into the conscious realization that hate crimes are alive and well, and are interconnected. "},{"Title":"Occasionally harsh, but very impressive","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Several harsh scenes do not detract significantly from this film's achievement.  The characters are exceedingly realistic and well-written. The sense of place is exquisite.  I left the theater wanting to know more. Good job.  Well done. "},{"Title":"Grim, sobering film","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This powerful film shows the terrible consequences of fear and hatred destroying what people don't understand. We see the use of macho image and sex as weapons to prove male power over women and over homosexuals.The movie is based on the true story of a female (Teena Brandon) trying to be a male (Brandon Teena) in a male world. This adventure is both exciting and dangerous for her. At the center of the plot is Brandon's attempt to discover what makes a man a man. Embedded in that plot is an even more profound story -- the attempt to discover what makes a human being human.The excellent performances are all solid and moving. This is a grim film but worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Vividly Sympathetic Portrait of People With a Lot of Issues in their Lives","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a certain amount of freak show aspect to Boys Don't Cry, much like M Butterfly as you're simply dying of curiosity as to how s/he gets away with sex (a dildo helps). And it does pander to that curiosity. But it gets beyond that to quite vividly show that relationships are about sharing, caring and intimacy, regardless of physical how-to's, making sexual identity confusion more sympathetic than the usual treatment of transsexuals in film, including The Adventures of Priscilla, or maybe it's just because the gender is different. Or maybe it's Hilary Swank's amazing performance.There is a frightening sense of isolation surrounding these trailer-park trash characters--not just the very confused central character, Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena, but all these screwed-up, very drunken, very bored folks in very small Texas towns, such that one very much fears for their progeny. I thought it looked like alcoholism is a bigger problem than homophobia and threats to sexual identity such that you are made sympathetic to the desperate lives of all of them where they seem to only have sex and violence as outlets. Reminded me of a line in the Hal Ketchum song to the effect that the world must be flat because everyone who leaves never comes back.Brendon Sexton III is once again playing a threatening character, like in Welcome to the Dollhouse, but he was unrecognizable at first in curls and scraggly beard as the follower not the initiator. I didn't yet see the documentary Boys Don't Cry is based on, so I have no idea how factual it is (I did see in the credits that they misspelled one of the names of the lesbian-oriented foundations they got seed money from, that's never smart to do). There were a couple of people who hadn't expected what Boys was about and were quite disgruntled walking out.(originally written 11/7/1999) "},{"Title":"Something missing","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw the movie I was strangely untouched and I couldn't understand why. The film is near perfect excellent acting, a daring storyline but quite surprisingly based on real incidents (real life can be more dramatic than drama at times). It seems to have everything going for it ... but for some reason I wasn't as affected by the movie as I was when watching say something like Dog Day Afternoon or Girl, Interrupted to refer to some similar movies. My brain keeps saying it's a great movie but the heart doesn't responds well yeah ...guess it isn't bad. It must be one of those unexplained phenomena that I keep hearing about) Maybe just maybe a little bit more of soul in the film would help or maybe I should see it again to get another perspective.It could be a movie you get used to ! There's something missing and I can't put my finger on it. "},{"Title":"Exceptional film event","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I turned 18, this was one of the first few films I was able to see,(It scored an R rating over here, meaning that it is restricted to people over 18). I walked out of the cinema completely moved by this utterly exceptional piece of film making. Hilary Swank was so brilliant in her role, but so too were the remainder of the cast, especially Chloe Sevigny.After seeing this film, I felt like how I did when I saw Once Were Warriors for the first time. Sure, both films are sad, but they provide a literal punch in the face after viewing them. Both felt so real, and having dealt with lower class people and Maoris through work, such felt the case as they were the real deal.A really worthwhile film that I can't recommend enough. It is full on and confronting, but so so different to your standard films about homosexuality which just are not so original really. "},{"Title":"Not the easiest subject, but well portrayed","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" When a movie gets the label based on actual events or something of that kind, then I'm already extra careful. Most of the time this kind of movies ends up to be some mellow tearjerker / TV-movie which went straight to video because it wasn't good enough to make it to the cinema. Well, if I'm wrong, I don't mind telling you that too and this time I was wrong.Boys Don't Cry was actually a good movie with a disturbing, but also interesting subject. Brendon Teena pretends to be a boy but is actually a girl called Teena Brandon who is waiting for a sex change. But in the meantime he/she hangs out with other guys, drinking beer, bumper surfing and trying to charm the ladies, who are very pleased with Brendon, because he's more considerate and caring than the other boys. At first everything seems to go perfectly, but than his new friends find out his true identity, thanks to a letter from the police. Brandon has committed grand theft auto, but that's not their main concern. Their biggest problem is the fact that she has lied to them and that Brendon isn't a guy, but a girl pretending to be one. They can't cope with that and decide to learn him/her a lesson. What follows is humiliation, rape and eventually even murder...Of course this kind of movies is very popular when the Oscars are being handed out, and this time it wasn't any different. It won two Oscars, one was for Hilary Swank's performance. I can only agree with that. Not only has she been courageous enough to play a role like that (I'm sure that many conservative Americans will have a lot of difficulties with this role), she also played it very convincingly. The other actors did a good job as well of course, but her performance stood out in my opinion. All in all this is a very interesting movie that is more than just worth a watch, thanks to the good acting and the subject. I give it a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"It's hard to describe in words what I thought when I saw that bullet go through Teenas head","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Altho I'm straight, I feel more than sorry for folks who choose to be otherwise.Teena Brandon, or Brandon Teena, however you choose to describe her, couldn't help being the way she was. Folks like her have to have an unsurmountable amount of nerve in order to reveal themselves.No matter what you think about them, don't ever think gay folks don't have guts.If you were gay, would you have enough guts to tell folks you were? I for one wouldn't. I'm too much of a coward, not like the gay folks who have come out of the so called closet. These folks deserve admiration, not disgrace.Teena brandon was killed for no more reason than that a couple of misanthropic sons of bitches couldn't accept her as she was.I cried for half an hour after she was killed. As a matter of fact there are tears in my eyes as I Write this.I've seen actual pictures of her in death. They are unspeakable. I realize I haven't said a lot about the movie so far. Hilary Swank couldn't have played her part with more perfection. The entire cast was perfect, right down to the sorry bastards who killed her. This is in my opinion one of the most important movies of our times. It's a movie for anyone who has never understood gay people. They may still not understand them, but they will certainly have a different outlook on them.This is a very powerful movie, and it deserves an audience with a powerful personality.Watch it, you'll kick your ass for not doing it sooner. "},{"Title":"Find your value of life","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's my first time to see such a fag movie. Before that I had known that Hilary Swank won Oscar best actress. I am shocked by her performance now, that's so brilliant and incredible, I even consider it's the best performance of Oscar best actress winners in ten years. The story of Teena Brandon, she is a lesbian and wanna be a true boy, do what boys could do. It's her dream and she was addicted to disguising herself as a boy. She failed again and again after she was debunked till she got away. She fell in love with a girl in a strange town. That moment, I thought she achieved first step of her dream, but she was debunked once more and consequently rape and murder occurred on her. Dream broke eventually. Despite it happened I still believe it's valuable and worthwhile for what she did. Society embodies various love relationship, today people contain queer relationship. Fags are never stared at as a sort of abnormality. When we look back, I found they lived very hard and unfair that time. Everyone has a dream. Teena tried her best to doing that, her ending never means her failure, she knew who she is and detected her value in her life from the romance. She's fortunate because not everybody knew that, even if they had lived for seventy or eighty years or more. Teena got it when she's only twenty-one. Sexual identity crisis or queer phenomenon is still a sensitive topic somewhere such as my hometown. Maybe our culture is truly conservative. But I learned everyone's every type of love should be respectable if only it's true. I esteem every choice that from heart and I love the character of Hilary Swank. Obviously it's a serious theme and not suitable for children. But we need this kind of story, that instructs us how to understand others lives, just be yourself whatever people comment on you. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"well done","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great movies have a way of transporting the viewer into a world that he or she will likely never experience in their real life. Few viewers would want to experience the small town world of transsexual Brandon Teena. Boys Don't Cry perfectly caught the vacuousness and mind-numbing deadness of a handful of people who live in a small Nebraska town. Life for them is mostly drinking beer and smoking dope because there isn't much else to do.Into this town come Brandon Teena, a girl who desperately wants to be a man. Brandon falls in love with a local girl but when his secret is revealed, the two low-life male friends he's made viciously assault him (in one of the fiercest rape scenes ever put on film). The police don't do anything about it and the rapists hunt Brandon down and murder him and a female friend he's living with.The movie was pretty faithful to the real Brandon Teena story although for whatever reason the movie left out the fact that a black man was also killed along with Brandon and Candance. The main killer is described as having an impulse control problem (I guess so!) and is deservedly sitting on death row.Hilary Swank got a deserved Oscar for this movie but her appearance just seemed to lack something for me. She never looked masculine enough in my view, at least not compared to the real Brandon Teena. "}{"Title":"The Bluest Eyes in Texas","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This explosively powerful film is easily the best film debut since 12 Angry Men (1957), and it also the best movie of 1999, hands down. The story ofBrandon Teena, nee Teena Brandon, a Nebraska woman who set out to fulfillher dream of living as a man, must have been nearly impossible to tell. After her identity was found out by her friends shortly after her twenty-first birthday, they raped and killed her, as well as the friends she was staying with. This savage hate crime was smeared all over the tabloids and looked as if it were doomed to become a diluted TV-movie of the week. Thank God for director/co-writer Kimberly Peirce. She miraculously strips away all the sensationalism to bring Falls City, NE and its residents to life so vividly that its nearly surreal. This is not a movie with witty one-liners and a chunky screenplay filled with big ideas, but this is one of those rare films that celebrates the human spirit with none of the sentimentality of swill like Life Is Beautiful or A Beautiful Mind. Even better, Peirce transcends matters ofgender identity and captures the essence of Brandon's soul (incarnated byHilary Swank in an Oscar-winning tour de force), yearning to be its true self. What is beautiful about the relationship that Brandon found with Lana Tisdel(the equally mesmerizing Chloe Sevigny) is that Lana is far more intelligent and spiritually evolved than her family and friends. She recognizes that Teena is both male and female; not a man trapped in a woman's body, but a personwho has risen above the limitations she was born with. Although the last half- hour of the film, which unflinchingly depicts Brandon's rape and murder is nearly unwatchable, Peirce and co-writer Andy Bienen still manage to end on ahopeful note. They depict with stunning clarity the meeting and lovemaking of not just bodies, but hearts and minds. Teena Brandon was too beautiful a spirit to survive amidst the cruelty in America's heartland, but in Lana Tisdel shefound someone she could soar with, however briefly. Brandon Teena had thecourage to be himself, and Lana Tisdel has the courage to be herself. God bless them both, and God bless the cast and crew of Boys Don't Cry. "},{"Title":"Depressing but involving film (suggestive spoilers)","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Teena Brandon is a 21 year old Nebraskan who has chosen to live her life as a man - Brandon Teena.  When she gets picked on in her home town she moves to Fall City where she gets involved with a mix of white trash and criminals.  Here she falls in love with Lana and the two start a relationship together.  However as the authorities ask more questions of him and his friends start to work things out, Brandon risks exposure and hurt.At the time Swank won her Oscar for this I must admit to not having really heard of it.  Couple of years later it came onto TV and the Oscar was enough reason for me to watch.  I didn't even know that this was a true story until after I had watched it, so the impact it had on me was perhaps a little delayed, but it did have an impact.  The plot follows the struggles of Brandon not only to fit in with a world that he has to lie to but also the struggle he has within his own mind over who he is.  The film builds well with small running battles in both sense before climaxing in a reaction that is depressing but sadly would be true in many cases.In terms of entertainment value I must admit that this is a little low but it just highlights the complexity of the situation.  If I were in one of the character's shoes I'm sure I'd be as shocked as they were - however the film allows me to see it from Brandon's point of view and understand a little of how difficult it must be.  The material is too depressing because it does come down to human nature but it is a story worth seeing.Swank is excellent in the lead and deserves her Oscar.  She is totally convincing throughout and some of the scenes must have been very, very difficult to shoot.  Sevigny is as good as she nearly always is - she has done some challenging films but always carries them off.  The support cast are good and must have been difficult to express the strong emotions required here - Sarsgaard and Sexton in particular.  Director Peirce delivers the story straight without focusing too much on wider issues and it helps the film as the story of this woman and a strong performance by Swank are all that is needed.Overall this is not a fun film to watch but it is involving, moving and ultimately depressing.  Knowing it is true makes it that much harder to be untouched by the film - it challenges opinions I sure that many of us hold deep down in our hearts even if we've never thought about them. "},{"Title":"***** out of 5","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** At what point in a boy's life does he become a man? When he realizes that he has the power to cry. Only then is he comfortable enough with himself that he can be one with his emotions and allow them to develop on a whole new level. Teena Brandon was a real person, Teena Brandon was a real individual and Teena Brandon was a real girl. This is her story. But what makes this film so great is that it is not about who did what or what came from who, rather it is a haunting story of a girl who was facing a sexual identity crisis and a boy who just wanted to belong.  That girl was Teena Brandon. She lived in a Nebraska trailer park with a friend who was forced to run to a small town by the name if Falls City. She has to leave because of the before mentioned `boy.' His name was Brandon Teena. He was an exact replica of Teena except with short cut hair and a stock stuffed down the front of his jeans. If you haven't figured it out yet, Teena was a transsexual. But it wasn't that Teena wanted to be male, more over, Teena believed that she could be male. In Falls City she is instantly befriended by a group of friends who welcome her into their string of drugs and alcohol. They are not like this because they feel that it is the cool thing to do, they are like this because they know no other way. This is where Brandon's eyes catch a glace of Lana. Lana is a dark and depressed girl who is always in a haze of reality and never knows exactly who she is. She may look rough on the exterior but she is not a bad person. She is a ray of light that the sun has never set upon. She knows no happiness therefore she feels none and has no sympathy for herself or her situation. Then one day Brandon brings her a flower. He is by no means a perfect human specimen, yet he is a caring and compassionate individual whose intentions include no harm. The two fall in love and plane big things together based on the big dreams Brandon has told her about. But just like Brandon's life, most of them are base don lies. Not lies that were indented to hurt, but lies that were indented to disguise morality. They go through many stages of their love, one being denial after the entire town finds out of Brandon's true form. This is what makes a film like this work. It loves it characters and would prefer more to base its surroundings on human nature instead of emotions. There is a scene in which Brandon and Lana are beginning to engage in their love when Lana sees down Brandon's shirt. She is confused by her sightings but drawn by her passion. We suspect that she must know by now that Brandon was a girl but the question is at what point does she become in tune with it that it matters less what she loves more than who she loves. There are numerous ways that this film could have gone in a totally wrong direction. But the film does everything right. It doesn't mar us with true-life facts or define anyone into typical labels. There is no right or wrong answer to the question that this film represents so director Kimberly Peirce has no intentions on ever answering it. This is not a film out to exploit the lives of teens; it is a study on how teens exploit each other. It is not a tale of boy meets girl. It is a tale of mind meets body and it is not a look into social injustices. It is a look into human injustices. Peirce obviously knew her material before going into this film. Even though these are real life characters deep down inside I can't help but feel that there is a little Brandon Teena in all of us. Everyone has that one desire that they long for but can't achieve it because they don't believe in it. Brandon is not a gifted with a huge amount of intelligence. He doesn't seem to be able to decipher between a good choice and a band one, but he is smart enough to know that when he has a choice there is no taking the easy way out. Some of those choices led him to happiness, some led him to despair, some even led him to the brink of his own decency, but one led him straight to tragedy. This is a very disturbing film, hard to watch at times, but it is not disturbing because of its often graphic content of subject matter. It is disturbing because of the wide array of emotions it has tucked firmly in its grasp. Emotions can be terrifying things if you don't know how to use them, but ever more disturbing are they if you know how to use them just to well. Brandon is not a likeable character or one that anyone should feel sorry for. He brought everything that happened to him on himself, right? But because we are able to see a small piece of us in his big universe that we come to feel for him, love him even. This isn't a film about a bunch of stupid teens going through hard times. This is about a bunch of stupid teens going through our times. We just don't see out lives like that of these characters because we know otherwise. We know that we can come home at night and eat a nice meal and spend time with a loving family. What we don't know is that we are living an image that has been taught to us. Weird isn't it? We live an ideal life that we gather from the media, now when the media is showing us what our life is really like it is a little hard to stomach because it is not what we have come to terms with Emotions, scary things aren't they? This is why Peirce can base a film something that is looked down upon in society and make it into something that has to speak about love, compassion and a desire to be one with yourself and have other be able to understand that self that is you. Hilary Swank won her first Oscar for her role as Brandon, and it was a well-disserved victory. Swank declines any invitation to over act her character and also refuses to under exaggerate her. She is not an actor yet she is not an amateur, she is a human being in a film about a human being and because of that we know what she is going through even though we may not fully understand her situation. Chloe Sevigny is also not far behind Swank as Lana, matching the star scene for scene. Sevigny creates an invisible wall around here character that reads like a keep out sign but only draws you closer to wanted to understand how this character functions. This is a film that wants you to ask questions about its characters but not get answers from their actions; this is not a film of stereotyping. All of the actors understand that and work towards it. It is a factor that makes for three for the most intense and beautiful love scenes since Blue Velvet and one of the most brutal rape sequences since Heaven and Earth. These are actors in possession of roles that require a lot of mental strain from them and they are all content on giving it. If you don't know how the story ends I would be glad to inform you. Like any slice of true love, it must end in tragedy. After being raped, Brandon is mercilessly shot and killed due to a lack of participation from the local police. You may want to ask yourself, how could such a sweet and caring individual who wanted nothing more than to be who he wanted to be killed with such little sympathy? Because, boys don't cry.     "},{"Title":"Top 20 performance by an American actress in last 20 years!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Haunting tale of young women's struggle with life and her sexuality. This was a POWERFUL performance by Hillary Swank that was very deserving of an Oscar (she beat out Annette Benning for American Beauty). Swank is better then the script and carries the movie. This is a sad, disturbing tale. The main character, played by Swank, is likable. Her lover is kind and warm. I ended up rooting for the two of them. This was based on a true story; hence, the horrible ending that left me angry at mankind. This is a must see performance and one of the greatest performances by an American actress in the last 20 years. "},{"Title":"Brilliant film, but a few pointers...","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The mark of a great film is that it conveys real feeling to an audience without having to explain everything by the numbers.  This film achieves that, obviously.  It has deeply moved anyone with even half a heart. Unfortunately, the subject matter of this film is SO unfamiliar to most people, that many have no understanding of what it was about. That's not their fault, nor Ms. Peirce's since had she spelled it all out to us, what we would have seen was a competent TV-type movie of the week, instead of a powerhouse of a film that touches us to the depths of our souls. But I think after reading so many of the reviews here at IMDB, some important facts should be understood.Brandon was not a male impersonator or a lesbian, or crazy.  He was a pre-operative female-to-male transsexual.  That is, he was a male before the necessary physical transition that a transsexual goes through (ie. hormones and surgery) before he can be officially be declared a man.  He was not a liar.  He was a walking contradiction.  He was as much a man as he would have been had he had the chance to undergo the biological and surgical transition.  Because his body had not caught up with his mind, it's understandable that many people are confused about this.  But hopefully, this fact will help audiences understand the confusion that Brandon felt. He was raised to believe, like all of us are, that what decides a person's gender is their anatomy, so the fact that his body was a lie to him all his life made it nearly impossible to live with the contradiction of what he organically knew to be the truth in his mind.  Once he finally expressed his true self to the world by donning the physical appearance of 'Brandon', he could no longer go back to being 'Teena'.  The cat was out of the bag. Imagine yourself as a man who knows that in order to not live a lie he must be called Teena and dress as a female every day of his life in order to join the workforce or socialize with other people.  Once he'd fully established himself as the man he was, he could not subject himself to 'female drag', for what would have been numerous years for him (sex reassignment surgery costs tens of thousands of dollars and takes one to three years, once the process is started).A reviewer here wrote why Brandon chose to live there (Nebraska) with her lifestyle is beyond me.  I'd like to kindly explain to this viewer and others who share the same sentiment that the answer to that puzzler is that Brandon was not a her and his reality was not a lifestyle.  Many people 'disagree' with this very fact.  Thus, it is understandable that had Brandon gone to San Francisco, Paris, or Timbuktu, he would have confronted the same confusion and frustration, and unfortunately hostility and violence, no matter where he went.  There are simply millions of people who do not understand transsexualism, thus it is common that their confusion leads to simply believing that it is the transsexual who is confused.  I am not blaming anyone for these sentiments.  It's only in recent years (mostly thanks to the internet) that there has been detailed study of female-to-male transsexualism.  There are millions of female-to-male transsexuals throughout the world, and sadly most of them have suffered much of the pain that Brandon suffered until they became aware that they were not alone. Had the internet been available to Brandon during his lifetime, he would have had an opportunity to see that he was not alone, and that there were others like him who could lend him their support and guidance.I'm most grateful to Ms. Peirce for making such a brave and deeply touching film, and I hope that viewers will, whether they understand Brandon or not, find an even deeper layer of tolerance for people who are quite different from themselves. "},{"Title":"a sensitive love story against all prejudices","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's been one and a half year ago since i saw this movie, but it stills remains like one of the most touching and sincere independent films in the last decade. Boys don't cry explains the true story of Teena Brandon (Brandon Teena), a young transsexual, who was killed by two ex convicts in a small town. This contemporary tragedy, with the outsider- hero who has to break the rules (the common formula boy-meets-girl is substituted for girl-meets-girl), is a consequence of the usual intolerance against the difference. Ignorance always leads to fear, prejudices should be fought with understanding. Although BDC develops a great narrative (introduction of the character-transgression-tragedy), its form isn't much far away from tv movies. But in my opinion the best in this movie are the performances Hillary Swank is a convincing heartbreaker lad (she definitely deserved that oscar), and, of course, Chloë Sevigny. She was absolutely adorable as a naive lovesick (almost sublime). I truly recommend this movie for all supporters of indie cinema. "},{"Title":"THE RAINMAKER'S EXIT","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hilary Swank's performance is awesome! She convinced me that Brandon Teena is really a man. I don't think any other human being could've done a better job. The same goes to director Kim Peirce. This is my favorite movie of all time! Before I saw this movie, I never thought that the art of film making could reach such perfection! This story is not only true but it is very delicate, a single second of bad acting would've ruinned the entire project! And we never saw that single second of bad acting from any of the cast members! The movie doesn't focus on hate crimes or being a gender case study, instead it portrays Brandon as a lone drifter on a doomed quest for happiness. He moves to a different town to start a new life and then moves to the next after his secret is discovered; and so the cycle continues. The setting is a trailor trash town where everybody is almost the same. No one seems to have a future or even any enthusiasm for life. Brandon stood out from everyone by being nice to girls and by being optimistic. His most obvious feature is that he's not very smart so he's always taking the wrong risks. He has thousands of dollars worth of speeding tickets, is wanted for 18 counts of grand theft auto and has a bunch of fake IDs; he tells his new found friends in Fall City that his mom's an actress and that his sister is a supermodel (we know he's lying). We notice that he never thinks far enough ahead so he's always getting into trouble. We also realize that when we as human beings are troubled, lonely, and in search of sanity; we are willing to take such risks. His whole life is one wreck after another. Despite his police record and web of lies, he's a really nice person who's always running away from his past. Which is full of suicidal memories and mistakes he needs to be forgiven for. I think  the point of the story is that happiness is just an illusion. Think about that scene when he gets physically intimate with his girlfriend. And then the next day she's thinking about him, and she kinda knows that he might be a girl. Instead of trying to find out the truth, she pushes the thoughts into the back of her mind and refuses to think about it. Why? Cuz if he is a girl then the romance is over and the nicest young man she's ever known will cease to exist. And as for Brandon, as long as he keeps up his charade of lies, he's okay; but at some point the past will catch up with him. And then we realize that there are those who have to pay a large price for only a brief moment of happiness. "},{"Title":"Quite good in a terrible sort of way","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those films that everyone respects, but nobody enjoys watching.  Boys Don't Cry is a slow-motion train wreck of a movie that is watched with a deer-in-the-headlights sort of morbid fixation.  It's a work of art not meant to be enjoyed, but rather to be felt viscerally.  It's quite a good movie... but definitely not for the faint of heart.Director Kimberly Peirce deftly exposes the dark underbelly of small-town life, while simultaneously finding the humanity in even the most evil characters.  The villains here aren't faceless monsters, nor is the victim an innocent angel-- we see them all, for good or ill, as real people. Much of the production has an amateurish quality to it, however, with silly visual effects and melodramatic close-ups that detract from the mood. Peirce would have been wise to keep the sensationalism to a minimum and focus more on character development.  In the end, Boys Don't Cry is saved from mediocrity by the compelling tragedy of the story, and the strong performances of Hilary Swank, Chloe Sevigny, and Peter Sarsgaard.I recommend viewers watch the movie first and learn about the actual case second, as I did.  I was absolutely shocked by one of the events at the end of the movie, and the film had more of an impact on me than it would have if I'd known exactly what was going to happen.The real Teena Brandon has probably been lost forever in the dramatization of her/his life and the subsequent political crossfire.  Both the left and the right seem to be caught up in discussing gay issues and tolerance. The tragedy of Teena Brandon is not one of intolerance (any guy who lies, steals, and seduces girls under false pretenses is not going to be tolerated.)  It is a tragedy of a person who was deeply unsatisfied with who she was, of a culture which labels people rather than accepting them as individuals, and of a couple of scumbags who felt that rape and murder were justifiable punishments for violating the unwritten male code of honor.  "},{"Title":"Only God knows Why......","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don`t Cry is an amazing and dazzling film experience that will live with me forever. This movie is so emotionally enthralling and brutally realistic it hurts my heart to know that it is a true life story. A lot of people believe this is a gay movie but I need..no I HAVE to correct that misguided belief. In Brandon`s mind he was a boy and he had fallen in love with a girl the way boys do. There was nothing wrong with that considering Lana felt the same way about him. Lana knew the truth but chose to ignore it and see Brandon and not Teena, she did not care that he was really physically a she. This even makes it more painful to believe John and Tom are real life trash who could be so cruel. Only God knows why they did what they did. While watching this movie everyone somehow relates to Brandon Everyone has their own pain which masks into a secret which masks into a lie... and Brandon was tired of trying to live a lie that was not him. If only Brandon would of left that night......why didn`t he leave?I truly believe Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny have played the best and most important roles to be portrayed in this time. Hilary might have become more Brandon than Brandon was. She took on the character perfectly. She some became this handsome young man in his own personal war. Chloe made you feel the same intensity and want that Lana Tisdel felt. She deserved the Oscar, she earned it. Kimberley Pierce is beyond brilliant and should be noted above John Woo and Steven Spielberg. She has taken a life and turned it into a legacy.I`ve watched this movie more times than I can remember and every time tears stream down my face and I end up re-evaluating my life. Boys Don`t Cry makes you think. It makes you wonder was Brandon more powerful for having the heart to be who felt he really was or for going back to Falls City to be with Lana?!All you need is sympathy, compassion and a little bit understanding to love this movie and if you don`t its because you`re an example of why Brandon could not live the way he wanted to.Only God knows why this tragedy has become pure brilliance! "},{"Title":"blown away","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not since American History X have I been so blown away by a movie as I was after watching this film.  It was not so much, as some of the critics have said, a gay movie as it was the tragic story of a girl who was viscously murdered by hate and ignorance.  I watched in disbelief as a young girl who, despite her problems, tried her hardest to find a place for herself in life only for it to be ended in tragedy.  Chloe Sevigny was superb, and Hillary Swank's performance was so outstanding that at moments I felt as if I actually knew her.However, after speaking with others about the film, a film that I thought was one of the best I have seen this or any other year, I was baffled by what I heard.  I realized that for some reason it is so easy for us to watch movies in which people get their heads blown off, and everyone embraces it like it is no big deal. But as soon as a film is made that tackles the issue of any form of non-standard sexuality, we are all of a sudden a bunch of moral crusaders.  The character in this movie was a transsexual, yes she was, but more importantly she was a human being who died tragically and this is an amazing film that documents her life and death.  I recommend it to anyone who can rise above their own prejudices or likes/dislikes for certain kinds of people, and watch and be moved by an excellent film.  "}{"Title":"Easy to see why Swank won the Oscar for her performance.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" My first exposure to Hilary Swank was her role as the disinfranchised young girl in 'The Next Karate Kid.' That was a typical role for a young female actor and, while the movie itself was not well received, Swank showed us that she could act.However, I don't think any of us were prepared for this role of hers, as Teena Brandon and Brandon Teena, which won her the Oscar. The movie is based on a real person and, with perhaps a bit of fictionalization, pretty much sticks to the facts. Born Teena Brandon, she felt that she was a man trapped in a woman's body. She began to dress and live as Brandon Teena, while preparing to eventually become a man. She never had the chance, and that is what the movie is about.Swank was so good in this movie, you absolutely forget that she is an actress. You actually see her character as a boy. This is not an easy movie to watch, much like American History X is not an easy movie to watch. But, both of them are movies we should all see, otherwise just insulate ourselves from the rest of society. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, but not a Good One either","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know if I could actually recommend this movie to someone, if they asked me my opinion. The movie was not bad, but I can't say it was a good movie either. Good movies, even the most dramatic ones, normally leave you with some sort of feeling. Just think of Thelma and Louise or American Beauty, for instance. This movie, apart from making me feel confused (because I didn't get the point of it) and surprised (because of all the clichés), just left me totally empty. I know it is a true story. But why make a movie out of it?  "},{"Title":"Terrific Stuff!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the few terrific movies I ve ever seen in my life. Unbelievable stuff by Ms. Hilary Swank. In fact people who come late and miss out the early part of the movie, I am sure they will think Ms. Swank to be a new cute young actor!! Her powerful performance is something really commendable and it comes as no surprise that she indeed bagged the Oscar. She deserves it. Chloe Sevigny and Peter Sarsgaard also do their parts very well. And especially since this is a true story, we can imagine the pressure on the director but Kimberly Peirce certainly deserves credit for performing it flawlessly. We feel really sad about the end to this person Branden even though we dont know her personally; the terrific acting of Ms. Swank convinces us. She lives as the character itself. The music is pretty heavy though, but it blends perfectly with the story.This is definitely a must-see movie. Last year has seen so many wonderful movies and definitely, Boys Dont Cry tops them all. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1999","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Following actual events pretty closely, director Kimberly Peirce and her co-writer Andy Bienen pick up Brandon Teena's story from his move to Falls City, Nebraska, where Brandon meets and falls in love with local girl, Lana. This incurs the wraths of Brandon's heretofore friends, John Lotter and Tom Nissen, both ex-cons.  What is impressive about Boys Don't Cry is that Peirce doesn't sensationalize the material, which is easily done in lesser hands with such subjects as gender-bending, rape, and murder. Nor does Peirce, a lesbian, exude an agenda.  Brandon is shown warts and all as a thief and habitual liar (about far more than his gender), while John and Tom are welcoming and amicable before they uncover Brandon's secret. Peirce even allows that John's loathing for Brandon may derive more from his jealousy of Lana than homophobia, though homophobia abets his actions.  Brandon does not come off as a martyr, but very much an individual. Brandon refuses the label of lesbian. The subtext is gender fluidity and the questioning of why we have to categorize sexual orientation at all.  Labels emphasize difference, and difference is a code word for misanthropy.Peirce intersperses wonderful time-lapse sequences of the horizon, the clouds, the stars, even a refinery throughout the film.  While these could just be throwaway flourishes, their beauty and timing point to a transcendent hope in the characters' dreams, no matter how stupid they may be, like Brandon's preoccupation with Memphis or Lana's wanting to become a karaoke singer.  Only at the end, does Pierce's romanticization get the better of her, in a fictional love scene between Lana and Brandon.The entire cast is superb.  Actress Hilary Swank holds nothing back in giving the character of Brandon brashness, longing, hope, naivete, and denial.  Matching her every step of the way is Chloë Sevigny as Lana, and their chemistry together is wholly convincing.  Sevigny (along with Sarah Polley) is among the great actors of her generation.  Peter Sarsgaard imbues John with both humanity and barbarous malevolence.  In two smaller roles of great merit are Alicia Goranson, who plays Candace, Brandon's first friend in Falls City, and Jeanetta Arnette as Lana's outlandish mom.  "},{"Title":"Tragic tale of biggotry","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The land of trailer parks and honkytonks yield dark hatreds. Brandon Teena realized this 10 years ago. Since then, director and screenwriter Kimberly Pierce spun this tragedy into a suspenseful motion picture destined to amplify intolerance in the way `Schindler's List' portrayed the holocaust.Brandon Teena (Hilary Swank), or Teena Brandon, grew up most of her life as a girl. However, her preferences gravitated to male behavior. Hence, she began stuffing her crotch with socks and cropping her hair short. Her behavior drew ire from her neighbors as they chase her to her friend's trailer and nearly beat her senseless. Not only that, but she's in trouble with the law for grand theft auto. In an attempt to flee her tarnished life, she transplants herself from native Lincoln, Neb. to Falls City where no one suspects her identity-until clues pop up.She meets kind-hearted Candace, who offers her a place to stay. Soon she encounters angst-ridden Lana (Chloe Sevigny), whom she instantly fancies.Lana, on the other hand, tires of her mundane life and comes across nearly unapproachable. Soon, the two develop an awkward friendship that develops into a love affair. Her friend John (Peter Sarsgaard), who doesn't hide his infatuation with Lana, develops a blinding jealousy towards Brandon. Finally, Candace's discovery of Brandon's personal items yield a witch hunt for her true identity. Herein lie the tragic circumstances of the movie.Acting surpasses that of any big-budget production. Hilary Swank's transformation from comely Hollywood starlet to tomboy is nearly unbelievable. Swank is a straight woman convincingly playing a lesbian. Her love for Lana appears nearly genuine as scenes of intimacy clearly demonstrate. Her seven various awards, including best actress at the Academy Awards, speak for themselves. It's clear that she brings personal experience to this film; she was born in Lincoln, Neb.Supporting characters were also superlative. Chloe Sevigny compliments Swank perfectly. She echoes trailer-park desolation with disillusionment, particularly in the early '90s economic downturn. John's and Tom's (Brendan Sexton, Jr.) characters portray typical redneck country boys.Kimberly Pierce's direction brings avant-garde filmmaking to a real-life story. It could have easily come across as Lifetime's movie of the week, had it not been for the cast and her direction. She uses innovative camera techniques such as fast motion shots and new angles mixed with colorful backdrops reminiscent of the film `Amelie.' At the same time, she amplifies the misery of Falls City.Themes, as you would have guessed, deal with gender identity and gay issues. You feel infuriated by both the law and the simple-minded yokels of Nebraska for not taking a stand for Brandon's harassment. Does any human deserve this kind of treatment? Absolutely not. The film forces you to think, and for some people that can be a problem.Be forewarned this is not the feel-good movie of the decade; it was never meant to be that way. It shines the spotlight on hatred and bigotry while teaching us about ourselves. That's what makes this film more indispensable than any $100 million Hollywood blockbuster  "},{"Title":"Horrific - yet necessary","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could barely watch this film, not because it was bad, or I thought it was boring, but because it was so awful what they did to that poor girl.Sometimes when I watch a film, I say to myself 'That's horrible - but it's just a film' but this was true.Hilary Swank does a good job as Brandon. She deserved that Oscar.Lessons can be learned from this film, to treat other people with respect and not run scared becuase people are different. People need to be aware that this stuff really does happen.I recommend this, but just beware what you're letting yourself in for.9 out of 10 -Sproosey "},{"Title":"Bad Company","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS.  It must have been tempting to do with this story what Lifetime Movies for Women or Hallmark might have done -- turn it into the tale of a prophet without honor in her own country.  (I'll call Teena Brandon her.) The movie deftly avoids this kind of mindless simplicity.  Brandon is actually pretty screwed up, even before the movie begins, and not just in regard to her gender role, not just in the easy way that would encourage our sympathy and allow us to feel self righteous because we can identify with her plight.  No, she steals cars (grand theft auto), drinks, cusses, can't seem to hold a job, and acts in other ways that violate our ordinary bourgeois moral codes.  Her pecadillos aren't dwelled on, that would be going too far, but they're noted nonetheless.So, yes, she's somewhat off kilter, but considering the subculture she is part of, that's almost a requirement for membership in good standing. What a bunch of garbage this community is!  And, not that she's drawn to it, but that she simply finds herself living with these folks.  The possibility of some other life style doesn't seem to occur to her.  It's perfectly natural. Most of us would find ourselves uncomfortable in trying to establish connections in a social world different from the one we're used to. (That's why cities are divided into ethnic neighborhoods and why lots of Scandinavians immigrated to Minnesota and why there are biker bars and why Leominster, Massachussetts, is mostly Seventh Day Adventist.  Or, to put it in highly technical terms, birds of a feather feel more comfortable flocking together.)  So Brandon, Hillary Swank, puts up with these nuts because she believes that, after all, this is what life is like.  They're a pretty crummy bunch from our point of view, particularly the men.  They drink beer not for recreation but to maintain a certain blood level, they smoke (always a bad sign), they drive recklessly and defy the law, tote guns and knives, rape and beat people, scarify themselves and each other, and generally behave reprehensibly.  They tolerate all this in one another. They more or less have to, because that's how they themselves behave.  You can't criticize someone who acts just like you.  In fact they tolerate everything except lying or cross-dressing, which is kind of a surprise. (In prison, the inmates at the top of the social ladder are murderers and armed robbers, those at the bottom have been convicted of molesting children or shoplifting.)The performers put it all across too.  Skaarsgard is the main heavy, ultimately the mass murderer, and he's fine.  Lots of actors underplay the part of the heavy, smiling ruthlessly while fondling the knife, gently whispering orders like, You can start by taking them clothes off. Skaarsgard does it better.  He tosses off orders and threats with a half-laugh and a shrug, as if advising you that you have a bit of spinach stuck on your front tooth.  Don't ever do that again, he tells Brandon after she does something wrong, and a moment later he is berserk, throwing everyone out of his car on a deserted rural road.  His main man isn't any better.  Hillary Swank is fine as Brandon.  Her sharp, angular features contrast with the fleshier nose and more rounded contours of Chloe Sevigny as Lana.  There is a startling shot of them concocting the story they are going to tell the boys, when the director frames their faces next to one another and the scene changes, without their faces changing, to their actual explanation taking place.  It's out of Bergman's Persona, maybe, but it is just as smooth as a spoonful of Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream.  I must say, though, that Swank is a delightful looking and attractive woman, but as a man she doesn't appeal to me at all.  Chloe Sevigny is a different matter, with her tawny skin, burnt orange hair, hooded eyelids, and that enchanting mole on her left breast.That reminds me.  I'm a little confused about something here.  Okay, Brandon is a woman, anatomically normal as far as anyone can see.  So's her girlfriend Lana.  Now, here they are, making out for the first time on a hilltop under one of the towers carrying power lines, a weird, insidious, and totally appropriate humming whine on the sound track, occasional shots of the static horizon with the sky behind it zipping along in accelerated motion.  Let me see if I have the sequence of events correct.  They kiss. Lana takes off her top so there's no question of her sex.  Brandon is the active pursuer.  She doesn't undress.  She performs cunnilingus on Sevigny, or that's what's suggested.  Am I going too fast? asks Brandon.  Then she climbs on top of her, reaches down and adjusts something, and heaves gently forward, while Sevigny gives a very good imitation of being penetrated. Sevigny also glances down and notices that, strangely, Brandon has womanly breasts.  Afterward Sevigny briefly carresses Brandon's fly before Brandon withdraws the hand.  Then Sevigny guides Brandon into a supine position and snuggles up on top of her, saying, Don't be afraid, Brandon.Okay, now what exactly has transpired in a physical sense?  I don't mean to be gross.  We can respect the fact that the two people love each other. That's made clear.  But the movie invites questions about the more material aspects of their relationship, and it's frustrating that we don't have the answers.  It's like finishing a difficult jigsaw puzzle and finding that the last few pieces are missing.  Earlier we've noticed that Brandon has a dildo packed in her baggage.  Does that figure into this scene somehow?  And later, when Sevigny visits Brandon in jail, she's surprised to find her friend locked up in the woman's section, and goes about telling others in the most convincing way that Brandon is a great lover -- and a man.  Until near the end when the two are in a bare shack together.  By this time, Lana has been given an irrefutable demonstration that Brandon is a woman.  The two nevertheless make love again, although this time Sevigny says, I'm not sure I know how to do this.  What was she doing all those times BEFORE?In interviews, the real Lana seems an intelligent and sensible young woman. I don't recall her mentioning that Brandon was a great lover but she does carry on about how sensitive and caring Brandon was.  I supposed Brandon must have seemed so to Lana.  Especially when it's taken into account that the only men we meet are sadistic, half-mad rapists who beat and pummel Brandon for lying.  You know you brought this on yourself, don't you? one of them asks after having brutally sodomized her.  (I wondered every once in a while, doesn't this Dogpatch have any normal guys living in it?)  That rape scene, by the way, is plain horrifying, the most graphic and repellant I've seen on screen since Berman's The Virgin Spring.  It has ten times the shock power of similar scenes, like that in Victim.  As a male, I had the feeling for the first time of what it means to refer to rape as a violation.  Brandon's post-rape interrogation by the law is even worse on tape than it is in this movie, though the script follows it word for word. Here, the sheriff sounds matter of fact, puzzled.  In the real interview it seems clear that this Neanderthal was sexually aroused, anxious to have her talk about it, who popped her and where, and, Did ya have to help him out a little?  Did ya, huh?  What'd you do?  On the tape he begins to inquire into subjects like what it's like for lesbians to make love and Brandon answers very sensibly, I don't see what this has to do with what happened Saturday night.  There is nudity here, absolutely none of it is thrown in to titillate the audience.  It's strictly functional.  Even a shower scene with Brandon, with a brief glimpse of Hillary Swank's buttocks, doesn't offend.  (DePalma would have lingered over it in slow motion.  He would have done everything except enter the frame himself and point to the most interesting body parts so you wouldn't overlook them.)Lana and her family and friends refer continually in interviews to Brandon's knowing what a woman wants, her charm, her sensitivity, but this isn't overstressed here.  Brandon never brings anybody flowers or anything.  And consideration isn't always a source of man's appeal for woman, or at least that's the impression one gets.  I tried it once and my partner said, You don't have to be so gentle with me.The director makes visual statements from time to time, but only in ways that work.  There are, as I've mentioned in passing, several shots in accelerated motion.  A silent night-time factory with a stack that spews smoke at an alarming rate.  A moon that dips in a perceptible arc toward the horizon.  Other odd shots, including one that seems to have been printed in reverse so that the car headlights maintain a set interval from the camera but the asphlat beneath them is zipping towards us, which means the car is traveling rearward at high speed.  It's barely noticeable but effective, because it contributes another disturbing note to a movie that is filled with them.  Another shot in which the entire screen is filled with a dramatic pattern of bright light and scarcely visible criss-crossing highlights, like a deranged Mondrian, until the camera dollies back and we see that it is the blazing headlight of a car.Overall, this is a fine movie.  It respects the audience.  It doesn't go for easy tears.  It doesn't beatify the hapless heroin.  It's a tragic story told with a mixture of naturalism and impressionism, that asks something of the viewer without giving the viewer an opportunity to feel self satisfied. It's a rare quality these days.  "},{"Title":"Tough-going, truly tragic drama","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Difficult as an entertainment, but certainly worthwhile, this true story about a young woman with a gender-identity issue creeps forward to its preconceived conclusion with the unease of a bad stomach ache; there isn't a pleasant moment in it, but it is remarkable from an actors standpoint. Story of doomed Brandon Teena is retold with care and insight (although the climax was restructured for 'dramatic purposes'), and director Kimberly Pierce examines stifling small-town life in vivid and painful ways. It's not easy to sit through, but its impact stays with one for many days afterward. Hilary Swank gives a bravura, Oscar-winning lead performance; supporting cast is her equal. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Strong and Simple","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I admit to being swept into the play. There's nothing complicated here, and everyone involved is committed to direct simplicity. The two leads are committed -- that strength and the cleanliness of the vehicle carry the day.But I have to tell you I was disappointed. That's because film has possibilities way beyond this. A story of such angst, such ambiguity deserves an intelligent. layered eye. So much of the matter of the film is centered on dreams, fantasy, multiple realities. So much could have been made out of this in the form of the film.Guess we are lucky that this filmmaker stayed within her limits. But this material deserves better, deserves more than competent working of established conventions. "},{"Title":"Wildly overrated cliche'd claptrap","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The plaudits given this piece of garbage are 100% politically motivitated. That Sevigny was NOMINATED for an Oscar is a total travesty.  Swank's performance IS excellent, but the flaws of her felonious character are totally glossed over and the homophobic cliches are inserted for maximum impact.  This is a political diatribe masquerading as a movie. "}{"Title":"Well Directed, Incredible Performances","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's not much to say about this film that hasn't been said in the other reviews, but I do have a few extra comments.Swank's performance really is incredibly brave and convincing. I was surprised not by how good her performance was, but how brave she was in really throwing herself whole-hog into the role and truly becoming a man. Her performance adds another vast dimension to the movie, particularly as I feel that in her performance alone does the character's motivation come through. You can sense just how exciting it is for her to flirt with becoming free of her gender, even if what she's doing is getting in a bar fight or doing stupid stunts on the back of a pickup. You can sense her euphoria at getting a taste of the experience of being a man. This creates the motivation for her character, as the man she wants to be IS the kind of guy who would get hurt and get into the kind of trouble she does. This is one case where the performance really IS one third of what the film as a whole is and I would have no problem with Hillary Swank walking off with the best actress Oscar.I am surprised that so many people said the film was poorly directed. I think that Pierce has definitely watched her share of David Lynch films and uses what she's learned to cast an air of unreality and mythological significance to the events. I thought the sex scene was particularly good, because you see on Lana's face how Brandon is pleasing her in ways that her other boyfriends couldn't possibly. This is much more subtly done than in other lesbian films, where a character would probably have a line like well everyone knows only a woman knows what a woman wants or something else-- this film is more powerful because it doesn't preach or be too heavy-handed. It is not without viewpoint, but it handles the matter subtly. I was VERY surprised at another reviewer who seems to think it is the mark of directorial inadequacy to show a face and breast in the same shot... I'm sorry, where did that rule come from?It's a little frustrating watching the movie just how stupid Brandon is, but hey, it's a true story and the film makes him out to be stupid and unstable from the start.I myself am a gay man, and as such I found this film's tagline A true story about finding the courage to be yourself entirely disgusting. This is not about finding the courage to be yourself, it's about messed-up people who are at the mercy of forces within themselves that are beyond their control. It's about people who are so undersocialized that they have no way of knowing how to deal with the emotions that they feel. I am so sick of the whole marketing slant of Being-gay-is-just-such-a-heartwarming-growing-experience that I truly want to vomit. I would like to think that someone out there could credit gay people with enough intelligence to accept that not everything about being gay or lesbian in the late 90's is a wonderful, warm, and affirming experience. I also think a tagline like that trivializes the emotions and experiences of the characters in a film like this. Luckily the film itself is free of such sentimentality.--- Check out website devoted to bad, cheesy, and gay movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"See see!","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't CryIn 1993, Teena Brandon was a sexually confused teenage woman living in Lincoln, Nebraska. Cutting her hair, finding herself in a new city, and changing her name to Brandon Teena, she passed herself off as a man and befriended a group of lower-class kids who adored the sweet and gentle new boy in town. Falling in love with one of the girls in the group, Brandon suddenly found it increasingly hard to hide his true identity. Struggling with his past and desperate in his current situation, Brandon's life was placed in jeopardy when his companions learned his true identity. This film is based on a true story.Kimberly Peirce's picture BOYS DON'T CRY is nothing short of a monumental achievement in so-called indie filmmaking. So many films lately indulge themselves with laughable attempts at moral and high-mindedness. BOYS is the type of film that lays it all out, warts and all. It paints Brandon as a martyr, I'll fully admit that, but what the picture does with such dexterity is deliver a story so heartbreaking and so absolute that your body is numb for 112 minutes of screen time. I found only a handful of films have been able to achieve that this year. The fact that this narrative really happened six years ago sent a chill up my spine. Fiction can take you to limitless places. Fact nails you firmly to the Earth. Not enough movies dare you to enter the dark places in our own backyard.But what would BOYS be without Hilary Swank? Nothing. This young actress was previously seen on BEVERLY HILLS 90210 and in the little seen (and gentle) feature THE NEXT KARATE KID. She's unknown to most people and that little fact alone is mainly the reason she is so brilliant as the doomed Brandon. It's tough to imagine a A-list name in the complex lead role. With Swank, you get an actress that can come out of left field and makes you accept with the rest of the characters that she is portraying a man. It goes far deeper that a short haircut and bonded breasts. That's easy. Swank is mesmerizing with her toothy grin and cut-glass jawbone. She submerges all her femininity and comes up with a believable male persona. Beautiful as a boy or a girl, I cannot fathom another performance quite like Swank's coming out of any current performer alive today. She is brilliant as Brandon Teena. A role, I would say, she was born to play.Director Peirce backs Swank with a healthy cast of talented actors to play the white trash teens that befriend Brandon. Uttering a Beer? instead of a normal greeting like Hello, both Peter Sarsgaard and Brendan Sexton III deliver menacing performances as the two men who instigate the violence toward Brandon. Long lost Alicia Goranson (TV's Becky on ROSEANNE) makes for a sweet presence as a shy girl attracted to Brandon. But it's really Chloe Sevigny (GUMMO, KIDS) who almost matches Swank in the acting department. It's her brave performance as Brandon's initially clueless lover that makes you want to cry. Deeply in love, yet conflicted with Brandon's sexual ambiguity, Sevigny is mighty to behold.This being Peirce's debut feature, BOYS is often dramatically daring and optically unique. I like the way she portrays the small Nebraska town with a loving eye for the trashy, yet positive humanity of it's citizens. It's their deep loving nature that initially welcomes Brandon. It's their intolerance and stupidity that eventually brings him down. With almost every frame, Peirce makes strong statements about the duality of the cliched midwestern heart. I also give Peirce credit for making a rape scene horrifying without being exploitative. That's the sign of a director who cares about the audience.BOYS DON'T CRY is spectacular picture. A truly involving piece of work that shines all around. As devastating as this story is, the film is always dramatically commanding. Kimberly Peirce is a new director to behold. She has delivered a art-house film that finally makes on it's promise to be truthful to the subject and never waver to the easy path. Don't miss this film.---------- 10  "},{"Title":"A kick in the stomach. Two thumbs up!","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is for a mature audience only. It narrates the story of Teena Brandon who pretends being a boy. In the beginning, she rodeo-rides a car, behaves like a man, and is integrated into the family of her girlfriend she finally falls in love with. This ultimately turns out be her biggest mistake, leading to her death, because the two redneck brothers of her girlfriend don't like freaks. She is beaten, violated, and ultimately shot to death. What made me feeling sick and sad after this movie is not only the violence depicted, that is never gratuitous or superfluous. What made me feel bad is that there is a growing tendency in the world to inhumanity, intolerance and hate against all that is different. Therefore is a good contribution to the discussion what makes violence happen, how it happens and, above all, where it happens. The two redneck brothers depicted in the movie are chanceless, dumb and prone to alcohol. Unfortunately, this combination leads to a climate of intolerance and violence, something we can witness in a strong extent in today's European societies. This film should be watched by classes etc. and to be discussed about. And outstanding performance is delivered by Hillary Swank!! "},{"Title":"A true story about hope, fear and the courage it takes to be yourself!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I usually like to promote good, true story films. However with the 1999 film, Boys Don't Cry, it has been hard to do so. I do like it, but it does push the limit to what I like in a movie. Brandon Teena or Teena Brandon, whichever name you want to call this character, was incredible on two fronts. One, on how she kept up the appearance of being a man to the public where she was living, and two, how she still handled the issues of being a woman. This is one of the most confronting, disturbing and brilliant movies of our time.This is true story about Brandon Teena, a person whose living a very complex and dysfunctional life. While everything seems normal on outside, with this extremely charming man, all is not as it seems. Brandon suffers from S.I.C (Sexual Identity Crisis). Nebraska's newest citizen is hiding a deep dark secret. From middle America emerged an extraordinary double life, a complicated love story and a crime that would shatter the heartland for many years.Considering that an independent filmmaker made this film, I still found that it was a very professional one. The director, Kimberly Peirce, did a grand job in bring this to the screen. I am certain that the deep research that would have been needed, was one of the big reasons to the success of this film. I like the way that Peirce shot the film, in a quick paced sort of a way, as if Brandon was on some sort of a rollercoaster that he could not control. Then in a very subtle way would slow certain scenes to hold a very long-lasting affect on the audience. The cinematographer also does a good job of projecting what the director wants us to see. This task was left to Jim Denault. The script was very good to this film. I am sure that all the characters as they were written for in the bigscreen, would have behaved just like this in real life. This again is to the credit of Peirce and her co writer, Andy Bienen.Then the cast that this film had was an extraordinary one. There is not much you can criticize about Hilary Swank's role. It was perfect, and she thoroughly deserved the Academy Award for her work. Her role is a fitting tribute to the life of Brandon Teena. I remember Swank saying that she had to physically live like a man for a certain amount of time, so she could capture who Brandon Teena was. In fact Swank does scrub up pretty well, and was a good choice to play a man. I also like Swank's role in the 1994 movie, The next Karate Kid.I also liked the role of Lana, played by Chloë Sevigny. She was Brandon's onscreen girlfriend. Now from where I see it, this role was the pivotal one for the whole movie, as it gave an insight into how Brandon could pick up nice girls. I really liked the onscreen chemistry between both Swank and Sevigny. The actors who also played the bad men, John Lotter and Tom Nissen, Peter Sarsgaard and Brendan Sexton III, scarily resemble their real life characters. While their roles were disturbing, I like how they were performed.This movie has some gruesome scenes attached to it. However they gave an accurate portrayal of what really happened. I enjoyed the scenes where Brandon is going out into the world as a man, trying to pick up the girls that he likes. It is amazing how he got away with being a man to so many girls for so long. Then take the hardy scenes to the film. Scenes such as the discovery of Brandon being a girl, as both Lotter and Nissen violate her civil rights. Then there is the vile rape scene, which is cleverly interweaved with the sheriff's harsh integration of Brandon, when he continually pushes Brandon to admit that he was sexually assaulted. Then I would have to say the murder of Teena is one of the most horrible pieces of cinema I have ever seen. Imagining being in such a situation is a sickening thought. All these scenes are brilliantly written and acted in my mind.From where I see it, people such as Brandon Teena, did not deserve to be treated in such a harsh way, by either her murderers or the law enforcers. It is no wonder that such movements as the Gay rights activists and 'the transsexual menace', use Teena's name to help fight for justice for transsexuals and people who suffer S.I.C (Sexual Identity Crisis). If Brandon was given a little help and support, perhaps s\he might still be alive today. I hope that if I was to meet characters like Brandon that I would not be quick to judge them, but instead help treat their problem and accept them into the community. Remember they are still human beings, whether they think they are a man or a woman.I can understand that some people might not like some of the content that is in this movie, but I question if people simply hate the entire film. What were you expecting to see, a 'feel good' movie? This film was not that, in fact it was quite the opposite. Well I feel this is a brilliant film, with a tremendously talented cast. It also handles a delicate situation with 'gritty' class. It is a remarkable role from Swank, considering she was once 'the next karate kid', and then became the girl who lived her life as a man, a life that was not only foolish, but extremely dangerous. This film will shake you up, in a way that only it can. Please, watch it, appreciate it and learn from it.Brandon Teena (Teena Brandon) 1972 -1993CMRS gives 'Boys Don't Cry 5 (Brilliant Film)  "},{"Title":"A Very Sad Movie Based On A True Story","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very sad, but it is a must see. The fact that it is based on a true story will make all of it's viewers feel very sad for the main character Brandon/Teena. It is about a young girl, named Teena Brandon. Teena Brandon has a very bad problem. Not only is she a lesbian, but she wants to live life as a boy. Unfortunately, at this point in time she does not have the money to get plastic surgery. So, she decides to do the next best thing Move to a new town, where nobody knows her, dress as a boy, act like a boy, and basically make the town think that she is a boy. So she meets this girl, and falls in love with her. Now, she has to hang out with this girls friends and family without letting them know that she is a girl. The acting in this movie was so great, and so realistic. They all should be doing big time Hollywood movies. Hilary Swank does an excellent performance as Teena Brandon. You might know her from films like THE NEXT KARATE KID, or INSOMNIA. Chloë Sevigny from KIDS, GUMMO, and American PSYCHO plays Teena Brandon's love interest, Lana, and she does an excellent job of playing the part. Peter Sarsgaard also gives an excellent performance at playing John Lotter.The thing that I loved about this movie was how true it was to the actual story. I had seen a couple of documentaries on Teena Brandon before I saw this film, and the film keeps all the details. Another thing that I loved about it, was the fact that they did not try to demonize Teena Brandon. The people who heard the story but did not see the film would say 'What she did was terrible' But you can't comment on what she did, until you see this movie, and see how it really went down.I recommend this movie to everybody. Though not everybody will like it, I think everybody needs to see it at least once.  "},{"Title":"almost 2 hours of self-indulgent, basically bad people doing bad things to one another and themselves","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Brandon Teena / Teena Brandon is the lead character in this story.  According to him, he has a sexual identity crisis and is really a man with female body parts.  But then again, according to Brandon he also has a sister that's a model in Hollywood.  He's on his way to Memphis.  He's going buy a trailer park, have friends over every night for barbecue, and live in his own Air Stream trailer.  What Brandon is, at least according to the screen play, is a compulsive liar who's on the run from the law for grand theft auto and likes to live his life on the edge with a group of dangerous, self destructive 90s Charlie Manson wannabes.   Brandon drinks and smokes with the boys.  He shows off by risking his life tailgate skiing.  He seduces the girls with his feminine side.  And in the end, the lies no longer hold together.  Where Brandon and the movie end is no surprise; it's just too bad it took so long getting there.  `Boys Don't Cry' is almost 2 hours of self-indulgent, basically bad people doing bad things to one another and themselves.  Neither the situation nor the people are worth any of your time.  Skip this one. "},{"Title":"Shocking and heartbreaking","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry is an extremely gripping and emotional movie based on the true story of Brandon Teena, a transgender boy who is fighting to be who he really is. The acting in this film is incredible, Chloe Sevingy is yet again brilliant. Hilary Swank does an amazing job at portraying the deep emotional struggles of Brandon ( although I do wish they would have considered casting a trans actor to play a trans character). No one around Brandon accepts or supports him but his girlfriend (played by Chloe Sevingy). When the small, intolerant town learn that Brandon is trans (he doesn't identify with the gender he was assigned at birth, which was female) they all turn against him. This movie is very honest and genuine, portraying the horrific struggles that trans people face still to this day. From the police man's victim blaming and transphobia to the vile and sickening attack and eventual murder of Brandon. Although this movie is not just about trans struggles, it studies many other issues of being lost and confused but still having hope. I'm sure all audiences will have an emotional response to this movie. Trigger Warning there is a very intense rape scene, which is likely to distress all viewers. It's upsetting that several past user reviews which I have read on IMDb have been extremely incorrect. To call Brandon a girl dressing as a boy or a girl trying to be a boy is very offensive. Brandon was a boy, genitals do not tell you someones gender!!! Also people saying that this is a lesbian movie or that it's about Brandon's sexual identity, this movie is centered around Brandon's gender identity which is completely unrelated to sexual orientation. This movie should teach people about how complex gender really is, and it does it extremely well, while being extremely truthful and blunt. It's an incredible film, but one that will leave you feeling stunned and emotional. You need to see it. "},{"Title":"You don't seem like you're from around here.","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's one of those films that any film lover has to see to judge for themselves. A critical darling and an award winner, it's a film of undoubted emotional power. It is based on the tragic case of Teena Brandon (Hilary Swank) who was raped and murdered in 1993, it would become one of the significant cases of hate crime in American history.From the off Kimberly Peirce's film sets out its stall that we are in bleak territory, and so it proves. It dangles little shards of light, but constantly it proves uncompromising and unpleasant. There's a nagging irk that main characters are very thinly drawn, where motives are given short shrift, and this is bizarre given that the pic runs for nearly two hours. However, the performances of both Swank and Chloë Sevigny are outstanding, and Peirce handles the darkest scenes in the movie with a grace and tact that deserves applause. A tale that needed to be told, even in truncated form, Boys Don't Cry is fine cinema making. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Powerful, moving, and thought-provoking tale","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie directed by Kimberly Peirce, dramatizes the tragic events that took place in December 1993 in Lincoln, Nebraska and made news headlines around the nation. This film follows 21-year old girl named Teena Brandon (played by Hilary Swank) who lives with her cousin Lonny (played by Matt McGrath) in Lincoln, Nebraska. Sporting a short hairstyle, platted shirt, jeans, and some boots, Teena adopts a male identity and goes under the 'Brandon Teena'. He begins living his life as a boy and travels to a small of Falls City, Nebraska where he attempts to true love and falls in love with beautiful girl named Lana Tisdel (played by Chloe Sevigny). Making an effort to keep his true gender a secret, Brandon ventures his nights through drinking, sex, and street racing with Lana and her friends Candice (played by Alicia Goranson), John Lotter (played by Peter Sarsgard), and Tom Nissen (played by Brenden Sexton). However, when everyone soon discovers he is hiding his true gender, his life makes a turn for the worse and his relationship with Lana is deeply put to the test. The title of the film is taken from 'Boys Don't Cry by the rock band The Cure.This film tackles on some heavy subject matter about transgender and the story is very thought-provoking enough for viewers raise questions dealing with the subject matter, especially since this is based on events that happened in real life. Director Kimberly Peirce and the writers with the story as well as the characters very genuine and maturely, and I think it pays a good tribute to the real-life story of Teena Brandon. The characters are beautifully written, the main character Brandon Teena (or Teena Brandon) in particular, and the story really comes to life by an amazing, if not excellent script. Hilary Swank's performance is nothing short of fantastic, she really brings such light to her role and viewers can tell that she is really committed to the role. The fact that she won an Oscar for her performance is no surprise. The rest of cast did quite a credible job as well. Then the story moves pretty good throughout its the film's run and manages to stay intriguing for the most time. The first half of the film is very light-hearted and soft-spoken, then the second half gets quite powerful and upsetting in tone. As the themes of the film are heavy, there are some scenes that get quite poignant and aggressively uncomfortable to watch, especially for viewers who have dealt with similar situations. But overall, this film really honest and grounded in a way where viewers are able to connect with the characters and the story. The only real flaw with the film is that it fails to explain the reason behind the Brandon's transgender or her background that gives hints as to why she adopted a male identity to begin with.Boys Don't Cry is a powerful and thought-provoking. The performances are amazing and the writing is quite awe-inspiring. This is a film that is important to watch, but something I would only recommend to mature viewers due to the intense subject matter and tone that not all viewers could handle too easy. "},{"Title":"Powerful and emotional","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is terrible. Terrible in a good way great actors, great plot, but when you realize that everything could be real, this creeps you out. As a girl always dressed up and acting like a man (not a trans man though) and living in a conservative community, I have added this movie to my watch list a long time ago. Former friends of Brandon, the lead character of movie, raped and killed him, because he was a trans and he lied them. It's hard to accept that story is based on a real life, but bullying of LGBT people was real. And it's still real. Hilary Swank was great as Brandon, but it was obvious for me that she wasn't guy. She looked like a girl in a boy's clothes and even voice was girl like, so I do't believe that everybody could think that he's a boy. And, yes, boys cry. They cry hard. "}{"Title":"some great performances","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1993 Lincoln, Nebraska. Female born Brandon Teena (Hilary Swank) dresses as a boy and charms the girls. He gets into trouble constantly. He's not gay. He defends Candance (Alicia Goranson) and befriends John Lotter (Peter Sarsgaard). He starts dating Lana Tisdel (Chloë Sevigny) but as always, he doesn't tell them that he's actually born a girl.Hilary Swank's performance is amazing. I love that her character is so lost while so adamant about her identity. The group dynamic is fascinating. Sarsgaard gets overlooked sometimes but his work is terrific. He is great as this unstable character. The acting from the big three is all terrific in this engaging story. "},{"Title":"A very powerful and an upsetting film.....","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't tell you how distraught I am when I saw the rape scenes of a poor innocent person assaulted by two disgusting beasts that need to be tied to an electric chair. I can't believe both of them are still alive today. This is so much like the Matthew Shepherd Story with hate crime. It's unfortunately happening everywhere, not just America!Hilary Swank made a great resemble of the real Teena Brandon. She honestly prepared the role that I'm so glad she got an Oscar for her character. I bet the real Teena Brandon would be so proud of her and the fact her story will be recognized to the world in combating Transgender hate crimes. I'm glad they put this movie out to give us people the message of being aware what really is happening to our big bad world..... "},{"Title":"Powerful and moving film, but not without flaws","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Powerful and moving film, but not without flaws. Hilary Swank gives the best performance she's ever given here. She does a great job at making you care about this tortured character. I'd say her performance is the highlight of the film. Everyone else does a pretty nice job as well. The people playing the evil murderers did their job of making me hate them and the other side characters did their jobs fine. The film tells the story of real life teenager Brandon Teena who was murdered for being transgender, and for the most part, the film tells this story fairly well. Only problem though is it tends to ignore the more flawed aspects of the character. The real life person had quite a criminal record, and while they do mention this several times in the movie, I never felt they truly explored that side of the character. The film instead decided to focus more on making the audience care about the main character, which is fine, I just would have liked both aspects of the character to have been touched on with equal amounts. In the end, it's still a pretty great film. The film makes you care and the more uncomfortable scenes don't feel excessive and unnecessary. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Girls just wanna have fun","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A incredibly touching film, that gives both shivers and warming emotions. At one point i swear they created this incredibly relaxing scene, were the ability for settling the mode is all in favor to the director. I got some very mixed feelings about this film, both disgust from the erratic violent scenes and the behavior, and still this enchanting feeling. Hilly Swank holds the atmosphere high and alive, pulling off playing a boy, making the movie interesting even from the start, as a character who's struggling as a trans gendered teen who wants to fit in, you start to like the character for every second. And the beautiful, troubling, emotionally disturbed Lana Tisdel, played by 'Chloë Sevigny' , who shared these intimate scenes with Hilary, which were erotic and wonderful to watch, the director composer and both the actors really made the scene spark. However, i didn't value the shifting between the mode towards the end, which was shifting way too fast. What i think the writers and director want to tell the audience, is that love has no limits, if two people love each other, there should be no restrictions, whatsoever. It's a sad but important story based on real events, it shows us human brutality and love at it's best. "},{"Title":"Beautiful dysfunction","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys don't cry is an amazing piece of film history. Aside from being a historical acting performance- (Hillary Swank best actress Academy Award), this film is of the most daring, courageous films ever made. For director Kimberly Peirce to keep this story together, and for all these actors to have the courage sign on to this, and give such committed performances... it's a wonderful dance to watch. Truly a must see film. It's intense and hard to watch at times; but it does what few films do. It takes you on a ride- it keeps you guessing; it makes you love, hate, laugh and cry. This is the true story of a trans-gender female turning male named Tina Brandon (played by Hillary Swank). Brandon, running from his past, moves to a small town in Nebraska and manages to convince his peers that he is a male. He falls for a girl named Lana (Chloe Sevigny). The love between Hillary Swank and Chloe Sevigny is real. It's innocent, it's dysfunctional, it's sensual, and sexual (Brandon makes love to her using a fake penis- and actually pulls it off! no pun intended). You feel bad for Lana because she's being lied to, and you feel bad for Brandon at the same time because you know their love is real- and you know the truth and Brandon's past is going to get found out sooner or later. Despite all the tension, you feel happy for them because they're both experiencing something real, regardless of what the truth is. But you're also scared for them because there are dangerous people in their immediate surroundings. Brandon is the outsider into Lana's volatile, low income family and peers. When Brandon is detained for charges that arose prior to his relocation, he is placed in the women's section of the Falls City prison. Lana bails him out and asks why he was in the women's prison. He lies again saying he's a hermaphrodite- but Lana declares her love for him no matter what he is. But the word is out on Tina Brandon in the newspaper, and suspicions arise among local homophobic, neurotic, maniacs who are determined to find out the truth, regardless of anyone's happiness. One of the main threads of this film is embarrassment. You fear for Brandon. You know what she's doing is wrong, but you really don't want her to get caught. She is so genuine as Brandon. You really feel for her/him. You completely accept Hillary Swank as a young man. No need to explain the climax or more details of this intricate plot, as this is a must see film. The way the story turns and how the characters arc is is really fascinating. This is a film you won't forget. "},{"Title":"A tomboy named Teena Brandon moves to Falls City, Nebraska.","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Movie review Boys don't cryBoys don't cry is a movie based on actual events, it shows a tomboy named Teena Brandon who moves to Falls City, Nebraska, where she(or he) knows some new friends and his new girlfriend, Lana Tisdel.Teena Brandon looks like a man, acts like a man and introduces herself as a man named Brandon Teena, and at the beginning, everybody believes that Brandon is a man! Well, Hilary Swank's performance was so convincing and good that we can see her as a man, and she won an Oscar awards and a Golden Globe awards for Best actress!Everything was OK, but the former boyfriend of Lana figured out that Brandon actually was a woman and he told everybody the truth, John Lotter( Lana's ex boyfriend) was so angry and violent that he chased Teena &#x85;The actors worked so well that the watchers can see the prejudice against homosexuals and transsexuals, they can realize how Teena Brandon suffered in real life, when she was discovered by people. This movie is awesome! It grabs the people attention and it shows how it's difficult to be yourself and how some people don't accept this and they make fun of the different person, they hurt the different person ,etc.The soundtrack is great! It has a music with the movie's name boys don't cry, performed by Nathan Larson; it has a music that was sung by Chloe Sevigny, Alicia Goranson and Alison Folland , they all played characters on the movie, and the scene that they sang was at a Karaoke bar, where Lana ( Chloe Sevigny) met Teena Brandon ( Hilary Swank), and that day that begins the love story between they. This movie is great and makes people think about the sexual diversity. "},{"Title":"Boys Don't Cry- Movie Review","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry is an extremely affecting film, one that well worth the inevitable emotional difficulties throughout the viewing. This is not a film for everyone, however; it is frequently brutal and depressing in the emotional honesty of its story. That said, anyone interested should absolutely give this film a look. The film is based upon true events and the tragic circumstances of Brandon Teena (Hilary Swank), a trans man dealing with a sexual identity crisis. She wants to be seen as a man desperately, and because she unwisely acts upon her instincts, she ends up raped and dead by the end of the film. She realizes too late that she can't run from her past completely. Brandon remains a fully sympathetic character, and much of this is due to Swank's masterful performance. She has a sense of innocence about her, as she desires to find her place in the world and become the person who she wants to be, but she forgets to think about the consequences. She flies too close to the sun and ultimately pays the price for it. Ironically, she is one of the few characters in the movie fully willing to seek what she wants. The family she stays with for much of the film lives a morally and emotionally empty life. Only the daughter, Lana (Chloe Sevigny) seems to recognize this; she hates her working-class job and the dangers she frequently has to face around ex-convict John Lotter (Peter Saarsgard). Regardless of her gender, it is no wonder she ends up falling for Brandon. Both hate societal norms and wish to escape to Memphis to live better lives together. They both ultimately find themselves unable to, as Lotter has his own perspective on those societal norms, and he simply can't take any variations. He's a monster, yes, but his motivation for raping and murdering Brandon is one of confusion. He can't comprehend that the concept of gender isn't as simplistic as he thought, and more importantly, that the world isn't as simplistic as it seems. This is a difficult movie to watch, as it has the level of impact akin to that of a classical Greek tragedy. Brandon is unable to overcome her fatal flaw, and it ends up costing her her life. However, it is also extremely insightful and touching with regards to her courage to go and pursue her desires. We could all learn something from Brandon, but we must go about it in a wiser manner.Overall Rating 9/10- Seriously Guys, See This Movie. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous--typical Hollywood portrayal of Midwest","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This review is not critical of the subject matter, but of the portrayal of the subjects and their environment--typical Hollywood stereotyping, and absolutely ludicrous.I live just 3 hrs. from the setting of this story, and have been there many times...and, believe me, I've never heard a southern accent spoken in or around Lincoln, NE. Because part of the movie takes place in a rural area, I guess the directors/producers think that the populace is dumb; thus, they give them southern drawls.This is offensive to me on two fronts First, I was raised in the South, and I see this 'dumb hick' stereotyping as condescension--nothing new, of course; it has gone on forever. Anyone who has a southern accent is an idiot, in the eyes of Hollywood. Secondly, it is simply inaccurate. People in Nebraska don't say, 'lahhhht' for the word, 'light,' and so on. The whole movie was made laughable by the ridiculous attachment of a Southern drawl to almost every character! This is not to say that the characters were anything but low-life, ignorant fools; most certainly were that! Their lifestyles--the constant smoking, drinking, drugs, loose living, etc.--made them stupid, however--NOT their accents. Their lifestyle contributed to their lack of compassion--NOT the place where they lived. "},{"Title":"Gritty and Honest Boys Should Cry","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nothing short of full blown heart wrenching, pit-of-the-stomach empathetic cinema, and it's all possible because of the uncompromising and unsurpassed Kimberly Peirce and Hilary Swank. The striking story of a man, who was tragically born a woman, flows through the actors with ease and a disturbingly coarse elegance. Brandon Teena, Hilary Swank's finest more pure role to date, is a dimensional and wholly real character; complete with cracks and sharp edges. Using simplistic expression and body language to become a man, Swank managed to defy audiences and actually BE a man for most of the duration of the film. The impact and force of Swank's emotions drove the entire story and formed a pragmatic relationship with Chloe Sevigny's Lana. Sevigny, commonly known for her off-the-cuff indie roles, broke down all the walls of supporting character, and stood resolutely against the back-drop of Nebraska&#x97;freed, broken, gorgeous, ordinary, delicate, bursting. When mentioning those snubbed at the Oscars, Sevigny should always be listed primarily, not only because she created a character so wretchedly real, but because she was still the angelic force, the unfamiliar loveliness, that kept the film so exclusively mystic and magical. Down to earth and exceptionally betraying, the film's tone manages to never stray from authenticity; either a soft enjoyment of romance, or a pounding fury with life's futility. No matter what is being felt, it is being experienced by the audience too. Peter Sarsgard, Brandan Sexton, Alison Folland, Alicia Goranson, and Jeanetta Arnette all deserve their individual sentences, whether describing how masterfully they manage to terrify or how innocently they evoke tenderness, but my skipping over their descriptions simply means they are too intricate and individual to express. Without the charming and harrowing screenplay there would be no brilliance to discuss, no heart-break to mend, but beyond this, without Kimberly Peirce there would be no Boys Don't Cry. Her devotion to the complete portrayal of Brandon was the ultimate success of the film. Not once did she compromise the character's emotional state, rather she found an array of images and framing choices to complete what would have otherwise been campy or simply B. Moments of complete immersion in Lana and Brandon's love were left rolling; not cut for censorship, but shown for what it was. Peirce made the film whole, and let the audience revel in what a boy is. Overall, Boys Don't Cry was a work of character, not simply the perfection created by Swank and Sevingy, but the work of all the film's gifted actors and perceptive director. A must see film for every child who is confused, for every adult with a prejudice, for every person who has ever loved a film, and for anyone who needs to be shown a gritty and ingenuous honesty. "},{"Title":"Great Emotional Movie","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems hard on a movie to take away a star just because something is missing but that's what I'm doing. Where is the actor for Phillip Devine? Some people think that adding his character to the story is not vital but I think it is. It shows just how cowardly and evil John Lotter and Tom Nissen actually were.Another aspect that I noticed was how the Sheriff was pretty tame in the movie. If you go back and find the true story or hear the audio somehow...you will see that the Sheriff who actually interviewed her was very inappropriate and unprofessional.I cannot think of another movie so far where the actors fit so much with the real life people. Casting did such a great job finding the characters for John Lotter and Brandon Teena. Both Hilary Swank and John Peter Sarsgaard get 10/10 stars from me in their performance.This movie ends up being emotional because Lana (Chloe Sevigny) loses two people. One of her friends and another she dearly loves. It ends up being emotional because of the cruel thoughtless acts carried out by Lotter and Nissen.9/10 MSMITH "}{"Title":"Boys Don't Cry is a movie about a transsexual man, NOT a girl.","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" As usual people seek to make transsexual people invisible by appropriating their stories. Brandon Teena was a straight, transsexual man. Not a girl or a lesbian. Although he didn't live long enough to receive medical treatment, that fact does not take away from his identity. He was always male and in time he would have transitioned so that his body matched his mind. This movie is a graphic illustration of the transphobia that STILL exists in this country. Brandon was simply trying to be himself and a couple insecure men choose to attack him for it. Violence is never the answer and in this case it was a HATE CRIME. Brandon was murdered simply because of the way he was born (transsexual). Hopefully this movie will help educate people about transsexualism and such incidents will become fewer in number or better yet eliminated. Rest in peace Brandon. "},{"Title":"A few replies to the comments here","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Why are there people claiming that the plot of the film is too predictable? It's a real life story! Also, for the record, I cannot think of a single artwork which has produced significant political or moral change. While a good few have become symbols for a cause (Miller's 'The Crucible' against the Red-scare, Dylan's 'Blowin in the Wind' against segregation, Picasso's 'Guernica' against Franco's war) I don't think we should give Boys Don't Cry extra credit for presenting a harsh depiction of the horrors of prejudice, nor should we take credit away if we don't think it will have any effect on the moral fibre of our generation. It is, after all, just a film, albeit one of a real and tragic life.I'll agree with the comments that the cinematography was nothing special - but must a film have amazing cinematography? i think it had some understatedly beautiful shots when and only when appropriate (along with the sped up landscape shots - check out the Brandon-eye-view of Lana through the factory window - a beautiful shot depicting Brandon admiration for her). Other than that, this is a distinctly human drama and the shots served its purpose perfectly. "},{"Title":"Topic misused for attention-raising.","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I did not like this movie and did only not walk out because I went to the theater with a bunch of friends who insisted I keep quiet and I was sitting in the middle of a row. I should regret I did not leave.This is another movie where the topic has been awarded and not the picture itself. Although I can sympathize with trans-genders' certainly faced everyday disturbing issues, I can not think of anything in this movie that would enhance their situation in any way. The story is violent mainly, and not revealing or fairly touching or interesting in any manner. Both Hilary Swank and Chloé Sevigny are doing their parts nicely, though.The plot has flaws such as Lana is not angry at all after her love interest turns out to be a woman. By that time the viewer also had to endure a painful love scene between the two. Nothing, well, strange, got noticed there, you see. And nobody minds in the end. Right.The rest of the story depicts the depreciating, hopeless area in which the characters reside. Nothing is said of, let's say, memories of Swank's character on how she turned out to be this way (born like it? trauma? woke up like it?), although I think it would be very important to enable the viewer to form an opinion. In case this has been left vague for a purpose, well, I do not believe that the viewers should not be allowed their opinions. It would have helped build the character. This way, Brendon remains a mystery. Why not wait until the OP is over and try find a lesbian girl-friend in the meantime? The reaction of the bad guys is not justifiable in any means, please do not get me wrong, but it is true that finding out that your buddy is a girl really could disturb anybody. I understand the movie is based on a real-life drama and I feel very sorry for the real Brandon. I had the impression that this movie is just using its topic to gain attention but does not give answers, or, although this would be the least to be expected, does not raise any questions.The two points go for the brave choice of the basic topic and the good performances. Everything else has fallen too short. "},{"Title":"Midwest= Desolation","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the type of movie that looks at bits of Americana and sees the tragedy lurking within the everyday lives of an amount of working and lower-middle classes. As the highways of the midwest are supplanted in speeded film with a starry night (a touching effect), the main character's lives are just like them. Moving too fast but not going anywhere, but it sure is beautiful but in an emotionally devestating way. Of the movies I have viewn none has been as touchingly romantic yet also so engrossingly about life as this one.Our protagonist is Brandon Teena or Teena Brandon, a midwestern Transsexual but that not being his/her defining trait. Teena is the product of a lonesome, deliquint and relatively stationary childhood, admitting that she/he never has left the Lincoln area let alone Nebraska. We meet Teena just after she has gone on a date and is skimping out on a court date. Soon she heads to a town so small that it is not on the map and becomes ingratiated with a family, involving ex-cons and falls in love but in a way that is so viscerally desperate yet unadulterdly emotional that truly it is one of the most realistically powerful romances ever felt on screen. I do not exaggerate when I saw it captures the real emotion of that type of love unlike any other film out there.What happens is inevitable, considering its based on an actual story, yet the romance is so beautiful and so true, it almost feels as if the film enters into a realm beneath the material. It's still amazing, but a part of me thinks that the story may have been better suited had it opted to coda in a different way. It almost feels as though a film that is American slice-of-life in the greatest of ways moves into a different genre and though it is still superb filmaking, I could have imagined it as something that in style fit more with what had come before it. "},{"Title":"A disturbing and unsettling drama anchored by one of the most richly deserved Oscar winning performances ever....","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" BOYS DON'T CRY was an unsettling, uncomfortable but ultimately rewarding film experience that gnaws away at you long after the credits roll. The film is based on the life of Teena Brandon, a woman who felt she was man trapped in a woman's body and attempted to live her life as a man. Hillary Swank won her first Oscar for Best Actress in a Leading Role for her powerhouse performance as Teena, who changed her name to Brandon Teena and attempted to live her life as a man. This film has little to do with homosexuality. As a matter of fact, early on in the film, when her best friend refers to her as a lesbian, she blows a gasket. This encounter, coupled with problems with the law, force Brandon on the road to a new life where he meets a shy young factory worker, played by Chloe Sevigny, and begins a romance with her, which is complicated by her friend (Peter Sarsgaard)whose constant challenging of Brandon in Sevigny's life leads to an inevitable and tragic showdown. The performances by Swank, Sarsgaard, and Sevigny (also nominated for Best Supporting Actress) are nothing short of mesmerizing. A truly adult motion picture experience, this film features some uncompromising violence and a very graphic rape scene. Once you have the children safely tucked in bed and if you have the stomach for it, treat yourself to what was probably the most powerful film to be released in 1999. You've never seen anything like this and never will again. "},{"Title":"When's People Gonna learn????","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is the most awesome movie I've ever seen. When it comes to really slamming the point of Hate in the face of a world that's trying to force Conservativety in people's faces with no remorse of the damages done by what everyone's supposed to believe is rightverses what is considered to be wrong, I therefore question How is it that it's okay to Murder someone just because of their sexual orientation? It makes me so sick to my stomach to see so much Hate still going around like a virus much worse than AIDS, itself!!!! Anyway, I just wonder when's people gonna learn? How many more senseless manslaughtering must we continue to see and hear in the news and in movies like this one, to get the point out? I really can relate to this movie, and a lot of my friends relate to it as well. Even my own girlfriend too. She actually walked out of my living room near the end of it!!!! I'm angry, outraged and everything else, because all the Hateful Assholes, in this world still haven't learned. They still cannot get the point!!!! They are the real one's who's tearing the very grounds of Humanity apart. It's not people like Brandon Teena who had to be slautered and raped and beaten far beyond what I can explain. I can only say one thing though If God's gonna punish anyone, it's not gonna be Brandon Teena. No it's gonna be the dirty bastards who did her in, the one's who are rotting on death row right now!!!! And I know where Brandon Teena's at right now, and it's not in Hell!!! So get the story right you Conservatives Idiots!!!! Because Hate isn't Humanity, it's Humanity in decline...Hopfully someday we'll all be safe from people like the sad majority of Society... Really, this is the best movie I ever seen to try to get the point out. Go see it, if you haven't done so already. Despite how angry you'll get...it's well worth it! "},{"Title":"this was a messed up movie!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drinking, smoking, raping, cussing, and killing that's really all that happens in this movie.  My friend recommended it because she heard it was really good.  We both agree that it's awful.  I think it is true to life because it reflects the way some people treat other's just because they are different.  Poor Brandon/Teena was raped and later murdered because he had some gender problem.  This was a purely sick movie. "},{"Title":"it's effects are still with me... days later","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rarely does a film exceed the hype of home theatre critics. American Beauty is a case and point example. Boys Don't Cry is the saddest movie I have seen in years. I still cannot shake the real life accounts in the life of Brandon Teena. I felt the movie was raw and real. The acting was simply; believable.  I hope this movie and the horribly sad true story of Brandon Teena, opens peoples minds to difference. "},{"Title":"More true to real life than you think!","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was about a girl who had not reached her true potential.  She had lots of obstacles to overcome, but was never given the chance to see how valuable she really was. I hope that she will be remembered as a person with flaws. She struggled with her problems like everyone else, but was cut short before she could fulfil her journey in this world. No one cannot judge her for what she did in this life time because we are no better than she.I honestly think that she was becoming aware of what her potential was before she was killed by her so called friends. She was a beautiful person.We all have something we are all struggling with be it sex, drugs, alcohol or whatever blinds us.She lived her life the way she was taught. That can sometimes take a lifetime to change. It just is not fair.It is ironic to say this is a movie because it is probably more normal than the world will ever know. "},{"Title":"97% Less Agenda then the Leading Media","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This excellent piece of filmmaking is propelled by its player's character flaws. None are portrayed without their good sides, and every single one is likable, most of the time.  And yet each person in the film has some weakness that leads inexorably to a tragic end... every one makes you want to yell you idiot! at least once... and lest ye think that these reviews have given the whole story away- they haven't.The film is a telling of a true tale, without alterations to the major facts, leaving it free from cliché. There's no gay agenda here. Look closely and it's hard to tell if there are any truly gay characters. Brandon, a self-professed messed up girl, begins the film with the delusion that she's a straight male.  Lana thinks she's dating a man, tries ignoring the biological truth, but in the end hesitates when Brandon looks a little bit girlish.  This is no Torch Song Trilogy, there are no parables here. It's a history in the Shakespearian sense.What can we learn from this history?  There are many angles... from a law and order perspective, both Brandon and her friends/tormentors committed property crimes and paid with jail time.  Her murderers, well, they rape and kill, and are sentenced to life in jail.  Brandon at her worst was a con, but was condemned to a life of fear and a brutal death.  It is hard not to feel sympathy for a person suffering cruel and unusual punishments.And history remembers the living best.  A where are they now blurb states the whereabouts of the living protagonists.  Presumably those killed are now six feet under.  It is odd to criticize the choice of who was mentioned after the film.From an acting perspective- it goes back to the weaknesses.  Every cast member sets you up to like their character, then shows their less likeable side.  It works so well.  So what if the corpses barely breathe at the end, the magic is in the acting, not playing 'possum!And to comment on the stop motion/slow motion- watching carefully- the romance scenes are filmed in real time.  There is almost no slow motion, and it only happens during the brutality near the end.  The stop motion worked well as bridges between scenes, but not so well when leading directly from dialogue.Hillary Swank won the Best Actress Oscar for this film, she deserved it on the merits of her acting alone... and it can't always be said that Oscar winners are so deserving!  It's interesting to compare this film with the one that captured the Best Actress Oscar in '96, Fargo.  Both are true stories, both depict senseless brutal murder committed to cover up earlier crimes.  While the filmgoing public can readily condemn the killers in Fargo, who kill to hide fraud, Boys Don't Cry (whose killers kill to hide a rape) causes a controversy.  Is that a tribute to the filmmaker for showing all sides of the story, or an indictment of our sorry world?  "}{"Title":"One of the most emotionally engaging movies I've ever seen.","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Coming into this movie, I wasn't all that interested in the story. However, the characters became so real to me that I really felt pain at the events that transpire in this film.  The performance by Hillary Swank is so inspired. "},{"Title":"Go and check this film out.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film on Tuesday the 8th of March, it is a tragic and powerful story.  Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny both deserve their nominations for Oscars and both deserve to win.  Brandon  made these people believe she was a he and I can understand the two guys (John and Tom) being angry about being lied to but they didn't need do what they did.  That was totally unnecessary.  Brandon really believed she should be a man and didn't see anything wrong going with these girls. The only wrong decision she made was being friends with these people.Go and check this film out. "},{"Title":"Effective","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had no idea this was based on a true story going into it, but I had a good feeling by the end of it. It really was hard-to-watch, a lot more than I had expected. The performance from Hilary Swank is pretty powerful, she manages to instantly make Brandon into a real human being and doesn't at all feel like a gimmick or just for show. Chloe Sevigny is also quite good, what a shame where her career went. The first half of it is relatively easy-going so where it ends up going just hits that much harder. Very good though, definitely strongly recommended for those seeking it out, if not to see it for the issues that it brings up, on a purely artistic level then it is. "},{"Title":"Long and unproductive","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite the director/writer good intentions, the movie as a whole turns out to be too muddled  there is no clear line, you just drift inside this group with absolutely no dramatic tension except at the end when everything accelerates tragically. This type of subject must be tackled with grip which isn't the case here, scenes follow each other in a boring monotony and there is a terrible lack of identification with the characters especially Brandon, perfectly embodied by Hillary Swank. After barely 45 minutes, all hope for this real story is lost and the outcome therefore comes off as a great relief for a long and unproductive movie. "},{"Title":"Hard to Watch Look at Hatred","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry (1999) *** (out of 4) The true story of Brandon Teena (Hilary Swank), a Nebraska girl who makes herself up as a boy. She moves out West and gets involved with a new group of friends who think that she's a guy but when her secret gets out her life becomes at risk. BOYS DON'T CRY isn't the greatest film ever made but it's certainly one of the most haunting and chilling. I think the first 70-minutes of the movie are extremely well-action and well-directed but I also don't think there's anything overly original or creative in them. The film really picks up in the second half when Brandon's secret gets revealed and we're shown all sorts of graphic violence including a rather brutal rape sequence. These scenes here are certainly the most powerful in the film because one really does get to see how stupid some people are and how violence can happen for no reason at all. I personally don't believe Brandon should have kept her real sex from people and especially when you're going to get romantically involved with someone. With that said, there's no question what happened after her secret was revealed is just downright disgusting and director Kimberly Price does a terrific job at showing how cold all of it was. The finally fifty-minutes of this film are incredibly hard to watch and there are times when you'll actually feel sick to your stomach. The film probably wouldn't have been so harsh had one not known that it was based on a true story and knowing this it just makes one even sicker. Swank picked up her first Oscar for her performance here and it is quite amazing. It's really shocking to see how believable she was in the role of Brandon and I thought she really excelled towards the end once her character becomes a victim. The fear that she showed during the attack scenes was quite remarkable. Chloe Sevigny is also very memorable in the role as the girl who falls for Brando. Both Peter Sarsgaard and Brendan Sexton III are very chilling in their roles. BOYS DON'T CRY has a few flaws and especially some of the pacing in the first half but it really ends up packing quite the punch. "},{"Title":"ball of  emotions","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" it is a precise film. and essential in its case is final taste of viewer. not history. not acting. because, more than a movie, it is a challenge. a honest image of life sense search. picture of deep fear in form of hate. and lesson about subtle and cruel nuances of love. HZillary Swank does a memorable role. and her success is result of exploration for each corner of a human been who, after surroundings, believes in a second chance. it is cause for film to be a kind of mirror. because it is not really a gay story but definition of difference, in many aspects, and about courage to remain yourself. it is a seed-movie. subject of reflection. not speech, not moral page, not indictment. only a ball of emotions. and questions around an ordinary fact. "},{"Title":"A Powerful And Brilliant Film","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry is an independent film that is a dramatization of the real-life story of Brandon Teena, a biologically born female who identified as a man and as intersexed, played by Hilary Swank, who pursues a relationship with a young woman, played by Chloë Sevigny. Aside from Swank and Sevigny,the cast also includes Peter Sarsgaard,Brendan Sexton III,Alicia Goranson,Jeanetta Arnette and Matt McGrath.It was and co-written by Andy Bienen and directed by Kimberly Peirce.Teena Brandon is a woman who chose to live her life as a man and suffered tragic consequences as a result. In 1993, 20-year-old Brandon leaves Lincoln, Nebraska for the nearby community of Falls City, where she sports a crew cut, favors jeans and boots, and is regarded as a man by most of the people in town. While Brandon's friend Lonny warns her that sexual outsiders aren't looked upon kindly in Falls City, she develops a reputation for being something of a ladies' man, and is soon living with a single mother named Candace. But when Brandon meets teenage Lana, the two become romantically involved almost immediately. Brandon makes friends with Lana's mother and a burly ex-con named John. John and his buddy Tom run with a rough group of men who like to drink and carouse, and they accept Brandon as one of their own. However, when Brandon ends up in jail on a traffic violation, her secret comes out, and, while Lana stands by Brandon's side, John and Tom feel betrayed -- and their anger soon boils over into violence.Teena is beaten, raped and murdered by his male acquaintances.Hilary Swank's acclaimed performance pays fitting tribute to the tragic life of Brandon Teena.The picture explores the themes of freedom, courage, identity and empowerment.Also,it is rich love story between two ill-fated lovers and it could be classified as a romantic tragedy occurring in a working class American setting.Overall,it a powerful and brilliant film. "},{"Title":"Brutally real","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1993 a story about a transgendered teen named Teena Brandon found its way into the news. The 1999 film Boys Don't Cry is the dramatization of Teena's story. Hilary Swank plays Teena/Brandon, the transgender person who prefers living as a man, despite the fact she was born biologically female. Her story takes place in and around Lincoln, Nebraska, a very rural area where locals don't take too kindly to something so foreign to them like transgender people. Teena/Brandon knows this so she hides the fact she is female while running around causing trouble with a group of alcoholic ruffians. But when she falls in love for Lana, one of the people she stays with outside of Lincoln, things get very complicated and the story darkens quite a bit in this brutally honest and disturbingly real film that is hauntingly sick from start to finish.You have to go into Boys Don't Cry prepared for a lot of drama, a lot of emotion, and a lot of brutality that will both shock and disgust you. This is a vulgar, disturbing, and obscene film that will haunt your dreams and make you look at the world in a whole new way. Of course, the vulgarity and obscenity I'm referring to has nothing to do with the protagonists sexuality. What is so shocking and so disturbing about this film is how our protagonist must live her life and the disgusting bigotry and hatred she must face. It's such a harrowing experience, one that we rarely see translated to film in such a brutally realistic way. Boys Don't Cry captures a dark and troubled part of real life that so many of us are sheltered from. It opens our eyes and our minds to what all is out there and it shows us just how different this world can be and the horrible ways in which people will do all they can to fight off change and difference that we all experience.Boys Don't Cry is not a film you will walk away from thinking, Boy, that was a great film, or, Gee, I really enjoyed that. No. It is a film you will walk away from shocked and appalled. It's not a film you simply look at as just a good film. It's a violent slap in the face from reality. It's a film that, rather than transport you from the real world, throws you into it's dark crevices and makes you experience the kind of horrors that really are out there. It's a sobering experience that will surely make you think, and will challenge you to open your eyes to the different kinds of people that do exist in this world. Boys Don't Cry is a very difficult film but, if you can handle it, you really have to see it. It's a cinematic experience like no other, and it will throw new and somewhat frightening ideas into your mind. This is quite the film. "},{"Title":"a sad and unrelenting true story","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was really good but it was also really messed up being that its a true story.The acting is fantastic and it has some very intense scenes. It is very brutal though in some moments so I do not recommend to all.This movie is about young trans gender female Brandon Teena. He goes and meets a bunch of new people that don't know that he is really a girl. He befriends these people and actullay gets a girlfriend but with the added girlfriend the fact that hes actullay a woman makes keeping it a secret a lot harder.This movie is truly great though I really suggest you watch it as long as you can stand a brutal scene or two. This is a great true story and a must watch! "},{"Title":"Powerful and heartbreaking performances extracted from the actors by a highly committed director who doesn't compromise in conveying the gruesomeness of the subject matter","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Teena Brandon masquerades as a boy by stuffing a sock under her pants and flattening her breasts by binding them; she does this not because she considers herself a lesbian but because she cannot identify herself as a girl. This is the difference that distinguishes her from others, and develops a sexual identity crisis in her. Never does Teena as Brandon try to recognize her femininity; in fact, she tries to conceal it completely. Teena as Brandon is spunky, foul-mouthed, gutsy, amiable and sometimes reckless; Brandon as Teena (as the movie progresses we get to see shades of her) is delicate, vulnerable, pitiable and helpless; Brandon does not want Teena to weaken her, and she is emboldened when she is Brandon. Hilary Swank assumes the role of Brandon Teena in Boys Don't Cry, a poignant drama on the life of Brandon Teena, a young human being who was raped and murdered by her close male friends after being exposed as a woman posing as a man. For Hilary, this role is extensively challenging because she has to make Brandon believable; Brandon does not come from rich surroundings, neither does he possess exquisite talent or intelligence or have a terrific story to tell. He is a young trans-gender who has faced years of abuse at the hands of his uncle (not covered in the movie) and who only wants the world to accept him. Sadly, he cannot undergo a sex-change operation because of financial troubles, and therefore he has to remain careful regarding his identity. In the second scene, Brandon cannot take his eyes off a young girl and manages to kiss her by the end of their first date; the girls themselves fall for Brandon easily. But immediately, a group of flaring men chase and pelt Brandon with stones until he finds shelter in his cousin's trailer. His cousin fears for his own life and cannot put up with Brandon's constant negative attention-grabbing behavior, and therefore evicts him from his trailer. Brandon then befriends two ex-convicts and their friends, which includes his future girlfriend Lana, and becomes bedazzled by his newfound companions. However, these same relations possess a potential threat for him when he and Lana fall in love and skeletons begin to tumble out eventually. Swank is a wonder here &#x96; she conveys Brandon's confusion, happiness, acceptance, hurt, grief and fear with such subtlety we never find a moment of falseness from her performance. I saw this movie about a week ago and so my review may seem slightly unpolished but I can tell you one thing, that when Brandon begins to whimper as he is, being raped, his screams hint a presence of Teena underneath him. Hillary's acting is so powerful is that it became difficult for me to watch the entire scene without pausing once to cry watching her helplessness. Then there is Chloe Sevigny as Lana Tisdel, a hopeless drug addict whose life is as hollow as her karaoke performance in the bar. Lana's life changes after she meets Brandon who turns her from this confused and submissive wreck to an independent woman who stands by Brandon and is able to see her life more clearly. Chloe manages to give much more depth to her character and conveys her hopelessness, loss, love, confusion, and support through her beautiful eyes. Peter Sarsgaard plays John Lotter, a self-destructive man, whose only outlet for hiding his weakness is to do drugs, commit violence and lose impulse. His friend Tom Nissen, played by Brendan, is slightly more stable but in the same quagmire as his friend, cutting himself to calm his impulses. Sarsgaard makes Lotter intimidating and fearful, a highlight being when Lotter isn't able to accept his fault of encouraging Brandon to drag race and evade the police, and he brazenly tells the group, except Lana to get out of the car, leaving them stranded. Here, Nissen's reaction to Brandon's defense against Lotter is noteworthy as he tries to calm Brandon down to no avail.The technical aspects of the movie are also surprisingly unconventional; director Kimberley Pierce takes us extremely close to the characters' mental state, which is mostly spaced-out because of all the drugs. This works for most of the film, especially in case of Lana, and makes the confrontational scenes even more haunting, because that is when things begin losing their haziness. I was not very impressed with the slow-motion sequence towards the end of the movie and would've opted for a quicker, more shocking end for Brandon.Boys Don't Cry is a great film whose director (and writer) Kimberly is genuinely interested in its subject (unlike the recent failing of Ms. Phyllida Lloyd) and knows how to get emotional response from her characters and get the audience closer to the character's own perceptions. It may be putting-off for many because of the subject matter, the rape scene and the pace, but anyone who is ready to give the film a chance will be mesmerized by the performances, the story, the characters and the direction.My Rating 8.6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Powerful And Disturbing If At Times A Bit Unfocused","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" There were more than a few times when I wondered what the message was. The subject matter was interesting enough. Teena Brandon (Brandon) was a transgendered female who identified as a male and lived as a male in Lincoln, Nebraska. After some difficulties with the law, Brandon finds himself hooked up with a questionable group of friends in a small town in the state. The friends include a couple of ex-cons, and several young women, one of whom - Lana - Brandon becomes involved with even though she doesn't know about Brandon's sexuality.This is based on a true story. I didn't really know the details of Brandon's life, and so had no idea what the movie was going to contain or what was going to happen. For a good part of its runtime, I was wondering what made the story so significant. It was interesting to see how Brandon approached the question of sexuality and how Brandon lived. It was obvious that Brandon was someone who came from a troubled background; obvious also that Brandon's sexual identity had resulted in rejection from Brandon's own family. Brandon had a troubled life, and in some ways the connection with Lana made sense. She also had a troubled and unhappy home life, and the two did seem able to support one another through their respective difficulties. Even though Lana didn't know about Brandon's sexuality, her acceptance of Brandon as a male must have been a source of some comfort and relief. Hilary Swank won an Oscar for her portrayal of Brandon, and Chloe Sevigny was nominated for her portrayal of Lana. I thought both were excellent in this. The movie eventually becomes quite dark and disturbing, moving from being an account of Brandon's life to the events that led up to Brandon's death. Unable to hide the secret forever, Brandon's identity is discovered by the thugs John and Tom (Peter Saarsgard and Brendan Sexton III). This becomes quite ugly, and for perhaps the first time in the movie Brandon (who had come across up to this point as a bit manipulative, lying about all manner of things and not just sexuality) becomes a real object of sympathy. John and Tom humiliate Brandon by forcibly removing Brandon's pants and forcing Lana to look to prove to her that Brandon has female parts. Brandon is then driven to an isolated area by John and Tom and brutally assaulted and raped. Eventually, out of fear that Brandon would report them for what they did, Brandon is murdered by John and Tom.Based on what I've read about Brandon/Teena and about the case since seeing this, I'd have to commend those responsible for sticking pretty close to the details of what happened. There doesn't seem to have been a lot of dramatic licence taken. I also appreciated that although in the end one has to be appalled by what happened to Brandon the movie didn't come across as a tribute to Brandon. Brandon was shown with both strengths and weaknesses. Brandon's life was hard - and some of the things that made it hard were the result of Brandon's own choices. Brandon's life wasn't soft-soaped in any way to create a hero. This was a life depicted with warts and all. Having said that, it should be mentioned that the real Lana threatened to take legal action over the use of her real name without permission and because of what she claimed was an inaccurate depiction of her life.For a while if you don't know the background of the true events that inspired it, you do wonder exactly where this is going, what point is trying to be made or what lesson is trying to be taught. Still, it's very interesting from beginning to end, and turns out to be both powerful and disturbing. All in all, it's an excellent piece of work. (9/10) "},{"Title":"From watching this, they just might","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this years ago. How many? I couldn't tell you. Well, less than eleven, obviously, if not necessarily by much. I'd say it's in excess of seven. Anyway, I wasn't very old or mature at the time, and yet it gripped me. From start to finish. It hit me like a sledgehammer, and it has not left my memory since. This needed to be made. It is the true story of Brandon Teena, a transgendered youth. A controversial(and important) subject to be sure, hence its low budget and the need for it to be independently produced. How to make it work? Focus on the aspect everyone can relate to. Romance. Love. This is about being yourself, about acceptance, identity and understanding. We are introduced to angry 20-ish guys and girls who don't have many chances of a good future, and it angers and frustrates them. Every character in this is completely credible, psychologically accurate, well-developed and portrayed to perfection. Swank(who can pass for a boy), then new-comer Sevigny(whom we fall in love with along with our lead... and she can sing, too!), Sarsgaard(that man has serious guts to go along with his acting chops), I could go on. Entirely convincing every step of the way. This has an immense energy to it, emulating the live fast philosophy that the people we follow engage in. It is in part on account of the very loose and dynamic camera-work that also creates atmosphere. This barely slows down. Then there are the dream-like sequences hinting towards a freer existence that the real person wanted to achieve. There is impeccable tension in this, as well. The music is great, all well-chosen songs, many of them country, the rest being rock. There is a lot of disturbing content and strong language, a bit of full female nudity and sexuality, a little bloody and unpleasant violence and disgusting stuff and a brutal rape scene in this, none of it gratuitous. The DVD comes with an informational and interesting commentary track by the director/co-writer, Kimberley Peirce(note that she swears in it), a four-minute featurette(largely promotional, and it contains spoilers), a trailer, a teaser and three TV-spots. I recommend this to everyone who can handle it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Shocking, Brutal, Powerful","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've been sitting here for about twenty minutes deciding how to start this review, and I can't think of one. Maybe it's just best to describe what the film is like. Boys Don't Cry is an absolutely riveting film. It held my absolute attention from frame one, and as the end credits rolled, I sat in my chair completely stunned.A young man saunters into a bar and starts chatting up a girl sitting two seats away from him. He tells her his name is Brandon, and she appears to like him. After a burly man starts getting fresh with her, he steps in, and a brawl ensues. Brandon makes quick friends with the girl, named Candace (Alica Goranson), and her friends. But this charming, sensitive young man is hiding a secret he's biologically female.This film is based on the true story of Brandon Teena, a trans man who was brutally raped and later murdered by John Lotter and Tom Nissen, two men he considered his friends. As told by co-writer/director Kimberly Peirce, it is a fiercely compelling and devastating story.Much of the reason why this film works so well is because the performances are superb. Hilary Swank won an Oscar for her portrayal of Brandon. Although the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has made some serious blunders in who they give their awards, this is not one of them. Swank is nothing short of incredible. I've seen The Year of Living Dangerously, where Linda Hunt portrayed a male character (and won an Oscar for it). Hunt was terrific, but prior knowledge inhibited me from completely buying into the character. Somehow Swank manages to overcome this, and it took about ten minutes for me to stop seeing Swank playing a guy and just see Brandon Teena. But the physical transformation isn't the only reason why she's so good. Swank embodies the character completely to a degree that I've never seen before. Brandon is not a rocket scientist, and unquestionably naiive. He knows what he wants, but he fails to really think about the possible consequences of trying to pass himself off as a man. In fact, his penchant for trouble and his naiveté actually present the possibility of a personality disorder. Nevertheless, Brandon is a tender and romantic soul whose sensitivity makes the girls swoon over him. This is probably one of the most complex characters ever to grace the screen, and Swank creates a person who is startlingly real. This is not just a breakthrough performance; this is a performance of a lifetime.Swank walks away with the film, but the other actors are also great. Chloe Sevigny is great as Lana, the girl who becomes romantically involved with Brandon. The development of this subplot is rather rushed, but the performances by Swank and Sevigny make it work nonetheless. Lana is a wounded soul who desperately wants to escape her life of boredom and reprehensible men, and Brandon is her escape. It's a low-key performance, but it works very well. Peter Saarsgard is an actor who plays facets of himself, but Peter Saarsgard as a psychopath works as John Lotter. He seems like an okay guy, but there is always the potential for violence whenever he's around. Unfortunately, Brandon never realizes this, or perhaps he is so desperate for his transformation to work that he ignores it. Alicia Goranson is very good as Candace, who's even more naiive and simple-minded than Brandon, and Jeanetta Cunningham is excellent as Lana's alcoholic mother.The film is expertly told by Kimberly Peirce. It's not flawless (as I said, the Brandon/Lana romance is a little rushed, there's a dream shot that is ill-placed, and one of Brandon's crimes is confusing), but it is always compelling. She has a keen eye for establishing the setting. This is small town Nebraska, where there is nothing to do but get drunk every night and go to work to pick up a paycheck so you can drink some more. This enhances the story by creating a place where this all can happen. Boredom and a lack of education have given birth to a place where something this horrifying can occur.This is not an easy film to watch. But for those who venture into this film will find a film that is absolutely unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Deeply Tragic Story That I'll Probably Never Want to Sit Through Again","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry is one tough movie to sit through. It's definitely an accomplished bit of film-making, and it features an astonishing performance by Hilary Swank, but I don't know that it's a movie I'd ever want to watch again.It tells the story of Brandon Teena, a young girl who wanted to be a boy. As she explains it in the movie, she suffered from a birth defect whereby she was accidentally born with female body parts. She lives in rural Nebraska, where homosexuality isn't ever tolerated, let alone a lifestyle as complicated as the one she lives. She's of course viewed as either a monster or an object of ridicule, until the intolerance surrounding her reaches a devastating and tragic conclusion.Boys Don't Cry is the kind of movie that will likely only be seen by those who already sympathize with Brandon Teena, and will never be seen by those the movie is trying to instruct.Grade A "},{"Title":"An Unusual Tale of Gender Identity","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Teena Brandon (Hilary Swank) identifies as a boy, so she calls herself Brandon Teena and dresses as a boy. Unfortunately, she also gets in trouble like a boy, so besides the unusual dating situations she/he gets into, the police are on her tail, and others just don't understand.This is a great film, but the most interesting thing about it is how it explores gender roles. The general appearance would suggest that Teena is a lesbian a woman who likes women. But, that's not really accurate. She's really a man in a woman's body, who happens to like women. As strange as that may sound, it happens.Hilary Swank was, of course, excellent as Brandon Teena. But I also think credit should be given to Chloë Sevigny as Lana Tisdel. Sevigny has time and time again put herself in roles that really push the limit and rarely does she get credit for this. "},{"Title":"A film about sexual identity crisis is not for all tastes.","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The most singular truth about Boys Don't Cry is that it is not at all an ordinary run of the mill entertainment film masquerading as an amusingly adventurous biopic about a hapless victim of hate crime. This is hardly no mean achievement for a low budget independent film which went on to become a tremendously huge commercial as well as critical success.Viewers and critics can do justice to this film by ascertaining what it meant to them and how continues to change their perception of alternative sexual preference.It has been repeatedly stated in media that Boys Don't Cry is a film about hate crime but not enough information is given to enable viewers to have an idea of what exactly causes such a gruesome crime to happen.This is something which can be considered as a weak spot in the overall narrative trajectory.It is true that this film is an absorbing biopic about a person who faces issues related to sexual identity crisis but the film loses its charm when it starts to focus more on its sundry characters. It would be blasphemous to compare Boys Don't Cry with In Cold Blood as Richard Brooks' film laid ample stress on criminals' psychological as well as emotional framework.This is not exactly the case with Boys Don't Cry as it appears mostly as a film depicting dreary existence of low lives in small,sleepy,obscure American towns.Boys Don't Cry would always be remembered as a truly phenomenal film which has been able to garner wider acclaim thanks to peerless collaboration between filmmaker Kimberly Peirce and leading lady Hillary Swank. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt Movie","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first watched Boys Don't Cry, I was a sheltered kid who didn't even know that homosexuality existed in society. The movie made me cry at the end. It made me even sadder when I found out later that it was based on a true story. I just hope that the ending was not true in real life as it made me so sad. The movie opened my eyes to new horizons, and made me more accepting of differences in people. It is a movie everyone should watch to understand what people who might be different from us can go through because of our intolerance. The movie is one of my old time favorites.Hilary Swank's acting was also amazing and portrayed the character really well. The movie made me a fan of hers. "},{"Title":"A bit perverse ...","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movies kind of fascinating to watch - but maybe not for the reasons the filmmakers intended. It basically about a lady masquerading as boy so she can pick up girls. She gets beat up a lot but continues the fakery - even when she gets involved with a low-income group of young people. The problem is, she's a bit out-of-control and they not a very tolerant group ... and the movie progresses from there.There's really nothing new here that hasn't been extensively depicted in other similar stories (esp. Afr-Americans/Jews/Hutus/'obese'/handicapped). Intolerance is powerful and depressing ... and I'm left to wonder - what did I get out of this movie? Especially from watching a reckless gay lady mess around in a bad part of town ... Maybe it was to watch the battle of the stupid vs. the stupid.Unless you've got to see Hilary Swank fully nude or are in the mood for watching oppression, there's not a strong reason to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Cruel Mother Nature!","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie highlights, through a serious and tragic true story, the gender ideology of ensuing specific norms set by the society for the two separate genders. When Teena wants to live her life 'his' way, she has to face all the opposition and finally ends dead. In the movie, the social beliefs are so strict that though Teena enjoys all the fame and love she gets from the act, she can't help feeling a little guilty at times. She blames it to be a 'Sexual Identity Crisis' and lies that she has some sexual deformity even though she's physically a perfectly normal girl. Teena was really popular as long as she was able to hide her real self but the moment her 'friends' know that she is pretending to be a boy, they all turn against her. They all question her and John and Tom even brutally rape her. Only Lana loves her just as a person, not caring if she's 'half monkey or half ape' and Teena loves her back. So much so that she tries to continue to fake a male identity and the two plan to elope from Lana's family. It shows that obsession can drive one to do unimaginable things and cross all limits. It is also about the search for one's true identity. All the characters in this film are lost and confused thus leading depressed lives, but Brandon was the only one who realized it of herself and tried to fight for happiness. They are enraged upon the revelation of Brandon's true identity. It left them to confront their own flimsy identities. It is interesting to see that even such 'dark' people are able to out rightly declare Teena as a social reject and shoot her dead. At the end of it all, in spite of her deceptive and criminal deeds, we are forced to empathize with Teena in her struggle with this cruel world disapproving of trans-gendered people. Such examples force us to ponder if it is really apt for 'Mother Nature' to imprison us in these bodies of particular 'sexes' while bestowing upon us this wonderful gift called life! "},{"Title":"A daring film with a couple of fine performances","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry should get points for being daring, if nothing else. It doesn't shy away from its subject matter, it confronts it head on.The story concerns a young transsexual (Hilary Swank) who strikes up a relationship with a young woman (Chloë Sevigny) who isn't aware of his/her condition. Brushes with the law and homophobic would-be friends soon threaten to bring the relationship to a tragic end.The acting in the film is not that great, with two exceptions. Swank's performance was justly rewarded by an Oscar while Sevigny earned an Oscar nomination. This was Swank's breakthrough as she shone in a very challenging role. Her chemistry with Sevigny is evident in the scenes they share, including some of an intimate nature.The direction by Kimberly Pierce is well done throughout and was a surprise since the name was completely unfamiliar to me. The soundtrack, on the other hand, is hit and miss with a few excellent choices alongside some regrettable ones.One possible drawback for this film is that it's based on a true story so if, like me, you're already familiar with the story then you know how it ends. Nevertheless, it should keep you interested, if only to behold the fine performances from Swank and Sevigny. "}{"Title":"a stunning movie","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has me moved more than any other movie before. I saw it quite recently, 2 or 3 weeks ago in my psychology class and first i thought it would be one of the most boring movies ever. But hell was I wrong. I'm not even going to start praising Hillary Swank and the other actor's performance because I would only be repeating what countless people before me have said. But still I feel like I have to say something about this movie's emotional power. When i left the classroom after the end, i was stunned. I couldn't grasp the sheer violence of John Lotter and Tom since i knew that it was based on real facts. The explicit rape scene shocked me since I am a woman and bisexual myself. I sometimes don't feel well in my body but never thought about dressing as a man... but what if? The question came to my mind later on. I also know that this is a movie and as such there will always be slight exaggeration but even so i could only shake my head disbelievingly. What also struck me was Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena's desperation to be considered as a man. She just couldn't live her life as a woman and therefore did everything she could to be and stay male.Finally I have to say that this movie is not made for everybody. I agree that this is/was a story that had to be told for it simply can't go unknown now that i saw and thought about the movie. But as I said not everybody should watch this incredibly shocking,touching and moving masterpiece. There were some in my class that couldn't attend school for a few days because they just couldn't move on after having seen the movie. First i shook my head about that but then i downloaded the song Bluest eyes in Texas and suddenly it all came back to me. And i couldn't help but cry. In hindsight I can say that the movie made me feel helpless in various ways and even though I didn't like the movie from a cinematographic point of view I still gave it 8 out of 10. It tells an uncomfortable truth and i think we can't close our eyes in front of this tragedy... this would be way too easy! "},{"Title":"thought provoking and beautifully made","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on a true story, Boys Don't Cry is a beautifully made, superbly acted, sensitive and poignant film about a girl (Teena Brandon) who has a gender identity crisis and feels she is a boy (Brandon). Set in small town America her need to express herself as a man means she can never be known as once being a woman. Brandon falls in love, and makes friends with the local boys. However it isn't long before his true identity is uncovered.Hilary swank's performance in this film is exceptional, So believable is her portrayal of Brandon, that it is actually hard to initially imagine that she is in fact a woman. The conclusion to this film is harrowing and very moving. As hard as it may be to watch, it is intended to be that disturbing in order to make the audience think.The wonderful aspect of this film is that the moral lesson that is given to the audience isn't inflicted upon them in a preachy or patronising way. It simply makes you think and question watch you see. I highly recommend this film to anyone who wants to see brilliant acting, fantastic cinematography and a excellent storyline. "},{"Title":"This film cannot be missed for sure.","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boy's Don't Cry, i can definitely say i am never going to forget the experience this film has brought to me. Amazing! 'Hilary S.' has played the character exceptionally well. It wouldn't be wrong if i call her Hero of the movie. The movie is based on a true life incident, but what makes it special is that the actors have brought up such real life drama that you just can't stop yourself from sitting up and taking notice. Hilary has succeeded in showing the kind of mental trauma Teena Brandon must have gone through in her life, not being able to identify with the body in which she was biologically born. So she comes up with an idea to disguise herself as a male and she is able to do it. In the course of her adventure with some road romeos she encounters a girl named Lana Tisdel played by Chloe Sevigny. The attraction between the two fires as Lana mistakes Teena to be a male. A silent love affair begins. Teena's world is ruined as her true identity is disclosed to all, including Lana. The story takes an interesting turn when Lana accepts the truth but continues to love Teena. However, the circle around Teena is not able to get over it and in a fit of anger they bring a lot of trouble to her, ultimately ruining her completely. Performance of Chloe Sevigny as Hilray's love interest in the movie is worthy of praise. Kimberley Pierce as a debut director has done a great job.An all in all must see movie.I rate Boys Don't Cry 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I just need to learn to stay home, huh?  - Brandon Teena","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Boys Don't Cry' was the most disturbing picture of 1999 but it was also one of the best. It was true to it's subject, very powerful and sported two great performances along with a spectacular one. Hilary Swank well-deserved her Best Actress Oscar for beautifully portraying the real-life person Brandon Teena, a gender-confused lesbian who wandered around down South disguised as a boy to score hot girls. The tragic true story ended with Brandon Teena being brutally raped and murdered by two mouth-breathing violent hicks (played in the film by Welcome to the Dollhouse's Brendan Sexton III and the ever-so-brilliant Peter Sarsgaard) who were her buddies when they thought she was a boy. Chloe Sevigny (in a performance I actually really like her in) plays Lana, Peter Sarsgaard's sister who befriends and eventually falls in love with Brandon. Kimberly Pierce does a decent job directing her debut but she does a fantastic job with the film's screenplay. Peter Sarsgaard is perfectly diabolical in a performance that should have earned him an Oscar nomination for 'Best Supporting Actor', while Chloe Sevigny is great in her performance that actually won her a nomination for 'Best Supporting Actress'. However, the movie belongs to Hilary Swank who in it manages to distinguish herself as an actress in the ranks of Meryl Streep and Glenn Close. Swank is breathtaking simply put and engages you in her role for every second she is on screen. 'Boys Don't Cry' is indescribably disturbing, especially during it's needed but gut-wrenching rape scene, but if you can handle it I think you will find it to be a very good film. Yes, there is flaws like running a little long and dragging a bit towards the middle, but for what it is worth 'Boys Don't Cry' is a great film and an excellent debut. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A love story of confusion and acceptance","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hilary Swank won in 2000 the Best Actress Oscar for 1999's Boys Don't Cry. While I think she did an excellent job, I felt the Oscar still should have gone to Annette Benning for American Beauty. But Hilary is awesome as well, this is a close tie for the Oscar.Boys Don't Cry is an excellent movie. I was really moved and touched by the story. It made me cry, I'm a girl it's OK D, because just being accepted for being different is so hard. I felt so awful for Hilary's character. Bradon and Lela had a beautiful love that was awkward obviously, but it was true.This being a true story scares me a bit. Because we still haven't changed to this day in not accepting other's being a homosexual or wanting a sex change. Maybe this movie can help us realize some mistakes. I think this is a great movie to watch, but it is very graphic and disturbing. It's not for all, but I would recommend it. Hilary, you are a terrific actress, keep it up! 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most important movies of the decade...","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very important movie and I recommend it to anyone (over 18 only because of the violence and sexuality). The true story of Teena Brandon, Boys Don't Cry will make you sick, sad, and intrigued at the same time. Having grown up in a small rural town full of tunnel-visioned people, I can relate with the movie from the stand point of being different and sticking out like a sore thumb. Even tho it's an independent film, the story has been Hollywood-ized, but the real story it is based upon has been told without apology or disclaimer. Because it is an independent film, it doesn't have the big-budget look, and it really doesn't need it. The heart of the story gets told honestly, and with a story like this, it wouldn't have been right any other way. Hillary Swank deserved her Oscar for this, and you will believe her portrayal of a woman trying her darnedest to be a guy. Many times, I forgot that she was a woman, but not in a campy, impersonator-type way. She looks like a young, baby-faced boy/man, and has the mannerisms, look, and lingo down. This is a tragic tale and Teena Brandon was definitely a messed-up individual, however, her gender-identity really takes a back seat to her up-bringing, her choice of friends, her habitual lying, and troubles with the law. Because of the combination, she is ignored by her family and the legal-system; the two entities anyone should be been able to count on. In the end, these are the things that kill her - the two morons who pull the trigger are just the vehicle. Still, you will end up hating the killers and see their backwards, red-necked male-macho baloney for what it is way before the movie heats up. This is more than just a trans-gender movie, it is a complex tale that includes a cast of characters you have probably known once or twice in your life. And that, hopefully, will make you think about and compel you to see this movie more than once. It's message deserves that you do. "},{"Title":"An average drama, that many pump up because of its controversy","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This hard-to-watch drama about a crossdresser is interesting, but just didn't intrigue me like I expected. The IMDb rating is high on this film, and usually I end up liking films with 7.0 ratings and higher a lot, however this one just wasn't great. I liked the acting, Swank was totally believable in the role, Peter Sarsgaard was also great as John, a tough guy brandon(Swank) steals a girl (Sevigny) from. Sevigny's performance was good, although a notch below the rest of the cast. The film was directed a bit poorly in my eyes, it just wasn't too interesting to me. It was a bit boring, cinematography was boring, the music didn't help it and the cast saved it for me. The performances were the only thing I liked about this hard-to-watch (and care about drama). 7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hilliary Swank was spectacular. I believed every word she spoke and movement she made. Sad story with one bright part At least one of the offenders gets the chair ... someday. If you like true crime drama this one's for you. Teena (Hilliary's character) shows courage by entering a macho world with no real knowledge of how to walk in that world without being adequately prepared to defend herself. Without upper body strength or a pistol it's not as easy as she thought. She walked up close to the edge several times in the movie and finally got to too close and fell in the abyss.The movie leaves out one murder victim but that is a small omission because the third party to perish was not really part of the story. "},{"Title":"Even if one knows how this story will turn out, it would be hard not to be moved by the film's climax...","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry Teena Brandon (Hilary Swank) is a boy trapped in a girl's body. He is a transsexual (or suffering from a sexual identity crisis), and desperately awaits the operation that will change his life for the better. He continually finds himself flirting with girls in bars under his preferred name of Brandon Teena, but always has to remind himself that he cannot go further with them. One of these girls, however, unaware that Brandon is technically female, introduces him to her circle of friends (including Peter Sarsgaard), and Brandon begins to feel a sense of normalcy creep into his troubled life. But he is always fearful of his new companions discovering his secret, especially when he begins to develop a more than physical attraction towards Lana (Chloe Sevigny).With the fact that 'Boys Don't Cry' is based on a true story comes a dilemma. What if you already knew what was going to happen? But even if one knows how this story will turn out, it would be hard not to be moved by the film's climax. In fact, knowledge of Brandon/Teena's fate may actually amplify the ending's emotional impact, as it makes the optimistic moments of 'Cry' all that more tragic. Hilary Swank gives a harrowing performance that plays up her androgynous appearance. She really does convince as a boy.~ 8/10 ~ "},{"Title":"one of the best movies i have ever seen, a moving and life-changing experience....for me at least","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" i read the book, by Aphrodite Jones, and it was one of the best books i have ever read. so immediately i was thrilled to hear they had made a movie out of it. starring Hilary swank, one of the best actresses i have seen, by her performance in million dollar baby, and Chloe Sevegny, from Melinda & Melinda. i watched it, and i have to say....wow.boys don't cry is the true story of Teena Brandon, a 23 year old girl who dreams of being a boy. Teena dresses as a boy, cuts her hair and stuffs socks in her underpants, and can pass as a boy. she fools a group of friends living in new falls, Nebraska, and she dates, and has sex with Lana Tisdel. Lana is the obsession of John. John, her ex boyfriend and his friend tom are friends of Teena. Teena goes to jail for forgery, and while she is in jail, the sh*t hits the fan. they find tampons and a dildo in her bag, and when she comes home with Lana, she realizes what they have done. Lana takes her into her bedroom saying she'll check whats in Teena's pants, but she comes out saying Teena's a boy, not checking. john takes her into the bathroom later with tom and pulls down her pants to expose her for what she really is a girl. he tells Lana to look, she struggles, but when she sees, she doesn't care that Teena's a girl. she loves her. john and tom let Teena go, but when she leaves, they are outside, and they take her to an alley. and rape her.The rape scene made me cry. it's hard to make me cry in a movie, but i cried. during the rape scene, it was a cross-over, she was telling it to a police officer. it was just....o my god. she was saying it through tears, and it was the best acting i've ever scene. the raping was so intense, they both did it, against the car and in the car, and it just made me appreciate everything i had in that one moment. and after the raping, they are being nice to her again. it was odd, they asked her not to tell anyone, so she immediately tells Lana. after a few days, john comes hunting for Teena.Teena is staying at Candice's house and they go there. after promising Lana they could go to Teena's house in Lincoln and start a new life. but their dream was cut short when john and tom drove to Candice's house and found Teena. she was shot in the neck, and Candice was shot in the head. they spared Lana.one of the best movies i have ever seen, Boys Don't Cry is an extremely moving piece of cinema that should be more acknowledged. Hilary swank completely deserved the Oscar she won; her in that movie was one of the best i've ever seen. ever.Boys Don't Cry -- 9.7/10 -- simple perfection. "}{"Title":"I didn't feel as much sympathy as I should have...","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... because we're never afforded the opportunity to get inside Brandon-Teena's head. There's no measured build-up to show the beginnings of a life in torment, we're just thrown in at the deep end of the problems and asked to care. We see the physical scars, sure, but by and large the mental adjustment seems already to have taken place. Brandon is comfortable enough in a man's skin to be able to assimilate without question and form near-enough instant bonds. It's only when she is rumbled that the uncomfortable circumstances start to dominate. How can I sympathise fully, when the psychology of this person is just as 'distant' as that of some random man or woman on the street? "},{"Title":"makes you think..","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first 40 minutes of this film are as dull as anything you can imagine. The fact that everything is shot through a blue filter, all scenes are shot at night and all male characters look identical make it confusing and a terrific test of the patience. you long for David lynch or Wim Wenders or any director who could have caught the American Gothic tone and setting without making it look like a depech mode video. Hiliary Swank is marvelous, if not particularly masculine, and Chole Sevigny makes you wish she was in more films- but you literally can't see them.The movie comes alive when Brandon is outed as a woman. The last half hour is a s brutal and unforgiving a piece of film making as you will ever see, slamming home the point that gender crisis/confusion not only exists as a reality but can end lives. The rape is not graphic but is more upsetting than any other I can think of simply because it is completely unsettled and reflects a real event. watch this and you will learn a lot about a section of society normally dismissed as freaks and about the deeply confused and ignorant reactions they can create. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie of obstacles someone different goes through trying to fit in.","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was an excellent view of how we (mainstream) don't understand others that are different and how they have such a hard time trying to fit in and find themselves. What I liked most about this movie was that it was a true story. The story and movie really grab the viewer and make you feel for this guy.  This story can be set in anywhere, USA. Being raised in a small town, I can relate to how people can have such closed minds and blackball those that are different. One of my friends was flaming gay but sadly didn't talk about that part of him (I'm female) and this was back in the 80's when people pretty much stayed in the closet. So this movie gave me insight into their feelings and struggles trying to make things appear normal and settle down to a normal life.  Excellent movie! "},{"Title":"I can't decide...","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slight Spoilers Ahead.  But 99.99% of you already know the outcome of the movie anyway.I can't decide.  A breakthrough drama, or subtle propoganda film?  Not terribly bad actually, even though overrated, and the agenda-like theme irritates me (a poor little misunderstood les-tran, *liar, deciever, thief- whoops ignore that* is the victim of wicked evil heterosexual males).Darn, Hillary Swank is almost a guy!  If I didn't know better I might have been fooled too.  They did a good job on that one.  Anyway, the victim did not deserve to be brutalized and killed, but she was far from the good guy.Unwarranted cruelty to another human being is never, ever acceptable, no matter what demographics that person belongs to, or what (comparatively) petty mischief they've done.  So that is the movie's overall message if I look at it optimistically.  We all must agree on that.Now finally ask yourself, if Teena Brandon was a hetero, non-gender-confused woman who had been brutalized and murdered, does the likelihood of a movie being made about her diminish? Unfortunately, I think so.In other words, it is a valid movie, but the focus is too much on the victim's lifestyle, and not enough on the reality, that rape and murder are WRONG and inexcusable, no matter the circumstances.Watch, learn, and decide.  "},{"Title":"Hilary Swank is terrific.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hilary Swank gives a richly deserving Oscar winning performance as Teena Brandon, a girl from Lincoln, Nebraska, who wants to live her life out as a guy.  The physical appearance of the actress is remarkable - with her short hair and flat, twangy voice, she really could pass herself off as a young man, so she makes a difficult part work for her.Brandon is going through a sexual identity crisis, as she puts it late in the film.  She just wants to hang out with the guys and have fun.  Unless you see the film, you might picture in your mind a butch lesbian type, but Brandon is a unique person and not a caricature.  She lives partly in a fantasy world all her own, not really sure how to define herself to others, but she reaches out to one particular girl and connects.  Her love scenes with Lana, played by Chloe Sevigny, are as torrid as any on film.Other than Hilary Swank's performance, the rest of the movie is just so-so. Brandon falls in with a bad crowd in a rural Nebraska trailer park - ex-cons and their alcoholic, druggie circle of friends - and the inevitable bad ending happens.  The other characters are good and the film has a realistic edge to it, but you're really just focused on Swank most of the time. Which is a pretty good thing. "},{"Title":"Somewhere in the middle of America","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lincoln, Nebraska, is a long way from Memphis, a long way from anywhere, in fact; and as for Falls City, well, they hang faggots there.  There's not much for young men to do but drive around in stolen cars, get drunk and stoned, and raise merry hell; not such a bad life, in fact, compared to that of their womenfolk, who work in dead-end jobs and try to look out for their kids.  This outstanding film tells the horrific true story of Teena Brandon, a girl who found her identity through transgressing into the role of a boy.  But its real strength comes from the way it uses the particulars of its story both to capture some fundamental truths about the human condition, and also to perfectly evoke a sense of place.  The white trash communities are depicted, even at their worst, with a complex humanity that defies this simple label; their world both cruel and warm, ghastly yet attractive.  Accepted in it as a male, Teena experiences both a thrill and a sense of belonging.  The conveyance of these subtle, confused emotions is aided by the technical excellence of this movie the performances are universally strong (especially Peter Sarsgaard as the Teena's disturbed nemesis), the scene composition unshowy but haunting, the country rock soundtrack exactly on the ball but never allowed to intrude. Crucially, the film never strays into purience or preaching.  We're left with a simple tale of a mixed-up kid out of his/her depth; but every detail is made to count.Smalltown America is a favourite subject for filmmakers, but this is one the best portraits yet, and certainly the most disturbing.  Think American Graffiti without the sentiment, or Fargo without the irony.  Compelling, bleak, and human, this is better than either.   "},{"Title":"Boys Don't Cry 9/1","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you thought that Se7en was a brutal movie that still explored human drama intensely, then obviously you haven't seen Boy's Don't Cry, 1999's most brutal, emotional, and harrowing movie.Hilary Swank puts in an Oscar-winning performance as Teena Brandon, who is a transvestite and enjoys spending her time more as Brandon Teena. For most of the movie, also, she actually looked like a boy. She goes to a rural Nebraska town to stay for a while, since she's in trouble with the law. There she meets Lana (Chloë Sevigny), whose philosophy on life includes, `You don't have to be sober to weigh spinach,' and falls in love. She, still as Brandon, falls into the `gang' that includes Lana, John (Peter Sarsgaard), and Tom (Brendan Sexton III). Then, when people start finding out that Brandon Teena may not be Brandon Teena, things get bad.Strong language, brutal rape, and nudity is included in Boys Don't Cry. It certainly is an exciting piece of art if you're ready to be shocked. I felt a connection to Brandon. I didn't feel like I was Brandon, but I could understand what she was going through. She didn't really want to get involved with all of the drunkenness and dangerous activities everyone else was doing, but she had to do it anyway. She had the courage to be what she wanted to be, an important message that may be used in too many movies now, but especially holds strong in this one.Hilary Swank puts in an exceptional performance, showing true emotion, and she makes this little indie pic known and brought it to Oscar status. Sevigny also was nominated for best Supporting Actress, but didn't win, for some unknown reason. She was truly great, also. I don't want to list everyone in the movie and how good they were, so I'll just say that everyone was great.If I had to complain about this movie, I have three. First, I thought, a lot of times, there wasn't much character development and that the characters were muddled, since I didn't know who some of them were at times, such as Kate. Secondly, for the first half of the film or so, the movie didn't explore Brandon's cross-dressing, which is the main point of the film. Third, the make-up on Brandon's face was obvious at time, but if you get engrossed in the movie like I was, you won't notice anything wrong.Boys Don't Cry is an emotional tour de force that you won't forget for a long time.My rating 9/10Rated R for violence including an intense brutal rape scene, sexuality, language and drug use. "},{"Title":"one of the best films i have ever seen in my life.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  boys don't cry is one of the best films i have ever seen in my life. this wonderful film about sexual identity crisis has been depicted truely.one of the leading characters of the film is brandon teena played by hilary swank is obviously wonderful.but sometimes it seems to me that another leading character of this film is lana played by choley sevigney is really outreagous and outstanding. "},{"Title":"Incredible - Hilary Swank deserves that Oscar","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The whole movie is amazing I think that Hilary and Chloe both did a great job.  The whole story is so sad so if you've not seen it, be prepared because some parts are very hard to watch. It is definitely a one-of-a-kind movie must see! "},{"Title":"Freaky","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *****SPOILERS****SPOILERS****CONT AINS SPOILERS**********I am stunned by some of the commentary I've seen on this film. This has to be one of the most violent movies I've ever seen. The rape scene was not impressive as I've seen some people comment, it was apalling. The lead character is a convicted felon (grand theft auto) who is also a congenital liar.  She lies to her friends, steals and consistently lies to her girlfriend and not just about her gender -- she lies about pretty much everything.  Yet, people see this as a love story?!?Most of the other characters are pretty much scum of the earth too.  The two murderers, Lana's mom, is just an alcoholic loser who lets he daughter hang around convicted felons (the two muderers, not just Brandon).  Lana doesn't seem to give a crap when her mom is brutally murdered -- and what happened to the kid? He just witnessed two murders and Lana's gonna let him cry all by himself all night?If you want to see human trash, sexual identity crises, and stupidity glorified, just watch The Jerry Springer Show.  "}{"Title":"amazing movie","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" ****************SPOILERS*****************SPOILERS***********************CONT AINS SPOILERS*******************************************************First of all, I have to say something to those who don't know the facts. I was reading through some of these comments and someone said that the characters weren't believable because they did stupid things, like when Brandon didn't leave town when he found out that John had a gun. If you paid attention you would see that he left before Lana had a chance to tell him. Also someone said that after Lana discovered John had a gun she wanted to hang out with him. She was only doing that to try and keep John and Tom away from Candice's where Brandon was staying. Anyway, this movie completely amazed me. The acting was excellent. For me the best part of the film was Chloe Sevigny mainly because she made me believe that she was Lana and that she really loved Brandon. Hilary Swank did a great job but when I think back on this movie I think of Chloe Sevigny's devastating performance. When this movie first came out I thought why the hell would want to see a movie about lesbians? I was completely wrong. This movie is about a man born in a woman's body and a woman whose love transcends gender. It was about two soulmates who found each other and were then ripped apart by the cruelty of closed minded people. If you haven't seen it because you think it's a gay flick you are missing the best film of that year. "},{"Title":"One of 1999's Best Movies","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When you've had your fill of hobbits, witches, and mummies, and need a good dose of intense, realistic drama, reach for `Boys Don't Cry'. Based on true events that occurred in 1993, `Boys Don't Cry', chronicles the travails of Teena Brandon, a young working class woman, who feels she should be a man. So, she moves to a new town and takes on a new masculine identity. There she runs with a tough crowd, who don't know that the new guy, now Brandon Teena, is female. You can bet there's going to be trouble, especially when Brandon starts dating the toughest guy's gal.Gritty and realistic, `Boys Don't Cry' is not an easy movie to watch. But once done, you know you've seen an excellent piece of moviemaking. Definitely one of the best of 1999, and Hillary Swank certainly deserved her Oscar.  Highly recommended, but be careful who watches. "},{"Title":"Finally! A Film that Dares to be REAL!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *******************CONTAINS SPOILERS******************************Films which do not hide the horrors of real life crimes are few, and it is refreshing to see that the director of Boys Don't Cry has not shyed away from exposing what really happened to Brandon Teena. People may say the film is too graphic, however I believe Peirce should be commended for the realistic portrayal of Brandons life and, ultimately, his death. Hilary Swank stars as the young Brandon Teena, a woman (physiologically) who desperatly wishes to be a male and who lives everyday life as one. Her Oscar for her portrayal is well deserved and she is supported by fine performances by Chloe Sevigny, Peter Sarsgaard and Jeanneta Arnette. Sevigny, in particular, is remarkable as Lana, the girl who falls in love with Brandon, not knowing that Brandon is physically a female. When watching this film, and particulary during the violent or graphic scenes, remind yourself that this is a film based on a true story, and I guarantee you won't be able to stop your tears. "},{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I promised to myself that i wouldn't trash this movie becoz it is actually REALLY good! But GOD!!! Its so graphic! I know what the director was trying to do and i understand that, but what makes this whole thing even worse is that it is a real story which is incredibly sad ( I liked the acting, altho at times during the movie i felt my eyes glaze over becoz i seemed to lose interest. This only happened during the first few scenes tho, once they were finished and we were getting towards the meat of the movie i stayed wide awake, tho at times i wish that i didn't (This entire movie was one of the more shocking movies that i've ever seen in my life and to be honest, it left me feeling rather queasy afterwards, i couldn't understand what type of people it takes to do the things that they did to Brandon ( However, watch this movie and harden your hearts, it is something worth watching if only to remind people that things are not what they seem.... "},{"Title":"A great","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is a film about a struggle - Kimberley Pierce ruts across this story brilliently along with an amazing cast. Hillary Swank plays a great role and communicates the feelings of her character to the audience brilliently.The struggle of each of these characters - and I'm sure in real life are an inspiration to others.  "},{"Title":"A tragic masterpiece","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** A boy is born in girl's attire.That is what Teena Brandon (Swank)believes for herself.She's not homosexual;she's a man that looks like a woman. The Allmighty God made a mistake when creating her. That's why she decides to correct this mistake. She cuts her hair, hides her breasts, dresses like a male and changes her ID. Brandon Teena is born.He feels OK with himself, he's calm, makes friends and falls in love. He believes he can touch happiness and, for some moments, he does. However, the dream becomes a nightmare after a while. Brandon/Teena faces hostility, hatred, sexual abuse (a brutal and horrifying rape scene-the rapists treat him/her like an animal.)and finally death. The film is a heartbreaking poem about beeing different, the courage it takes to admitt it and the right we all have to being happy. A right our hypocritical society doesn't recognise to some people. People like the sexually confused Brandon/Teena, like the sensitive alcoholic Lana (a superb Chloe Sevigny) A perfect ten-Watch it Brandon/Teena, rest in peace  "},{"Title":"1. Be happy","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is shocking and beautiful at the same time. When you look at the boy/girl blaming himself/herself for everything that has happened it makes you want to scream no, it's not like this, it's not your fault. It's them who are sick! The claustrophobic atmosphere of small, prudential American cities is fearful, the indifference and short-sightedness of those people, ready to destroy anything that doesn't follow the same, wretched way of living. Being different never is easy, but if additionally are oppressed and misunderstood... She/he was so brave. The most dreadful thing is the fact that all of it was true. Although I am an atheist, I believe that for such heroism in searching for your identity and happiness she deserved to go to some other, happy place where you can be yourself, nothing more, nothing less. "},{"Title":"A good film, but not fully realized.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard a lot about this movie, and my girlfriend was a very big fan of the film, so I was looking forward to it. I thought it was good, but I felt like there were some things missing.First of all, the positives. Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny both give very good performances. I'm not really sure that either performance is Oscarworthy, as many people have said, but they both fall into their characters and make you believe in what they're doing. The other performances were also very good. The other positive was how the director caught the feel of the helplessness of Falls City (the town where this takes place). The dark, moody lighting and the decay that seemed to surround their lives was the perfect backdrop for the film.However, the film does have problems. Brandon Teena's story is not fully explained. Unless you are aware of her story, you don't know how she wound up becoming sexually confused, and a little more explanation of this would have been helpful. The other problem I had was with the pacing. As a lot of people on the comments board have noted, this movie is very slow. Some movies are slow in that they build up to something, but the pacing in this movie is very bad. The writer probably intended to give you an idea of what a nothing existence there is in Falls City, but instead it makes you wonder when the payoff is coming.But it is a good movie. It makes you think about homosexuality in Middle America, which is definitely something worth thinking about and not ignoring. I do get the feeling that this movie was made for people who are A)very knowledgeable about the Brandon Teena story and B) very sympathetic to her and to homosexual issues in general. However, the film isn't exclusionary or limited in that way. It did need to be a little more fleshed out, though, to truly make it a four-star movie, which this film wasn't. 7/10. "},{"Title":"An absolutely brilliant piece of cinematographic history.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the first scene, this tale of a girl with a sexual identity crisis invites the viewer to witness the struggles or Teena Brandon, a female who desperately wants to be Brandon Teena. With absolutely brilliant performances from all involved, this movie made me cry (now THATS something special) and laugh and, most important, feel something. Deserving all its critical acclaim and much much more, Boys Don't Cry is a landmark film of the 20th Century, an instant classic to be enjoyed by all strong enough to take a real movie. "},{"Title":"a must see for everyone","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is the most realistic film i have see in a long time. the acting was by far the greatest acting i have seen. not one person in the film lacked in acting ability and if they did you wouldn't realize it. Hilary Swank made you feel for her character and grow to love her. the characters were well developed. at the end of this movie, you couldn't help but keep thinking about. this film will leave you talking for weeks and wanting to make a difference.by far i would give this film 10 out of 10. it's a flawless film.  "}{"Title":"Unsettling","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read numerous rave reviews, and several friends commenting on how wonderful this film was, I decided to finally see it for myself. I wish I hadn't. The film plods along (the 2 hour running time is *painfully slow* and could have easily been cut back without damaging the film) and only for the charasmatic leads Chole Sevigny and Hillary Swank,(who does give an astonishingly true and heartbreaking performance as Brandon Teena) I would not have watched the entire thing. 'Boys Don't Cry' bravely attempts to deal with very weighty and serious subject matter, but in the end the whole thing just doesn't seem to sit right.   6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Swank's performance in central role overrated.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a strong and powerful film, with one glaring drawback. Ms Swank was rewarded for her stirring performance with an Academy Award. However, after several viewings of this film, I feel that her performance has been overrated. Although her appearance was appropriately boyish, her delivery of the lines was usually a dead giveaway as to her gender. She wouldn't have fooled me for a minute. In effect she looked and sounded like a girl trying to pass as a boy. Kudos, however, to Chloe Sevigny and Peter Sarsgaard for their performances in supporting roles. "},{"Title":"A film hard like the life is.","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is really a great film ,it shows a theme nearly impossible to see in Hollywood's films ;lesbian love.And not only that ,it shows too how a heterosexual girl can fall in love with other girl,when she never has been attracted by her own sex.This are 2 of the lot of themes taboo in Hollywood films;I am still surprised that a big company like 20th Century Fox has been under a film like this.It's a film that shows the live how it is hard.It's still amazing that Hillary Swank won the Oscar,why?,because it must be the first time in history that an actress win one with a so politically non-correct character.So, if you want to see a film about the real life , that shows the things without censorship ,see this film. The film has very beautiful moments,like the love scenes between Hillary Swank and Chloe Sevigny .It shows that the love can appear with the style of person you never though could happen (in this case , between 2 girls).If you enjoy seeing films about real life ,don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Cliched rendition of brutal history","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wish Errol Morris had done a documentary on this tragic case, rather than have it portrayed in the cliched and predictable manner of Boys Don't Cry. I kept wanting more details of the incident and its setup but instead was supplied with the antics of largely unnamed, unexplained, and hard-drinking white trash.  Hilary Swank's admittedly fine performance was lost in the noise of depicting rituals like bumper surfing, as well as going to the bar, drinking, and picking a fight, driving around, drinking, and picking a fight with rich kids, and the perennial, just sitting around the house, drinking, and fighting with each other.Who were these other people?  Did they have jobs (other than the mythical factory)?  Where were the families--were they gone?  Where the heck did they live; did they have their own domiciles, or did they hang around like gypsies?  I really want to see a thoughtful documentary on this incident.  "},{"Title":"A tedious film about an interesting life.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Teena Brandon (1972-1993) was born a girl but felt like a boy. As if that was not enough trouble, he lived in the Deep South of  the United States. Boys don't cry is a homage to his unfortunate life which, according to the film, was endured (exemplary) with passion and joy. Regrettably, the film never reaches these high standards. As a matter of fact, it is not far from being a mere TV production whose only value lies in documenting Brandon's life. Arguably, this might be the only reason why it has made it to the big screen.   "},{"Title":"Touching real-life drama does not necessarily make a good movie!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  On contrary! Movies based on real events often rely too heavily on real-life events and forget the cinematographic part. Boys don't cry has little to show besides the story, that is not oh-so great if you're not provoked by it's provoking topic. I think people overrate this movie in fear of being considered ignorant of it's committed topic. All in all it's not (that) bad movie - acting is ok, but the movie as whole is choking. And it's overrated. I saw another far less pretentious sexual identity topic based movie the same week I saw this one and I liked the other one better. Hint Fucking Amal! "},{"Title":"an extremely important film","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is extremely important, as it brings to the forefront the issue of gender confusion and transsexuality. The film paints a picture of a lovely, sweet sensitive young person that the viewer cannot help but care about. When bad things happen to this character you feel it in your heart, as well you should. There are very few things that help people understand these gender issues (Ma Vie En Rose is a great example) and anything that portrays the problems so well should be viewed by everyone, so there can be more understanding.Hilary Swank was AMAZING and so was Chloe. Kimberly Peirce is a terrific director with a (true) story to tell, and she crafts it wonderfully. It seems that some people don;t understand that the story is true...I believe that anyone who thinks this is just a gay story doesn't realize that Brandon (Teena) was not a lesbian. She was a boy, in her mind and in her soul. Sometimes Mother Nature makes mistakes. And sometimes people can't see past their own ignorance to let people live the way they need to. Transgendered people need more open dialogue and more role models, in the same way that more gay issues have become common topics. Let's hope more films like this come along, but that the horror and evil is no longer based on real life. "},{"Title":"there is a great story here, this just isn't it.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really wanted to like Boys Don't Cry, really! It had elements of a great story a persons search for self, a coming of age story, a love story, a tale of a modern sociological phenomenon f(sex change). It had roots in reality, the reality of the Nebraska farmland and I suppose that that is ultimately where the film went wrong, it got stuck in the Nebraska mud.There are so many things about the movie that actually went right, lighting, pacing, acting, the story moved although ultimately it is in the story that the film starts to fall for me. In the story and in the rather dismal lives that they lead. I honestly didn't like anyone that I saw in the movie. What is worse I didn't see anyone for whom I had revulsion/ attraction. That can happen, Drugstore Cowboy is a story about drug addicted pharmacy robbing losers who are going nowhere fast, but they are compelling losers. The guys in this movie are so pathetic, they just get drunk and wake up the next morning to start the whole process over again. I wouldn't want to drink in their bars and I didn't really want to share their lives, but there was this compelling story about a transsexual, Brandon Teena, that I thought would make this movie rewarding. To watch him become a man. Wrong it was just another loser out drinking. A sensitive loser, yes, but a loser none the less. I just could not find anything to keep me watching after an hour. I just didn't care, and that is sad for I really do understand the underlying issues. I want people to understand those issues. There really is a great movie in that story. This just isn't it. We don't really get with the part of Brandon Teena that was bigger than his life and as a result the movie becomes an interesting time piece without a lasting hook. "},{"Title":"cruel world","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only read one thing about this movie before seeing it never will you be shocked more by the sentence based on actual facts, and i think that's true.It is impossible to believe what people are able to do to each other only on a base of homophobia.I think it is a good thing they made a film out of this, so people can realize in what world they live. "},{"Title":"slow, depressing and utterly disturbing","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys don't cry is perhaps one of the longest movies to watch.  Both the content of the movie and the plot leave you begging for the end.  The movie is extremely slow and this is mainly because the plot is so lacking. We get to know Brandon, but the first hour of the movie is merely a party. Party after party, leads the audience to get bored with the film, because it doesn't seem to be going anywhere.  In fact, it takes at least twenty five minutes of the film for Brandon to even meet Lana.  Aside from the grudging pace of the film, the content is utterly disturbing and depressing.  We watch some of the most low class people.  The only people that seem to shine are Brandon and Lana, and this is expressed well in the scenes where they dream about going to Memphis.  Towards the end of the film, the plot picks up and so does the speed.  We hope that Brandon and Lana can make it and that they dont hurt Brandon.  The ending adds a major shock to this hope.  I suppose that the director was aiming at creating a parrallel between Brandon as a guy in the beginning and as an uncovered woman in the end. At first we see that these people really like him as a good friend.   The acting in this film is really great, and Swank is brilliant.Nevertheless, the grudging pace and excessive depressing scenes boggled down the great performances.  (6 of 10) "}{"Title":"Difficult to watch but worth being uncomfortable...","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The day of the 2000 Oscars, me and my mother decided to go see a movie. Boys Dont Cry was a special showing in my area, so we jumped at the chance to see it. After leaving the theater, we rode home in complete silence, both of us contemplating what we just witnessed. Now, I'm no film pro, but I know a good movie when I see one. Boys Dont Cry captured the pure innocence of Brandon Teena and the cold hard evil inside her predators. It opened the viewer up to a world that's not imaginable with out real life accounts. The most compelling scenes in this film, would have to be the rape and murder scenes, however brutal they may be. The rape scenes, are not for the faint of heart at all, but are very graphic and difficult to watch, w/o turning away. The murder scene, though quick said so much. It stated how appalling society can be. This movie will leave you with a feeling. A feeling as if you've watched an actual person not on a movie screen be brutally raped and murdered. And in actuality, you have. "},{"Title":"Riveting","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An extraordinary look into a facet of life which is totally foreign to most of us. This film accomplished what I consider to be what is most difficult, and for me it the highest compliment for any film  We watch the action through an open window. We are given the opportunity to have an unfiltered view - in essence a real look -- at the strange and unfamiliar world of transgenderism, as well as the bigotry of the surrounding world. This is a film that changed me. I have a greater understanding -- on a very human level -- of a subject of which I was hardly aware. Acting was absolutely first rate. An honest, bold, carefully crafted and beautifully executed film. A 10 - Bravo!  "},{"Title":"Disturbing, important, well done","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is a disturbing, painful film, but appropriately so.  It explores issues of gender identity, relationships, and the limits of tolerance in small-town America.  It doesn't paint a pretty picture, which is even more painful considering that the story told is based on real events.  Brandon Teena is, as has been oft-repeated by now, an extremely compelling character.  He/she believes he/she is a man trapped in a woman's body.  He is attracted to women, but does not identify as a lesbian, and is determined to live as a man which is the only time that he feels right. During the course of the film, he pursues relationships with several women, and in these relationships, he is gentle and compassionate, and reveals his very big heart.  Of course, as Brandon is staying in a small town and not maintaining a particularly low profile, the secret is eventually discovered, and his friends turn out to be capable of a great deal of violence, and Brandon is raped (an act done to her as a woman to try to enforce her gender.)  The rape and her reaction to it are probably the most compelling, interesting, and important parts of the film.Also important is the fact that while Brandon is ultimately doomed, some of the friends that he had made were able to transcend their discomfort over his gender identity crisis, and show him love and compassion even after the secret was out.Finally, Hilary Swank fully deserved the Academy Award that she won for portraying Brandon.  She is fully believable in a role that must have been incredibly difficult and painful to play. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Performances - But I Didn't Like Anybody","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It held my interest all the way through.  Everyone in it was superb, the situation was very real feeling.  It probably is more close to the real situation than most of the films based on true stories.  But as far as the entertainment value goes.  I came away uneasy.  I did not feel sorry for the gal with the sexual identity crisis because of the way she handled/mishandled it.  The way she lied and deceived without regard for the emotional damage to be done to those she claimed to care about.  It made me angry and like I said uneasy by the time the film ended.  I gave it a 7 because it was so well done - not a 10 because I didn't like the way I felt when I came away from it. "},{"Title":"Haunting look at the struggle to be yourself","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film left me with a profound sense of sadness, but it's not a Kleenex film. Boys Don't Cry is about the horrors that people do to each other, as well as the struggle to figure out who we are in a world full of people who all have their own opinions about us. I love two things about it the title, which is perfect, and Hilary Swank's Oscar-winning performance as Teena/Brandon. She is a drifter who, believing that she was supposed to be male, dreams of having sex-change surgery. As she waits, she dresses as a boy, dates women, gets into repeated trouble with the law, and moves in for a time with a small-town family that's almost as aimless as she is. She falls in love with a girl named Lana, which leads to trouble later on once people figure out who she really is. Swank's performance is deep and complex; she clearly shows the conflict between Teena/Brandon's desire to be a man and her reality of being a woman. Although I loved Annette Bening in American Beauty, I definitely think Swank deserved her Oscar. I think this film disturbed me even more because I knew it was largely based on a true story. It's an odd combination of sickening tragedy, beautiful emotion, and haunting ideas and images. The credits song, The Bluest Eyes in Texas, still gives me chills when I think about it. "},{"Title":"Gender Confusion Powers a Complex Love Story","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry seems like a hundred other exploitive teen films as the film credits roll over scenes from Nebraska small town nightlife.  Its a world of young working people, not long out of high school. Thrilled with being freed from parental constraints they seek thrills at after-bar-parties.  There is drinking, hanging out in taverns, the occasional beef leading to a fight, karaoke singing, dangerous jousts and high speed chases in cars.The familiar scenario becomes less so with the appearance of a boyish-looking girl- Teena Brandon- who looks like an extremely un-macho high school male.Hilary Swank, the actress who portrays Teena, is in almost every scene of this perfectly plotted if suspiciously predictable story.Brandon lives in Lincoln, Nebraska, but she is having a lot of difficulty there.  Her attempts at bedding a member of her same sex are getting her into serious trouble. A male friend who lives in a trailer warns that her behavior will lead to violence against her after Teena is chased to his place by gay-bashers.Teena hits on a solution.  She decides to try her luck with other girls in another city Falls City, Nebraska. Right away, the young set she encounters there take a shine to her.  Teena  fools this new crowd into believing she is a guy.  At least she fools them for awhile. Our 21 year old leading character has reversed her name to become Brandon Teena.She takes up with a group of twenty somethings and two older males who gather around the broken household of a divorced woman and her daughter Lana.  Teena is smitten with Lana.  And gradually, Lana gets interested in Teena.This is a love story, a long love story.  The gender problem is childs play for Teena to handle at first.  But gradually, the family begins to have doubts about Brandon Teena. The story is delicately told. It is a surprise to see the storys sexual details revealed so explicitly. Though the explicitness lengthens the movie, I think director Kimberley Peirce and her co-screenwriter Andy Bienen were right to risk it.The third act is extremely long.  The nature of Teena's romance with Lana is dawning.  There will be consequences.   The mostly true story has a powerful ending. The scenario is a little too perfect, however.  It is obvious the real story has been cooked slightly to strike the right moral Homophobes are bad.  I suspect Brandon's real experience in 1993 Falls City was quite a bit more complex and less likely to lead the audience to these right conclusions.The central characters are extremely well rendered. The story is superb even if it is a touch too long. Hilary Swank's young man trapped in a girl's body is extraordinary. Her performance reminds me very much of the young and innocent Judy Garland of the late 30s and early 40s.  The actress doesn't look that male. Her innocence is thus key to putting over this extremely complex character.  Miss Swank does it smashingly.  I will be very disappointed if she does not become as big a star as Garland became. "},{"Title":"The Best film of 1999","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was utterly disappointed to see AMERICAN BEAUTY steal the Oscar from BOYS DON'T CRY during this year's academy awards.  Not only is BOYS DON'T CRY a better study in human emotion, it far exceeds AMERICAN BEAUTY in terms of form and style.  The commercial appeal of AMERICAN BEAUTY made it an easily digestible pseudo-art film that really didn't bring anything new to the table.  BOYS DON'T CRY, however, examines the the good in those we want to believe are evil, and the evil in those we want to believe are good. Perhaps the film was just a bit too rough for the academy voters, but hey, at least Swank won best actress. "},{"Title":"the best movie of 1999","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  harrowing,depressing,real life docu/drama about brandon teena, is not for everyone, but should be seen none the less.swank gives a excellent performance as brandon with such conviction i hope she isnt typecast. i went into this movie not expecting much, but it grabs you one of the best movies of the 90's 10 stars!!! "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Those looking for a story about the deep meaning of transsexuality won't find it here.  This is simply a wonderful interesting emotional story that makes you sympathize with the main character and keeps you entertained (though not in a light way!) for two hours.  An 8. "},{"Title":"Bleak","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a sad, bleak movie.  Brandon's charade was going to be found out and you knew the characters in the movie were not going to be sympathetic. The group Brandon got associated with were a bunch of low class, lagered louts.  Brandon was no saint either.  The violence and senseless death were foreseen throughout the movie.  You knew it would turn out bad.  Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny were fantastic.   Alicia Goranson gets a honorable mention.  Peter Sarsgaard was good as the psychopath. It's worth seeing for its examination of sexual identity.   "}{"Title":"Very, very good","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw it two hours ago and am still shaking. There were some slack spots and perhaps it would have been better if it were 10-15 minutes shorter overall, but it takes a hell of a good movie to make that sort of impact on the viewer. The last half hour was almost physically painful to watch. Some truly fantastic performances and some real characters to be seen in an Oscar movie, such a rare occurrence.There are probably people out there who thought they were going to watch something that has nothing to do with them whatsoever, some sideshow freaks, and instead saw human beings. I just wish more people would bother to go and see something other than entertainment every once in a while. "},{"Title":"A tragic story told with real passion","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a superb film telling a story of intolerance and violence that should shock viewers given it is based on actual events which occurred only a few years ago. The story of Teena, the life she chooses to live and the love she finds, is told with compassion and understanding and is helped by a performance from Hilary Swank of great honesty and subtlety.All the performances by the young cast are excellent and the escalation to violence all the more convincing coming as it does from characters whose weakness and instability have been carefully developed. The violence however is shocking and the overwhelming feeling is of anger that events can have conspired to a such a tragic conclusion.A very impressive and powerful piece of filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Don't cry for me Nebraska!  The truth is I never left you...","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most powerful film I've seen in some time.  Every thing comes together perfectly.  To be honest Brandon isn't the greatest person in the world (he's a petty thief and pretty dumb most of the time) but we still like him.  Hilary Swank totally deserved her Oscar- she gives us the terrified excitement Brandon feels while fooling everyone and then the pain and horror when everyone finds out his secret.  (In case you didn't know Brandon is a woman passing herself off as a man in Nebraska.)  Equally vital and touching is Chloe Sevigny as Lana, the bored woman who falls in love with Brandon.  Sevigny is as important to the story as Swank is so its rather ridiculous that Sevigny didn't also receive an Oscar...  The ending is devastating and sad.  A remarkable movie. "},{"Title":"A complex work of manipulation, betrayal, acceptance and redemption","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I came to this movie relatively late, having waited for the release of the DVD.  I had heard all the (deserved) praise for Hilary Swank's and Chloe Sevigny's performances.  What I was not prepared for was the calibre of performance turned in by the other members of the cast.This was a difficult script to bring to life.  Although its centerpiece is a love story, these two lovers are surrounded by a world of paradox attraction/repulsion to Brandon Teena by everone else he comes to meet which is their direct response to Brandon's manipulation of them.Alicia Gorenson quickly made me forget Becky, 'the First.'  I was thrilled to see that she has grown into a delicately subtle character actor.  Her re-embrace of Brandon following her betrayal of him was a heartbreaking depiction of redemption.   I was prepared for Brandon's fate, but not for hers.Being from the South, I confess I know people like the characters represented in this film; and I can say there was deep compassion in the dimensional performances turned in by Brendan Sexton III, Matt McGrath and Jeanetta Arnette (who was really playing my cousin Callie - perfectly).Then there was Peter Sarsgaard.  Here was the presentation of the strongest and most dangerous paradox in the film.  The first time he appeared there was good-ole-boy admiration in his eyes for the little dude taking on the oversized bully.  Then a few moments later, a look of enchantment at his sight of Brandon's tiny hands.  Sarsgaard orbited Swank like an unstable moon around a planet, pushed and pulled by forces over which it can have no control.  There was more than a hint in this preformance that John Lotter might have loved (insofar as he could) Teena Brandon - had he met her.  The revelation of Brandon's physical gender becomes Brandon's betrayal of him. His despair at this knowledge is devastating.  He can only react like an uncomprehending beast to a hunter's wound.There is a quality I have come to regard as the highest an actor can possess.  It is, plain and simply, courage.  Paradoxically, it can only exist in an atmosphere of total protection.  Kimberly Peirce certainly provided that world for her actors.  She has given us a film with meat on its bones and a great loving heart, and one that perhaps could change us for the better if we let it.I apologize if I seem to have neglected Chloe Sevigny and Hilary Swank in my comments here.  It is just that anything I could say would be redundant.  I can only hale the two of them at the start of their illustrious careers (after God-only-knows how many overnights they've had to endure). "},{"Title":"This was a very strong movie.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  **May have a few spoilers**It really makes you think. I was crying at the end of the movie. It was so unfair. Nobody deserves that kind of treatment, no matter who they are. It wasn't her fault, she couldn't help who she was, she had no control over it.A lot of people don't realize how easy they have it. They don't know what it's like to have gone through what Teena went through. I can't really say much because I don't know what she went through either.I highly recommend this movie. It is a an eye-opener as to what the world is really like. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Potential spoilers ahead, I suppose, though not really.With this powerful, multi-faceted and extremely complex story, Kimberly Peirce could have gone wrong in a million different ways.  Incredibly, she managed to avoid letting any one of the various complexities overwhelm any of the others.  Whether it was Brandon's sexual identity crisis, or his shady past, or his love with Lana, or society, or a tragedy itself, Peirce managed to keep any one part of the movie from overshadowing any of the others, and most importantly, the person at the core of the movie.The acting was incredible, across the board.  While Hilary Swank never overdid anything, she managed to exude all things Brandon.  Chloe Sevigny managed to become a terrific lens through which the audience perceived Brandon.  As she believed Brandon, so did we.  As she loved Brandon, faults and all, so did  we.  Without her performance, the movie would not have worked.  Her real approach to acting is refreshing.  She doesn't act - she is whatever she is portraying.I disagree with the criticism that the movie stereotyped poor people in mid-America.  I think Peirce went out of her way to portray the people in the film, even people who are difficult to like, as complex human beings, living in Nebraska.   "},{"Title":"The most fascinating and thought provoking film in years!","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In our era of special effects and multi-million dollar movies, it is nice to find a film that reaches its viewers through story line alone.  That is the true mark of a wonderful film these days.  Boys Don't Cry is the truest, most sincere film that i have seen in recent history.  Like American Beauty, it is an interesting look at the society and culture in which we live.  There is no need for happy endings... that is how you find the truth in it.  Life is full of uphill battles and very few of them are won.  If a movie reaches you... whether it makes you laugh or cry... it has served its purpose well.  Boys Don't Cry, in my opinion is a landmark in film, that many should follow after.  In summary Boys Don't Cry is the best film of the year... and I'm sure it will be one of the best in the years to come!  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved it.  There's no other way to describe it.  It takes you from apathy to sympathy, horror to rage, and most importantly, from never looking at the way you live your life, to a state of daily reflection on what you have and how lucky you are to know yourself and be accepted.  Everyone should see this film! "},{"Title":"This Boy Cried","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've followed this movie when I first heard of its making. I've viewed many other documentaries about Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena. This movie is very well done with an excellent cast. I liked this movie because it showed (almost) the true story of Brandon/Teena. Although this movie is not supported by the family of Brandon/Teena, It's a insightful look into a person with a Sexual Identity Crisis. I didn't think Hilary Swank would be able to handle this role, I think i owe her an apology. This film may not have done well at the box office, but this is truly a story to remember. "},{"Title":"Tragic","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a gut-wrenching and tragic film, but a definite must see because towns like this do exist and events like this do happen in our society.  I left the film feeling empty thinking the tragedy could have been avoided so many times and in so many different ways.  Hillary Swank gives great believable performance.  Only negative I thought was that there was more sex in the film then needed to get the point across.   "}{"Title":"Disturbing Film","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I sat in a nearly empty theater watching a truly disturbing film, I wanted to grab people and make them sit down and watch with an open mind. No one can possibly understand what a transgendered person feels and experiences in trying to understand themselves.  As a general rule, the rest of us do not even begin to understand, let alone accept the transgendered.Hillary Swank is an amazing actress.  The role was a true challenge and she certainly deserved the best actress award.The film depicted the true ignorance of the majority of people.  I felt that the entire cast did a great job and I was completely absorbed from beginning to end.I have been reflecting on scenes from the film all week.  I will never be able to think of a transgendered person in the same way.  They are living in a true dilemma between what is acceptable and what is true. "},{"Title":"TRUE STORY ??","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wonder how accurate this 'Based On A True Story' film actually was? One of the best love story's in the modern cinema. A beautiful, tender film that swings to moments of sheer horror and violence. Swank might have won the Oscar, but for me it's Sevigny who takes the acting honours. "},{"Title":"Very powerful film","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is very powerful. Hillary Swank deserved all of the awards she received. Playing Teena Brandon, a woman who passed herself off as a man, Swank brings the confusion of the character to life.The supporting performances are also admirable. All the supporting players look so real. They look like anyone you would pass on the street.The conclusion will shake anyone. It is sobering. "},{"Title":"Excellent!  Wonderful!  Amazing!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is an excellent telling of the true life story of Brandon Teena.  Kimberly Peirce did a terrific job in bringing the character of Brandon to life through both her script and her directing. Hilary Swank is amazing as the transgendered Brandon.  She really convinced me that she was a boy in the movie.  I don't think any other actress could have brought the character to life any better. Exceptional performances from the rest of the cast, as well, especially Chloe Sevigny as Lana Tisdel. A powerful, moving film that should be seen by everyone.  If you don't leave this movie feeling somehow changed, then you didn't really watch it. "},{"Title":"Good movie, worth seeing; excellent casting and acting.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hillary & Chloe received well-deserved recognition for their roles but _all_ the actors were really exceptional.  The characterizations were true to life and captured fairly well a certain small subculture of rural slums that tolerates episodic trouble with the law, impulsive disorders, polysubstance abuse, and a few antisocial personalities among a semi-permanent group of people who see themselves as (and function like) family.The movie is short on answers as to why anything happens.  It's as if Brandon was 'just born that way.'  Perhaps so, but among transvestites & gender change candidates I've had in therapy, they've often endured -- while a child -- either a painful episode or atmosphere from which they emerge with a hope that becomes a belief that a change in gender will finally make the unhappiness and misery inside go away -- somewhat as a butterfly finally emerges from a cocoon.  I've heard that Teena's mother has recently criticized the movie for not showing that Teena was sexually abused as a child.  It certainly wouldn't be surprising to me if Teena did have that in her history.I heard some people blaming Lana's Mom for not exercising more judgment and structure for her extended family.  But, in my experience, people like Lana's mom themselves usually grew up in a family that is dysfunctionally similar (often worse in some respects) to the one in which she raised Lana. So the person in her position easily feels and says, hey, what's wrong? -- this is as good as it gets.   Certainly not a fun movie any more than Schindler's List is; some scenes were too painful for me to watch.   But it does tell its story very well and is very well done.      "},{"Title":"SUBTLE SOBERING YET SO INTOXICATING...","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The performance by both Chloë and Hilary is intense - their love was so true its abnormally sobering. Romeo and Juliet lived in Nebraska. Its a complex story told in the most absorbing and captivating sense.  Both the esthetics and performance are subtle in the most realist sense.  Its soft, gentle love making, kinda dreamy - its also tragic and overwhelming at times, but its what happened, a Kimberlarian filtering of sorts none the less. These two women are powerful, each balanced perfectly...Chloë is real, she drew me in like a moth, chasing the brightest light - sort'a how Brandon must of felt when he first layed eyes on Lana.  We get dropped in the middle of these people's lives, so look around and chill.  This perhaps is the greatest love story ever told on screen - its palpable stuff! "},{"Title":"Star making performances","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hilary Swank owns this movie and she was never less than mesmerizing. Ditto Chloe Sevigny, who had a difficult part to play as well and succeeded beautifully.  I had some reservations about certain sequences and character motivations, but overall it was one for the memory bank and I hope Hilary wins Best Actress, but I doubt she will. The movie is too indie and dark for mainstream Academy voters.  If she does win, I will consider the fact that Oscar has finally grown up. "},{"Title":"It will sneak up on you.....","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had no idea what this movie was about when I first walked in the theater. As the movie began to lag on, I found myself wanting to pass my popcorn to the person next to me, get up, and leave. However, something about the movie held me in my seat long enough to realize that this was simply more than a story about lesbians. It was the first time in a long time that a movie made me hate it at the start and love it at the end. If you walk into the movie with something else besides a popcorn and a soda, make sure it's an open mind. "},{"Title":"A sad and disturbing tragedy","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After watching this movie I left the cinema with a lump in my throat and a bad taste in my mouth. Boys Don't Cry is a very powerful movie that wisely chooses to record the events leading up to the inevitable conclusion, rather than preach to the viewer. A relatively simple story which could have been done very badly in the wrong hands, the film succeeds due to its strong characterisations, particularly those of Brandon, Lana and John.I have little to add to the other comments of praise, except to say I'm surprised by those who refer to Brandon as 'she'. At no time did Brandon seem anything other than male, even when it was clear that in one sense this was not completely true. That a mere movie is able to successfully evoke such a basic perception is a testament to its genuine power and the brilliant performances of Chloe Sevigny and Hilary Swank.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing!!!","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard about the movie I didn't know what it was about. I thought that maybe they made a movie about the group The Cure, but nothing could be further from the truth.I saw a couple of clips and was very impressed with Hilary Swank's performance. So when I saw that it played at The International Film Festival Rotterdam I decided to check it out. I still don't know what to think of the movie. I can't think about the movie. It's so disturbing. I thought the film would be about discrimination and homophobia, but this is just a film about insane people. Swank is THE reason to see this movie. She really does a great job and I don't know somebody else who deserves the Oscar more than her.The one thing I didn't like was that they put the very good Cure-song in the movie. It just didn't sound right. I've always associated the song with a boy who has trouble with love. In this movie the emphasis is more on the title of the song BOYS don't Cry. Teena has no trouble with love. I rather have seen that this song wasn't in the movie but this is but a small detail.The movie really moves you and isn't that what movies are all about?  "}{"Title":"This film is a must for every single human being.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thank God Boys Don't Cry is getting so much attention.  It recaptures the tragic true life story of Brandon Teena in a shockingly realistic way. And Hilary Swank's performance is simply amazing.The film could be looked at as just another addition to the growing field of queer cinema--but it really shouldn't be.  Yes, it does center around a young girl living her life as a boy, but the film has moral implications about society--about people in general.  Brandon is not portrayed as someone you really feel sorry for at the beginning of the film.  You might even disagree with his/her outlook on life and see the way he chooses to live it as a great deception.  But by the end of the film, you are totally drawn in and see Brandon as a real human being.  He's not perfect.  He has problems. But then again, don't we all?  That's the great thing about this film it's so realistic that about halfway through it, you forget that you're suppose to be enjoying a movie.  You realize that this story really happened.  A young girl living as a boy was really  raped and ultimately killed. You're left wondering how in the hell such an atrocity could occur.  You're left feeling ashamed that people exist in the world that could inflict such horrors upon another human being.  If you're searching for hardcore entertainment, this film might not be exactly right for you.  But if you want to see something that will literally change the way you look at life in general, then you must see Boys Don't Cry. "},{"Title":"An amazing, powerful, stunning movie!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie and American Beauty are the two best movies of 1999. This movie is brutally realistic and graphic, yet it is moving and touching. Without question, the best thing about this movie is the phenomenal performance of Hilary Swank, as the transgendered Brandon Teena/Teena Brandon.  She is absolutely  phenomenal in this movie.  There is no other way to describe her performance in this movie.  That performance is, in my opinion, one of the ten best female performances of all time.  Certainly, all of the performances were great--EVERYONE in the film did an outstanding job....but Hilary Swank IS the movie....and her performance in this movie IS the best female performance of 1999.  The androgynous Hilary Swank puts forth one of the most believable portrayals of a female impersonating a male. Any wonder why she has already won several Best Actress awards???  I commend both Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny for their courage, boldness, and discipline in playing the two female lovers.  I especially commend the director of this movie, Kimberly Peirce, for doing a really fine job.  The subject matter of this movie might be considered controversial and some people may be offended by it.  But Kimberly Peirce handled it beautifully.  She made a marvelous movie, considering that it is a little independent movie.  This movie might be the last movie that I will see this year (since the year is ending), and I'm really glad that I went to see this movie. I was really looking forward to seeing it, and I was beyond impressed by this movie. I highly recommend this movie.  **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"A good story in itself, but...","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you walk in to this movie an hour late, you won't miss anything.  The acting was superb but unfortunately the writing and directing weren't.  The story doesn't start until the two leads sleep together, which happens to be an unbelievably poor example of how to film a love scene (breasts or face, but not both at the same time, honey), however once we get past that, what's now at stake for the character in the story world finally makes the film interesting.  But even after that, there are further opportunities to draw us in even further, but the writer/director never capitalizes.  I believe this film should be taught in film school as a classic example of what not to do when writing a movie from a true story, especially one as compelling as this.  Credit, however, should be given to Ms. Peirce for finally finding the courage, in the final climactic scene, to film this story the way it needed to be filmed.  The ending made up for the horrid first hour. "},{"Title":"A must see for truly amazing performances and a powerful story.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hillary Swank deserves to be nominated for an Oscar, and from what I have seen so far this year, deserves to win it!  What an amazing performance! Swank is awesome in this one!  Sarsgaard & Sexton put in some really fine performances and Jeanetta Arnette as Lana's mom does a really fine, fine job!  I came from a small town in Texas and I can tell you, these people were my neighbors!  The performances are so true to life and so magnificently formed!  GO SEE IT!! "},{"Title":"Intolerance","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry, based upon a true incident in Nebraska in 1993, reminds us of intolerance as much as the racially motivated killing of James Byrd Jr. in Jasper, Texas.  This film adequately addresses the prejudices of a small town (&#145;they hang fags in Falls City') but doesn't have the savvy to lead us toward a better understanding of the dually sexual Brandon / Teena or Teena / Brandon.  Instead we see a long-winded love story between the two main characters, Brandon and Lana (played courageous by Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny) that borders on perversion as well as a pathologic attraction between Brandon and an extended &#145;white trash' family that can accept promiscuity, drugs, but not transsexuality.   John is a borderline psychotic (if you argue with him when driving, he throws you out of the car) who has taken the role of the dad; buddy Tom, who did time in prison with John, thinks he is the only one who can control him;  and  &#145;Mom' may or may not have been John's older lover but now has been reduced to a walking drunk. Daughter Lana used to write juvenile letters to John while he was in prison but now has fallen for Brandon thinking he is a man and her acceptance of Brandon appears to be unconditional until the last when there is a strange and abrupt rejection.  Beyond the intrigue of wondering if Brandon will get caught, beyond the gasps of seeing the &#145;Butch' Brandon playing his character to a tee, and even beyond the seemingly natural act of love making between a woman and a man (who is really a woman), we are left with wondering who Brandon really was (he appears to have a mother nearby and is contemplating a sex operation even as he gingerly sidesteps all his arrest warrants). Boys Don't Cry accurately depicts mainstream America's abhorrence to sexual deviance but fails to win us sympathy for a tragic figure whose depiction is less toward understanding and more toward irresponsibility and sexual gratification.  "},{"Title":"hypnotically unpleasant...","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was such a rush to see the combination of two promising arrivals in film. The director Kimberly Pierce, I believe, (sp?) has quite an interesting and not altogether predictable take on this very unpleasant true tale. Its a tiny bit repetitive but some of it's completely hypnotic. The film is also helped considerably by the subtle Hilary Swank as Brandon. Her performance here is certainly a fine one and it makes you think... How many other really good actors are wasted on crappy TV shows like 90210 or bad films like Karate Kid sequels? Its possible that there's other undiscovered contenders wasting away with bad scripts and dull roles. How many actors never get a chance to cut their teeth on a truly interesting character? Fine work all around. Moving, unexpected, (it could have been a very pedantic or sensationalist TV movie of the week) and very good. "},{"Title":"The Brandon Teena story -- girl passes as a boy, until....","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is way fantastic.  Small-town Lincoln, Nebraska girl with some sexual reassignment issues outwits the locals by passing as a boy -- or more specifically, one of those high-cheekboned heartthrobs that shows up in the pages of Tiger Beat. Like The Crying Game, the whole thing hinges on finding a believable lead, and ex-90210 grad Hillary Swank redeems herself remarkably.  Chloe Sevigny is good as the girlfriend who wants to believe, as is newcomer Peter Sarsgaard as a sympathetic ex-con and would-be cuckold. And although the story has been a high-profile one on tabloid TV and in documentary form last year, it's to the credit of independent director Kimberley Peirce that Fox Searchlight abandoned their own Drew Barrymore-driven version in development and bought this one instead.  But still, it's Swank who carries the film.  Plus, she's really hot.  My quote for the ad  Hillary Swank is the new pinup girl for a demographic that doesn't know it exists yet. "},{"Title":"Of the low life in flyover country","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having somehow missed all the media coverage of the Brandon<->Teena murder case when it occurred, I watched this film unaware that it was based on a true story. After slogging the entire way through the ugly, depressing, predictable ending; and wondering what, beyond its undoubted brilliance in acting and cinematography, was the point, I discovered this fact only by reading on the screen, just before the credits rolled, that the perps were serving life sentences. Oh. That changes everything. Or does it? My hypothesis was confirmed, incidentally, that (with just a few exceptions such as the refreshingly un-PC _About_a_Boy_) the unlikeliest recent book or movie to feature a real boy character is one with the word boy in the title. Have you noticed?Being transgendered must be a very difficult card to be dealt in life, much more painful than being merely gay. Brandon easily won my sympathy on those grounds, but it was strained by the company he chose to keep. The moral of this story is very clear Any young person with his condition and lack of career ties, with or without his stated ambition to live in Memphis or some-such metropolis, should head there immediately-- by sticking out a thumb on the highway if necessary-- rather than hanging around small towns in the American heartland. There is a reason why gay people are such a presence in New York and San Francisco, and why they gravitate to urbane cultural occupations while we will inevitably encounter individuals who don't like us very much, at least they are civilized enough not to stoop to actual mayhem and murder. And there's a reason why civilized derives from the Latin for city. We have appreciated this for decades if not centuries. Many of us have also read _Lord_of_the_Flies. In this sense, the adjective disturbing for this film and its denouement is not only a cliché but a curiously naive one. Would someone who finds the word insightful please elaborate as to which of their assumptions it has disturbed?There is some cold comfort, I suppose, in pondering that social developments may soon, for awhile, make Teena's affliction obsolete. Other than semen, whose necessity biological research has not yet managed to eliminate, there is less and less said for maleness. One reads, for example, of a revival of beekeeping as a hobby. Is it surprising that many of the revivalists are women who readily explain how they admire the social structure of the hive? From the queen on down, most of the work is done by females. The drones are luxuries, grown in great numbers during prosperous times, but idle, powerless (literally with no sting), and summarily banished and left to starve or freeze as soon as the weather changes. In the post-industrial West, too, women's liberation means the ability to go anywhere and do anything, reducing masculinity to ornamental pastimes (often via tough and noisy motor vehicles) which our feckless Johns, Toms, and Brandons pursue with ever-more-desperate swagger. They may live in a midwestern backwater (which Mark Twain, I think, said would be the best place to be when the world is ending, because everything happens ten years later), but even they are by now children of their time. In one regard, however, Brandon's instincts were old-fashioned when appealing to the opposite sex, he was all courtesy and chivalry-- and, despite having from all appearances yet to reach puberty, this approach was successful. Maybe there's hope yet. "},{"Title":"How depressing","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" My gosh! What a depressing movie! As much as I would admire the real life person on whom this story was based, I walk away from this film with such a sickening feeling in my belly. Like a cement gut punch! Do people really treat other people in the awful manner that is depicted towards Brandon Teena in this film? Hilary Swank truly gives an Oscar worthy performance and you can only imagine the anguish she must have endured in assuming this role of a girl posing as a boy and being found out by the meanest, ugliest group of white trash any screenwriter could dream up. It was nice to see Lecy Goranson on the screen again, a far cry from her days on Roseanne. This is not a feel good movie by any means. Don't watch this on a date, that's for sure. Well shot, well acted, good solid story. Just so darned depressing! "},{"Title":"A decent movie of the week story","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is the story of Teena Brandon who suffers from a sexual identity crisis and prefers to live her life as Brandon Teena (a guy.)  As Brandon he spends his days living in the mid-west in a very trashy type atmosphere.  He (She) has a weak spot for beautiful girls, and a good time. All that comes crashing down when two of her guy friends discover their friend Brandon who their friend Lana has fallen in love with, turns out to be a fraud and worse than that...a girl.  The two men brutally rape Teena who reports them to the police making them angry enough to kill her.  Lana is the girl who Brandon (Teena) falls in love with and she excepts Brandon for who she is.  In that aspect,it's quite a touching love story until everything falls apart.  It's a very real, raw, no holds barred story that gives us everything face first...without blinders.  Hillary Swank is good..and I guess if you count that she is fortunate enough to be able to actually look like a guy as good acting then she deserved her Oscar. Overall...the story was good, not great, the script was good, and the setting was good...it was basically a good watch and a decent movie you might see as the Movie Of The Week.  It was just good...no better, no worse.  Check it out! 6.5/10 "}{"Title":"The terror of small towns, and small minds","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hesitate to recommend Boys Don't Cry, not because it isn't a great movie, but because the subject matter is so harsh.The story is presented with shattering intensity, not because the character portrait is embellished or highly dramatized, like Lawrence of Arabia, but because it is so lean, visceral, and stark.  One feels the fear that fuels the angry distrust of anything that goes beyond the narrowly proscribed social norms of rural, small-town America.  One experiences the otherwise verdant and beautiful landscape of rural Nebraska as depressing and god-forsaken.  From the eyes of the main protagonist, Brandon Teena, the social atmosphere in which she lives and breathes and attempts to find a modicum of social acceptance is anything but nurturing  it is a terrifying landscape of cultural land mines, where labels are as deadly as guns, and where sexual nonconformism is tantamount to treason.  This is a terrifying movie.  If mythology is the interaction of the human and the divine, then there is nothing mythical about Boys Don't Cry.  It doesn't appeal to your imagination;  rather, it rips you away from your typical movie-going fantasy world, so much like sleepwalking, and confronts you with a devastating reality.What's really terrifying about Boys Don't Cry is that it's a tragedy that happens daily, even hourly.  The central character is a lesbian who fully accepts her sexuality, and is privately comfortable with it.  But she grew up in a society in which her personal proclivities are anathema.  A highly social person, she has nevertheless internalized the norms of her peers. So he must stay in the closet, and divulge her true nature only to those she can trust, or seduce.  She can't escape because her cultural horizons are so limited.  These are the people about whom she cares.  Yet she'll never achieve the acceptance she desires or needs.Some cultures really do destroy people.  This film is an outstanding example of how it is sometimes accomplished.  "},{"Title":"A Good performance from Hilary Swank","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen reviews and ratings from different sources I was looking forward to a brilliant film and although good this did disappoint me a little. Don't get me wrong the acting is great and the story is different from anything I have seen before but it did lack a certain something that I can't quite put my finger on. I think deep down we wanted to (or needed) to see Branden as a girl so we could really appreciate the lengths the young girl went to to disguise herself as a boy, maybe if we had seen her at the begining that would have made all the difference.Nevertheless this film is good and very thought provoking without being moving at any stage.Hilary Swank deserves a great deal of credit for her performance because it could not have been easy ,she does look and sound remarkably like a young boy. Some of the scenes she is involved in must had been difficult to shoot and for her performance alone this film is worth seeing. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I put off seeing this movie for a long time; I don't agree with the social politics of homosexuality, and both Brandon Teena and the similar murder of Matthew Shepard have attracted numerous plays, web sites, and even art exhibits that speak of the horror and aftermath of the crime but tell little of the story behind it.Therefore I think the film makers did a major achievement in not pulling any punches about Brandon Teena.  Brandon was a person who stole cars, lied, and hung around with a rough crowd.  Yet Brandon was also a person who knew she had problems, and was struggling trying to find an identity and life to live with.  (I say she because biologically Brandon was still a woman.)   As the movie progressed I found myself empathizing with Brandon and her inner turmoil, even if the ending was a foregone conclusion.Similarly the movie holds nothing back in it's graphic portrayal of the humiliation and violence that Brandon went through.  However, even the bad guys aren't portrayed as evil as much as products of their environment. People can argue forever how much this movie was an accurate portrayal of events or not, but it did ring true.   "},{"Title":"Over-Rated Movie and Performance","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy's Don't Cry is a fine movie with acceptable performances.  Nothing more.  The attention it has received is only because it involves a hate crime and is based on a true story.  I advise anyone truly interested in the Teena Brandon story to skip this movie and read the book All That She Wanted by Aphrodite Jones.  It's much more comprehensive and moving.Also those who wish to see a truly impressive performance of a woman pretending to be a man should view the film Just One of the Guys(1985). While Miss Swank's performance is very good, actress Joyce Hyser gives an equally wonderful performance as Terry in Just One of the Guys(1985). Hollywood (and the Oscars) often overlook comedic performances.  Just One of the Guys(1985) is not Oscar worthy, but it is a simple 80's comedy with an Oscar worthy performance that should be given another viewing. "},{"Title":"Superbly powerful!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If nothing else (which is extremely doubtful) this film highlights the weakness' of 99% of the trash that is puked from the belly of Hollywood. This film really does it. Within minutes you are sucked in to the screen, completely overcome by the harsh realities that face its leading character. This is how biographical cinema should be. It's hard for me to recall a time when a film enthralled me as much as this. The directing is magnificent; delivering tension, emotion, suspension and disgust, all with equal measure. The acting... Academy Awards rarely go to those who deserve them, but in this case the nail has been hit on the head. All actors involved worked perfectly, but what can be said of Mrs Swank? Surely she WAS Brandon. Either that or tinseltown has found someone who can REALLY act. This film is a must for those who've felt the full force of the blows that life can deliver... as for anyone else-watch and learn.  "},{"Title":"BOYS DON'T CRY had this girl bawling!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a shocking example of how cruel some people are! John and Tom are low-grade forms of human life that take their anger and frustration out on a particularly weak and defenceless character in the most excruciatingly cowardly fashion when they find out that Brandon is really Teena. Then blame it on him for bringing it on yourself. It got me thinking, well how would a person with an open mind have reacted? It wouldn't have been an issue at all and Brandon would have been accepted into the fold and he probably would still be alive.The movie leaves you on your knees begging the question 'WHY DID BRANDON GO TO FALLS CITY?' What a dangerous move! Didn't he think that he might get the same treatment there that he got in Lincoln, NE? It also leaves you thinking If only she did this, if only she did that, then she would still be alive. Was Brandon brave or merely too naive to see the danger?I adored Hilary Swank (what an amazing surname!) as Brandon, what justice she has brought to Brandon Teena giving his life great meaning, playing him so well on screen. A true heart-and-soul portrayal. She made me think who else could have ever played the role? I only hope that all the people in the world with gender identity crisis' get to see this movie!I loved The Brandon Teena Story for you knew you were seeing (in photos) and hearing the real Brandon but this film really does give you a better idea of what he would have been like in action. You really can't fault the story as this was written by someone who studied and followed Brandon's history for five and a half years- the amazingly talented (first time director but you wouldn't know) Kimberly Peirce! Her idea for this movie was to give Brandon the love and acceptance that he didn't receive in his life and I think she has done that and more.On a lighter note, I thought it was funny though how much time Brandon spent in front of the mirror fixing his hair just right, I suppose  Kimberly Peirce saw a lot of Brandon's real life photo's and noticed in all of them how neat his hair was!Boys Don't Cry is an incredible movie and although it's truly sad and has agonizing scenes in it, it has to be seen so that a wider understanding of difference develops in our culture and occurrences like this are brought to a minimum, or preferably, eradicated and people like Brandon get a shot at life like they deserve.  "},{"Title":"An excellent film that presents reality","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent film that tells a true story and it tells this story without trying to change the people involved.  I respect the writers for this.  Though I knew I was watching a movie, in a way I felt like I was watching life, if that statement is understandable.  Although I do not support the lifestyle Brandon Teena lived, I still can feel nothing but complete sympathy for this human being.  Just because I don't condone homosexuality and things of that nature, I feel as though it is the person's choice and they should be able to live just as any other human being should. Having said that, I must also say this  I have not researched the story of Brandon Teena and know only what I've seen on television and movies.  I am going by the story I heard and believe.  Enough about the actual event, about the movie.  I think that writers of this film did a great job of making one feel sympathetic toward Brandon without making her look like she was a perfect person.  They presented the story from an outside view without taking sides, leaving the viewer to make the decision.  I think the cast as a whole did an excellent job, especially Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny. Swank is now one of my favorite actresses.  I give this movie a 10. "},{"Title":"Trans-gender-bender","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, they might not cry, but they sure get themselves in a whole mess of trouble. Especially if they're not sure they want to be a boy. Brandon (Hillary Swank) has a sexual identity problem. She's female, but she desperately wants to be a male. She cuts her hair short and picks up women in honkytonk bars in Lincoln, Nebraska as a way of dealing with her emotional problems. Of course, this sets her up for endless persecution by local rednecks (this movie does nothing to eliminate standard hillbilly/small-town stereotypes), and poor Brandon Teena (or Teena Brandon, her real name) suffers tremendous mental and physical anguish at the hands of those less understanding.Brandon's travails take her to Falls City, where she meets Lana (Chloe Sevigny, late of Kids) and Candace (Alicia Goranson). Brandon hangs out with her new friends, who also include Tom (Brendan Sexton III) and John (Peter Sarsgaard). They drink, they party, they try to outrun the cops in a mid-70's Nova, and pretty much play the roles of Young People Gone Bad. How much you like these characters might depend on how much you identify with them - picture the gang from The Outsiders, for example. There's not much original in these amoral, hell-raising characters; they paint a pretty ugly picture of small-town people. Think your family has problems? Just about every vice and bad character trait is evident in these people, probably doing more to lower outsiders' opinions of rural America than any in any film in recent memory.Needless to say, Brandon doesn't tell anyone she's female right away, which means that in true Hollywood fashion, those very same people who she's come to know and trust - and yes, even love - aren't going to be as trusting when they find out she's female, rather than male. Haven't we seen that a few times before? She can't very well tell anyone right from the start, because then she runs the risk of their ridicule before they get a chance to know her. Ah, but this is a movie, even if it IS based on fact. So when she DOES have to tell them she's a girl, of course most of them react rather negatively. And because this is a stereotypical small town, they react violently, too. I think I saw this before, when the movie was called Frankenstein.Some of the persecution Brandon undergoes is a bit overdone, too - did we REALLY need a protracted, graphic rape scene? I realize that sometimes the audience needs to be shocked in order to be convinced of the character's appeal, but this scene occurred rather late in the film, and by then the audience really should be on the lead character's side.And that brings up another little issue - the motivation of Brandon. I do understand that this is a person (based on a real-life person, too) who is completely at odds with herself - she has the female parts, but longs to be male - and that conflict causes her to seek pleasure and pain simply to survive. But most of her problems in this film are brought on by her own actions. It's not as if Brandon is simply trying to fit in with the rest of the world - she actually pushes the envelope, almost challenging herself to survive, trying to see how far she can go before someone finds out. This isn't a story of someone with  a troubled past simply wanting to move on; this is a story of someone who's a little different than everyone else, and wants to challenge herself, who almost dares others to discover her secret.Don't misunderstand me - this is a fine film, but it has its bad points, too. The first three-quarters of the film are riveting, although sometimes tough to watch. But the last quarter descends into a standard movie-of-the-week treatment of a pretty serious subject, and generally every character becomes a caricature. I watched countless stereotypes and cliches walk across my screen during that last quarter. It's almost as if the screenwriters took an extended coffee break and someone from USA Networks filled in.Another problem is the casting. Hilary Swank turns in some magnificent work (and really deserved her Oscar), but her casting was puzzling, at least from a physical standpoint. When she cuts her hair short in her guy-disguise, that's about as male as she looks. For the bulk of the movie - in full guy-mode - she basically looks like someone's underfed sister. She's skinny and with a gigantic mouth. (And I saw her at the Oscars in female-mode - she's really VERY attractive.) To me, she really didn't look all that male - she just looked young. Now, I'm not sure what else the makers of this movie could have done to make Swank look more masculine, and of course this is based on a true story. Certainly, given the physical limitations of the role, Swank did a remarkable job.All in all, it's a good movie, thought-provoking at times. It's just a shame so many white-trash stereotypes had to be thrown in there as well! "},{"Title":"After Seeing This....I Cried","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After hearing so much about the film and the oscar and all, I rented it expecting the powerful, honest and groundbreaking performance described by other IMDB reviewers.  Instead I was treated to a film with a plot that resembled watching grass grow and characters that I not only couldn't come close to relating to, never mid actually liking.Much like the horse Whisperer, they could have wrapped this one up in under one hour, but I assume the director was trying to be deliberate -- a catch phrase for those who want to be entertained by movies that has come to mean unbearably dull. "},{"Title":"The tagline for this movie could more aptly be A Fraud's Fraud","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Boys Don't Cry' suffers from the stereotypical Hollywood malady. Based on the true story of murder victim / con artist Teena Brandon, the movie glams up the ideal of who and what Teena Brandon was. There is an interesting contrast between the movie and the book. In the movie, Teena Brandon is glorified as Brandon Teena, a martyr for the transgendered cause. In both the book and newspaper accounts, Teena Brandon is neither glorified nor vilified, but treated as she was a young woman who stole, lied, cheated, and defrauded everyone she met in her life.That is the failing of the movie. Teena was portrayed as a hero or a god, but she was a real person, with real faults, as were her killers. What happened was tragic and horrifying, and senseless. But just as one can understand why Teena lied to others about being a boy when she was really a girl (who never had any interest in really being a boy), one can understand why Tom and John would feel betrayed to learn that their friend had lied to them and stolen from them.This movie is an excellent fictionalized account of a true life story. This movie should not be mistaken as true or accurate, any more than Schindler's List, Saving Private Ryan, or Monty Python's Life of Brian, but it is an interesting watch. Pierce has taken a very white trash look at life, and portrayed it on the big screen. Undoubtedly one of the darkest, and most interesting, shows of the year. "}{"Title":"Boring!!!!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film moves along slower than a snail. Hilary Swank wasgreat, but her performance wasn't enough to keep my interest.This film didn't really explain anything about transgenderedpeople, but instead just perpetuated stereotypes.  Hilary Swank'sperformance was great, but not enough to keep my interest. If youwant the INTERESTING story, type in Teena Brandon on Googleand find some stuff there. This film warrants 4/10 "},{"Title":"A film of brutal truth.","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** It's hard to believe that the events portrayed in the film `Boys Don't Cry' could have actually happened. The level of homophobia, violence, and absolute fear of the unknown seems more reminiscent of a movie where everything is sensationalized. Unfortunately, it is based on a true story that took place during 1993, where a young woman with a sexual identity crisis was brutally murdered in Nebraska. Exceptional performances from Hillary Swank (`The Core'), Chloe Sevigny (`The Last Days of Disco') and Peter Sarsgaard (`K19 The Widowmaker'), and the marvelous direction of Kimberly Peirce make `Boys Don't Cry' a film of brutal truth.Brandon Teena (Swank) is not all he seems. Brandon is the chosen name of Teena Brandon, a lesbian who prefers to dress and act like a man. She holds herself out to be a man one night at bar and meets some guys who accept her into their group of friends. She also meets Lana (Sevigny), a girl who hates her life and wants to run away from her one horse town. The two become close friends and eventually a relationship forms, however, Lana has no idea until her first sexual experience with Brandon, that he is in fact a woman. Lana is still drawn to Brandon, though, and her secret remains safe with Lana until one of Lana's live in friends, John (Sarsgaard), finds out what is really going on. John, being jealous, a drunkard and all out 'redneck,' rapes Brandon with his friend, and eventually kills her.`Boys Don't Cry' is filled with disturbing images that easily shock the film's viewers because of the level of ignorance and violence that exist in some of the characters. John and his friend Tom spend most of the day getting drunk, high and both have a affinity for inflicting pain on one another, as one scene has Tom showing Brandon the cuts that the two inflicted upon each other in prison, just to see who could take the most pain. The scene of the rape of Brandon is extremely difficult to watch, as is the murder-both are quite grisly, and heart wrenching to endure.Hillary Swank gives the performance of her career. Her portrayal of Brandon garnished her an Oscar for Best Actress. Swank comes off so realistically as a guy, that it's difficult to believe she is actually a woman. Also, her portrayal of the pain that Brandon feels due to her differences from everyone else is done so masterfully, that one can't help but feel sorrow for her. Films like `Boys Don't Cry' send a message to filmgoers that the importance of tolerance and understanding is essential in life. No person is the same as everyone else and it's necessary that society understand that. Brandon Teena wanted nothing more than to be a man. That's not an easy thing to accept, but the point is that to the average person, it's not his or her business what kind of lifestyle someone else chooses to lead. People need to be judged on their personalities and characters, not on their preferences in life. `Boys Don't Cry' drives that message home-if we live in fear of those who are different or that which is unknown, we will bring about the destruction of our own lives, the lives of the people around us. ****  "},{"Title":"The Powerful Effluvia Of Agenda","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Boys Don't Cry, Hillary Swank is intense and admirable as the crossdressing Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena, in this often violent film of sexual problems in contemporary America, which is based on a true story. Yet it's a movie whose solemnity began to wear on me after a while. Dreadful as the events it depicts are, it's not about Pearl Harbor or the sinking of the Lusitania. It's an ugly story about creepy things that happen in Nebraska. The movie is relentlessly downbeat, yet detached, and as directed by Kimberly Peirce, almost classical in its reserve, as if what we're watching were something of Shakespearean proportions, demanding of our respect. I don't think that the material warrants such a treatment, much as I respect the technique. The people in the film are basically uninteresting once you take the sex stuff away; and there's little either in the script or the personalities of the main characters to suggest thought or imagination. Yet Peirce and her screenwriters bear down hard on the facts, as if the sheer accumulation of detail, of one ugly incident after another, can, if dwelt on long enough, produce a kind of morally neutral (yet at the core deeply moral) kind of art, from which one can infer a pure ideology, shorn of special pleading; and from this the truth shall be revealed. This is an idealistic aesthetic, but an empty one. Art demands input. In the case of dramatic art, there have to be brains working; thoughts and feelings must spin; values be lost and found. The characters in Boys Don't Cry aren't up to this. I sensed about half-way through the film that Peirce and Company were aware of this, and what they were up to was something else altogether, a New Aesthetic, in which the viewer does all the thinking, and the character merely act out. My mind began to wander, and I thought of Big Daddy in Cat On a Hot Tin Roof, and my thoughts turned to a paraphrase of one of his most famous lines I smell the powerful effluvia of agenda here. Now I get it!, I said to myself, as I squirmed in my seat, We, the audience, are supposed to draw the conclusions. The movie just gives us facts bad redneck boys who abuse and rape, and messed-up redneck girls who make love to one another. No peddling of ideas here, just the facts. Right!. "},{"Title":"What's the big deal?","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK,Let me get this straight.... this movie was in countless top 10 lists, won oscar nominations, and Swank beat Bening for best Actress.  WHY?  acting aside, this movie was of tv movie quality. The writing was nothing special, the direction used the completely original technique of focusing on the sex and violence in the story.  OH WAIT!  that's right, every hollywood movie has the awkward sex scene or the slow motion scenes of horror in which people scream NOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!! Well, so does this incredibly disappointing movie.  The story is told straight with little exploration of gender roles and a lot of pandering to lesbian women.  I expect that from a big budget movie, but an independant is supposed to be free of such garbage. So what we have is the worst of both worlds.  All the poor production value of an independant with all of the non-artistic pandering of a big-budget. Despite this, Chloe Sevigny manages to turn in a very nice performance. Swank does well, but is not as good as advertised.  Frankly, I think it is a sad statement that a woman has to dress up as a man to win an oscar.  "},{"Title":"forgettable movie-of-the-week stuff","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" For those viewers who have had, or plan to have, their sex changed, this movie may provide some catharsis. But just because a story is true and sad, does not mean that it will make a good film if that film isn't arranged in a way that works dramatically. And this film isn't. It's boring and slow.I grew up in Kansas City, which is surrounded by the same type of impoverished rural towns that this story takes place in.Different strokes for different folks, but I remember driving through those places and thanking my lucky stars that I had grown up in an environment that was (relatively) more suited to helping me explore life's possibilities and become my own person (I am not a transsexual. I'm talking in generalities here.) And yet, the main character in this film, Teena Brandon, a person who needs such a fostering environment if anyone does, actively seeks to immerse herself in midwestern small-town life, probably one of the worst situations in the world in which to be thought of as a sexual deviant. While I certainly wish she hadn't been murdered, I didn't like, or have much sympathy for, her character, and try as I might, I couldn't' get very caught up in her plight, which she created for herself (I'm talking about her efforts to take on the specific male identity of Brandon Teena in that specific situation, not her desire to be a man in general) and then hung on to with all her strength until it killed her. Other than her kleptomania, we know almost nothing about Teena's personality besides her gender issues. And if that's the only aspect of her personality worth mentioning, well...then I'm even less interested in her. "},{"Title":"Very boring","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I comment only when my feelings have not really been voiced or when my opinions are very different from that of the majority. I read about 25 comments and I only found one that mirrored my sentiments, so I felt compelled to write something. I had a very difficult time sitting through this one. I guess it was supposed to be some sort of moving drama, but I just sat there with no reaction whatsoever. Even the scenes of brutality were not effectual, just a turn off. I do admit that Swank's performance was quite good, but with such a dull movie how could you care.  My advice is take a nap or read a book instead. "},{"Title":"Pretty Snails","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was pretty. Pretty well acted, pretty well written, pretty well directed, and pretty boring. Unfortunately the movie was slower than a baseball game being played by snails.Maybe I was just depressed by the psychos in the small towns, and disappointed in Brandon's immature behaviour. Whatever the case, it's worth watching once, but the snails will be a more exciting prospect the second time round. "},{"Title":"Why Do They Make Movies Like This?","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I realize this movie is based on actual events, but either the screenwriter took a lot of liberties with this story, or the characters in it are some of the biggest fools I've ever seen.  The only thing I found slightly amusing about this film is how much Hillary Swank looked like a boy as Brandon. Anyway, back to my original point. I found the actions of the characters so unbelievable I counldn't believe this was anything close to a true story. Warning Spoilers Ahead! I cannot believe that everybody in this film didn't end up hating Brandon after discovering how bad he/she had lied to them about virtually everything. Particularly Lana. And I cannot believe after discovering a person she had been intimate with had lied to her about their sex that she wouldn't be angry. And lastly, why the hell didn't they head out of town when John showed up wielding a gun? Instead Brandon heads back to Candice's and Lana wants to hang out with John? Why? I thought the characters behaved with all the intelligience of Friday the 13th characters. You know, standing there screaming rather than running for the door, when someone is threatening to kill them. I am willing to suspend belief when I watch a movie if it is fantasy or comedy, but when it's suppose to be a true story it is very frustrating to see characters behave so foolishly. In summary, if you watch this movie, I would wager when its over you will find yourself no better off for viewing it. This film is not uplifting or satisfying and ends with little sense of resolution. "},{"Title":"Hixploitation Drama, 21st Century Style","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Back in 1973 a sickeningly violent film, called Walking Tall, muscled itself onto the screen--and became an instant hit, spawning two sequels, a tv movie and tv series, lasting until 1978.Now in 1999 comes a rowdy redneck exercise, not unlike its 70s predecessor.  While the Tennessee locale has been changed to Nebraska, its basic purpose seems the same  exploiting the facts to graphically depict humiliation, rape and murder. Although both films are reportedly based on real-life cases, neither play that way. Instead they merely seem bent on sadistically glorifying brutality. A pity such talented casts and crews invested their earnest energies into such banal pieces of slumming.  "},{"Title":"Why don't boys cry?","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I often wonder this. This film is the story of Brandon a girl who only feels right when passing off as a boy. What many people don't know is that he has no control over this it's just god gave him the wrong parts. Because of trying to be true to himself and following the girl he loves what follows is him being beat, raped, and tortured. This film shows how Lana fell in love with Brandon not because of his looks or that he is really a she but plane and simple he treated her better then she had ever been treated. This love story takes off but comes to a screeching halt. What John did to Brandon will stick in my head forever it's so hard to believe there is so much evil in this world. I would also like to say this is one of the most important films of all time. This is a film I will show to my kids, there kids and so on because I will make sure that they respect and love people for who they are. I pray for the day when we not only accept our diffeences but we actually celebrate our divercity. "}{"Title":"Strong and powerful piece of movie","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love to run into some independent gem of a project like this. Otherwise, based on the true story of a young transsexual who was killed 1993rd year this movie is very good view of such problems, and great adversity and illustrates the problems that these people face. Although I am quite conservative in terms of such things, and therefore I long refused to look at this little masterpiece is incredible influence on me and I pretty much touched. Watching him, I realized that I watched it a long time ago but it seems to me not entirely. Filmed for all $ 2,000,000 this movie exudes emotion and crawl under the skin of the viewer as much as he is conservative and a cold heart. Starring double Oscar winner Hilary Swank, which is just for this movie won one of his two Oscars. And deservedly so, its transformation and acting are perfect, I think this is what really hard to fake it, one has to change the look and physiognomy but the other is able to behave like the opposite sex as Hilary here makes perfect. When I watched it for the first time, it seems to me, I did not know that role is played by a woman, but I thought it was a boy, it speaks for itself, and now I do not know Swank question whether I could discern whether the actor or actress. Swank's role or get in front of hundreds of candidates and interesting way, lies. She lied about her age in fact when they asked her why she did it she said she would do the same and Brandon (the main protagonist of the film, which often has a lie in order to conceal his true identity). A film that leaves you breathless and which will, I believe, always be current because of the sensitive topics he covers. I think that movie, without exaggeration, has the power to make the viewer a better person because it knows how to win the sympathy of the same that simply must develop empathy with the main character, whether he wants it or not. Not many movie like this can get into the psyche of the viewer, forcing some to reconsider their views and thoughts, and they may even change. Once again, all praise DIRECTOR Peirce, Swank and other cast in this superb achievement. Great recommendation for all, even for those most committed "},{"Title":"The first time I watched this film, I was so impressed by the powerful acting of the characters.","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry (which was release on October 8, 1999) has an heartbreaking true life story about Brandon Teena, who is a transgender-man (female-to-male non-operative transgender man). The picture explores the themes of freedom, courage, identity and empowerment. The film was directed and written by an (previously) unknown female film director Kimberley Price. The movie title was actually named after a song of the same name by an English rock band called The Cure. It's a of those films involving a same-sex relationship - just like Brokeback Mountain (2005).Hilary Swank is a down-to-earth movie actress who portrayed the role as Brandon Teena. Here's an interesting fact about her role To prepare for the role, she lived her life as a man for about a month, including wrapping her chest in tension bandages and putting socks down the front of her pants much the same way that Brandon Teena did. I believe this is the main reason why her portrayal was so outstanding. Boys Don't Cry was the film that made Hilary Swank into Hollywood stardom.Her performance in this film earned her first Oscar for best actress. She deserved it.This is a true story about Brandon Teena and it takes place in 1993. He is the popular new dude in the small Nebraska town of Falls City. He hangs out with the guys, drinking, cussing, and bumper surfing, and he charms the young women, who've never met a more sensitive and considerate young man. He even loves hanging out in gas stations and roller rinks. Life is pretty good for Brandon now that he's one of the guys. He also develops a relationship with a blonde beauty named Lana Tisdel (played by Chloe Sevigny). However, he doesn't mention to his friends and girlfriend that he is actually a trans man. Later in the film, his friends discover that Brandon is actually a woman. He is brutally raped and beaten by two of his friends (which of course actually happened and it doesn't count as a spoiler if anybody has heard about Brandon Teena's story). Her life, as shown in the movie, became tormented (If you are wondering about the torment, you all have to watch the full movie for yourselves). There is a scene in the film that employs a great cinematography structure technique inspired by a scene from Victor Fleming's The Wizard of OZ (1939). In the Oz film, the cinematography structure technique is in the scene where Dorothy exits her house and steps into Munchkin land. In Boys Don't Cry, the technique is reflected in the scene in which the audience see Brandon Teena enter a roller rink and the song Just the Way That I Needed by The Cars is playing. After a shot of the character, he then seen walking through the door. The viewer sees the door opening; the character goes through, the door, and the viewer go through the door. The way that they used this cinematography technique is really fascinating due to the cinematic inspiration.The first time I watched this movie, I was so impressed by the powerful acting of the characters. The skills of the main cast playing really make the movie. Any great film based on a true story should always hire actors and actresses with great acting talent and skills. If an actor or actress doesn't have the necessary skills, the role could turn out badly - just like Faye Dunaway's (even though I still think she is an amazing actress) role as Joan Crawford in Mommy Dearest (1981).Boys Don't Cry is undoubtedly eighth best film of 1999 on my list of top ten best films of 1999. The story in the film was specifically and wonderfully written by Kimberly Price. The film depicts very well a true life story, just like several other true life depictions in Malcolm X, Ray, Alive,Lincoln, and Raging Bull. I highly recommend this movie for people, who like movies such as Brokeback Mountain and especially films that are based on true stories. I give this film a 4 out of 4 spectacular stars! "},{"Title":"Transgressions of the Transgender Kind","Date":"29 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is quite a drab till the last few reels with Brandon (Hillary Swank) looking with a lesbian lust at all and everyone in the bar. Words are far and apart and when spoken-is gibberish. You need a GPS system to know what the hell is happening where in Midwest. This should have been a suspense movie, the suspense being-when Brandon will be exposed? when Lana's mother examines him closely? in the prison? but the writers (mediocre with no humor in the dialogs) were clever in putting that puzzle to the last. Hillary Swank (as Brandon) is not the most attractive or femme-fatale in Hollywood, and she didn't need much makeover to be cute looking Claude Raines. She is not an Oscar material (She is not Charlize Theron in Monster) but morons in Hollywood. who vote for Oscars, are a close knit dumb-asses who give Oscars to Slumdog Millionaire have no class or taste left. None of the other characters are appealing-the usual smoking, drinking and speeding kind, as seen in a bunch of Hollywood movies, but this is not American Graffiti by any strech. The ending is quite disturbing and poignant at the same time, since both characters seem to have lot in common with their sexual and social identity, but the fate had different plans. The movie is touching since this was a real story-albeit boringly told. "},{"Title":"libidinal and psychological","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was confounding for me. There are so many forces at play, I feel I have to sift through them all in order to get at my thoughts regarding what is behind this work of art. I don't have to do any sifting, however, to get at the feelings which were going through me while I was watching it. I watched it with a sense of dread, because how else can one watch it? I suppose one can get engulfed in the film, in the sense of drama, but I guess I am getting old, and starting to think about films while I am watching them. It was inevitable from the beginning that something bad is going to happen. I suppose we are primed for this by everything shown early in this film, but I do not want to talk about the formal qualities of the film just yet. There is a sort of a time lapse release one gets with this film, at least I did, in that oh, this is the sense of freedom that is craved and one gets when one lives their life without thinking, and, this is the ultimate impetus, as I see it, in this film, which, I suppose, is mirrored in many aspects of American life. I hope it is undeniable that nobody does any thinking in this film, or has any sense of caution, not to say humility, except for the cousin who seems to understand in his bones that the best thing for Tina is to get put in jail, for the short term anyway, because even then her problems are only going to be postponed the way she chooses to live. And to her, it is such an imperative that it is not even a choice in the film what to do. She is so driven by her libidinal and psychological needs so that she can redeem her being in this society, that she is driven like an animal for that personal redemption. With severe blinders on. And, as it is shown in the film, this can only lead to destruction. With animals like those hick boys running around, and quite a few other predatory vectors of rural society, it is impossible, this film shows correctly, to go with the soul so to speak, and find your way and place in this society without thinking...Now it is probably impossible to find one's way through thinking also, it is such a labyrinth in America, so many pitfalls, but at least we can say that caution is necessary for self preservation, this film clearly shows, for people who are willing to think about it. Formally, I can only say that since everything was done perfectly well, even perfect, I can only disagree with the last few seconds of the film which introduces a short time lapse sequence. Was this film like a time lapse sequence? Does the director want to encourage the audience to see this film, finally, as a thoughtless roller coaster ride? I know she wanted to leave us with that cool feeling and exit on a high, but is that really the vision she wishes to perpetrate, or, as I understandingly admit, it is just a kind of an unconscious rejection of right discernment?! From Lana's point of view it was like a roller coaster ride, but why does K. Peirce wish us to consider the film from her point of view at its ending, and not Tina's after all the hard work has already been done? Anyway, no one will notice. "},{"Title":"great acting IMO by whole cast even at the end very good acting.sad but good movie.","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" watching this now with a friend,so sad how he at the end,well i am not going to say the end since many have not still watched this. i do catch it on lifetime or HBO showtime much.just sad at the end but i am glad that she or he teena or brandon did enjoy some of life's greatest pleasures such as attempting to be who he or she WANTED to be,until these losers at the end precluded all of that for her/him.great movie acting by tall lovely hillary swank and even the guys at the end portrayed the ending and all through the whole movie pretty good. good acting with lana too brandon love interest.just wish he or she had a fair chance to REALLY BE HAPPY due to no good people's ignorance jealousy and insanity and immature you know what....... "},{"Title":"shocking but amazingly appreciated","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was going to give it 8/10 for it's being a watch-once movie to me but that doesn't decrease its value at all it just means that it is not the usual kind of entertainment that we can call a cup of tea so let's admit that some movies can be classified as critic-wise successful , it will get more awards than people fascinated about it while some people of course will appreciate it and understand its beauty with that said to warn the takeaway surfer I must say that all of the artistic elements are of a very high standard , high enough to deserve all the nominations and awards , after an intentionally ordinary beginning the drama gets very intense that it touched even a careless anti social person like me I got totally compassionated to this boy-girl (Hilary swank)who will do just about everything to prove she is a big man he is allegedly named Brandon which is actually (Teena Brandon), her special personality and very special alleged sexuality makes her the favorite boy friend to girls , passion scenes are extraordinary as opposite to the movie beginning the boy-girl will get too far for his love Lana (chloe) and he is no super hero like in action movies he can't do miracles that's why I can't watch it again , but I will never forget the love story of Brandon and Lana "},{"Title":"Bigotry or Fetishism ?","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A very disquieting film that tells a story that seems so unreal that we need to discover, at the very end of it, the fate of the protagonists to believe it is a true story. It is first of all a story about the gender identity of a girl, Teena Brandon, who sees herself as a boy and wants to behave as one, to be one. She manages to go through it all and falls in love with a girl who falls in love with her too, thinking she is a boy. So far so good. But what will happen when her real identity comes out? And that is the drama. The brothers or local boys of the neighborhood of the girl who has fallen in love with Teena Brandon decide to take justice in their own hands. First they teach a lesson to that Teena and rape her ruthlessly. But this ends up in the sheriff's office and that is only the beginning of the end. Then the two boys decide to expedite real justice and they kill Teena along with another girl, and mother, that happens to be there at the wrong moment with her baby. The two culprits will be taken to court, tried, convicted and sentenced. But what can we do with such a tragedy? How can it be possible in our modern world that a gender crisis in the mind of a girl may cause such disorder among the people around her? How come the boys react so violently whereas the girls or even older women seem to be a lot more tolerant? What makes such a gender crisis so dramatic? There is no real answer and simple male bigotry is not enough to explain such events. Is malehood such a privilege, such an unsharable dignity that any woman who will desire to assume some of it for herself will turn the surrounding men into criminals? We are dealing here with sex or gender fetishism. But how come it is stronger among men than among women? Or would it be the same in reverse if a boy tried to assume a female identity? I am not sure. Men must feel particularly menaced by the gender wavering of a female who could thus penetrate the secret citadel of malehood without being a member of the brotherhood. Is it really an old story? Definitely not. It could happen again any time, and I would even say it does happen all the time here or there, openly but probably most of the time unknown of anyone because self-censored by the culprit of such wavering.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine & University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Boys Don't Cry","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It happened all so suddenly. I thought, that when that hickory hillbilly went into the shack wielding the gun, that maybe he would be coerced out of shooting Brandon and the other girl. To outsiders Brandon may have seemed like a car jacking thug. But he really respected this group of people he met. He tried so hard to be himself and always in fear of his secret. He was going to leave with Lana but John Cotter got to him first. Usually if a protagonist or a villain is about to die, their is a build up and the viewer usually has some idea of certain doom but not in true stories like this one. Excellent film 62765176 out of 10.Someone said that the film dealt with issues like gender, rape and sexuality with grace and dignity. As far as I am concerned it has as much grace and dignity of a roadkill deer. "},{"Title":"Well Jerry Springer I tell ya, it's a Nebraska sorta thing round' here!!!","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Deceptively Brandon Teena worked it like a charm. Oh come on, you know what scene I'm talking about where Brandon Teena , or Teena Brandon is running around after she just had sex with a girl that didn't know she was really a hermaphrodite and had a posse of her male friends try to track her down.....rape comes to mind , but however I think they might of just silly stringed her and threw her on top of a roof or in a garbage can. Wouldn't that be less punishment from what she really got???Kimberly Pierce had done research on this movie for five years and shown absolutely nothing to me!!! Lana wasn't there the night Brandon Teena got murdered, they just threw her in there at the end to make the story more poignant and compelling. Conception drowned out!!! I was so lost in this movie that by the end , I had to question the moral of the story and if Brandon Teena was really a girl or a guy, or something Ed Wood made up before he passed on. Why when Lana went to the police station to pick Brandon Teena and after Brandon Teena revealed the Teena part of her name and what established that did Lana say I don't care if your half ape or man or whatever and touch her hands , only to be thrown into another exciting engimatic scene where she is confronted by the fact that Brandon Teena however is really a woman after John and Tom force Lana to discover the anatomy...the true, anatomy of this person(unless your someone that never went to school at allll). OK I see these are Nebraska , white trash civilians....or what Kimberly Pierce wanted us to see that is. They had very high optimism, especially the two main characters , Brandon Teena or Teena Brandon and Lana Tisdel. But for heaven sakes, a movie with much high potential and skill just fell flat once Lana kept on insisting Brandon was Brandon and the Teena part of the name was just floating around in the movie by accident.I give this movie 8/10 just for the fact it was disturbing, and I had seen the documentary before viewing this film and had never felt such terror inside of me for anyone on the last minutes of their life. The documentary says it all and has all the essential figures you need to account for what really happened. But in this film, I liked how it was directed, nothing really special, but the scene where Brandon Teena is watching herself through Lanas friends and mother and seeing her sexual crisis identity diminish or contemplate the same way in Oliver Stones Born On The Fourth Of July where Ron Kovic hallucinates he is saying bye to paraplegic, hello I can walk again!!! In the same sense it speaks to me, just who we are and what we want in life!!! It was a gender bender delight and it will confuse you, but to me, I think that is the whole morale of this film!!! "},{"Title":"A hint of poetry","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be perfectly honest, I don't like thrillers, murder stories, violent films.So, if that was all, I would not like Boys don't cry.But luckily that's not all the story. Even the slightest touch of poetry can save the world... and a movie, too.In this case, I found it here two places.Firstly, in the sky and the clouds. They are not a character in the story, and though the director indulges on them from time to time, with beautiful shots. Maybe, to remember us that what makes you go on, and on, among troubles, and sadness, and hatred, is something that we can only find looking at everyday's life from another point of view --- a little higher.Secondly, in Lana sleeping, serene as never before in her life, on Brandon's dead body. Simulating, pretending that that body was still alive, though it was not. Just as before, simulating that that body, that female body, was not.As if sometimes happiness could only be achieved pretending. "}{"Title":"Powerful film","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, I admit - the first 45 min. didn't have my interest. It was after those minutes, when the movie got into its stride. Hilary Swank did an exceptional job portraying Teena, and while te movie has an average soundtrack/lighting, that's what makes it work. Because the viewer is forced to pay more attention to the storyline, becoming involved with the characters. What's sad is that this movie is no fictional tale, that Teena and the events that occured are real. And knowing this, it makes the movie's message all the more potent.  "},{"Title":"poor...","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Poor Brandon! It's really GREAT movie I've ever seen...! Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny was great acting! Specially Chloe Sevigny was so GREAT!GREAT MOVIE! and GREAT ACTORS! "},{"Title":"Mind blowing","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, nothing to say except that I was deeply disturbed by the movie. It is one of a kind, one of some rare experiences you may have seeing somebody's life depicted. A definitely must-see. I can't even describe how I felt seeing it! "},{"Title":"Amazing acting makes this well worth seeing","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *SPOILERS*Hillary Swank, who I haven't even heard of since The Next Karate Kid does an amazing job of portraying a girl whose sexual identity crisis leads to her death.A plot containing this much meaning could have made a movie that went one of two ways an emotionless waste of time, or a brilliant masterpiece. This film definitely went for the better.The camera work and directing pays off, and the character development is impeccable. By the end you will be full of tears, and the rest of your night will be ruined, but this is definately something that needs to be viewed by all and is well worth it. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Made me cringe","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very hard to watch.  I would suggest watching it alone. There is no way you will feel like doing anything after watching this movie other than just sitting there and contemplating what you just witnessed. We all know what this movie is about.  It's good acting and Swank delivers the goods for sure.  The mean boys who raped her and then killed her were very evil.  They played those characters almost too well.  I began to feel feelings of hate for those characters during this movie.  The movie fluxuates between good and bad.  One moment you're smiling and the next scene you're upset.  Very well done movie and it's based on a true story which is even more troubling. "},{"Title":"Boys don't cry? well I am & I did!!!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the saddest things I've ever watched... and I'm a film student. Crying and sympathy were the two most comon things me & my friends found when watching  this. Almost the whole group of us (male & female) were bawling our eyes out(but we're total wusses anyway) Anyone who wants something purely emotive and real should watch this. Not for those who can't suspend their hatred "},{"Title":"Absolute garbage!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Boy's Don't Cry' has over taken 'Good Will Hunting' in my I-can't-believe-it's-supposed-to-be-good superficial chick flick category. Ignore the hype and Oscar win, this is TV movie of the week standard. As everyone knows it is based on a true incident, but the trite way the story is presented here beggars belief. It is simply NOT believable. Plot holes abound, the characters are cardboard, and Hilary Swank is badly mis-cast. She is way too pretty to be believable in this role! And I didn't find her portrayal of a male convincing in the least.Chloe Sevigny is better as Swank's love interest, but her performance was nothing to write home about. The only movie I've liked her in so far was in Steve Buscemi's 'Trees Lounge'. I  detect a slight air of condescension in her white trash roles here and in the oh-so shocking 'Gummo', the latter being not much more than a glorified Sonic Youth video. Sevigny and main squeeze 'Gummo' director Harmony Korine are part of the hip New York art elite, and one can't but help feel their patronizing, superior attitude.The only impressive thing about this overrated tripe was Peter Sarsgaard and Brendan Sexton III as the redneck dudes. Sexton has been quietly building up a strong reputation appearing in movies like 'Welcome to the Dollhouse' and 'Hurricane Streets'. Sarsgaard has had small roles in movies like 'Another Day In Paradise' and 'Desert Blue' (the latter with Sexton), but is a revelation here. Both actors tower above this mediocre rubbish and hopefully will go on to bigger and better things. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is simply brilliant in both film-making style and  substance, as well as in acting, and in its amazing insight into a world most of us know nothing about.  This is a movie everyone should see.  Kudos  to producers, director and all involved for their vision and passion. "},{"Title":"Moving Movie","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie and I just can't even begin to describe how moving and emotional this movie is. Despite how sad it can be it is a well written film that is worth seeing. And although it is disturbing, I think its important for jerks who think that rape is ok to see how it can affect people. Anyways, I rated this with a 10 and its not an enjoyable film but its a good one that is definately worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A disturbing fact based drama of girl Teena Brandon(played brilliantly by Hilary Swank) who changes her name vice-versa Brandon Teena to live the life of a boy. She falls for Lana(Chloe Sevigny) who gets to realise Brandons a girl but she does'nt care as she loves Brandon because he treats her better then most of her ex boyfriends!But it all goes wrong when Lana's friends want to prove to everyone he's a she which part has a very disturbing scene.They then rape Teena and her life is forever altered great cast,great acting makes this a winner! "}{"Title":"AMAZING","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not going to praddle on about the plot or some long explanation of the filmmakers triumphant film...all I have to say is that this was probably the most disturbing film I have seen in a while, but also the most beautiful...BRAVO to Hilary Swank, she deserved her award. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was really good! I saw it just the other night. Hillary Swank's acting was the best! I think they should have given Alicia (Lecy) Goranson's character more credit. She did really great! I used to not like her, but after seeing this movie, I think she is one of the best actresses ever! I'm looking forward to seeing her in her next movie. This was probably the most realistic movie I've ever seen. I almost knew what was going to happen to Hillary Swank's character when they found out who she really was. I didn't like seeing Candace (Alicia Goranson) go, though. I wasn't expecting that. I give this movie a 10.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Topic, the execution was a little off","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the story was an important story to tell and the director did a good job with the resources at hand.  The movie was thought provoking and the story needed to be seen in greater depth then how the networks reported the tragedy.  I hope you see the movie for what it is and not focus on the duplicitous nature of Teena Brandon, who could be seen as somewhat villainous.  The message of intolerance in today's culture and how it needs to be changed and re-examined.i do have one small problem with this movie and it is a small one.... I felt that the characters played by Chloë Sevigny and Hilary Swank could have been reversed and have been more effective...but that is just my opinion "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!!!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this movie (I know...it took a while) and I was impressed with the overall acting by everyone involved, especially Chloe Sevigny.  I was able to see the real-life documentary as well, and the movie was very well done, stayed pretty true to the real story.  I would recommend this movie to anyone.  I can't wait to see it again. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing.","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very powerful film, with a number of outstanding performances. I was most taken with the content and the way it was shot, the fact that we are SEEING life as experienced by Brandon, not seeing Brandon portrayed negatively through the eyes of an outsider. That in itself is inspiring, considering the current fashion of telling the story through the eyes of the bad guy. There are still far too few real female protagonists, and Brandon was especially 'real' - about as far from a glossed up boob-implant model as you can get! I found her desire to be a man convincing, and believed him/her as a character. My (male) friend had trouble being convinced that people would believe that she was a boy, but I think it was pulled off quite well. 'Being convinced' is one problem that arises owing to the visual objectivity film allows us. I think that if you were THERE, and met someone like Brandon and could see how convinced THEY were that they were male, then one would tend to be more easily persuaded.For all its virtues, after watching this film one should follow it up with a cup of tea and some light comedy like Monty Python - the content can be a little jarring. "},{"Title":"Depressing but very well put together documentary","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had a hard time rating this film since there were several things that depressed me about it and that I didn't like about it. I still have to admit that it was very well done, the acting was great, and the story was a fascinating one.I had a hard time relating to the white trash family in the movie. I didn't like these people overall but had sympathy with Chloe Sevigny's character.I too thought Swanks' performance was incredible - she acted very well as a male but in no way was she convincing as a male.  This is not for her lack of trying or lack of ability, though.  This was a big roadblock for me - I can normally suspend disbelief for lots of things but I couldn't believe that the characters in the movie must not have thought she was a girl. First, start with the physical aspects - she had decidedly feminine features, a small head, small hands, no shoulders and no musculature at all. Also, her mannerisms were never quite male and the way she reacted didn't seem too convincing.  I mean, I know she is just acting but I felt somehow that it was hard to believe anyone could accept her even as a feminine type guy.I felt quite depressed after this movie.  Seeing a bunch of crappy people do crappy things and knowing the protagonist will die is just kind of a bummer. Yeah, I know it's life but it doesn't mean I enjoy watching it.I'm glad I saw this movie but I will just need to remember to watch this sort of film in a more cheerful, contemplative sort of mindset. "},{"Title":"But real men should.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely incredible.  This movie starts without introduction and made me feel like I was having a conversation with a lost teenager; a lot of confusion, sometimes incomprehensible, but I stuck with it because someone needed to be heard.  Hilary Swank may have been a more convincing boy than Teena Brandon really was.  I don't know, but I do know that by the end of the movie I think I felt what Lana Tisdel felt.  This movie should haunt its viewers, I know it does me. "},{"Title":"One of my ten favorites of all time","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the most powerful movies I've seen in quite awhile. Hillary Swank was much deserving of the awards she received. I recommend this to anyone who has a heart.  And if you don't like it, then in my opinion, you don't have a heart. "},{"Title":"Controversial","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is the controversial tale of a young lady with SIC (sexual identity crisis) who goes as Brandon Teena (though named Teena Brandon) in a small Nebraska town.  Many scenes I liked, but the character of Teena Brandon was not too likable.  I found her to be narcasistic and a not too careful lesbian that led to her demise.  Still, Hilary Swank (in a Oscar winning performance) gives the best she's ever done and succeeds in pulling off her character.  I also liked the supporting characters including Chloe Sevigny, Brendan Sexton III and Peter Skarsgard.  Ok, if It's your liking. B+ "},{"Title":"Great performances, good script, some problems with the direction","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WARNING - SPOILER'S AHEADI have to commend Hilary Swank for an incredible performance.  This was a career leap that puts Travolta's '94 resurrection in the dust.  Saarsgard and Sexton gave great performances as well and I like the way their characters were portrayed.  I was prejudiced towards them by knowing the outcome of the story and what their actions would eventually be but when I saw them in the film they were actually likeable, IN THE BEGINNING. Saarsgard even made John Lotter seem creepily gentle before revealing his darker side and finally turning into a monster at the end. I have a suspicion that Matthew Shepard's murderers came across like that when he first met them.Parts of the film bothered me though, particularly the trippy scenes like the power lines and the fast-motion shots of the factory and the landscape.  It was too reminiscent of Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers/U-Turn phase when the drugs were directing the movies instead of him.  Not that that's a bad thing per se, I just think it was unnecessary and distracting from this film.  The landscape, characters and story could certainly speak for themselves without the technical touch-ups. And I questioned why certain dramatizations were made and others weren't.  From what I've read about the actual story, Teena was murdered in his sleep and Tisdal wasn't present.  That was altered for dramatic purposes, fine.  But the rape occurred during the Christmas season and the murder on New Year's. That was certainly dramatic and wouldn't have required a stretching of the facts.  Other than that, 8 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"a wonderful work of hillary swank","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this great independent movie with the academy winner award hillary swank really shocked the people who spected a soft film with a girl who turns to a boy to get something,but this is a film with the girl turns to a boy because that is what she feels inside her,is it not a soft movie ,it´s a violent real history and a good movie indeed with a very good photographer and filmed as good independent films are,chloe sevigny performer is strong too,but the brilliant swank gets all the credits,the final of the movie it´s excellent and the songs you can hear on it are good too.-  "},{"Title":"Sorry but D'Amico from Canada got it wrong","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Fraud's Fraud? Respondent D'amico is clearly unaffected by the tragedy here. One wonders why. Glams up the ideal? Everyone else was affected by the realism and grittiness of the film. So she lied, cheated, stole. Is that why she was raped? Murdered? Because she was dishonest? Baloney. "},{"Title":"I did.","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has been a while since such a fine crafted, well acted heart-wrenching movie hit the screens. Hilary Swank´s performance is incredible. Although we knew where the movie was taking us, we just had to follow on through to the bitter end. What a classy performance - great script, incredibly sad story. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"OK...but Just OK","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main thing that interested me in seeing this movie was that it was a true story.  It was an OK movie but nothing other than that.  If it wasn't a true story then the movie would have little to offer and would probably just be considered an average movie.  I think it's rated higher in IMDB than what it deserves.  It's probably a 5 out of 10 movie.  Just average. "},{"Title":"The identity crisis goes beyond the title character.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a year of really bleak films (American Beauty, Magnolia), Boys Don't Cry might be the darkest and most disturbing. Hilary Swank puts forth an incredible performance that makes this film worth seeing before Oscar night. But the crisis of identity, which is the central tension of the film, extends beyond Swank's sexually confused character to just about everyone who crosses his or her path. None of the characters - from the young, single mom tending bar and trying to survive to the restless teenage girl to the ex-convicts who inhabit this Oklahoma backwater town - have a clue about who they are and what they should be doing. Familial relations get so out of whack that one girl's mother simply gets the name Mom, and everyone is free to call her that. She doesn't get a name so much as a definition. This is white trash raised to the level of art. The overarching confusion and the struggle to resolve it is just as important to the film as the questions of identity that swirl around Swank's Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena. "},{"Title":" A very powerful moving movie","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" You read all the glowing clippings about the performance by Hilary Swank, but I was still pretty much blown away by her portrayal of Teena Brandon. The scary thing is how she reminded you of a popular charming person you might have been friends with in high School...I was really surprised by the film it's self. I look forward to seeing Kimberly Pierce does next. I liked her style of film making, she did something that really brought home the feel of a small town and the stillness of the night. "},{"Title":"Some strong performances, but...","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although at times a brutally honest dramatization of both gender panic and teen love, Boys Don't Cry is not especially enlightening. Hilary Swank's attempts to create a full character are stunted by the film's insistence that Brandon is a martyr and nothing more.We see him shunned, brutalized, and ultimately suffer for the sins of gender fascists everywhere. However, the film doesn't explore the internal suffering that leads to Brandon's physical torture. It begins with Brandon as a well-established gender outlaw; we are allowed to see only a few brief, cryptic flashbacks of his life before that point in time. What is it like to feel as if you've been given the wrong body in a culture so obsessed with gender appropriateness? Unfortunately, there's not much insight regarding the experience of a gender identity crisis, as Brandon characterizes his situation. Instead, the film focuses on the adventures and demise of Brandon, Tragic Transgendered Art-House Hero. "},{"Title":"Enlightening bummer","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so good that it completely bummed me out.Sadness! Very human qualities revealed in an extraordinarysituation. Intriguing filming with that sped up cloud thing thatcinematographers seem enamored of these days, in combinationwith streaky sped up lights in motion. Hilary and Chloe werevery skilled, and the story was beautifully tragic. Not exactlyan escapist experience. You need to be in the right mood forthis movie to a greater extent than one does with other, lessintense, flix. I'm glad that we live in times when such a moviecan be made. Really quite remarkable and sad.// "},{"Title":"A most affecting film","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't recall a film before Boys Don't Cry that I found to be this beautiful and ugly all at once--the alchemy between the two is so affecting that I can't stop thinking about it.  The beginning of the film is a little slow, but very quickly the story draws you in until you are virtually drowning in a whirlpool of varied and extreme emotions.  When you are released at the end of the movie the emotions give way (at least a little bit) to all sorts of thoughts about American society, hatred, identity, ignorance and sexuality. And not since Secrets and Lies has an entire cast so successfully acted out a story, transporting you into that fantastic place where you forget you are in a theatre. If you need to renew your faith in movies, go see this one. "},{"Title":"I'll rate this movie a 6.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie wasn't bad, it just wasn't as good as I like movies to be. I did find the end of the film to be very shocking. But other than that I found the film to be dragging its feet. Was not a bad movie at all. Just not as good as I like my movie of the week to be. I'll give it an above average, but not great, 6 rating. "}{"Title":"Being who you really are","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really moved by this movie, but have major aggro with all the reviewers who say things like Teena was masquerading as male. Brandon was, quite obviously an FtM transsexual and in death HE deserves the recognition of his chosen gender. "},{"Title":"Artistically and socially significant","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The sociopolitical impact and importance of this film are well established, as are the brilliant performances of everyone in the cast (particularly Swank and Sevigny). I was ecstatic to see Swank's excellence rewarded with a Golden Globe, and I hope the Academy follows suit. I have nothing more to add that hasn't been said by everyone else, so I'll simply add my voice to the ranks of those who loved this film. "},{"Title":"It Tolls for Thee","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Brandon's story gained some recognition, but was largely unknown by the public at large until a major motion picture was made to commemorate his life and death.Recently, it has become a sign of how tolerant and politically correct the news media is, to show horror and outrage at hate crimes. Whether you be gay or a minority, the media at large embraces the tragedy--the more horrifying the better--rhapsodizing in great detail on the brutality of the crime.When I first heard that Brandon's story was being made, I immediately expected the director to make a film to showcase her own tolerance and open-mindedness. Frankly, that was a case of my own prejudices, and I'm glad to have been proven wrong.Boy's Don't Cry isn't about standing on a soap-box, and it isn't about a woman pretending to be a boy. There is no Shakespearean melodrama to be found in this raw, uncomfortable film. Where Shakespear's tragedies end with ironious twists and forlorn loves, Boy's Don't Cry leaves you feeling drained and sickened. You don't feel better about yourself as a human being simply because you yourself wouldn't have murdered Brandon, there is no satisfaction to be found in the film at all.One of the movie's great strengths is that at no point do they make Brandon some sort of hero martyred to a cause. Brandon is presented as an often-times foolish boy who simply wants to live.For the viewer, the movie runs like a train wreck. We know what's going to happen, but the knowledge doesn't spare us from the most harrowing and painful twenty minutes I've ever seen visited upon a viewing public. "},{"Title":"It's a really good movie!!!","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie two times and I really think it's great. Hilary Swank is playing really good. I really admire her for her playing. The cast she's playing is very hard. I also want to say that Peter Sarsgaard and Chloë Sevigny and Brendan Sexton III plays very good. I don't think Peter Sarsgaard's roll was very easy to play. I think he is a amazing person, he can play every single cast he gets very good. I want to say that I really recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"A MOST UNIQUE AND INTENSE FILM!!!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I heard of this film I researched it and read every review I could find. After I saw the movie, I was still amazed. It has so much depth to it, so much intensity and truth that I doubt a person will ever forget it. The film deserves an Oscar and so does its director, and cast of actors. The acting quality is stupendous. The movie is about Brandon Teena, born Teena Brandon, who dresses up like a man and goes from her home town of Lincoln, Nebraska to Falls City in search of a better life. She befriends two ex-cons, John and Tom, and falls in love with Lana, who return loves him back. If anyone out there is willing to see a great movie that will leave you speechless, I recommend  you go and watch Boys Don't Cry. "},{"Title":"Bravo Hillary Swank and Chloe Sevigny !!!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie just a few weeks ago in New York and I was completely devasted by the performances of Hillary Swank and Chloe Sevigny. They are just perfect. Even though the movie is not as the same caliber as the actresses' performances, it is a must see because of them. I was extremely happy when I heard today that they were the best performances of the year in the opinion of the LA critics. I do hope that they will be nominated for the Oscars next year. "},{"Title":"Um, Wow...","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't recommend this deeply disturbing film to people who watch movies for the usual reasons of wanting to feel uplifted, or to connect with a character's experience, but if you're truly fearless in your viewing this is not one to miss. Whereas most of the year's best movies touch upon weirdness in the urban/suburban American society familiar to folks like me, Boys Don't Cry is set in the hell-hole of Falls City, Nebraska. We are presented the gut-wrenching and sadly true tale of a young woman (Hilary Swank, who won't be unknown after this Oscar-worthy performance) who looks, feels and acts just like a dude -- a fearless and charismatic little dude from a bad home with a yearning for love and acceptance. The object of his desire, a bored young babe named Lana, is played magnificently by yet another budding star, Chloë Sevigny.The work of yet another first-time director, Kimberly Peirce, all aspects of this film -- particularly the dialogue, cinematography and acting -- are first rate, although one might argue that it could have been about ten minutes shorter. Peirce (who also co-wrote) evidently allowed herself a measure of artistic license in developing the screenplay, but I am glad that she left plenty of warts on Swank's gender-confused character rather than setting her up as an unrealistic martyr. I found it easy to view Boys Don't Cry at the Dr. Laura Level (i.e., a horrific fate is destined to befall compulsive liars who hang out with sick people and thrive on committing dangerous acts), but my more powerful reaction was admiration for the bravery, humor and basic human dignity the two main characters somehow maintained in a poisonous small-town environment that would make Jerry Springer wince. Thank you, God, for responsible parents with sense enough not to live in a place like Falls City, Nebraska -- there but for your grace go I. "},{"Title":"Swank is phenomenal in well-made film","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is without a doubt the best American film I have seen at the cinema since American History X. It's a touching, heart-rending and very powerful film about a young man who really is a woman. What happens when his friends find out about him being a woman is very shocking and very disturbing. Knowing that it is based upon a true story is absolutely harrowing.Boys Don't Cry is very well-made even though I consider it to be a bit too long. Hilary Swank is phenomenal as Brandon Teena/Teena Brandon and Chloë Sevigny is almost as good. Swank deserves all the praise she has won, and at the Stockholm Film Festival she won the best actress award. Swank certainly deserves an Academy Award nomination as well -- she is absolutely brilliant. (8/10)  "},{"Title":"Don't forget one important fact of the killings","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't go on about how I liked this film - I did, and my comments are very similar to most others you will find on these Comments pages. But now that the movie has introduced many people to the tragic story of Brandon Teena, I would like to take a moment to remind people of the dramatic license used in the film.In short, it should be noted that Brandon Teena was murdered along with TWO other people Lisa Lambert, with whom he was living at the time (she is replaced in the film by a fictional character named Candace), and a friend named Phillip DeVine, who is not represented in the film at all. Brandon Teena was above all a human being, and his murder deserves to haunt the American landscape. But Lambert and DeVine were also human beings, and they should not be forgotten just because their own lives were not considered dramatically necessary to this film's plot. "},{"Title":"definitely thumbs up","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember reading the original story in the New Yorker  a few years ago and wondering what its focus was .Well, this film answered that question. Hilary Swank was superb and, indeed, made the entire film. Also, it was dead-on about a certain social milieu that doesnt appear in film all that much. My only quibble is Hmmmmmmmmmmmm, i can see why brandon was attractive to women (he/she was a dark-haired leonardo dicaprio) BUT i cannot for the life of me see why those bottom-feeding macho boys liked him (that is, before they found out he was a she) . . "}{"Title":"Stunning and carefully executed","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is an emotional movie, but not one that plays with its viewers' emotions.  Rather than using clichéd plot elements to bring the audience to tears, it creates a character so believable, so human, so entirely likeable that you cannot help but care what happens to him. Thank God for this movie.  I walked out of the theater trembling and thrilled.Transgendered teenagers have almost no role models.  While gay, lesbian, and bisexual people are beginning to speak out in high schools and universities about their sexuality, few people anywhere are willing to discuss their gender when it isn't what others automatically assume it is.  Watching this movie, I wished I had the guts to do what Teena Brandon did cast off the costume she found herself wearing, and strip down to the identity she felt comfortable with.  I can't imagine I'll ever bind my breasts, change my name, etc. but I thoroughly admire Brandon for becoming himself. "},{"Title":"All I can say is Whoa...","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is amazing.  It's hard to determine what to really think about it, because the subject matter is so... well, warped is one word for it. Hilary Swank is amazing, a far cry from The Next Karate Kid, or 90210.  I too only thought of Brandon as a he, even though I knew he was a she.  Swank should be nominated for an Oscar... an actor must be extremely talented and serious to take on such a challenging role.  Chloe Sevigny also gets major kudos. The cinematography and film effects are stunning as well... "},{"Title":"A riveting movie","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since seeing the movie Boys Don`t Cry, I have been unable to get it out of my mind.  It is one of the most powerful performances by an actress in a very long time.  If Hilary Swank doesn't receive a Best Actress Nomination I just might boycott movies altogether.  I am old School, David Lean, Capra, Hitchcock, Huston and Welles.  If they were alive today, I know they would agree with me.  A must see movie. "},{"Title":"Get into another person's skin","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is not one scene that is comfortable to watch in this movie because the film captures the range of experiences and emotions that Teena/Brandon feels; because of that, the film should be seen by any one willing to get into another person's skin...which is really what Teena/Brandon was trying to do.  Hilary Swank ought to be considered for an Oscar; entire ensemble cast is so good that it's as if watching home movie (with a Hollywood filming crew).   "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I genuinely loved this film. I found it disturbing, but couldn't >take my eyes off the screen.  Hilary Swank was  absolutely >amazing as Brandon/Teena.  I saw it twice and I just found her >screen presence enlightening, I had to remind myself while >watching it that she was a girl, she completely incorporated the >dual role with such ease and sweet innocence. It is funny I used >to hate her on Beverly Hills 90210, but she was wrong for that >T.V. show. The acting by the other actors was great as >well.  The direction by Kimberly Pierce was shocking and >brilliant.  I hope that this movie will receive the credit it >deserves and hopefully the incredible Hilary Swank will be >picking up the Oscar i "},{"Title":"Disturbing but incredibly compelling!","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't see the documentary about Brandon Teena but this film was well worth seeing despite it being a fictionalized account.  Without spoiling the ending, it is superbly cast and directed.  There's no doubt that the violence (of which there is quite a bit) is very disturbing but the performances by Hillary Swank and Chloe Sevigny make this a painful but rewarding movie experience! "},{"Title":"inspiring film/ extremely devoted and talented new director","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have not seen a film that has moved me as much as this one in a very, very long time.  The acting is flawless.  Kimberly Pierce directs with a fresh new style and with the sophistication of someone who truly understands film and human nature.How many times can you say that watching a two hour film changed your life?That's what film should be about. And that is exactly what Kimberly Peirce has accomplished. Not only that, but she immortalized the life of Teena/Brandon, putting him in the hearts of every viewer.*Heather Swank is incredible playing the lead role of Teena. "},{"Title":"Well Rounded, excellent film.","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great Acting, great directing, great camerawork. An all around impressive film, Boys Don't Cry is one of the most powerful and memorable films of the year. Hillary Swank is mesmorizing as Brandon Teena while Peter Saarsgard is haunting and surprising. "},{"Title":"Incredibly visceral film","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is simply a great film.  The director, Kimberly Pierce, seems to emphasize the physical sensations of the characters with viscous visual assaults of light and color.  Another note the performances of Hillary Swank, Chloe Sevigny, and Peter Sarsgaard are superior, especially the devastatingly beautiful Chloe Sevigny. "},{"Title":"Truly Exceptional","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is easily one of the most impressive and sure-handed directing debuts I have ever seen, and one of the finest films of the year. Pierce captures the Midwest in its garish glory (unlike its white trash cousin, Gummo, which blanched out its landscape like a wasteland) and loads it with beer, highways, sky, cigarettes, guitar rock, and rage. The script deftly manages to round out potentially cardboard characters with little or no confessional or sentimentality -- the players don't reveal anything that is not necessary, leaving an air of mystery to everyone, not just the strange hero. The young cast (except the actress playing Lana's mom, whose excellent performance should not be overlooked) manages the emotionally charged and incredibly intense material almost effortlessly, without crossing the line into exploitation or camp (even the brutal violence in the film, which I might consider exploitative in other films, is unfortunately quite appropriate here). Swank should be applauded for her portrayal of the confused and hungry Brandon, as should Sevigny, for turning a white trash Juliet character into someone multi-faceted and real. Becky from 'Roseanne' puts her acting experience to good use and does a fine job as well, as do Saarsgard and Sexton, who is almost unrecognizeable here.Although the film is difficult to watch at times, it is an incredibly told story, and should not be missed. "}{"Title":"An extraordinary experience","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be one of the most stunning films I have ever seen in my life. It was gripping from beginning to end.  The performances were flawless. I feel as if it actually changed my life. Hilary Swank should DEFINITELY be remembered at Oscar time!  "},{"Title":"Powerful, but unpleasant true story of a young woman who lives as a man","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" First time director, Kimberly Peirce, has directed a powerful, but rather unpleasant film, Boys Don't Cry. Based on a true story, this fictionalized tale relates the experiences of Teena Brandon (Hilary Swank), a sexually confused youth that decides to live as a man. Her relationships with a group of people in a Middle American small town is vividly brought to life by the performances of several unknown young actors who bring these folks to life. It's surprising the real life people haven't been on Jerry Springer. But then again, maybe they have. To tell too much more would definitely spoil the revelations that are peppered throughout the film. It's not a movie for all tastes. At the screening I attended quite a few people walked out less than halfway through the film. I really can't see the market for such a story. However, those who see it will experience the work of a gifted new filmmaker (Peirce) as well as the birth of some fine acting careers. Hilary Swank really had to put herself out there to create this androgynous character and make her realistic and sympathetic. Chloe Sevigny as Brandon's love is also a find. On the male side, Peter Sarsgaard and Brendon Sexton, are realistically brutal and animalistic in their scenes of rage and violence. Producer Christine Vachon, when interviewed at the screening, stated that one of the film's most moving scenes, a police interrogation of Brandon, may seem unbelievable and incredibly insensitive of the officer. However, the dialogue for the scene was taken verbatim from the taped transcript. The scene is Hilary Swank's finest moment.  "},{"Title":"The tragic life and death of Brandon Teena","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys Don't Cry is a brutal, hard hitting drama about the tragic story of Brandon Teena (Hilary Swank), a young woman with gender identity disorder and aims to live her life as a man. With a history of juvenile delinquency and social rejection from a homophobic, ill-informed community Brandon finds acceptance in Fall City, Nebraska, finding friends with a group and even love with Lana Tisdel (Chloe Sevigny). But when Brandon's secret is discovery it leads to rejection, violence, rape and murder.Boys Don't Cry is an extremely well acted, well directed film, particularly from Swank and Sevigny who had very tough roles. Director Kimberly Peirce gives Boys Don't Cry a very tight, claustrophobic feel with her close direction in small settings and she does not shy away with the brutality when showing the violence and the horrific rape scene.Boys Don't Cry is a very raw, powerful film and a fine example of American independent filmmaking as we get a film about acceptance, love and prejudice. "},{"Title":"Unyielding directorial debut...","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" American screenwriter, producer and director Kimberly Pierce's feature film debut which she co-wrote with screenwriter Andy Bienen is inspired by real events in the life of an American woman named Teena Renae Brandon aka Brandon Teena which took place in a town in America in the early 1990s. It premiered in USA, was screened at the 56th Venice Film Festival in 1999, in the Contemporary World Cinema section at the 24th Toronto International Film Festival in 1999, was shot on location in the city of Dallas in the state of Texas in USA and is an American production which was produced by producers Jeffrey Sharp, John Hart, Eva Colodner and Christine Vachon. It tells the story about a 21-year-old female-to-male transgender named Brandon Teena who after being thrown out of her temporary residence in Lincoln, Nebraska in USA where she has been living in a trailer park with her cousin named Lonny, goes to a bar where she meets a woman named Candace and a man named John and follows them to their home place. Brandon wakes up in Falls City the next day and calls Lonny who invites her back on certain conditions, but when Brandon is about to return she meets Candace and John's friend named Lana whom she takes one look at and decides to stay. Distinctly and subtly directed by North American filmmaker Kimberly Pierce, this finely tuned and somewhat fictional tale which is narrated mostly from the protagonist's point of view, draws an intimate and throughout involving portrayal of an American woman, impersonating as a man, who whilst awaiting a court hearing falls in love with a woman named Lana Tisdel who works at a factory and lives with her mother, and becomes initiated within her circle of friends. While notable for it's distinct, naturalistic and atmospheric milieu depictions, fine cinematography by cinematographer Jim Denault, production design by production designer Michael Shaw and costume design by costume designer Victoria Farrell, this character-driven and narrative-driven story about hate crimes, identity, friendship and love which efficiently merges surrealism with realism and which underlines the dignity and courage of the person whom this biographical indie is a recognition of, depicts a heartbreakingly heartrending study of character and contains a great score by American composer Nathan Larson. This sociological, romantic, graphic and humane drama from the late 1990s which is set during a late October in 1993 in Falls City, Nebraska in the United States and where a transsexual person with an unknown background whom has acknowledged the consequences of being herself in the society she lives in takes her act, which in her case is the only way she can be the person she really is, too far, is impelled and reinforced by it's cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, subtle continuity, diverse characters, use of music, graceful scenes between Brandon and Lana, the lyrics sung by Swedish singer Nina Persson I close my eyes for a moment I'm still there&#x85; and the authentic and memorable acting performances by American actress Hilary Swank, American actress Chloë Sevigny and American actor Peter Sarsgaard. A psychological love-story and an unyielding directorial debut which gained, among numerous other awards, the Academy Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role Hilary Swank at the 73rd Academy Awards in 2000. "},{"Title":"A Controversial Subject, but not Daring Enough","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the fact that it is tackling a complicated issue of sexual identity and the crimes that ensues, i expected more from this movie. However, the first half of the film is utterly boring but fortunately the plot is redeemed on the second half of the film where the climax takes place. This movie isn't as good, or even close to a similar film about the murder on a transgender girl in a guy's body which is called 'a girl like me' which touches more on the problems that these people face in real life. I have a feeling that this movie chose to just scratch the surface rather than being daring to dig deeper into the subject matter. Anyhow i give reasonably high rates for this movie due to hilary's exceptional performance. "},{"Title":"What else is there to say?","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Two-time Oscar winner Hillary Swank WAS Brandon. There just wasn't any doubt about it. She gave one of the most powerful and magnificent performances on the screen. There is no not knowing the pain, the fear, the anguish of someone who is struggling with their sexual identity after seeing this magnificent film.Chloë Sevigny had given many good performances over the years, but her performance here was worth of all the awards that she received. She was caught up in something she didn't understand and gave a tender and moving picture of love.With the job that writer/director Kimberly Peirce did here, there is no doubt that I am going to see Stop-Loss as soon as I can. "},{"Title":"Boys Don't Cry","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I recognised the poster, then I watched some of the film in Film Studies class, and I was very interested in seeing the whole thing. Writer/director Kimberley Peirce started this project first with a documentary (or it might have been her short film) based on the true story of a young girl from Nebraska who disguised herself as a man, and was raped and murdered, and then Peirce got the go-ahead to make this independent film. Teena Brandon (then rather unknown, Insomnia and Million Dollar Baby star, Oscar (her first) and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Hilary Swank) dressed as a man, mostly to get used to the idea of what it would be like to be one before her operation. She called herself Brandon Teena, and with her new persona made some male friends, including John Lotter (Peter Sarsgaard), Tom Nisson (Brendan Sexton III) and Lonny (Matt McGrath), and some female (the sex was now more attracted to) including Kate (Alison Folland), Candace (Alicia Goranson), and of course, the girl that she would fall in love with Lana Tisdel (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Chloë Sevigny). The film basically sees Teena/Brandon making a convincing life as a man, getting a girlfriend that after finding out is pretty much okay with it, and the only person that knew before was her brother Brian (Rob Campbell). Soon enough though, the male characters find out her secret and first exploit it to others, then rape her, and in the end it was John that murdered her, maybe accidentally, maybe intentionally for her/his lies. The rape scenes are very disturbing, and the murder is tragic, this is a very convincing performance from Swank as the hero(ine), and a gripping film. Good! "},{"Title":"Don't be mislead","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rented this movie last night based on what I read on cover of DVD box - specifically on top ten list of best of year by over 50 reviewers with several prominent reviewers quoted and that I had recalled that it had earned a few Oscar nods.  While acting, particularly Hillary Swank's, is excellent, and overall character sketch is good, the many, many overly long, seemingly gratuitous female-female sex scenes spoil what should/could have been a top film.  Not normally a prude, this film or the way the directors decided to tell their story, illustrates why the current rating system of everything being PG-13 or R is useless - if this film doesn't deserve an X, it needs something to indicate that it is dang close to X.  One other comment, the story spent way too much time on showing the lifestyle (or lack of any) of young people in rural America - I think the point could have been made in about half the time.    "},{"Title":"she describes herself","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  as some commentators have already noted, this film have a very plain agenda. we are supposed to think heavily about the consequences of sexual bigotry in our society and in perhaps ourselves. this is not a bad meditation in and of itself, but our source for thought is pretty shallow in boy's dont cry the fact is that teena, or brandon, describes herself in one scene. she is dolling herself up to look for a man and while looking into the mirror she says to herself, you asshole.  well...shes finally telling the truth. in a very sad way, teena put herself into the big, fat, ugly mess that we are subjected to in this film. there seems to be at least one person back in linclon who wants to see her get her life back on track, but she never listens to him. instead she runs off with her new little family, thinking that she is somehow going to be able to fool everyone into thinking that she is a guy for so long. she also thinks that the law will never catch up with her. it seems that the only time she bothers to face the truth is when she stands in front of the mirror. she is an asshole. she never tells the truth until she is being forced to. even when she was in jail, she could not just say, hey, look, i am a girl and that is why i am in the girls cell. but no, she makes up some junk about being a hermaphrodite.i think that i would have more sympathy on teena if she didnt bring the fire down upon herself. she should have been able to see that this would not be pretty. she should have just told lana straight out from the beginning.there were only two people in this movie that i liked. candace, because she really did seem to eventually have love in her heart for teena, despite what she knew. and teenas friend in linclon, because he tried to get her to do what was right. oh well. it was an awfully graphic film and there were some good performances there, but gee whiz, cant we have some people to have sympahty for?  "},{"Title":"Hats of to Hilary and Chloe, acting taken to new levels!!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot say enough about the acting by Hilary and Chloe.  The entire movie was done extremely well.  Although dark and depressing, it is a taste of reality that we sometimes find hard to watch but the movie gave such a wonderful view of how one person could fall in love with another person no matter who or what they are.  I think the film was done beautifully.To Hilary Swank Actors like you make the world of movies an art.  Thank you. "}{"Title":"One of the most AFFECTING movies I've ever seen...","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  about people and lifestyles I've never known and about subject matter to which I would have paid little attention  but for this movie. Most everyone agrees Swank's performance was stellar, but it was the performances of Peter Sarsgaard and Brendon Sexton III that left me spellbound. Both captured the very nature of what it's like to bring from the childhood a narrow focus of the world and the perceived threat from another who is simply different....and maybe, not so different.  Great ensemble acting! "},{"Title":"There's just something about him","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSThis film bears much in common with the docu-soap craze that has infested television over the past few years it's a peep show into a world that would otherwise remain closed to the vast majority of us, a glimpse into the lives of those who live on the fringes of modern society, who fascinate us but with whom we don't wish to interact.   BOYS DON'T CRY, however, sets itself on a higher plain than its little brother, and admirably achieves this point of comparison without resorting to cheap sensationalism.Because it's based on a true story, the movie immediately has to overcome a certain amount of scepticism, and, to be honest, it doesn't always succeed. Perhaps Hilary Swank is the weakest link here.   Her performance is sublime, she has all the right moves, but she just doesn't look like a man &#150; even a weedy, underdeveloped man; she looks like a sexually confused slip of a girl who wishes she was a man which is what, presumably, Tina Brandon was. So why don't any of the &#150; let's face it &#150; trashy characters comment on this?  And why would an ostensibly straight girl like Lana believe &#145;Brandon' was a boy, and fail to notice the fact that &#145;he' wasn't, even after having sexual contact? (Yeah, I know there are ways and means for those so inclined, but I don't believe an unwitting participant would be in the dark for too long if those methods were used on her - which suggests Lana knew all along, but it suited her for other people to thing Brandon was a man). Obviously, such doubts aren't the fault of the movie, but they do considerably undermine the core of its story.   I can only believe that the true Tina Brandon was a lot more butch than Hilary Swank; that would at least explain how Brandon manages to develop a sexual relationship with Lana.As a movie in its own right, BOYS DON'T CRY is superior fare, paying meticulous attention to detail and character to such an extent that the pace tends to meander without worrying too much about plot &#150; especially in the first half hour &#150; which may tax the patience of some viewers.   It contains many appealing touches on the way, though, such as Brandon chasing Lana with his/her camera, and taking a snap of Lana as she unknowingly smokes a cigarette at a factory window.   Such moments, absent of dialogue, capture his/her feelings for Lana more skilfully than any words could.The movie also raises an intriguing question because, even after learning that Brandon is actually a woman, Lana has sex with her, even though she is not a lesbian.   It's difficult to determine what you would do in her position.   Was there a, possibly latent, leaning toward homosexuality on Lana's part, or was her love for Teena/Brandon so strong that it transcended gender?Performances throughout this movie are excellent throughout.   Swank excels in a challenging role, and Jeanette Arnette is memorable as Lana's troubled mother.   But the best performance, in my opinion, is given by Peter Sarsgaard as Lana's cousin; his borderline psychopath is believable throughout, even when he finally topples over the edge.The inevitable showdown, when Brandon's duplicity finally comes to light, is filmed with a raw brutality that is difficult to watch, and captures the tension and trauma without spilling over into melodrama.   But that's not the end of the story, and what follows is even more harrowing.   Having said that, the movie perhaps goes on a little too long after Brandon's true identity is revealed. "},{"Title":"Simply amazing (**SPOILERS**)","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can say with complete certainty and sincerity that Hilary Swank truly deserves the Oscar she won for her performance in Boys Don't Cry. I wish I could see that award ceremony again to witness her triumph and be glad for her. Prior to seeing this movie (or any movie with Hilary Swank for that matter), I didn't like her. In the media, she appeared unfeminine and rough to me. but now I will be sure to see other works of hers.Well, I turned on this movie and I saw that she was dressed like a boy. I wondered if she'd taken a bet of some kind, or if maybe she was undercover, or even on the run. Then I realize, No, she's dressing this way purposefully, because this guy--her brother?--is arguing with her. Ah, I see, maybe she's trying to be gay the easy way? The movie progresses and I'm still trying to get the gist of it. I eventually see her kiss a girl. I automatically start to think, Maybe this isn't my kind of movie--I can't really relate to this. ..Especially not with my judgmental mother-in-law-to-be in the room. Besides, it seems like just another cheapy lesbian movie made solely for the sake of further acclimating the public, focusing on an agenda rather than truly influential subject matter. I couldn't have been further from the truth.I'm not so sure I like this character who isn't honest with her lovers. I continue watching anyway. She goes to much trouble to conceal her gender; She binds her breasts, alters her voice, stuffs her men's briefs, wears oversized men's shirts, does exercises to build up her arms somewhat, and even uses a life-like toy to satisfy her unsuspecting female lovers in bed. No one goes to that much trouble just to have a little fun or to fulfill a little fetish. I can see this girl desperately wants to be who she's driven to be, in an environment that would do much more than to simply shun her, but to destroy her--and make it hurt.She makes friends with a group of people her age, gets accepted into their family, and falls in love with Lana--who loves her in return. Even the relationship is workable--as she used her toy to do the deed. She's feeling wonderful that she's finally living her life the way she needs to. Sadly, she's mixed up with the law and must pay for her past crimes, all the while trying to keep her true female identity a secret. As expected, she's caught.Seeing as she travels with nothing but her knapsack while drifting down one unknown road after another, I can see by her actions that being true to her spirit is all that matters. As Lana confronted her in that jail cell, I held my breath, knowing for sure that that seemingly ominous draft that just swept by is going to topple this intricate house of cards that means everything to Brandon. Surprisingly, Lana follows her heart and accepts Brandon as is, not caring to know what her true gender really is--Even when Lana's overprotective guy friends forcibly tear Brandon's pants down and force Lana to look at her genitals. Everyone but Lana turns on Brandon and they're convinced that Lana's been brainwashed by some sick, malicious freak of nature. It eventually leads to Brandon being roughed up by Lana's friends John and Tom. They take him out in the middle of nowhere and brutally rape her. Brandon seems to cooperate with Tom and John afterwards and escapes to tell her story to the police. Rather than be brought up on charges of rape, Tom and John set out to murder Brandon and Lana and Brandon's hopeful love becomes ill-fated. It's a race against the clock. Everything comes to a boiling point when all but Lana's mother are together at Candace's (one of the group of friends, with a little baby).Nothing could have prepared me for what happened next. Only a true story can end so horribly. In a scene where the slightest thing can tip the needle into the danger zone, Lana watches as Brandon is shot, murdered right in front of her. The gunman is so psychotic, he shoots Candace as well--who was pleading repeatedly not to hurt her baby. Lana almost gets it herself, but the other man stops him.I really can't do the last scene justice, but I know what I felt the sensation of something inside of me trying to unsuccessfully stomach the injustice of Brandon's life being snuffed out for nothing. I couldn't help but be reminded of the theme in To Kill A Mockingbird. Brandon didn't hurt anyone by being who she was. She was simply trying to *be.*Hilary Swank was very convincing as Brandon Teena and that's what I applaud most. It's rare to see someone act so convincingly, as if they were channeling their alternate universe counterpart who happens to have experienced the subject matter. I'd say she equals Angelina Jolie's talent in this movie. And the knowledge that this stuff is real sends chills up and down my spine.On a report cardscale, I give it an A. "},{"Title":"Sensitive and intense alternative love story","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sad tale of a mis-understood subject, the transgendered. Always in trouble because she is 'different', Brandon tries to live her life as 'one of the boys'.  She finds her true love in Lana and begins to believe she can become the man she wants to be and live happily ever after.  But the old troubles with the law come back to jeopardise the new found happiness, culminating in humiliation, rape and murder. "},{"Title":"Well done, well done.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoiler*****Spoiler*****Spoiler*****Spoiler****SpoilerI sponsored both The Brandon Teena Story and Boys Don't Cry in Film Festivals.   I thought that Boys Don't Cry was a superb film.  It deserved the Oscar that Hillary Swank won.  She gave a wonderful performance.This film showed the insensitivity of people in authority and the common thinking in this country, that anyone who is different deserves what happens to them.  Hate is a very common word in the English language. Unfortunately, people have stood around passively for too long and it is consuming the world.  As we have seen in Kimberly's telling of the story Brandon was accepted by some,but those that felt threatened responded either with hatred (the two killers) or with passivity and acceptance(the mother and friends).   The bullies rule in this country and have for many years. Hatered is alive an well in the USA.  When John Trotter is hanging out with Brandon they are fine.  When his masculinity is threatened he must show his power to mask his fear.  Rape is a crime of hate.  What was done to Brandon Teena was unacceptable for men and women.I am a heterosexual woman and any crime against another human being is intolerable.  Unfortunately, hate crimes have been allowed to flourish in this wonderful country as well as others for many years.  Until people stand up against them we will have more.  These films are a way of getting this information out to the people.  There are many forms of hate crime and they can be as obvious as blowing up abortion clinics, lynching people because of their skin color, beating someone for their lifestyle or as seemingly innocuous as obscenities toward someone overweight, cutting someone off on the street because one thinks they cut them off first. A Hate Crime is just that HATE.I am amazed at some of the comments I have read by others on this site. Someone who watches this movie for the great rape scene is disgusting and yes, wouldn't have enjoyed this wonderful piece of work.  Shame on you for thinking that any rape is suppose to be enjoyable.  You sir, need help and are truly the sick F*#@!  "},{"Title":"Here I go again...","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some user (Rhastein) wrote that what a great act of Brandon (referring to her as a he) to reveal the truth of his real identity to the world and stop living a lie. You know, the proud to be me speech.I'm not a doctor, so I don't pretend to know everything there is to know about transsexualism (who does?), but I do know this a great number of them aren't born like that, they're turned into that (traumatized). I personally know 3 transsexuals (male turned female), and all three told me their parents had intended for a girl, and treated them like one (dressed them up like girls, called them girls nicknames, the whole works. One was even raped by his own brother). Anyone who doubts this can happen, just remember that more than one person walks straight into jail, and leaves gay because they were raped inside (I'm not saying that every or most gays were raped or misraised and therefore traumatized into becoming one, much several were and are).And another thing. Recently I read in  an interview with a convicted necrophiler (guy who rapes corpses) and child molester. He defended himself saying that society didn't have any right to punish him for accepting who he was and therefore indulging his desires and needs. He wasn't hurting anyone regarding raping corpses (worked at the morgue, so he didn't trespass any grave), so people should let him be. He even said that if a man is entitled to have sex with another man, why not say, brother and sister (they can adopt), or father and daughter (same), or man an pet (never mind), or man and a corpse? As long as there's mutual consent (a corpse has as much legal protection as a basketball, he said), it's none of our business.Yes, he's a sick f#$%. But he's sort of got himself a point though. When does something (sexual preferences, car preferences, whatever) stop being just a personal characteristic that one (and we) should accept (one likes blondes, or blacks, whatever) and becomes an issue that should be addressed and treated, not just indulged (one lusting after babies, your own daughter or sister or mother, or a pet, or worse, a decaying corpse). It's a fine and not so clear line, yes, but I just don't accept that because one doesn't seem to hurt anyone (in the short run) doing X or Y thing, that X or Y thing cannot possibly be wrong (don't believe in black and white views, there's much gray in them, and us all). "},{"Title":"very crude and cruel film","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could hardly watch Teena/Brandon raped badly  by two young hoodlums who once were good friends of hers/his. Hilary Swank was too womanly to be a boy. That's why I commented crude and Cruel. I give this film 4/10. "},{"Title":"amazingly profound","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  all i can say is wow. this is one of THE best movies i've ever seen. it wasn't just about internal conflict or back-country prejudices, but it was such a love story. by the end i was bawling. then, i saw that it was a true story, and i completely lost it. the movie is really well-done and the characters are so well-developed. i really couldn't help but get attached to teena and lana. it was really a story about true love, how lana loved teena regardless of gender. i'm babbling. but you should really see it. and if you don't like homosexual issues don't watch, but it's really enlightening. you cannot see it and not feel the same way about homosexuals as you did before.          "},{"Title":"Didn't buy it for a second...","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Spoilers ahead)The ONLY reason I went to see this crap was because everybody said it had a great rape scene, which was bull$%&#!!! Either that or I saw a heavily cut version. I know, I'm coming off as some sort or degenerate scumbag, but Oz has better sex (and rape) scenes, hell, even Jodie Foster did better in the Accused! (that one I enjoyed, since I really hate Foster's aura of tough lesbian).I don't know, maybe I'm not the most sensitive guy around or the most appropiate one to comment on this. For gays, I think of Cruising (and the gays I see at the gym every day, which are even more repulsive), and for lesbians, I think of Showgirls (and Son of the Beach). So maybe my criteria is not the most appropiate, but what the hell!Hillary's performance was great, but anyone sober and not stoned could see she was a girl (so I can believe why everyone bought her scam, everybody depicted there was alcoholic and/or druggie). I don't care what her problem was if you con those around you to such extent (and especialy such lovely crowd), don't expect hughs and kisses when caught!!! "},{"Title":"Hilary Swank at her best!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen this, I can honestly say that I didn't waste my time. I just think it was a pretty interesting movie from beginning to end, since it shows life itself. Hilary Swank plays her role admirably. The academy award she won for best actress in a leading role was well deserved. I think she's a superb actress. I never thought she was going to act like this; she was the one who made this movie so real.As for the plot, I think it was very original, but disturbing. I like this movie because it shows some people's sad realities. The rape scene was thoroughly impressive. The way Hilary Swank played Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena was amazing; she really made me follow this movie without disliking it. It's also very sad to see the way she felt about being both a woman and a man. As for Cloe Sevigni, I think she carried out her role splendidly. Her academy award nomination for best actress in a supporting role was well deserved.Parents please read the following This should be considered an adult movie. It's better that your children don't see it, because it contains an intense brutal rape scene, some sexuality and drug use. Anyway, it's a must-see for adults even though this is quite disturbing. 7/10  "}{"Title":"intriguing; well worth your time","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this film.  It is well-acted by all.  Besides Hilary's oscar winning performance, I especially liked Chloe Sevigny AND the actress who played her mother.  Dead on with the trailer trash characterizations. I know this is based on a true story, but it didn't affect me very much emotionally.  I think this is because in some ways, Brandon Teena was on a self-destruct mission.  It was hard for me to drum up a lot of sympathy for someone who made such poor decisions.  I am not saying she deserved what she got (far from it!) but I was just amazed at how she subjected herself to such danger. "},{"Title":"dark, disturbing and sensitive","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  boys don't cry is a harsh movie. the movie is a no holds barred look at a troubled kid who has a sexual identity crisis. hillary swank is brilliant. i hate the argument that some people come up with - swank is too pretty to be covincing as a boy, she is so believable, that somewhere along the movie for a moment or two i had forgotten that it was indeed a girl. the most touching character to me was lana. chloe plays the character out brilliantly. her acceptance of teena when she realises the truth. is puzzling to many. but thats the beauty of love i think. sometimes nothing makes sense, and it all is just perfect that way. boys don't cry is full of such complex and sensitive characters. a lot of the characters and their lives is determined and governed by their cultural background and baggages. but without truly understanding it, its difficult for me to form opinions on them. one thing, is for certain. emotions are common across cultures. the way they are played out might be different. boys don't cry is a touching movie about the struggle to fit in, find a place for oneself. and the trauma of having to be who you cannot be. a touching 8!! "},{"Title":"Brilliant and disturbing","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, for those on here who hate this movie because they were offended by the content, why the heck did you see the movie in the first place? What did you think it would be about? But enough of that, because this is a Cinderella story movie. I love it when an independent film maker who struggles and works her butt off to make a movie gets the acclaim she deserves, especially from Oscar! This film is a good character and culture study of the Midwest. Yes, there are really people like that in the Midwest, and why Teena Brandon chose to live there with her lifestyle is beyond me, it was so foolish and dangerous. The acting is outstanding, Swank really earned her Oscar. Chloe Sevigny was just as good and deserved the Oscar more than Jolie. The two killers were just chilling and so disturbing. The movie is very disturbing and definitely not for the faint of heart. THe murder scene was so shocking, brutal, and heartbreaking that it is almost unwatchable. Peirce really knows how to make a gut-wrenching movie.  "},{"Title":"absolutely disgusting","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The sickest, grossest movie I have ever seen. Watching Swank make love to Lana was bad enough. Even worse was the rape scene, possible the most propulsive thing I have ever seen on tv or in movies...American History X has a rape scene which was disturbing only the first time i saw it but this scene made me literally sick to my stomach. I dont care if this is what happened to Tina Brandon, but I have a good stomach on violence and this is one exception. Watching her gettin the s*** beat outa her while taking it both ways, front and back, is not something that should be in theaters. This scene is worse than porn and they dont even show close-ups or any aspects that porns do. I would not recommend watching this movie if u have the slightest weak stomach. This  movie should be banned from  theaters and replaced with a satisfying porn instead of watching the most brutal thing in the world(i consider rape more brutal than murder unless its rape/murder).Porn is offensive to many people, but this movie should be even more offended. "},{"Title":"Well Performed Garbage","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie would totally suck if it wasn't for Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny. Their performances were amazing, but I can't say that for the rest of the movie. I was looking foward to renting this film because of all the critical acclaim it got, but it turned out to be garbage (with good performances). If you want to see a good Swank movie, rent The Gift. If you want to see a good Sevigny movie, rent Map of the World. I would only recommend this film to anyone if they wanted to see good acting. "},{"Title":"The exception","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first I must admit I was very cautious about watching an ex-90210 star on the big screen; my previous similar experiences had left a sour taste in my mouth... But during the second half of the film, I realized that Swank is the exception to the rule. She deservedly received the award she was nominated for. It's sad, though, that such moving performances tend to become very rare in Hollywood. 7 "},{"Title":"Amazing portrayal of a true life story","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an amazing portrayal of the real life tragedy of Brandon Teena.  His struggle, and the tragic end to his life, should teach everyone a lesson about gay-bashing and how horrific it is.  The closed-minded society which allowed his killers to commit this violent act disgusts me and I'm very thankful Kimberly Pierce (the director) made such a gripping tale. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie; Outstanding performance by Swank","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a tough, sensitive subject - transgender issues, sexual identity crisis etc. The director has done an excellent job of portraying it very well. The way movie was picturized, it takes us deep into America's conservative heartland. It makes us feel we're there - very well built up story and emotional sequences.Outstanding performance by all actors. great selection of locations. seems the director did over 5 years of research on this subject and people. I dont know if all the facts are represented properly, since I dont know the true story; Heck, I dont even agree with the concepts, ideas of transgenderism, but this is truly a great movie, which depicts the feelings and events naturally.Little too long (over 2 hrs). But didnt really feel all that slow.I would give Boys Dont Cry a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The main character is never felt or realized, but the performances save the movie. *** (out of four)","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BOYS DON'T CRY / (1999) *** (out of four)By Blake French(Boys Don't Cry is based on a true story. In this review a few actual facts are revealed. Some readers may believe the information to be spoilers.)Hilary Swank is an remarkably talented actress, too good for the material in Boys Don't Cry, the new drama based on the true story of young Nebraska woman Teena Brandon, who was raped and killed after experimenting with her sexual identity. Swank and a immovable supporting cast, together with Chloe Sevigny, Peter Sarsgaard, and Brendan Sexton III, grant success for Kimberly Peirce's heartbreaking, although mislead, depiction of vivid events. The acting saves the movie and the Academy Awards recognized several of the better performances (Swank even won Best  Actress). What the movie does not do is understand the true depths and emotions involved with the main character's intentions.Teena Brandon (Swank) becomes confused about her sexual identity and therefore cuts her hair short, stuffs her pants, flattens her chest, and exchanges her name for Brandon Teena. (We will use he when referring to Brandon Teena). Brandon travels to Falls City to clear her mind of an awaiting court date for grand auto theft. There he notices a townie girl named Candace (Alicia Goranson), whose ex-con buddy, John (Peter Sarsgaard), befriends Brandon. His other companions, including Tom (Brendan Sexton III), Kate (Alison Folland), and Lana (Chloe Sevigny), welcome this new pretty boy as one of their own.Romantic sparkles fly between Lana and Brandon, arousing John's jealousy. Soon their relationship becomes sexual, and the closer the two become, the more cautious Brandon must be in keeping his actual identity a secret. The other's begin to suspect something suspicious when they find tampons and a dildo under his mattress. When they eventually learn of his gender, John and Tom brutally rape Brandon. When the police do not take charge of the criminals, a few days later Teena is slayed by the two.The posters of Boys Don't Cry reveal a peculiar tagline A true story about finding the courage to be yourself. Understood the movie flows understandably and clearly and the style is disturbing and vivid, Kimberly Peirce directed with a perverse and edgy mood. But the movie lacks an extremely important element the defining of Brandon Teena's mental status. Even if we simply accept the notions of Teena wanting to be a boy, we want to know why. Is this young woman a lesbian? A transvestite? A hermaphrodite? Are her intentions aimed towards identity or homosexuality? Is she actually a lesbian who wants to be normal--therefore a sex change is necessary? None of our questions are answered dealing with Teena's intent, and the entire movie is based on those vary feelings.I previously reviewed this film negatively; the filmmaker's failed to develop ideas, but it is now that I realize the actors are really what it is all about. It was up to Swank to portray a confused character, and she did a great job with the slim material provided. As I said earlier, the actual production is unworthy of such great performances, but thanks to the terrific actors, Boys Don't Cry comes off as a satisfactorily passionate piece of work. That is more than the majority of movies these days. "},{"Title":"Incredible performances...","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't really believe my eyes when I saw this movie. Hilary Swank's performance was way unforgettable. I couldn't believe that this girl who once appeared in Buffy, the Vampire Slayer could give us this kind of performance... On the other hand, it seems that this role of Brandon Teena or Teena Brandon was meant to be for Hilary, since I saw an interview on E! made in 1994, and she said that her name on her upcoming movie would be Brandon and that they wanted to cut her hair... It's unbelievable... As regards the movie, it is very well made and very well performed... No only was Hilary amazing, but Chlöe Sevigni was spectacular too and the rest of the cast was also very good. Kimberly Pierce is for me, after seeing this movie, a very promising young female director and Hilary Swank has become one of my favourite actresses of all times... She does deserve all the awards she won for becoming Brandon Teena... "}{"Title":"Fair Movie, Outstanding Swank","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that were it not for the outstanding acting of one character, it would have quickly disappeared to 3 am showings on Cinemax.  The movie itself is rather predictable and simplistic. However, Hillary Swank is truly outstanding. She must have spent months polishing this performance. It is truly amazing how she just becomes Brandon Teena. I honestly believed she was a he. Swank absolutely deserved her award for this role.As for the rest of the movie - eh. Its okay. Nothing to write home about. The antagonists are rather predictable in their actions. I must admit, that the movie can be very frightening. I already knew what happened to Brandon...in a way that made it worse. I knew what was coming and almost didn't want to see it because I was so amazed and impressed with Swank's performance.  "},{"Title":"Hardly Evokes Sympathy for Gays","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning  The following post gives away some of the movie and is not politically correct.I was offended by this movie but not in a way the movie intended.  To be fair, though, I probably was more offended (but not surprised) by many of the comments on this page than the movie itself.   Admittedly, `Boys Don't Cry' was a competent movie with fine directing and performances by the actors.  Hillary Swank certainly delivered a performance worthy of a best actress award.  However, the brutal ending sequences seem to cause viewers to overlook the real message of this movie, which is far more controversial than the final outcome.Of course, no one deserves to be raped and murdered. What I find disturbing are some of the viewer comments that suggest this movie is about `tolerance' (probably the single most politically abused word in the English vocabulary in the last five years) and that it *shockingly* revealed how cruel people were to a young girl *just because she was gay*.But in this movie, Teena Brandon was not just a girl who `happened to be gay', but who pretended to be a boy and *tricked heterosexual girls into being involved in a homosexual romance.*  In the first ten minutes of this movie, Teena lures a young, unwitting, heterosexual woman into a brief, romantic fling.  The girl was obviously upset upon finding out that Brandon' (Teena) was a girl. After a lynch mob chases after Teena, all she can do is smile and proclaim, `how great it was.'Thus we can only assume that those who view this movie as a depiction of `intolerance for gays' would say that is was `wrong' for the heterosexual girl to feel this way and that it is OK for homosexuals to deceive heterosexuals into romantic and sexual encounters because any heterosexual who is not comfortable with this is a `hate-monging', `intolerant', `bigot/homophobe'.  And I thought that the gay community was trying to convince the rest of us that it is not within their agenda to impose their lifestyle onto others?Had Teena Brandon disclosed her sexuality to her would-be partners before any intimate encounters, I would have felt far more sympathy for her. But the fact that she was brutally raped and murdered does not make her actions in this movie any less irresponsible or immoral.  Hence, this movie is in no position to preach tolerance for a character that does not deserve to be a martyr any more than she deserved to be killed.  The `Hate' police can have their say now. "},{"Title":"Emotional, painful, excellent!","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching Boys don't cry was far from easy to do. Some boys do cry, and I surely did! Hilary Swank's acting is surely worth an Academy Award, but this film is also about more than the acting it is a work of art. It is intentionally not beautiful, but it made me THINK, which perhaps is the most important feature of a good film. The impression of Boys don't cry lasts far longer than the actual watching-time. "},{"Title":"Avoid","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Exploitative.  Unpleasant.  Avoid.  Brandon is a female gender-bender who dresses up as a man, ultimately falling in love with one particular woman. Her male friends- beer swilling, pot smoking losers decide to teach Brandon a lesson.  Yes, it comes down to rape and worst of all, WE'VE got to watch! But does love ultimately triumph?  It really doesn't, which is the one surprise in a movie breeming with political correctness.  "},{"Title":"This truly is the best film of 1999","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BOY'S DON'T CRY came out out in theaters in my area right after this year's Oscars and I decided to see why this film was praised so much. BOYS DON'T CRY is an emotionally shattering, hard-hitting movie and easily the best film of 1999. The movie tells the true story of Teena Brandon, a young woman who follows her sexual self-image by misrepresenting her outward identity. She cuts her hair, bandages down her breasts and begins living her life as a man named Brandon Teena. While not revealing too much about the story we come to realize that she will eventually pay for the deception.Director Kim Peirce reveals a world where people go bumper skiing, get chased by cops and sleep on the couch with the television on. It's a film with the same kind of feeling as, let's say BADLANDS or DRUGSTORE COWBOY where the movie's effectiveness has a lot to do with the small mannerisms or details in the realistic setting. I will say, without praising the film too much, that I had some misgivings toward the deception. I was happy for Brandon and his relationship with the Sevigney character, but I questioned the approach she took to pulling it off. Nevertheless, how their relationship develops is incredible and is possibly one of the most impressive love stories I have seen in film. You really see how beautiful their world is.In conclusion, Pierce's camera work is distinctive and very effective. Hillary Swank's performance is the single best piece of acting in years. The fact that she got the Oscar just makes me forget all the times the Academy didn't get it right. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Work of ART!!!!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I was expecting less then what i got. I can honestly tell you that I will never be the same after watching this movie. It moved me so much, it's hard to explain in so many words, but I felt it was heart-breaking, but intense all wrapped up together to fit on a screen. I think Hilary Swank has the most poignant power in her, it's electrifying. How she played the role of Brandon Teena is beyond me! How she transformed herself into this human-being of courage and honesty still amazes me to this day. This story will always have a place in my heart because it was written that way and it's REAL! Chloe Sevigny is magnificent as the shy-yet-disturbed Lana, who everyone grows to love. This movie has everything you need to make a solid picture. It has the conflict, the heart, the soul, the honest acting, and the reality of it all! I think Kimberley Peirce should be proud for the work of ART she has done....she should be honored to have such a fine cast portray this true to life and real story! I give 11/10 stars! "},{"Title":"Bad Hollywood Ending (not a spoiler)","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely hate when screenwriters take it among themselves to change history. Especially in a film so widely respected for its so-called accuracy. The story of Brandon Teena is so widely known that I can't believe Kimberly Pierce was allowed to trump up the ending so badly. What is so awful about leaving the tragic destination of the Brandon Teena story as it is known to have ended by any American with a television set or newspaper subscription. I did love every other moment of this movie though. And Hilary Swank deserved every bit of her Oscar. I applaud this film but am saddened at Pierce's use of creative license with such a widely known tragedy. "},{"Title":"She's gone to a better place","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys don't cry is a disturbing psychodelic insight into the depravity of man and how he reacts when encountering something different.  Unfortunately I heard how this movie ends so I was constantly skipping parts of the movie that werent interesting.  Unfortunately that lead to me gaining only partial insight into what this movie was truly about, so I watched again.....Hilary Swank looks so much like a man that it is impossible to think the sex scenes between her and  Chloe Sevigny arent normal.The only good feeling you can walk away with after watching this movie is one of relief that Teena Brandon has gone somewhere we noone can hurt her anymore "},{"Title":"As Amazing as it is Brutally Disturbing.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry is an amazing film experience that is impossible to forget. In all areas, it gets 10/10, the screenwriting was done realistically and well, while the director, Kimberley Pierce had amazing vision and put lots of effort into this picture. But it is the acting that really burns in my memory. Chloe Sevigny is absolutely dazzling, while Hilary Swank deserved everything she got, her performance was also brilliant and realistic.Boys Don't Cry is one of the best films of 1999, and it is as amazing as it is brutally disturbing. It is simply brilliance in film-making.Rating 10 "},{"Title":"...","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was at first puzzled that director Kim Peirce had placed Lana at the murder scene, but I realized later that it was her way of showing Lana's love for Brandon. Lana never felt deceived even as Brandon, standing in his jail cell, fully aware that there is nothing he can say or do to hide the fact that he is a woman, looks painfully into her eyes to hear her say, I don't care. In their own way, it was a cheerful, loving moment of their relationship. Only the audience knew the doom; to Brandon and Lana, it was the beginning.The killings were unjustifiable, but I really felt compassion for the two killers. They weren't anonymous or cold, they were human beings like Brandon, struggling to find their own identities. Peirce painted a vivid picture of their dead-end lives, forgotten just for a moment through alcohol and drugs. The time-lapsed cinematography of the smoke billowing from the factories, the clouds flying through the sky, the characters seemed suspended helplessly in their personal hell.Even as Brandon is savagely raped, we're not asked to feel pity for Brandon, nor anger at the rapists who were once his friends. It was a venting of the frustration of their inability to be what they don't know how -- that only Brandon was able to do -- be loving. From their broken homes, respect for women, or even for themselves, was never on the list. Boys Don't Cry. I didn't cry, but I knew deep inside my heart, I was crying for Brandon, Lana, John, and Tom, and the two innocent victims. It will never be the same. "}{"Title":"A stunning film. Shows the Courage of an amazing woman who wanted to be different.","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  when i first rented this,i had no idea what it was about, but i wanted to guve it a shot cauz i like the actress hilary swank. at the end of the film, i was shocked. here, a young woman is brutally raped and killed for not only being sexually confused, but different. all the actors/actresses are great, especially hilary swank (who does a magnificent portrayal for Brandon Teena/Teena Brandon.The Story (i kinda give it away, so if you don't want the whole story, just forget it) It starts in Lincoln, Nebraska. Brandon Teena goes to a few bars to pick up some girls, however, he is chased by a mob (probably angry fathers). Why? Brandon is a woman. Brandon then goes to another city in Nebraka and meets Lana(Chloe Sevigny) and a group of her friends including John Lotter(Lana's ex)and Tom ???. First John and Tom think Brandon is a good guy and a good friend, until they find out about Brandon's true identity. Lana, on the other hand, falls is love with Brandon and still loves him even after she finds out his secret.Brandon and Lana feel they are true soulmates and they want to stay together, however John and Tom disagree. They embarrass Brandon by taking off his pants and show it to everyone, including Lana. Then John and Tom brutally rape Brandon on Dec 30 (i think). Brandon pressed charges, so John and Tom decide to kill her. She is shot and stabbed in front of Lana (however, in real life i don't think lana really witnessed Brandon's death). They also kill 2 other people, but not Lana. John and Tom were arrested and you could tell Lana is trying to go on without her soulmate.It makes me sad that Brandon had to die at such a young age (20 or 21) and I feel bad for Lana. Brandon was basically sexually confused and different. She did not deserve to be killed because she was confused. Brandon should've been more careful, he probably would know what would've happened when Lana and her family and friends found out, but at least she or he had the strength and courage to do what she believed in. Go see the movie but don't bring your kids. Rated R Nudity Strong Language Brutal Rape scene Lot's of Violence Drug Use Adult Content other than all these, if you have the same feeling as I, you will be spellbound by this Romantic/Drama Also The Brandon Teena Story shows tons of stuff about brandon.  "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Normally, a movie that I rate a 7 would mean I would add it to my collection which now is about 1200 movies. I won't be adding this one.Also, a 7 would normally mean I may probably would be willing to watch the movie again. I won't be watching this movie again.It was dramatic and it was well acted (I guess). However, I had problems with the movie. For the most part, I didn't enjoy the fact that the movie took place in about 3 locations - a seedy bar, a trashy trailer, and a run-down tract house.I also didn't like the main character - Oscar or not. I couldn't quit get over the fact that she was playing a he. Any romantic angles to the movie fell flat because of that.Overall, it was low budget, depressing and only worth a 7 because it was good FOR WHAT IT WAS. "},{"Title":"Strong film, unwatchable characters...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, this movie is no-holds-barred! Sexual identity crises, rape, murder, you name it. Hilary Swank does a pretty good job as the main character but she is a bit too toothy like Julia Roberts and I can't help thinking they could have found a slightly more masculine actress to make the story more credible. The majority of the movie was repugnant and hard to watch - not because of the sexual stuff but because of all the trailer-park scum-of-the-earth redneck hippie rocker scumbags who inhabit the story. I just can't comfortably watch people like that who live in squalor and a world of drink and drugs and violence and who have no respect for anybody. The film was very well made and acted, but the characters were just so unwatchable to me that it detracted from the strengths of the film and I am therefore giving it a lowered score of 7/10. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Boys Do Cry","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good movie.  Of utmost importance is the Hilary Swank being convincing as a boy.  If you walked in halfway through the film not knowing she was female, most people would think it was a boy.  It is very disturbing to know that this is based on actual events.  It shows how society cannot accept others for who they are, especially if they don't agree with their beliefs or lifestyles.  But here's a question for the average movie-goer would you accept this story as much if it was a man pretending to be a woman?  I think that an unfortunate few (probably more) liked this movie because of their perceived lesbian aspect of the story.  "},{"Title":"Boo Hoo","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hate to break this to the good citizens of Hollywood, but there are literally hundreds of millions of people in-between the two coasts of California and New York who are not looking to get out of their small town existences. Please stop making me feel wrong for the location I have picked to raise my sons... Based, very loosely, on a true story, Swank is Teena Brandon, who cuts her hair short and becomes Brandon Teena. She is a troubled soul with big dreams about owning a mobile home park, and who likes to pass as a boy in order to be with other women. She leaves Lincoln, Nebraska and lands in Falls City and meets up with The Center of the World's Peter Sarsgaard, who introduces her to his screwed up extended family. Everyone here drinks too much, smokes too much, and works dead end jobs so they can leave this godd**n town. Swank meets Chloe Sevigny, falls in love with her, and they make plans to leave Nebraska for a glistening fantasy life in Memphis. Then the cornhusks hit the fan. Swank is imprisoned on a traffic violation and is found out to be a woman. Everyone reacts the way white trash should react, and the final forty five minutes of the film is an orgy of drunken rape and murder. First, let me state that Hilary Swank deserved every award heaped on her. She has a perfect look, and I sometimes forgot she was a woman as she immersed herself in the lie Teena Brandon lived. I hope Swank can keep up with the promise this breakout role gave her. I am an Air Force brat, and have lived all over the world before settling in North Dakota. For years now, Hollywood has doled out all this cow plop about how horrible it is to live in the midwest, and I am sick of it. No, this ain't paradise, but I will take a forty below wind chill over drive-by shootings and cities that never sleep any day. I like my livin' crime free and devoid of traffic jams and noise. A blanket statement about big cities, you protest? Well, I guess that's the sheltered midwest existence talking- where we are expected to express shock at Rosie O'Donnell coming out of the closet and to get excited if Nickelback plays the state fair. The Nebraska of this film is not Nebraska, and I figured it out early. Kimberly Peirce directs the film with all the subtlety of acid thrown in your eyes, and at one point shows us a director-y shot of a big city skyline- Dallas'. Reading the credits, this film proudly states that it was shot in Dallas, Texas. I was born in Fort Worth, and I graduated from high school in Nebraska, and I can honestly say there more than a few differences. For one thing, the white trash cast here all have Texan drawls that are never explained! The film makers make a point of how horrible Nebraska must be, yet do not even back up their hatred with accurate locations. The entire cast is awful. Not awful actors, awful people. One of the people portrayed sued the film makers for defamation of character, and you have to wonder what other liberties the director took. Brandon Teena does not come off as a heroic martyr, she comes off as an idiot who could not seem to wake up and smell the stale beer and SKIP TOWN. Peirce throws us into this cesspool, never explains WHY Teena did what she did, and still expects us to be moved and angered. Peirce has some good moments here and there, but after all the decadence in the first part of the film, the viewer may find themselves dulled to the horrific rape and murder scenes, which leave nothing to the imagination. If anything, I felt bad for the real people involved, who had to relive this nightmare on film in order to shock an audience. I dare use the word exploitation to describe the extended rape scene and the murders. While these scenes are strong and shocking, do not let them anger you into thinking this film is gospel fact and therefore good cinema. For a horrific true crime story, see the original film version of In Cold Blood, that film will stay with you for days for what they did NOT show This is a ghastly story that needs to be told. I just think the money may have been better spent on a documentary with the people involved, not a skewed perspective masquerading as an independent film. Boys Don't Cry is not worth the tears This is rated (R) for physical violence, strong gun violence, very strong sexual violence, some gore, strong profanity, strong female nudity, brief male nudity, very strong sexual content, strong sexual references, strong drug abuse, and strong adult situations.  "},{"Title":"100% Sick","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have rarely seen a movie where every single main character was truly sick. This one fits the bill. Some people have commented about how disturbing the movie is, so I won't do a repeat. The rape scene is particularly graphic and horrendous, made even more gruesome by the distinct impression that the victim thinks that she or he was at fault. I think we should note that the main character is not a lesbian, and explicitly rejects that identity when her only real friend calls her a dyke. Brandon is obviously dealing with massive sex/gender confusion issues, but his/her incredible naivete and utter dishonesty are almost unbelievable. One wonders what the character's redeeming qualities are. He/ she lies to everybody about everything. He/she is a car thief, steals money from people who befriend him/her, and involves his girlfriend and others in schemes that end up being life-threatening and ultimately murderous. Brandon is obviously sick and delusional, needs a lot of psychotherapy, and clearly has no idea of who she/he is.  And talk about naively stupid! How could he/she possibly think that he/she could be accepted by the white trash, narrow-minded primitives that surround him/her in rural Nebraska. This is a sad movie, but the only sympathy the main character evokes  in me is similar to what I would feel for a seriously mentally disturbed, self-destructive person.  I really wonder what the director's message was. Why this film got a best actress Oscar is a mystery to me.  "},{"Title":"Not impressed","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had high hopes going into the sold-out show of this film, but I was disappointed. The plot and camera techniques are straight out of a made-for-TV movie. The violence and specifically the rape scene (this is not a spoiler, since it's already mentioned in the IMDB movie description), while intense, have been done in other movies before. The movie is competently directed, and the director has already mastered Hollywood's oft-used technique of emotionally manipulating the audience. This movie could enjoy moderate success at the box office since it caters to the Hollywood mainstream audience, but as an indie film it had surprisingly little that was new and fresh.  "},{"Title":"Do not see, Really Badly Written","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie sucked. Period. Don't see it unless you are a fan of bad acting and writing. It's not a fun movie at all, and it is horrible cinematography wise. The beginning moved way to fast to understand what was happening, so when the middle of the movie arrived, you had no understanding of the characters at all except for Brandon. Nothing is explained, so when the graphic violence scenes come, they don't have as much import as they could have because you can't sympathize with the characters, who are all repugnant, stupid hicks who's actions have almost no motivation other than drugs. Also, as a reviewer said, The horrific ending means that Brandon Teena deserves our sympathy, but it does not follow that the film dramatization based on her life's story is worthwhile. For example, we meet Candace in a bar, where he has 12 seconds of dialog with her before a bar fight breaks out. After they flee the bar, they drive 70 miles (from where? to where? we don't really know, the movie is so vague) He wakes up in a field, meets Candace's baby, then that is all the character development she gets. It isn't even clear what their relationship is? are they friends? are they seeing each other? They mentioned marriage, are they married? did they get married in between scenes? from the way this movie jumps around, it's possible. Then they meet some other people (from where?) at a bar, and Brandon starts living in their house, or something. He hangs out there a lot, as does Candace. He calls the older women in the house Mom, but it is not said what their relationship is, but she can't be his mom. Then there are two guys, or maybe there were 3, I couldn't tell because their personalities ran together. They drink all the time, and are violent, and appear to not be related with any of the other people in the movie. Why the mom puts up with them is unknown. While there is no character development, there certainly is a lot of time spent watching rednecks do redneck things. What was the point of the scene with the truck riding? It was really long, and didn't tell us anything or advance the plot. The scenes in Boys Don't Cry seemed to be chosen out of a hat, or maybe recalled by one of the actual people years later, from under a drug induced haze. Then the movie shamelessly uses horrific acts to try to make us care about the characters, but it is far to late for that. Instead, it just sickens and shocks us with the vile acts portrayed. The movie seems to have been made simply off the murder at the end, and written backwards. The first hour of the movie was filler about Brandon's life. I feel like the writers didn't want to give the characters any depth because they had already killed them in their minds.Yes, Hilary Swank was good, but a Swank does not a movie make. "},{"Title":"did i see the same movie everyone else is praising?","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I must admit, I wasn't really looking forward to watching this film. Everyone thats seen the film has said that it's a real tear jerker, quite depressing, and by the way, it's a true story you know.  It's also supposed to be a great film.  I mean, it did win an academy award, right?  After seeing this, I think that says a lot more about the academy than it does about this film.  I have a feeling even Chris Rock could have taken an oscar for playing the role of Teena.  I'm not trying to say that Hilary Swank did a poor job, but it certainly wasn't the best of the year.  The movie itself held the aura of an after school special.  The script was shody, and the directing was lack-luster at best.  Every character except Chloe Sevigny's was a simple stereotype straight from the Jerry Springer show.  And hers was either lacking believability or proper motivation.  I couldn't figure out which.  The movie itself failed to reach me in the least.  Sure, it's a sad story, but this isn't a historically correct documentary, it's a hollywood movie.  And in a movie, you have to be able to identify with the characters before you can care about what happens to them.  Which I did not and makes me wonder who's giving this film such rave reviews.  So, if you spend your days watching Jerry Springer and COPS and consider it productive, then I'm sure you'll enjoy this film.  Otherwise, skip it and read the book if you want to know all about Teena Brandon. "},{"Title":"American white trailer trash at their best","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't see this film if you don't want to see some graphic detail of how a woman pretends to be a man but has to secretly dealing with her own femininity.  The love scenes are fascinating, did the real character do that and get away with it?Hilary Swank's performance was outstanding.  But what a screwed up character the real person must have been, what a shame.  However, I couldn't help but think all the way through the film as I watched Brandon mess up more and more due to inaction, or the wrong action, what an ugly woman Hilary must be to be able to pull off this role so convincingly.  Acting aside, she really looked like a boy.  There was only a few places where her voice went up into clearly female registers.  I wondered how it was possible she got away with it for so long.The most interesting character, however, is not Brandon.  It's Lana.  The small town beauty who wants to get out of town and falls in love with Brandon the boy.  But when she finds out that Brandson is Brandon the girl, nothing changes.  And I can't see how that can be as she is clearly not a lesbian!The supporting cast is wonderful.  They act the roles of the dull and ignorant to perfection and the final scenes leave you in disgust with man's inhumanity to others.10/10 "}{"Title":"Not Very Good","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why this movie got such high praises or why it has such a high rating on this site, it really wasn't that good.  I thought the movie was completely predictable and very infuriating.  I feel sorry for the real-life person that Hillary Swank portrayed, but at the same time, she totally brought everything on herself.  She was advised repeatedly by her friend to change her ways, but she chose to ignore him and continue surrounding herself with those horrible people, which ultimately led to her demise.No disrespect intended toward Hillary Swank, but I don't really see why she got an oscar for her acting.  So she has the ability to cut her hair and look like a feminine boy, big deal.All in all, I didn't think it was a very good movie, and I'm VERY glad I waited till video for this one.  I wouldn't go out of my way to see this movie again, so I wouldn't recommend you going out of your way to see it, unless you're curious like I was as to what all the talk was about. Anyhow, I hope you like it more than I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Typical Hollywood Inaccuracies","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I live very close to where this story took place, and yet again Hollywood screws it up.Accents are ALL wrong. (Hillary Swank got the job by lying and saying she was from Lincoln). We don't sound like damn Texans around here. Is it too much to ask for Hollywood to at least VISIT the place they are trying to represent? And, most tragic and criminal. There was another person, a third one, a black man, killed along with Swank's character that was completely left out of the movie!!! Can't imagine what his family feels.Trash pure and simple. Hillary Swank should be ashamed of herself and give back her Oscar.It was difficult to sit through knowing the real story and how much they got it wrong. "},{"Title":"Never again","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never thought it would happen.  But here, in Boys Don't Cry, I have found a movie that deserves a 1.  Utterly pointless and boring, this movie was depressing.  Hillary Swank gave a bad performance.  I would also like to know who exactly wrote this movie, because it failed miserably in its attempt to elicit sympathy for the main character.  If the situations in the movie are extremely accurate in their portrayal of real events, then I find I have no sympathy for Swank's character.  Based solely on her decisions, not on her sexual orientation, she apparently got what was coming to her. If one wants to me to sympathize with a person, she had better be worth it. Swank's character was an imbecile who garnered no emotion from me.  The story was dull and I could not relate with any of the characters.  A horrible movie that I recommend to no one. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was born and raised in Nebraska.  While I was watching this movie all I could think of was, 'who are these people, why are they speaking like that?' Nebraskans do not have Southern drawls - they never have and they never will.  This movie might have been entertaining to me if I could have just gotten over this monumental objection. "},{"Title":"sad.. story .. great movie","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This, movie is sad even more so because its a true story . It shows that it is ok to be different but never to lie .. lying gets you no where and it got Tenna Brandon Dead. Hilary Swank did a tremendous job in portraying her .... Excellant movie ! "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on cinemax last night after passing it by many times. I was just in the mood for some reason. Until the end it was difficult for me to feel too much sympathy for Brandon. She misled everyone into thinking she was a man - despite the problems it was causing her and everyone around her - and she just kept doing stupid things. The beginning scenes summed it up well. She kept screwing up and seemed powerless to stop it. Her relationship with Lana was well done. I got the impression Lana hadn't had anybody treat her like Brandon did. Not just sexually, but emotionally - to the point where it seemed like Lana didn't care if Brandon was a man or a woman as long as she was treated so well. I thought John was more realistic than Tom. At least with John I could see why someone would like him. Tom was just too much of a cretin to be believed. The big tragic figure was Candace. I'm not saying Brandon deserved what she got but why Candace? I never saw Hilary Swank as a real woman throughout this movie, which is really something special. "},{"Title":"Story's as good as the subject","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Too many films try to make a name for themselves by tackling contraversial subjects without paying much attention to story or character.  I expected Boys Don't Cry to do the same.  But I was pleasantly surprised.  It doesn't content itself with being a sob-story for societal rejects.  Instead it tells a compelling story about compelling characters. "},{"Title":"Awesome and Powerful","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most touching movies i have seen in a long time (along with American Beauty).  I couldn't believe how horribly Brandon was treated just because it was discovered the he was a she.  This movie made me realize that anything you say or do to someone can make them feel horribly, and that you ahould watch what you say.  The only problem with this movie was that Chloe Sevigny had a really gross growth on her boob.  She should ge it removed if she plans on doing anymore nude scenes. "},{"Title":"Tried (and failed) to mix hipness with traditionalism","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys Don't Cry was not a BAD movie, per se, but the way it was presented by director Kimberly Peirce turned a good movie into a mediocre one.Yes, Hilary Swank was very good in her portrayal of young (Teena) Brandon (Teena?), but she was surely not better than Annette Bening in American Beauty (who she beat for the Oscar).  Granted, there were a few scenes in which she was very good, but Swank was rewarded more for her character than her performance.No, the movie was not quite historically accurate, but I don't expect that from a movie.  My problem with the film was not the historical inaccuracies, including a lack of several key people involved in Brandon's life, and the presence of Chloe Sevigny's character in Brandon's death scene.  Facts of true life stories have to be changed in order to keep a tight plot and keep the viewer interested, so I can forgive the inaccuracies.What I have a hard time forgetting is the forced hipness throughout the movie.  The speeding lights flying across the highway at the beginning of the film, and the lights flying more quickly than normal across Chloe Sevigny's face at the end of the film, seemed out of place in a traditionally styled character study.And the characters in this film felt forcedly developed.  John especially felt like a forced revelation throughout the film, as if his character was developed simply for the fact that it was developed.  It reminded me of the CN tower in Toronto, which is the tallest building in the world for no reason other than to be the tallest building in the world.So, Boys Don't Cry was a mediocre movie.  It was not bad, by any means, but it also was not very good.  It was wrecked by the indie film aspect of it, an aspect which felt forced. "},{"Title":"The best gay movie ever made","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the best movie with a gay or transsexual protagonist that this heterosexual has ever seen.  Admittedly this film is not for everyone  Homophobes should probably skip it.  Also, people who don't like seeing realistic and sympathetic portrayals of people who are clearly white trash.  (By white trash I am not referring to geography or economic status, but a mode of behavior.)Brandon Teena (aka Teena Brandon), a man trapped in a woman's body, gets into a barfight over a girl named Candace one night, and his/her life changes forever.  A seemingly affable guy named John helps him/her out, and Candace takes Brandon home with her to a small town south of Lincoln, Nebraska.  We soon learn that Brandon is a wanted on several counts of petty larceny, assault, and Grand Theft Auto.  We learn too, that John, for all his friendliness and charm, is a dangerously violent psychopath.Brandon soon falls in love with a girl--Lana--who lives platonically with John.  The whole town learns the truth when Brandon tries to pay a speeding ticket with a fake ID and tragedy ensues.This movie is not perfect  Despite living in the icy midwest, everyone affects a southern drawl.  And Lincoln looks an awful lot like Dallas (where the movie was made).  But overall, a compelling story and strong performances made me give this movie a 9.  "}{"Title":"Incredibly moving film but painful to be moved this way","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had seen ratings of this film and noted it as one I didn't want to miss. I'm torn between the feelings of being glad I didn't miss it and sorry I saw it.  It was painful.   The acting by all the main characters was so real, I felt I was standing next to them all the time. . .cringing!!!One of the saddest things to know is how Teena(Brandon) was so mixed up that she didn't choose a way that could have helped her out of her miserable position.  Large cities with large gay populations could have been supportive even though she was a transexual and not lesbian.  (Not giving anything away.  This is shown in the beginning of the movie.) Instead, at every point where she had a choice, she made the wrong move.Go to this movie and feel like crying for her and applaud the acting of the three main women (including the mother) and also the two main male actors.   Hate their characters and admire their acting. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant First Feature","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With `Boys Don't Cry,' a new voice in American cinema comes to life. Kimberly Peirce, the Columbia film school graduate who became infatuated with the life of Brandon Teena, brings this true-story of one girl's search for happiness and the American Dream vividly to the screen.A beautifully composed title sequence shows us how Brandon Teena's friend helps her dress as a guy so she can go to a roller-skating rink and meet girls. It is clear from early on that Brandon is a self-hating lesbian, frustrated by the oppressive environment she lives in, and feels that her only solace is to don the clothing of boys in order to enjoy the women she can only dream of when dressed as a girl.Brandon clearly has a sexual identity disorder, which is all-so-real when you consider how vividly Peirce illustrates it's cause. There is one point in the film where Brandon's male friend, and future rapist/killer, tells her about his experience in jail. He describes how in jail they would cut themselves with knives and how he was better because he could cut deeper. Essentially, these are men afraid of prison and use self-mutilation as a way of controlling their repressed anger. These are caged animals taking their aggression out on the world-intimidated by anything that is remotely different. The scene is a brilliant set-up to what most audience members know will happen-at least those who know the story.The story is told quite simply but it's psychological depth is endless. Brandon dresses as a boy and runs away to a small town and their falls in love with  Lana (Chloe Sevigny). Lana is genuinely in love with this pretty young boy and Brandon must deal with the fact that eventually Lana will discover her secret. It is a secret that, when revealed, leads to the brutal downfall of Brandon.The film works because Peirce and her cinematographer compel us with images that brutally compliment the gripping screenplay. Throughout the film there are stunning cutaways of exterior shots shown in fast-motion. This is a world that Brandon can not keep up with. It is not until the end, when Brandon's world is no more, that mother nature returns to it's normal pace.Peirce so adeptly explores the psychology of `white trash' and their entrapment in middle America that you are amazed that this is a first time director. These are young people working at dead end jobs, living for beers and cigarettes, frustrated because of the limbo that their lives are in. Brandon is the stranger that they all connect with-feeding off her stories of supermodel sisters (a brilliant lie that she tells to explain away her feminine features) and the way `he' just came into their lives, giving them a momentary release from their tragically pathetic lives.And from all of this comes one of the greatest performances of the year. Hillary Swank, as Brandon Teena, stunningly captures the complexities of a young woman battling with the truth of her self and the lie of covering that self up. Her performance is one for the ages-one of those performances that Oscar so loves to ignore.Peirce directs her actors like a true master. They inhabit their space and spew their words in ways that make you feel as if you were watching this film in real time. And you would never think that a film like this would come across so horrific from the first frame to the last. If you know what happens to Brandon Teena one can not help but feel this overwhelming sense of fear and dread dripping from each frame. A truly admirable film.  "},{"Title":"Cry","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first heard of this movie I thought it would be really really stupid, I mean I was young and thought the thought of a girl who wanted to be a boy was really scetchy.So few years later I saw the trailer on another movie (Not sure of the movie)and loved it... I cried, laughed once or twice, and even cough myself smiling though the love scence. I guess the the feeling, the vibe of the young person was really strong, so you felt kind of swept away.I think this movie is touched by girls because of the situation... I really enjoyed this movie and think you would be surprised with the way you react to it. Catie "},{"Title":"John and Tom should not have done what they did. Nevertheless...(may contain spoilers for people who fail to read descriptions and don't know the ending)","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had to watch this one for my victimology class's hate crime unit, as my teacher tends to assign relevent movies to go with things like reading. In this case, I wish she had stuck to simply assigning reading, though. Personally, I think people can learn much more about hate crimes from reading books or magazine articles and they don't get If this movie makes an impression on anybody at all, it will be for the three scenes involving Teena Brandon (or Brandon Teena, as she went by when masquerading as a boy) getting dealt with by two white-trash thugs named John and Tom who are...not happy to find out that he was really a she. John and Tom go from quite disgustingly confirming Brandon's femininess in a bathroom and forcing his girlfriend, Lana, to see for herself (this scene is disgusting, but probably the most well-done and logical in the film), to raping Teena, to eventually murdering her. These are the scenes that will get people talking and determining the effectiveness of the film, which is um, well, really not that effective.Honestly, if somebody's going to make a film about a hate crime victim, at least focus on somebody who was honest and hard working and didn't even deserve to get yelled at, let alone killed. Teena Brandon's story is unusual, but not exactly deserving of a motion picture, as she was a criminal, dead beat, and a chronic liar. While I don't condone what Tom and John DID to her, I find it strange for character's like Lana(especially Lana) NOT to have been angry or...horrified at Teena's antics, but of course those who were were looked at like villians.And like another tragic, true story, B*stard out of Carolina, these, of course rurally located characters, suffer from severe lacks of brain power. Why, for example,  didn't Teena (the great Hilary Swank, whose potrayal is really not that different from the girl in Just one of the Guys) GET OUT of that town? Maybe she was on her way after the bathroom scene (but got stopped by John and Tom), but there was still no need to hang around and mooch off Candice after her rape. Esepcially when she was less than well-received by the (stereotypically) bad cops...As for John and Tom, if they were so horrified by Teena, why DID they rape her and constantly persue her, until her final death? Basically, after John and Tom were revealed as Terrible Villians, whatever personalities they had flew out the window. And why, by the way, was Candice shot and why (as somebody else pointed out) wasn't any information provided on what happened to her. Did she live or die? Did they get convicted for her murder. What happened to her baby? The more I think about it, the more I realized that a story about Teena Brandon might have been more interesting if told from the point of view of somebody like Candice (who was the one to first reveal to Tom and Lana her suspicions of Brandon ...not really being Brandon) than from Teena.Instead, we get to watch Teena and her dumb criminal past (why did that paper, which was apparently lacking in news to report her not THAT severe crime in the first place, look as though it listed her age as 19, when very boring scenes involving Brandon's twenty-first birthday had practicailly just happened), and same-sex scenes (some one with Lana sitting topless for about ten-minutes and having a very loud orgasm was not only disgusting but EMBARRASSING to watch, considering I live in one of those apartments where you can hear everything) and her useless high-speed car chase, and a bunch of other garbage that does not amount to much besides the aforementioned scenes with John and Tom. I don't think John and Tom should have done any of the things they did to Teena, but I don't necessarily think she was somebody worthy of having a motion picture AND a documentary (which I also get to watch) made about her, either.  "},{"Title":"Absurd movie that isn't about anything really important.","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Film's like this are made for a purely social agenda. A bit like after school specials except that they are intended to point the finger at middle America. It implies that every town is out to kill transsexuals. Simply put, this is not true. They may not agree with it, but they don't go wild and go raping and murdering. The people in the film industry have little concept of reality. So many of their films about their contemporary country are based on stereotypes and preconceived notions made by the industry and the filmmakers before them. It appears to be very narrow minded in my view.Did this happen, yes. Did it happen the way the film portrayed it? Possibly. Does it happen everyday in every town in America. Doubtful. It is simply absurd to point at people and accuse them of something before they have done it. It implies guilt before the crime has been committed. Perhaps it's impossible to do a film about really important matters that deal with 'any town USA'. You certainly wouldn't see the Oscars or so-called 'Independent Spirit Awards' Ceremonies passing out awards to a film about a person struggling with cancer or a kid that did the right thing. Certainly not by their political or social biases that are ubiquitous in their medium. So this makes this film pointless. How about helping out kids with Leukemia? Why not make a film about not killing folk, despite your differences? Oh right, wouldn't get an Oscar that way. "},{"Title":"Might try to finish watching it... but why bother?","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll be honest.  When I first heard about this film, I wasn't interested. Sure everyone was yacking about the deep social issues it presents and blah blah blah.  I didn't care.  Not even the taboo factor (if, considering this day and age, there really is one -- yeah I know lots of people still find it shocking) was enough to make me want to see this movie.  Then along comes my girlfriend and writes to me about how wonderful and moving this film is and how believable Hilary Swank is as a guy.  Usually my girlfriend is right but this time she was dead wrong.  I was bored after only five (yes, FIVE) minutes.  I figured, maybe it's just taking a little long to get started so I sat through another ten minutes.  By then I knew I hated this movie. Hilary Swank is in no way a convincing male (not just because of her obvious physical features but she's too feminine when trying to behave masculine). So I left the film on and went to the bathroom to shave.  After about another 10 minutes (I had no shaving cream), I went back to the movie.  It was still crap.  So I turned it off and popped in Bringing Out The Dead (by far a much superior movie).  I know this movie was based on actual events but I don't care.  Garbage is garbage no matter what it's based on. I know people will REALLY hate me for trashing this movie but I don't care. When I told my girlfriend how much I hated it she was in shock.  In all honesty, I sorta felt I was treating this film harshly since I had just viewed a movie that really spoke to me (again, Bringing Out The Dead) just prior to viewing this one.  Then again, Bringing Out The Dead is a slow paced love it/hate it movie so perhaps the comparison isn't so bad.  After all, wouldn't Bringing Out The Dead be the obvious loser between the two? Yet it wasn't.  I may try to watch the whole movie someday (with ALOT of black coffee and LOTS of soda and candy) but I honestly don't see why I should bother.For those of you that may accuse me of being sexist or god knows what, I actually have liked so-called chick-flicks to the point that I believe there is no such thing.  I might also add that sexual choices and differences do not offend me in any way.Also, for those who think I don't know my ass from my elbow, if you truly want to see a female actor playing a convincing male watch Linda Hunt's performance of Billy Kwan in `The Year of Living Dangerously.'  Nuff said. "},{"Title":"This was a hyped-up piece of garbage.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, I am a *very* liberal person, and my best friend of 15 years is gay, so it would be fair to say that I am in no way prejudice against gays. However, it is fairly obvious that the subject matter of this film rather than the substance (or lack thereof) is the topic of much acclaim. Hilary Swank did nothing to convince me that she deserved the Best Actress Oscar for her performance. Same thing happened last year with Gwyneth Paltrow in Shakespeare in Love. I suppose Hollywood was simply scared into *not* disliking this film, thus thrusting it into the spotlight and making everyone who didn't like it feel prejudice and ignorant. It's like making a film with gay characters is guaranteed success because the film industry is too timid to shake it's finger at such originality and bold filmmaking.This movie was absolutely horrible to watch. The story is incoherent at best, and the whole two-girls-finding-love-in-an-evil-man-infested-world-that-are-punished-for- their-love idea has already been done innumerous times, so the sentiment that this film is so unique and bold and new is bull. I don't care if this was based on a true story. For heaven's sake, don't use Hilary Swank to play someone who is supposed to be mistaken for a guy! I mean, how ignorant can these people be? I'm willing to bet that the real Teena Brandon was much more masculine in her appearance. The fact that all the men who are in this film are portrayed as fat, stupid, and evil simply added to the absurdity of this movie.Kimberly Peirce is an obvious man-hater and it shows very clearly in her directing. And Tracy Granger, I'm sorry, but you have to be one of the worst editors ever in film. Where's the concept of continuity? This film jumps around so much that all you end up getting is one simpathetic look at Swank after another. I'm sure that the public agrees for the most part on this since it pretty much bombed at the box office and nobody is really renting it. Just because you have gay characters doesn't mean that you are Gandhi. Look what happened to Ellen. 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great performance's but not really that powerful as a movie.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" With all respect but why should we care about a lying little young criminal? That was the biggest problem I had with this movie, I could not care for the main character. Therefor the movie wasn't as powerful to me as people made me believe it would be.Yet Boys Don't Cry is a good watchable movie thanks to a very believable Hilary Swank. Even though we get to see her fully nude (don't hold your breath fan boys, her nude scene's are most definitely not erotic.), you would still belief it if it was said she was a real boy. Still I think that Chloë Sevigny performance was surprisingly even better.What the character's relationship's with each other are was completely unclear to me. Who's who's brother sister, father, husband, mother or friend is completely unclear to me which made the movie hard to follow for me at times. OK, I should admit that I was a bit tired while watching this movie (Had worked very hard this week), so maybe things will be clearer to me when watching this movie again.Fact remains that the story is not told in the best way. Even though the movie is based on a true story, the ending still comes out of the blue and it isn't really clear 'why' the things at the ending happened.Still the love story in the movie works, as well as the movie it's message; Dare to be yourself. It's just that all of it isn't as powerful as it could had been.Still perfectly recommendable for Swank and Sevigny's performance's.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Useless as a feature film.  The documentary was infinitely better","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This has been recommended by countless people, but the story contains nothing worth making into a film. It is a sad story, full of weak people--all of them. The documentary on Brandon Teena is much more useful for something that needs facts, not romanticizing.The main character is not even particularly sympathetic herself, and there is no way the story could have been of interest to anyone unless she had been murdered. A 'successful' Brandon Teena would not have captured people's sympathy.The reason I find her completely unsympathetic is not because of her sexual confusion, but because it did not follow that it was okay to use dildoes on girls in actual sex, tricking them into thinking it was the usual member. In the documentary, some of these girls are so ignorant they still claim it was 'real.' Given that the whole milieu is as redneck as possible, it is (while not at all excusable even so) unsurprising that the murder would have occurred, once her identity was discovered by piglike young men.The one possible use of this film is to make you look into the story itself, and to see this very beleaguered impoverished low-life tragedy, which perhaps one might not have done with the documentary alone. So that the semi-fiction film publicizes a story that is not worth dramatizing, but does lead some of us (who were mystified at the way it was celebrated as something important, which it certainly is not) to find the documentary and learn a bit more about these half-literate people we usually associate with the South a little more than the Midwest. Maybe it puts Nebraska on the map. Again, the story itself is very sad and moving, but it is only meaningful as a piece of filmed journalism, which the documentary provides.It doesn't matter to me who gets Oscars, so if Hilary Swank has 2 that's fine with me, even though I thought her performance was perfectly suited to this mostly meaningless film (therefore quite like it.) The Oscars mean so little Garbo never got one, nor did Deborah Kerr or Robert Mitchum or Marilyn Monroe (whom they never even had sense enough to nominate) and Hilary Swank got 2. Katharine Hepburn got 4, only 2 of which were truly as 'deserving,' if that word can be used for these ignominious awards, as some of her greater roles, such as 'Long Day's Journey Into Night.' That says it all to me. I think Hilary Swank should get 5 Oscars, given how absurd they are. "},{"Title":"LAME!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was absolutely horrible.  That girl had serious mental problems and I don't know why anybody would make a movie like this.  The director mus have been high or something to make this picture.  Hillary Swank won best actress for trying to be a boy and she is brutilly raped, which is the most intense scene in the movie.  I think that she only got best actress for this movie because she had to do that scene.  The only thing she did good in this movie was to act like a boy.  Don't waste your time watching this movie becuase you will just be depressed at the end.  I give this movie a great big two thumbs down!   "}{"Title":"If you HIT - expect to be HIT back!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just caught this movie on BBC2 and what strikes me most about it is the Heterophobic way the film (Director!) neglects any sort of a balanced view with regard to the Lesbian WILLFULLY bringing about her own terminal destruction. LIES cause a lot of trouble in this World and to pretend to be a different gender in order to get SEX is totally WRONG! Teena technically RAPED the girl (Chole Sevigny) by posing as a MAN while in fact being just a WANNABE. If a man like GARY COLEMAN (the afflicted one from Different Strokes) pulled the same VILE act on a child, as he himself could pass for at least 20 years younger than himself, the audience would cheer his lynching. Instead we get Dyke propaganda on how it is acceptable for GAY WOMEN to do WHATEVER the choose and NOT face the consequences. Shame on the Academy for giving Oscars to this True(?) to life one sided tale which refuses to ACCEPT the RIGHTS of HETEROSEXUALS to not get RAPED by HOMOS. "},{"Title":"Brilliant debut.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This director is amazing, that's all I've got to say. How she crafted this story and moved me is just amazing, I'm very very impressed. I'm sure a lot of it has to do with the fact that it's simply a very powerful true story, terribly moving and just terrible at the same time.The actors are all fine. Hilary Swank does a great job, sure, but for my money it was Chloe Sevigny that made this film watchable. If we didn't believe that SHE believed that 'he' was a 'she' (that's not a spoiler, unless you were born under a rock) then the whole movie would fall apart. But we experience Chloe falling in love, and we buy it hook line and sinker.  Well done indeed. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers...Girl who wants to be a man... OK, I'm fine with that. But why show her getting raped getting shot... that's something I don't understand. It just goes too far.In my opinion, there's a limit to what should be put in a movie and what should be left out. A brutal rape and an equally brutal killing of the main character is unacceptable and unethical in every way.This movie got the lowest score from me because of these facts. The acting might have been good, but if the storyline and the actual content of the images is inappropriate, there's no point giving credit to the actors who helped produce this awful movie. "},{"Title":"Made Me Sick","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Hilary won Best Actress over Annette Bening (My fav.) I decided to see the movie to see if she was worth it, and she was in a way, but the movie had a little story covered up by stupid no plot crap. The hate of gays is a good topic, but they didn't have that in there. At the end, a Sad ending made sense to me. The end was fair, she was manipulating and lying to everyone and she deserved it. The performance was good, but thats the only thing thats was good. She wasn't even in there that much, so its not really worth the time or the money. "}]