[{"Title":"A Divine Comedy","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There have been so many romantic comedies produced that it is difficult for a film to break out due to the depth and breadth of the competition.  This is one that does.  This wonderfully funny romantic comedy takes a fresh approach, portraying a romance involving not one, but two men of the cloth.  They are not even of the same cloth as one is a Catholic priest and the other a Jewish rabbi.  The girl of their dreams is also the girl of their youth as the three were best friends in grammar school.  Now, after many years of separation, Anna (Jenna Elfman) returns and both men fall immediately and madly in love with her.The film is chock full of religious humor and sharp-witted dialogue that keeps you grinning between guffaws.  The romance is syrupy sweet and the actors have such great chemistry that it is easy to believe they have been friends all their lives.  Edward Norton produced, directed and starred in this gem and he shows himself to be adept at spinning a magical yarn with very few flaws.  This was Norton's first directorial effort and it bodes well for his future on the other side of the lens.  His work with the actors was marvelous, and his pacing of the film was excellent.  The film flowed very pleasantly from scene to scene and kept the viewer amused and immersed.The entire cast is terrific.  Norton plays Father Brian Finn and is funny and affable in the role.  Rabbi Jacob Schram is played by Ben Stiller, whose comedic star is on the rise.  In this film, he outdoes his wonderful performance in `There's Something About Mary' with a character that is just as amusing but more complete, with greater range.  Anne Bancroft is also fantastic as the rabbi's mother.  She has the New York Jewish mother routine down pat, right down to the accent.  A dynamite performance. The real news in this film though, is Jenna Elfman.  She lights up the screen with her enthusiasm and her charming girl-next-door beauty.  She is dynamic, hilarious, sensitive, sexy and lovable and pretty much steals the show.  After her terrific performance in `Edtv, she proves once again that she is a talented actor and comedian.  One can only hope that the popularity of this film gives her access to more and better parts.This fabulous romantic comedy is highly entertaining and enchanting.  I rated it a 9/10.  It is especially funny if you happen to be Catholic or Jewish.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Edward Norton continues to impress","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only this time Norton is not only in front of, but also behind, the camera.Keeping the Faith is a funny, romantic and very smart romantic comedy.  The three leads are charming and believable, the supporting cast is outstanding, the script is insightful and fresh, the technical credits are polished, the musical selections are energetic, and the tone is so consistently enjoyable that I have to say it's my favorite romantic comedy since Jerry Maguire.Stiller proves again what a surprisingly strong romantic lead he is and carries the whole film, Norton is consistently one of the best actors working and here takes a role like no other he's played before, and Elfman is a real revelation she's never been this beautiful, confident and intelligent before.  She makes it very easy to see why both a priest and a rabbi would fall head over heels in love with her.Keeping the Faith works in every way a romantic comedy should but works on an even higher level thanks to a refreshing incorporation of religion and spirituality.  It is in no way heavy handed or dogmatic (or judgemental) in its approach to the subject matter, simply believable and interesting, it's a part of who these characters are.If you like romantic comedies this is a must see, but anyone who can appreciate a solid story, strong characters and two hours of movie bliss will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Good comedy/romance","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty good film and I think it hits perfectly the things we all want in life. Great friends and significant others. It is just a beautiful film which I must say (for a comedy) and a Ben Stiller film is pretty jokeless. Good acting, good directing a good story and good everything. There was one thing that was great though. The way Edward Norton used Faith in this film. Never have I seen so much depictions of Faith in a film and actually enjoyed it. I don't believe in church and stuff, but these two clergymen are way beyond cool, they ROCK!My favorite in this one is undoubtedly Jenna Elfman. She is so cool and cute. I mean there are so many beautiful women in Hollywood, but man one look into those shiny, glittery eyes and I'm sold. She has just so much natural glow about her it really is amazing. GOOD CHOICE!!! I can only beg producers to use her more in quality productions, she's pretty, she can act and she's very likeable too.7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Oh-so-sweet","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. I didn't expect much from this film, considering I didn't really know what it was about, but from the moment it started it caught my interest. The story of a rabbi and a priest being best friends just seemed so beautiful to me. There is no religious cracks in this movie and it shows how we all should accept one another's religions.Then these friends are reunited with their 8th grade best friend, who comes back as a beautiful grown woman. There is an obvious immediate attraction from both guys to her. The only problem is that the rabbi can't be with her because she is not Jewish and the priest can't because he has taken an oath of celibacy. The good part about this movie besides the chemistry between all actors part of this film is that you don't know what will happen. It's not so predictable and you really feel for the actors which is rare these days. I would recommend this to anyone looking for a sweet romance. "},{"Title":"Unlikely yet entertaining 'menage-a-tois'screwball comedy","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  KEEPING THE FAITH (2000) *** Ben Stiller, Edward Norton, Jenna Elfman, Eli Wallach, Anne Bancroft, Ron Rifkin, Rena Sofer, Lisa Edelstein, Milos Forman.  (Dir Edward Norton)So did you hear the one about the priest and the rabbi and the `business woman'?  Well if that sounds familiar don't let that dissuade you from this frequently hilarious romantic comedy of the unlikeliest of menage a trois in cinema history.Childhood chums, Jake Schram, Brian Finn and Anna Reilly - The Three Muskateers of the 8th Grade of Manhattan - are reunited nearly 2 decades later with a lot of catching up to do when Anna comes back east for a short stint as a high powered brokerage businesswoman (portrayed in full giddy sexy appeal by Elfman of tv's kooky couple `Dharma & Greg') who has her hands full when she finds her best buddies, Jake (Stiller in fine leading man/comedy mode) and Brian (Norton, equally riotous in his directorial debut) are, respectively, a rabbi and priest.Seems the best friends only bonded stronger when their female compatriot moved out of the neighborhood pre-adolescently and shared more than their uncommon friendship their devotion to their separate faiths.  To make matters more difficult in Anna's sudden return into their lives is the fact that both buddies are in love with her but it is Jake who winds up making the first move as the frustrated young rabbi who is constantly being set up on disastrous blind dates by his meddlesome congregation (`the kosher-nostra').  After the initial awkwardness is overcome the two friends become a casual sex relationship that only gets further complicated when Jake cannot handle the fact Anna's non-Judea background must be taken into effect if he is to become a full-fledged rabbi at his synagogue.  Brian, meanwhile, has found his libido at its leash when Anna begins to subsist in his dreams leading to a comical revelation by the film's conclusion.The threesome have chemistry to spare and banter so witty and blunt by Stuart Blumberg's script that the pedestrian storyline (will Jake realize just what a good thing Anna really is and will Anna realize Brian really wants the best for her) is a no-brainer (and I have to admit the climax of Stiller addressing his followers with a mea culpea seemed to miss its mark since there was no real sense of him `betraying' his people), the film chugs along merrily and makes light of the religious overtones (one truly funny moment is the depiction of the young Jake sorting through his Jewish rabbi hero trading cards the way one would relish finding a Mickey Mantle rookie card) with a contemporary spin.  Edelstein is memorable as well as the sinfully sensual Sofer as, respectively, date from hell and date from heaven for Jake.  Bancroft and Wallach also lend veteran character actor shtick with all the nourishment of a nosh at the Carnegie Deli.Elfman has proven to be a lovely comedienne and has always reminded me of Jamie Lee Curtis with her buoyant performances and adds just the right bounce as the tomboy all grown up.  Stiller continues his stance as the hardest working man in comedy with another deft, dry turn as the befuddled rabbi and Norton display the tricky balance of skilled actor of his generation (his choirboy persona is perfectly advanced for his good-hearted priest and his knack for perfect imitations - i.e. Dustin Hoffman's `Rain Man' )- is only matched by his straight ahead approach to filmmaking; trimming the fat but keeping the high calorie comedy quota intact.He even gets his former director Milos Forman (who put Norton through the paces on `The People vs. Larry Flynt') for a small cameo as an elder clergyman to get one of the film's biggest laughs (interrupted by a middle-of-the-night phone call for Norton he says he was `dreaming of his mother's sausages').Believe in love and laughter is to appreciate a wonderful romantic comedy that has both in spades.  "},{"Title":"Romantic Triangle Comedy That WORKS!","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Keeping the Faith' is one of the funniest, smartest, warmest comedies of the last several years, and is a terrific directorial debut for costar Edward Norton. It works on many levels; as a loving look at relationships, on the common ground Judaism and Catholicism shares in compassion towards people, in embracing love, no matter what obstacles might arise...and it does all this while respecting different faiths, which makes this a very unique and special film!Norton and Ben Stiller play lifelong friends, who, as children, meet a fabulous, funny girl who they bond with. Eventually she moves away, and the two boys grow up, becoming a priest and a rabbi...then the girl returns, as a successful businesswoman, and the friendship is renewed...until romance enters the picture!Each character is unique and likeable; Norton is a sweet, funny klutz, endearing in his awkwardness; Stiller is compassionate and quick-witted, dealing with his Temple's matchmaking efforts with wry humor; Jenna Elfman (who has NEVER been lovelier onscreen) is both wise and vulnerable, and totally believable as a person both guys would fall in love with.Major issues are addressed in the film (a Priest's vow of celibacy, interfaith marriages, religious discrimination), and are dealt with and resolved in such a positive, loving manner that you wonder why these issues ever BECOME problems! All this reflects well on Norton, who shows remarkable sensitivity as both a cowriter and director!The supporting cast is marvelous; Anne Bancroft is fabulous as Stiller's mother, Eli Wallach and Ron Rifkin, as a rabbi and synagogue leader, respectively, are equally good; director Milos Forman is terrific as Father Havel, Norton's mentor. Two other supporting players should be singled out, as well; Lisa Edelstein has a GREAT slapstick scene with Stiller, as the Jewish 'Date from Hell', and Brian George is hilarious as a Sikh/Christian with Jewish in-laws bartender that Norton confides in.There are a LOT of great one-liners, inspired scenes, and a resolution that is both believable and satisfying. This is a 'feel-good' movie that you can enjoy, again and again! I HIGHLY recommend it!  "},{"Title":"A fresh, fun romantic comedy in a New York state of mind.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith is just hip enough to breathe some fresh air into a stagnating genre without sacrificing the requisite feel good moments in the process. The film's 2+ hour run time is a bit long for it's simple plot, but it manages to stay focused and dish up enough creativity to make it time well spent. A very enjoyable fun flick. "},{"Title":"an absolute charmer","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Norton, Stiller, and Elfman are an absolute delight!  Edward Norton does a bang-up job of a debut film, keeping things light, entertaining, and very, very funny-- and it's great to see him lighten up after such fare as Fight Club.  A uniformly great cast, a witty, literate script, three scintillating lead performances, and a talented young director add easily up to the best romantic comedy since Woody Allen's Everyone Says I Love You. Take your friends, take a date, take your grandma-- this is one everybody will enjoy, and you'll definitely come out smiling. "},{"Title":"A good feel good comedy","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton's Keeping the Faith is a well meaning a good hearted comedy about boyhood to adulthood loves and different faiths in the cross fire.  For first time director Norton this is a good example of what one can do when he is not shaving his head or getting into fights (j/k). The film stars Ben Stiller as rabbi Jake with some nice tones of comedy in his weekly services and Norton plays priest Brian (Stiller's best friend) that means well.  They both love their childhood friend-girl Anne, who when she grows up (Jenna Elfman) becomes the apple of both their eyes.  It goes around for a while, and it turns out to be funny and expectable results.  Still, good effort by Director Norton, script-writer Stewart Blumberg, and the cast for pulling this through.  A "},{"Title":"An hour of comedy falls apart in the second half","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith as an adult romantic comedy works well.  Norton's timing, both as a director and as an actor are magnificent, and Stiller and Elfman add to this shining cast.  The approach to religion in a mainstream film is a new one for me at least with deference being paid to each of the respective character's, and the jokes are basically laughing with the religion, rather than at it.  The inner struggles that each man faces with his own religion and the woman that threatens to tear apart their religious selves are the most interesting aspects of the film.The first half is a comedic gem, a laugh-barrage, that completely changes once sex is introduced.  It loses focus, changing its story into that of a failing friendship and blossoming love interspersed with awkward and frankly embarrassing moments of comedy.  For those who have seen it I refer to the touchy-feely confession joke.At over two hours, it's way too long for a comedy, and it definitely feels it.  It's a good film, but by no means can it be considered great.  See it to laugh for an hour if you don't mind chuckling and fidgeting in your seat for the second hour. "}{"Title":"It takes a lot of faith to understand that this comedy has depth","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie works. Why? Well, the actors, of course. The plot is simple, but these actors are the best in their field when it comes to comedic genius at work. I was sorry to hear that Edward Norton lost his mother, but he dedicated this film to her. Edward is so versatile, that he can play any character in a credible manner, and who can go wrong with Ben Stiller? His parents are comedians, so he comes by it naturally. And what a delight Jenna Elfman is. I absolutely loved her on the hit TV series, Dharma and Greg. I miss shows like that. Overall, the movie was a success because of the actors. Anyone else doing this script would have ruined it. Great casting! Many critics on here focus too much on the plot rather than the great acting and facial expressions, physical gestures, and they are also missing what the movie is all about; friendship, faith and forgiveness. Watch it again, you might feel differently. No, it's not a masterpiece, but it's just clean fun. "},{"Title":"Great movie - funny, romantic, and well-done","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a great movie!  I wasn't sure if it was going to be good or not, but since I like Ben Stiller, and I like Edward Norton,  I decided to go.  I'm really glad I did.  It is funny and it romantic.  I can't remember the last time I saw a movie I liked so much.  The comedy isn't overly done and almost every scene has some comedic aspect to it.  The movie never gets bogged down with deep issues though it does bring up some interesting points.  You walk away from the movie feeling good - really, what more could you ask for from a movie? "},{"Title":"SEE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I laughed and laughed and laughed, then when people started staring I laughed some more.... This movie was excellent. Ben Stiller and Edward Norton are wonderful. It was also nice to see Jenna Elfman in something different than her Dharma character (which I also like). Unlike a lot of movies I've seen recently the trailer didn't show every single dingle good part. I loved the supporting cast and I would recommend this film to everyone. My boyfriend even liked it and that says a lot. "},{"Title":"Funny light romantic comedy","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great date movie. Edward Norton and Ben Stiller are just as appealing as ever and Jenna Elfman is equally interesting.The film is light and fluffy but a cut above the usual light romantic comedies in that the jokes are a little better than usual. A nice combination of wackiness combined with the more emotional moments make this a nice way to spend a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Great romantic comedy without being saccharine","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is refreshing to see a romantic comedy that is not overtly manipulative and formulaic.  Edward Norton, Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman give solid performances in their roles.  Edward Norton is surprisingly good at comedy--he is wonderful as the priest yearning for romance with the likable Anna.  And Ben Stiller--fabulous as the rabbi who is torn between his religion and love.  His timing is impeccable--he has the ability to give depth to a character who could seem shallow in another actor's hands.The script had a good blend of humor and romance, which I believe is the reason why the movie works so well.  Great cast, great effort from first-time director Norton, decent script equals an enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	They say Faith can move mountains. They say Faith can get you through the turmoil of life. What happens though when your Faith in God runs headlong into your Love of a woman? Can the two exist if the woman is of a different Faith? Can it exist if you are the leader of your denomination? Ed Norton's directorial debut examines this in what could be a serious movie but is a very funny romantic movie. 	We start with Father Brian Finn, Ed Norton, stumbling drunk and landing in an all night bar. He ends up telling the story to a world-weary bartender who claims to have heard it all. The bartender knew he had heard it all when it started with, `There's this Priest and a Rabbi&#133;' Actually the story doesn't start there though. 	Approximately 16 years early Brian Finn and Jacob Schram, two best friends, met their soul mate Anna Riley. She was the kind of girl all boys wanted to be around, cute but not too girlish. These three are never seen without each other. Disaster strikes 2 years later when Anna's father is moved across the country to New York. The three occasionally keep in touch through letters but think that their partnership is over. 	We jump to the future where the two boys have taken interesting jobs. It seems Brian and Jake, Ben Stiller, have always had a calling and that calling was to preach the word. Brian has become a Priest and Jake is now a Rabbi. Both are the hottest things to hit their respective Church's and are shaking things up with contemporary ideas. They are even jokingly known in the streets as `The God Squad.' They reach some opposition from the old-line members of their respective congregations however the increased numbers at each service is hard to argue with.  	One fine day Brian informs Jake that their old friend, Anna is going to be coming to New York for work and wants to get together with them. Both are stunned to find their gangly tomboyish friend has grown up to be a stunning workaholic played by Jenna Elfman. 	Here's where the story really gets interesting. The three friends begin palling around again and getting to know everything about them. Anna is basically the proto-typical 2000 woman. She is so busy working that she rarely has time to go out with men in fact as she puts it, she has a relationship with her phone. Anna is more interested in getting to know about the two guys. She finds it fascinating that the two men are so dedicated to their churches and attends services at both. She also is interested in knowing how they are going to get their Catholic/Jewish Community Center opened. However what interests her the most is the men's relationship issues. She quizzes Brian about his faith and of course about his vow&#133;the big vow&#133;and wants to know what is going on with Jake and his women. I say women because all the women at the Synagogue are desperate to get their daughters married off to the young Rabbi. This leads to a couple of wonderful dates for Jake. 	Problems occur with all this time spent together though. Brian begins to question his vows of Celibacy more and more as he is around Anna. Even more of a problem though occurs between Anna and Jake as they fall in love. This wouldn't be too much of a problem if Jake was just your normal attendee of the Synagogue however being a Rabbi up for his own church? Well let's just say it isn't looked upon too well to be going out with a blonde Irish girl if you want to lead a Synagogue. 	Since this is a Romantic/Comedy we know how it is going to end. The pleasure of the movie is watching how they get there. All three actors deliver superb performances. We knew Ed Norton was a great actor but Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman more than stand with him in terms of comedic timing and drama. I was doubly impressed that Jenna, unlike some other television actresses, was able to successfully shed her television persona for a new gig.  	The dialogue was rapid fire and funny. The timing of the movie was also well paced. We had seen early evidence of Ed Norton's abilities when he helped out trimming down American History X and he continues to do a great job with the reins fully in his hands. This was definitely worth full price at the theater and is a great Date Movie.   "},{"Title":"Did ya hear the one about a Priest and a Rabbi and Anna Banana","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely a great movie, I saw a special sneak preview of it on Saturday night, and it was one of the funniest movies i have seen in awhile, almost as good as Something about Mary, what can i say Ben Stiller is great.  I must also say that this movie had the whole theater cracking up.  And the scene when The priest is talking to the bartender about the bartenders religious back is great.  I give this movie TWO thumbs up in my book. Great Movie "},{"Title":"An actual MODERN comedy","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have now seen this film twice in one week and I have to say that it is one of the best comedies I've seen in a long time! It shows that modern relationship of friends and lovers and the actual problems they have, not lame excuses for a storyline. Edward did a GREAT job of directing and the movie comes off as a smooth, realistic piece. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone!  "},{"Title":"Funny and Endearing","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie surprised me in its comedy.  I was afraid going in that I was going to be subjected to a bad two hour priest/rabbi joke.  I was only half right .... the joke is funny.  Keeping the Faith is a very effective romantic comedy with a spiritual twist.  The script is pretty good, but what really makes this movie are the three leads.  Edward Norton (who also directed), Ben Stiller, and Jenna Elfman all have great chemistry and are fun to watch on screen.  The running time is a little long (clocking in at 2 hours and 9 mins), but seldom is the viewer bored (I never checked my watch).  Sure it is predictable, but hey, romantic comedies are not usually known for breaking new ground.  I paid full admission price for this movie, and I don't regret a dollar of it.  It was fun. "},{"Title":"The Rabbi, The Priest and The Businesswoman?","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yeah, it sounds like one of those jokes that you hear between a bunch of guys in a bar that starts like, 'You know this joke about the rabbi, the priest and the businesswoman?'. 'Keeping The Faith' is pretty much a typical romantic comedy. Blumberg's script follows the usual love triangle storyline. It's quite amusing and entertaining as the lines are witty and funny and the actors have good chemistry. I like the way the religious humour worked without being vulgar, offensive or mocking. Ben Stiller plays the rabbi with his usual comedic and 'serious' flair and Edward Norton's attempt is quite impressive. Jenna Elfman is a natural when it comes to comedy and she completely owns the part. She's also very effective with the dramatic sequences. Rena Sofer has a sensual presence. Anna Bancroft and Eli Wallach lend adequate support with their strong presence. There are a few scenes that become overly melodramatic and could have been better left out like the scene with Stiller addressing his followers and apologizing (which didn't make much sense). Overall, Forman has directed a likable rom-com. Even though the story itself isn't anything new, the dialogues and actors make it work. There's enough love and laughter. Keep the faith. "}{"Title":"A Priest A Rabbi and an Elfman...","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Remembering back, to 2000, I had only seen the trailer for this in the theater, once and hadn't thought much about after, it seemed good. Then a girl I was dating said I want to go and see the one about the Rabbi and the Priest, I thought it was a 'Knock Knock' joke until she reminded me that the name of the movie was Keeping The Faith Oh yeah, that one. I thought. For being on the acting and directing side, I know that 'Edward Norton' has some good directing skills. Directing, especially a comedy or romantic comedy can be complicated, due to the fact that not everything will be funny to everyone, so you want to reach the masses. The chemistry between Anna and the Jake (The Rabbi) was pretty hot, they sure brought that out convincingly. Father Brian didn't realize until he was already attached to Anna that something was a-miss after he had shared with her how he felt. Sad for him. I enjoyed the enthusiasm that Father Brian the Priest and Rabbi Jake Shram put into their church services. Although I'm not catholic or Jewish, and I'm not gonna switch religions because it looked like fun, I wouldn't gamble my eternity on the 'premise' of a funny and comical church service of a different religion. Not for that, but all in all this Rabbi and the Priest along with Anna love story sure delivers laughs, love, sorrow and reminiscing on the old days of school's past. This is a recommendable date-type feature for those who enjoy love stories, Rabbi's and Priests and well crafted stories set in N.Y. (****)Wha? Tanks, IMDb. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie with a lot of Laughs - Yet Deep and Poignant","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent movie - it deeply explores the real issues surrounding faith and commitment - yet the movie remains light hearted and fun. The real surprise is Jenna Elfman - this movie shows what range this actress has - I loved her in this movie much more than I hate the quirky Dharma (which is saying a lot). The script is excellent; the chemistry between Elfman, Norton and Stiller is as electrifying as any movie I can remember. Don't miss this real, poignant, funny, deep and thought provoking-movie.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellently done.  Edward Norton does a great job directing.  He allows each actor to be himself/herself in her role.  Jenna Elfman is Jenna Elfman, just as a business shark.  Ben Stiller does the usual Ben Stiller.  Norton is terrific in his role as well.  I did not stop laughing throughout the movie.Everyone should see this movie. "},{"Title":"A New York Story","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Tivo holds sixty hours, so when a film description is at all promising, and I have space, I download it. It's free and who knows how desperate we will be for some entertainment. As we looked at the thirty words that are allowed for a description of this film it sounded simply too hokey to bear. A priest and a rabbi deal with the return of a childhood girl buddy.  The film was a delight. A special pleasure where the background scenes of New York's upper west side, where we had spent so many decades. But what made it work is that the unlikely, contrived scenario was given life by the actors. There was that perfect balance of playfulness and genuineness that did the trick.Jenna Elfman, played the catholic Anna Riley with lightness and intelligence. Yeah, she was fun, she was driven by her job, and she was a free spirit. Edward Norton was as believable as anyone in a role of Father Brian Finn, that asked us to accept that this healthy attractive young man had given up sex just as someone could give up smoking. And Ben Stiller, as Rabbi Jake Schram, who was every Jewish Mothers ideal son in law, kept his inherent sense of humor subordinated to the goals of the film. This was no Something about Mary even though that sensibility was there, to be enjoyed without dissipating the unfolding drama.NOTE The following gives away the plot-So don't read on until you see the film, something I recommend.Expecting that it was safe, since Anna was married to her career and only in New York for a month, Jake and she had an affair. Not an affair, but an extension of their playful youthful friendship with the satisfaction of sex. And would you guess? Something happened; they fell in love. A real life affirming pleasurable, wanting to be together love.Buy they decided to spare their friend Brian from knowing about their new relationship. And here's where it gets interesting, as he discovers that his desire for sex, for love, is not quite extinguished, and he thinks that the feeling he has for Anna is reciprocated.Anne Bancroft, as Jake's mother adds a richness to the film. We all know her from her previous roles. She is not a stock character, but a real caring person who has made mistakes, such as shunning her oldest son's wife because she was not Jewish. From her hospital bed after a stroke, without makeup, showing a frailty of body but strength of character she admonishes Jake to go with his heart.Watch this film for laughs, or see it as a archetypal dilemma of a multicultural world. For me it was a visit to a world I left behind, and cannot say that I do not miss. "},{"Title":"Elfman's brilliant & HOT, cast is good, movie fails","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is three or four movies squished into one. It's a lifespan movie, a romance, a comedy of manners, and it's some kind of commentary on modern urban life. Problem is, the elements of the movie-- the excellent cast, the lofty sentiments, the touching moments, the quirky ideas, the goofiness and the frustrations-- seem almost randomly inserted here and there throughout the cliché and mechanical moments that movie making by rote often produces.None of it fits together as any kind of coherent whole-- and none of the possible movies actually gets made. Instead, I was able to enjoy a LOT in this flick, but I had to do so in a fragmented way. Nothing that came before each scene nor anything that came after fit. Nothing was built, nothing really meant anything, nothing ultimately satisfied.It also didn't help that much of the movie's craftsmanship was sloppy. For example, Ed Norton's character, a Roman Catholic priest, gets staggeringly drunk at one point-- he is shown stumbling around with dirty, messed up clothing, and 3 or 4 days' worth whiskers on his face. He passes through a doorway, and his clothes are miraculously pressed, his shirt is tucked into his pants, and he has somehow shaved (in a twinkling perhaps?). Jenna Elfman's hair and body makeup also changed subtly within certain scenes. At times she had freckles, at other times not.Plus the movie seemed visually muddy, almost blurred (several theater patrons present at my screening complained, and asked the management to have the projectors focused). Even after optical adjustments in the projection booth, and with the main faces on screen reasonably in focus-- it was still blurring SEEMING. All of that is small stuff, but it is distracting. Even crappy movies can manage bright colors on the film, and they also sometimes manage continuity. Note the local Santa Barbara movie chain tends to project movies at what is apparently full brightness-- in reference to the recent controversy about theaters running projectors at lower voltage to save money. But even with the advantage of ample amps and wattage, Keeping the Faith looked dull and dingy.You'll read lots of critical remarks about the movie's premises and plot, so let's not waste time on that. Suffice it to say, nothing fits together, and nothing is convincing, and nothing really works.I must also add here that I am a tremendous fan of Jenna Elfman. I think her talent is enormous, and she is a charismatic and soulful human being and actor. She is immensely talented and gifted, as well as totally hot, so I expect that her film career will blossom and flourish in the next few years. So to her, and the other fine actors in this movie, I say, Don't despair-- don't freak; an A for effort, even if the whole thing is kind of a clunker. At least the potential can be seen. For real Elfman fans, it is worth the effort, although it does become somewhat of a Do it yourself ordeal. I gave Keeping the Faith a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Misplaced Faith","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Had this movie stuck with the original premise of being a goofball comedy about a priest and a rabbi, it might have been enjoyable. Edward Norton and Ben Stiller are both very good actors, and both have exceptional comic talent - you'll find yourself laughing for the first 30 minutes of the movie.But then things take a bad turn when their childhood friend shows up, and the messy love triangle begins. Anna loves Jake. Brian loves Anna. Of course, Jake is Jewish and Anna is about as non-Jewish as a person can get. The remaining movie is an interminable mess as the three do everything possible to make things difficult.The worst part about the movie is that the characters are entirely unsympathetic. Jake is a self-centered jerk, who is more concerned with his public image than with being with the woman he supposedly loves and has been waiting all his life for. Is it any wonder that Anna adores him? He shoots her down when she tries to tell him how she feels, he is ashamed to be seen with her amongst his Jewish friends (while repeatedly insinuating that Anna's friends couldn't handle his being Jewish), and he keeps their relationship a secret. What a great guy.Anna is a career woman who has a relationship with her cell phone and makes time for her friends - when it's convenient, and always when she needs something from them, be it sex or advice. While she's sleeping with Jake, she continues to flirt terribly with Brian (the backup male), leading him on when he is obviously smitten. What a prize. Finally there's Brian, a supposedly dedicated priest who is willing to throw it all away for Anna. This character is the closest to being likeable, but his complete inability to take any action or make any decisions in his life strips this right away. He's worse than Hamlet as he moons for four months about what he plans to do, completely oblivious to what's going on.The ending is no surprise to anyone who has ever seen a movie, but I'll still put a SPOILER ALERT here ...Of course Anna waits around for Jake, sobbing on the shoulder of her spare male for a while, and Jake has a complete change of heart (once he makes sure that everyone will be okay with that, first). The ending is a pointless attempt to make a canned, formulaic situation seem spontaneous. I suppose the screenwriter thought it a wonderfully ironic twist to have the guy confess his feelings over a speakerphone. Yawn. Brian accepts his fate as the spare male and all is good in life. Except this movie. "},{"Title":"A bad, bad, bad movie... swamped by the curse of low-grade intelligence","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a bad, bad, bad movie. Not that it's dumb... it would be better if it were. It deals thoughtfully with weighty and significant subjects... but it's afflicted throughout with the curse of low-grade intelligence, which is much worse than stupidity. With remarkable consistency almost every line in the movie takes the semi-smart low road - it's like being stuck in a restaurant with a bunch of people who think they're clever and are determined to discuss worthwhile things, and absolutely won't shut up, and keep saying bland and obvious, halfway plausible, but ultimately pointless and useless things. Actually it's worse than that... because here there are the elements of narrative and character, and those are consistently badly done with the same persistent mediocrity. Nobody comes out of this looking good... but then it's hard for actors to shine when they're working with such poor material. In fact, though, come to think of it, Anne Bancroft does manage to come off unscathed... which is a considerable testimony to her immense talent and experience. The younger players are not so lucky, and mostly sink under the half-thoughts of the script... especially Edward Norton as the priest (and he bears most responsibility, having directed the picture as well). I'm sorry if this is cruel, but I'd really have to say that Stuart Blumberg, the writer, should look for another line of work... please... and don't write novels either - we deserve to be spared more of this. One also has to question the wisdom of Norton as director - what did he think he was doing with this? Was he aiming for deep...? If so, he failed by a long way. Was he aiming for light romantic comedy? Failed that one too. If he must direct movies, maybe he should stick to something more visceral, with minimal dialogue. Not really recommended to anyone... although I suppose a very young, somewhat thoughtful person who'd never seen a halfway intelligent movie about priests and rabbis might get something out of it. "},{"Title":"Sweet and funny","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, Edward Norton&#133; Even though I wouldn't call myself a fan of his, I'm a bit old for that, I must say that the respect I feel for his acting ability is impossible to try to describe in words. He is simply amazing. He's like Marlon Brando in A Streetcar Named Desire in *almost* every film that he's in. Does this mean that I automatically love every film that he is in? Certainly not. First of all, an actor is never alone and if his co-stars s*ck there's not much even Norton can do about it. And the script and direction is of course just as important as one person's acting skills. However, it does mean that I look forward to any film that he's in, because even if the film is trash it would be worth it.So, Keeping the Faith&#133; It's basically a rather old-fashioned rom-com set in New York City. In fact, the director (Norton, of course) seems to be as much in love with NYC as the rabbi and the priest are in love with Anna. If I didn't want to go to NYC before I saw this film, I certainly want to do it now! KTF is very sweet and it's rather funny at times, my main objection is the fact that it goes on for much too long. It could easily have been twenty minutes shorter and the film would have benefited from that. But in the centre of the story is a brilliant cast, do I have to mention Norton again? -) Ben Stiller has the biggest part and he is very good in the film. I've never liked Jenna Elfman much, but I have to say that she is also really good in the film; funny, charming et cetera. Of course, the film could have been funnier, it could have been shorter and the theme of faith could have been explored more (but then the film would have been longer and I don't want that)&#133; but I have to say that it's an entertaining film if you don't expect too much. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Why you shouldn't go to see Keeping the Faith","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, I thought that Keeping the Faith was a good film, because it was directed by E. Norton,who is my friends fave actor and she keeps telling me how good actor he is. Wrong, the film was totally crap! It was a typical American film, that didn't give you anything. The plot was dull, you could easily quess what was happening next. It was annoying that all characters were so beatiful and succesfull in their lives, like Dharma. I prefer more realistic films,French or British, where you can see real people and not these bold and beautiful-types. And moreover the film wasn't funny at all, but stupid.    "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just finished watching it. I am nursing a broken collar bone and trying to stay off of this drug named the computer! I was so pleasantly surprised, the acting was great and I really cared about these characters...by the way, I consider myself agnostic, so I thought I was scraping the bottom of the barrel for something to watch. That could not be further from the truth. I have been a fan of Ben Stiller and have been a big fan of his parents comedy act for years. I had heard of Edward Norton before but don't recall seeing him in anything else before. I will definitely check out more of his work now. Jenna Elfman is awesome, as usual. I highly recommend this movie. It was time well spent. "}{"Title":"Simple and Very Cool","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Norton and Stiller are clergy (a priest and a rabbi, sounds like the start of a joke), Elfman is their friend who is secretly dating Stiller and who is secretly loved by Norton. What I think is most exceptional about this movie is the way it portrays these clergy as cool guys - I mean, there's really cool clergy just like there's really cool fireman and loggers and truck drivers. And it does so in a way that doesn't entirely compromise their faith, although some of the stuff Norton says or does is not quite right (and for the moment I'm not talking about his attraction to Elfman). I am also a huge Elfman fan, I think she's beautiful as well as extremely effective in her roles. Seeing this film made me wonder if Ben would be better served by serious roles more often, he's very effective and avoids the silliness and gross humor that can sometimes sabotage his comic performances. Nice supporting work by Bancroft and the always appreciated Wallach. Recommended for light entertainment. "},{"Title":"Non-formulaic plot twists a breath of comedic fresh air","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Believable performances and some plausible theological crises and tensions are enough to make this film well worth watching. The contrasts between two childhood friends who take divergent yet parallel spiritual paths and remain friends and another childhood friend who becomes a love interest forbidden to both provides a rich vein of dramatic and comedic ore which Keeping the Faith mines expertly. (The Harlem Gospel Choir's rendition of the medieval Jewish hymn, Ein K'Eiloheinu is worth the ticket / purchase price.) But most impressive was that -- contrary to most Jewish man / non-Jewish woman plots in movies and television -- in the end, neither the rabbi nor the priest end up compromising their beliefs . . . and everybody STILL lives happily ever after. "},{"Title":"Religion and rom-com in a very workable mix","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a fan of rom-coms I would have to put that right up there with When Harry Met Sally, Funny Girl or the underrated Sweet Home Alabama. But this film works because of a a great cast headed by solid performances from Norton, Stiller and Elfman but also thanks to the smaller roles played to perfection by such greats as Anne Bancroft and Milos Forman. There are lots of smart non offensive gags about religion and a quirky three-way love triangle.But one of the main reasons to see this film is actually one particular scene played out in an Irish bar between Norton and the excellent Brian George. Balanced to perfection the two rather tanked up gentlemen offers us the ultimate bar talk, I love it. "},{"Title":"More romance than comedy. And it needed an open ending!","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is more romance than comedy (except Don's scenes and a few other instances). It's a real surprise from Norton the director and Jenna Elfman the actress. Very touching, charming and generally light-hearted. Wonderful filming, great issues discussed sensitively (friendship, different religions, calling, dedication, love, commitment).Memorable characters all the three main ones and especially, especially Anna - what a big presence she is with her humor and sheer joy of life! Now, the weak spot of the story is in the fact that the ending was predictable if the Catholic priest was to remain one and would not betray his calling. How convenient, isn't it? And how sad, when you think about it. The scene with Brian realizing that he has been just a third wheel is so touching, almost to tears, for me at least. This is so unfair! Is it believable that a man who was in love with such a wonderful girl gives up his love so easily? Or that she has been playing on the edge of male-female friendship so unconscious of the danger of the love which could arise and so cynically hide her affair from her friend? No, man. The solution in the ending is too correct to be realistic, just in order not to trouble things and please everybody (well, almost everybody or at least apparently).Oh, and why does Hollywood always end its stories in front of an audience to the main characters? What a cliché... If they had left this one unsolved, it would have turned into a really great film. Of course, Jake and Brian would and should have remained friends after their argument, but what would happen about Anna? The movie should have ended at that point and let us guess, each according to his sense.One more observation. The star here is Jenna. Besides Ed TV, she has proved she could act, and this character fits her perfectly. She should get more roles like this one or like the wacky, mysterious babe from two episodes of Two and a half men. Her other roles are far below her comedic talent and not stimulating for her career. Perhaps the dramatic one in Touched (2005)?... "},{"Title":"Go rent the movie and cuddle","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An absolutely feel-good movie. The main trio of players is just adorable. The movie is flowing, it's not getting boring, and although the ending is just as happy as any typical Hollywood movie ending, i didn't mind this time. Ben Stiller is so good in playing Jewish boys, he is just authentic.His charm is unbeatable and i think it's his best movie (excluding maybe there's something about Mary). Edward Norton is calm,mature and decisive in the end. Jenna is a perfect business woman. Though I think her acting was the worst of the trio, i think she was too static in some scenes. A perfect movie to see with your girlfriend ) "},{"Title":"great debut for Norton, one of the better romantic comedies these days..","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ed Norton's directorial debut is perfect for him. A simple plot, a romantic comedy with a twist, and an original one. Its a well written script by Stuart Blumberg and well directed by costar Ed Norton. Its about 2 best friends a rabbi (stiller) and a priest (Norton) whose old friend from 8th grade who is now a workaholic (elfman) is back in town and throws their friendship into troubles. Stiller was decent as the rabbi, I'm not a big fan of his, but i could stand him here. Elfman was great, a very touching and good performance from her, she was better here than in EdTV, which she was one of the best things about that film. Norton however stole the show with his great performance, another memorable one from him. I also liked ROn Rifkin, who is great here, just as good as he was in Negotiator. A great film for its genre, one of the best I have seen. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable romantic-comedy from Ed Norton","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My expectations for this movie where quite high because I had heard many good things about this movie and one of my favourite actors had the leading role and he had directed it as well. You'll probably all know who I'm talking about. Yes, Edward Norton. Well, I'll be honest with you. I'm not the romantic-comedy kind of guy. Why? I don't know, probably because a good romantic-comedy who actually works is very rare. Well, this movie was even better than I expected, I loved it!What was so brilliant about? Well, to start with, I loved the story. The whole idea from two guys and a girl is nothing new of course, but the fact about a rabbi and a priest is very original. At least, I thought it was. I don't know this kind of things were already done, but to me it was new. The acting was really amazing as well. Ben Stiller was nice. Jenna Elfman was extremely beautiful and cute. Her acting was very good. And then there was of course Edward Norton. He proves with this movie he really can do anything. From a tough and hating racist in American History X to a charming priest in this movie! I'm really looking forward to Norton's second movie as a director, but I'm pretty sure is won't be disappointing. To conclude I can only tell you that Keeping The Faith is a wonderful and highly enjoyable movie. I think it certainly deserved some more attention at the Golden Globes. Anyway, this is a good movie! See it! 8/10 "},{"Title":"lovely movie","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" well, i am supposed to write only in English so beg pardon for the possible mistakes...it is a lovely movie. and in my opinion it is the best interpretation of Ben stiller , there is a very good connection between him, , the cute Jenna Elfman and the boss Eduard Norton...lovely movie , i liked it till the point that at the end i just kept in my sofa for a while and just told to my self hey, I would just like to merry A woman like that, like Anna Rilley such a mix between tenderness and sensuality...wow. here is Spain, the only movies i could see with Jenna are krippendor's tribe very long time ago andEdtv very funny too , so, congratulations to Eduard Norton as director and actor and congratulations to Ben Stiller and Jenna (Butala) Elfman...excellent "},{"Title":"i love this film","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this film is a feel good film that really brings two different religions together and makes them fun and also has romance that brings you emotionally drawn into. The comedy used is very funny. This is a brilliant film and i love it i would probably class it as a 'chick flick' but i love chick flicks and Edward Norton and Ben stiller as hot as ever and Jenna really does a good job and is a beautiful talented actress. The story is brilliant definitely worth seeing Edward Norton is very funny as a priest and does a great job. Ben stiller is also very good although towards the end of the film you think hes an idiot and if you have seen the film you will no what scene i mean but it works out like all chick flicks do and we love them because they do. "},{"Title":"Better upon each viewing...","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The number one example, I can think of, of a movie so disappointingly mediocre at first, which becomes better and better upon each successive viewing. Norton and Stiller are both solid, and the movie makes you think for a few moments that Ed Norton might not be the utter asshole we all think he is. A solid supporting cast including Anne Bancroft, Ron Rifkin, Milos Foreman all aide the movie, but Jenna Elfman proves to be the crux of the film. Often she is annoyingly hyper, but in this movie, each viewing makes her more and more lovable. Watch it once, you'll think I'm an idiot. Watch it twice, you'll probably still think I'm an idiot. But by the third time (including partial, TV, viewings), you'll see the way.  "}{"Title":"A great movie which made me smile more than once!","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping The Faith is a great movie which made me smile more than once.The movie has a warm, cosy feeling, is funny and romantic but at the same time makes you think about your own life and the people you love.Edward Norton and Ben Stiller did acted very good but the real star of this movie was Jenna Elfman for me. The way she played Anna Reilly was unbelievable. Anna is at the same time both a hard working business woman who takes crap from nobody as well as a beautiful young woman trying to deal with her feelings for Jake (love) as well as Brian (friendship).Bobby Brown once sang that we all have to find our 'Tender Roni'; after having seen Keeping The Faith I sing that I have to find my 'Anna Reilly'! -) Keeping The Faith is a great movie which I can recommend to all of you!Regards, Rainer  "},{"Title":"Love and friendship between three friends.","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a serious yet silently funny film about love and friendship.The three friends met in school and they meet again after about ten years, all grown-up and beautiful. The two boys have chosen to become a rabbi and a priest and the girl is corporate career girl. The two boys falls even more in love with her than their original friendship-love. The acting is good. Anne Bancroft as the rabbi's mother is interesting. Milos Forman as the older priest is also interesting. This is the first film in which I was aware of him as an actor. Jenna Elfman, Ben Stiller and Edward Norton is all very good, if not better than I ever saw them before.The ending is sweet and sorrow in some aspects. I cried and laughed a lot when I saw this lovely film. Handkerchiefs is a must when watching this film.  "},{"Title":"Witty and moving","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite my better judgement, I love this film.  It has its corny moments, but what impressed me most is a screenplay which transcends the simplicity of the plot and delivers some truly intelligent and moving moments.Add to that some very competent performances from the three leads, as well as outstanding cameos from those around them such as Eli Wallach and Anne Bancroft.Ed Norton is to be congratulated in putting together an entertaining, moving and thoroughly professional movie.   8+ out of 10  "},{"Title":"Outstanding and hilarious","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This excellent movie is probably also my favorite. It's fresh, fun, and extremely well-written. All of the actors shine throughout this hilarious comedy. Its plot is also very realistic and the dilemmas the characters face hit close to home. There is more intelligence and truth behind this movie than some other Ben Stiller films, probably because he was met with this problem when dating his non-Jewish wife-to-be, Christine Taylor. This clever and fun romantic comedy will steal your heart. 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A Great Story","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite the obvious premise for taboos all around, this movie does a good job creating the history of the main characters, which makes you forget about the their professions for a moment and lets you look at the friendships that have been built and will be tested. This is the key to the whole film and what makes you want to see it through to the end.  The movie shows an honest view of trying to live up to other's expectations and what happens when you have achieved all that you set out to do, and you feel like you still missed something along the way.  There are very few deviations from the main teachings of both the religions represented. The attempts by both Jake and Brian at bringing their congregations into the 21st century are shown in a humorous but also respectful way. Where there are some obvious non-religious words or actions shown their context still makes them believable and forgivable.  This is not a dig on religious beliefs movie, but uses the premise as a vehicle for each of the main characters' struggle to keep their friendship alive without alienating each other for the sake of jealousy, misunderstanding, and miscommunication. Very funny and heartwarming. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies ever made!!","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith is one of the best movies ever made!! I loved the movie from the first moment I saw it. The movie in a way spoke to me and I knew that this was one of my favorite movies. I love the cast because they make the movie so comical. The whole storyline I think is awesome because it talks about different religions and brings them together. I love the whole love triangle because it makes the movie more enjoyable to watch. This movie is a must see for people who love romantic comedies and are looking for a movie to pull them in the first time they watch it. I cried the first time I saw it and I really felt for the characters and never wanted the movie to end. I would rate this movie a 10 on a 1-10 scale. You have to definitely watch this movie because you will love it!!!!! "},{"Title":"A refreshing comedy","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Are you sick of those exaggerated romantic comedy movies? Yes, I am as well. This one is totally different, it's totally refreshing, it is actually pretty funny, and both Ben Stiller's and Edward Norton's performances are brilliant. Norton shows off his talents as a comedian once again after having starred in damn serious movies like Fight Club or American History X. Jenna was pretty weird once she appeared, but by the time you get used to her character. I was laughing my ass off watching those young priest scenes at the beginning of the movie ) Story is great, natural, absolutely worth a recommendation. 8/10 (comedy genre) from me.  "},{"Title":"An interesting exploration of romance from extremes of the religious spectrum...","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although it is tempting to say charming romantic comedy this film is not your typical Maid in Manhattan no brainer sell-out sort of romantic comedy.It explores a side of relationships that most of the secular world takes for granted.  What happens when a clergyman or rabbi falls in love?  Where does their heart take them?  To their calling, or to a mate that they could spend their future with?Jenna Elfman's character puts both men (childhood friends played by Edward Norton and Ben Stiller) to the test, and the movie seems to balance the heavy question with just enough levity.I think that Keeping the Faith was definitely worth the time spent watching, and is appealing to a broad audience. "},{"Title":"Another Stiller Masterpiece","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like Meet the Parents and Zoolander this again is a very funny (feelgood) movie. The dialogue and characters are both great. Stiller and Norton are good as always. Jenna Elfman is also great in this role (and I personally dont like Dharma). Only minor letdown is that near the end the story slows down quite a bit. They should have trimmed things a bit more. That said, its a great movie - rent it on DVD! "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All in all, good, though it runs a little long.  Edward Norton is especially endearing as is Stiller (although, I don't currently know any leather-clad jacket Rabbi's).  As for Elfmann she looks really coated and glowing in this film.  I am not sure if that is just her or the makeup choice.  Oh well, it is a good romantic comedy overall. "}{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was wonderful. It had plenty of humor and drama to add to this romantic film with a sort of twist on religions. I found it to be a great watch when you are in the mood to find love and friendship work out so both sides win. ) "},{"Title":"Most enjoyable film","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very impressive directorial debut from Mr Norton. A superb cast and a great soundtrack. Norton and Stiller are masterful and Jenna Elfman compliments them both well. Impeccable performances from Bancroft and Wallach, as one would expect. From a personal point of view, having never been to NYC, it certainly entices me to go. All in all a very pleasant way to spend 128 minutes! "},{"Title":"So this priest walks into a bar... -)","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, what an amazing movie. Edward Norton's directorial debut is great. You get to really care about the characters. This is one romantic comedy you should definitely see. Edward Norton is a very talented actor-director-producer.  "},{"Title":"a movie that will definitely cheer you up","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie (drama-comedy) with lots of witty humor that can't disappoint you if you're not looking for some serious drama. The direction and cast are great but the movie wouldn't be half as good if it didn't have such an intelligent screenplay.  "},{"Title":"FUNNY MOMENTS","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Better than average rom/com, that starts light and stays on track, despite a few obligatory melodramatic turns. Essentially, childhood friends grow up, 2 follow the calling of their faiths, while the other enters the corporate world. Some drama arises, but the film stays pretty devoted to light, humanistic humor. The leads are quite likeable (Stiller, Norton & Elfman), and succeed, with very stable support from Bancroft, Rifkin and Wallach). Ken Leung does a very humorous turn, as Don. A great date or rainy day film, when you're looking for something light.Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Magical Movie","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ed Norton has directed this movie with talent, magic and skill. The trio delivers a great performance, and the story is being told in a funny funny way. I'd recommend it to anyone who can watch a movie with is guard down, and feel - not just think and process like a machine.and about the technicalities of the religions, as a Jew living in Israel, I can say it is as close as Hollywood gets, if not closer.90 percent of Jews here are non-religious in their practice, and the religion isn't being practiced with a narrow minded approach.watch it and enjoy, it will fill your heart with faith (and luv).-)  "},{"Title":"Great Movie. Cast and writing are spectacularly likeable and funny.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is just one man's opinion, but I'm flabbergasted that the IMDB ratings for 'Keeping the Faith' and in the ballpark with 'Flirting with Disaster' and 'Something About Mary. This is clearly Stiller's best movie, and further proof that Norton's a good actor, and new proof that he can do comedy.Also, this movie doesn't turn out how you think. Highly recommended!If you like Norton in this, I strongly recommend 'Rounders'. "},{"Title":"One of my top 5 favorite movies.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe how emotional this movie was than it was funny.  I was expecting a hilarious film, but instead it was a lot more romantic and emotional.  Its a must see. I can't believe how emotional this movie was than it was funny.  I was expecting a hilarious film, but instead it was a lot more romantic and emotional.  Its a must see. "},{"Title":"A refreshingly different romantic comedy","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am NOT a fan of romantic comedies, but for the most part I enjoyed Keeping The Faith.  It has the whole cute sappy thing going on, but the humor is quite intellegent and the plot makes you think.  Edward Norton is simply amazing (who else could play a card shark, a neo-Nazi, the lead in Fight Club, and then a priest?!), and Ben Stiller plays a great rabbi (especially considering he's not Jewish).However, I was somewhat put off by the subtle anti-Semetic attitude towards the concept of a rabbi being seriously involved with a non-Jewish woman.  The movie makes a point of saying that it's ok for him to do that.  In real life, not only would he have lost his job, but he would not have gotten another pulpit in a Conservative (the denomination he is clearly part of) synagogue ever again.  This is anti-Semetic because a child is considered Jewish if his/her mother is Jewish, so their children (if they had any) wouldn't be Jewish.That in mind, Keeping The Faith is worth watching.  It's a good date movie, and it doesn't suck nearly as much as most movies of this genre.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie, funny,witty,moving","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have now seen this movie six times, as I keep wanting people to see  it and often lend them the tape or sit down with them and aim  their heads at the TV! A lot of it is genuinely laugh-out-loud funny, or, better, witty. A lot of it is very moving, with strong feelings about friendship, love, being in love, commitment., calling. Not in a preachy way, those things are right in  the story and in the delightful and wise talk and performance "}{"Title":"charming","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Charming romantic comedy stars Ben Stiller as a rabbi and Edward Norton as a priest (yes, you read that right) who happen to be best buddies. Until their childhood friend (Jenna Elfman) arrives in town and becomes the object of both Norton and Stillers affection. This is one of the best romantic comedies Ive seen in a long time.  Sure the whole two friends who fall for the same girl thing has been done before, but never with a religious aspect to it. And thats what gives this film its extra spike, its a totally new take on an old story. The performances hold up, Stillers' his usual self, Jenna Elfman nails her role, and Norton is surprisingly convincing as a priest (even after playing a nazi and a psychotic killer). Its really funny too, although not in an American Pie gross out way, but with more of a subtle touch of comedy, to keep the film from being just another boring relationship drama. Everyone will enjoy this movie. Even reluctant guys who think they are about to watch a chick flick will get into the story, which all be it might seem a little long for its genre (it runs over 2 hours) but is worth every minute of it. NOTE The film also marks Edward Norton's directorial debut  "},{"Title":"most underrated film of the year","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i'm not sure how this slipped under everyone's radar, but if you haven't seen this yet, go out and rent it!  a rich story which is somehow smart, sweet and hilarious at once.  at the same it is as far from pretentious as you can get, which is perhaps why no one has seen it. "},{"Title":"Down-to-Earth Masterpiece Telling us about a reconciliation","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I still remember the feeling I had when I stepped out of the theater. This movie was amazing with its way of handling the theme, telling the story, most of all its music and cinematography.This movie deals with the topic of reconciliations between people with different religions, races and beliefs. You can see the meaning of 'faith' in forgiving others.Even though it tells us about such a 'heavy-prone' subject, the film never loses its beauty of romance, because of its witty great scripts written by Stuart Blumberg. Especially I liked the line of custom is not just an old habit said by labbi Lewis.Every conflict and its resolution is described fully but briefly, which makes the theme of this movie telling more to us.In terms of cinematography, this film fully enjoys the advantages that can be offered by New York the city which has all the faces that a city can have. Combined with the great music by Elmer Bernstein, you can feel the cool night of New York. (Especially I want to thank to the director for filming the party scene at the 'River Cafe')Through this film, the director 'Edward Norton' showed us his great gift as a director in a highly tempered manner.  "},{"Title":"Who Knew?","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the jumble of check-your-brain-at-the-door comedies Hollywood has specialized in the past five years rises this little gem.Keeping The Faith has...(drumroll please)...brains! And spirit! And a soul! Seriously, when was the last time you saw a comedy that would DARE to include the line Your faith is part of what I love about you?Well, this one does. And that's its charm. Watching this movie, I kept thinking this was a script originally meant for Audrey Hepburn or Cary Grant that languished on a shelf for decades.This is not a perfect movie. Some of its religious plot points are inconsistent with the true tenets of the faiths it explores (Catholicism and Judaism). But what's amazing to me is that, in Y2K, a comedy even tries to consider the issues of religion, spirituality and the essence of friendship, while still making people laugh. I enjoy flicks like American Pie and Scary Movie, but what I admire most about this film is that it aspires to say something beyond the modern mantra of d*ck jokes rule.Because of limited box office, Ed Norton will win no points for directing this flick. But he should, as should everyone who had the good sense to sign on for it. I don't really find Jenna Elfman attractive, but here, she just...fits. Her energy and spirit shine through in full force. Really, everyone does a good job. Norton, Stiller, Anne Bancroft, even Milos Forman.There's a chance you might be bored, but unless you're in high school or just not interested in (literally) hearing some preaching, it's an off chance. Keeping The Faith lives up to its name. Can I get an Amen?PS. The film practically fetishizes New York City, including the World Trade Center. In our post-September 11 world, you decide if that's a good thing. "},{"Title":"The God Squad is Excellent!","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ed Norton is incredible.  The God Squad is Excellent!  Ed is a great actor and now a great Director. He handled this movie so well. From the childhood scenes through into their adult lives, this movie keeps your attention because you never know what will be said or done next. Script, pace, Characters, emotions, reactions and both religions all done so well.  Funny and controversial but nothing untasteful.Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman had great chemistry and very believable characters. The dating scenes were a riot. You felt their pain and their joy.We still don't know the story of who the film was dedicated too. We assume a relative but would like to know more.Almost a 10!  Would never hesitate to see it again. "},{"Title":"I liked this film very much!","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film very much because it showed the well known rabbi/priest - story under a completely different spot. Also the focus on the problems of religion I liked very much, it gave the film its depth. What I especially liked was the way every detail was done. I've seen the film about ten times and I always discover something knew.I think the actors are very well chosen. If you see Edward Norton as priest or Ben Stiller as rabbi, you really believe them what they play! Generally, I think this is a film worth watching and having a closer look on it. "},{"Title":"Good Solid Date Movie","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a sweet, funny movie...a good solid date film. But I have a problem with it I rented the DVD and watched the deleted scenes after watching the movie. While the movie itself was very good, they left out one scene that absolutely BEGGED to be in this movie and would have become a classic scene. It was called Anna's Pager and was absolutely HILARIOUS! The director says he left it out because it was too much like something you'd find in Something about Mary. First, I disagree...it was very funny but not quite as over-the-top as most of what was in Something about Mary. Secondly, it was edited superbly and just absolutely would have pushed this movie to a higher level. That scene is every bit as funny and memorable as the I'll have what she's having scene in When Harry met Sally...it's such a shame that they left it out... "},{"Title":"cute and entertaining","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really love this movie. Really, I do. It's cute, it's funny, it's sentimental, it's completely original, it's full of great performances by great actors and lots of energy and feel-goodness.I'm not familiar with Jenna Elfman's work, but I thought she brought a lot of energy and life to Anna, being confident and smooth while still being able to break down and be honest and emotional (though sometimes it felt to me as if she were overacting a bit). Ben Stiller was rather good as the unorthodox rabbi.. very real, and funny. Edward Norton (who co-produced and directed this movie) is totally endearing and cute as the clueless and confused priest. His performance really helps to prove how versatile he is as an actor.The movie itself is very original.. very quirky.. very creative. After the first hour or so you really can predict how it's going to end, but that doesn't make it any less entertaining. This is one of those rare movies that has good entertainment value, but also has a lot of quality as a film. Think of movies like Charlie's Angels.. good for a lift, but a total waste of money otherwise. Keeping the Faith is not one of those movies. It's cute, it's funny.. it's worth two hours of your life and $2.99 for a rental. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not Your Standard Romantic Comedy","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith is one of those movies that is atypical of Hollywood and yet smacks of it all the same.  How many Hollywood movies take religious faith seriously?  Very few, and most that do are either vague (someone may use the word pray) or focus on a less mainstream religion.  To see a major motion picture that focuses on a Priest and a Rabbi as they endeavor to bring people to God is quite a change.  But of course, Hollywood has to mess it up somehow.  I find it very hard to believe that such a die-hard traditional Jewish congregation would have such a problem with a Rabbi dating a non-Jewish woman but would not care in the least that he was having sex with her not only out of wedlock, but without any plans for marriage.  The issue is never even discussed.Well, that's the one and only major knock against an otherwise thoroughly enjoyable film.  Ben Stiller continues to find scripts that move beyond the recycled Sleepless in Seattle or When Harry Met Sally plots.  What we have here is a story as much about friendship as about romance.  Seeing three best friends move from joy to misery is heartbreaking.  That's a compliment to the acting, writing, and directing that we can care about these characters that much.  And we can't help but ignore a predictable ending.  After all, we're among friends. "},{"Title":"Nice movie, overdone dialogues though","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, this movie is good after all. The idea is original enough, acting is very good and even though you will not be LOL while watching it, there are numerous funny moments and the humor is intelligent. What I did not like about this movie were the far overdone dialogues that occur like from the half all the way to the end. Sometimes I was feeling like watching Melrose Place or Beverly Hills 90210, all the characters had to talk themselves totally off, which degraded this movie from excellent to (only) good. "}{"Title":"*** 1/2  Overlong but very funny","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Colourful romantic comedy about the stylish woman (Jenna Elfman) who causes a rift between a rabbi (Ben Stiller) and his Catholic priest best friend (Edward Norton), after the three of them are reunited for the first time since childhood. Norton makes a promising directorial debut, though he shouldn't be so tough himself in giving himself so little screen time considering he is way more appealing than Stiller could ever hope to be. On the other hand, he should be tougher on himself in the editing room considering the film runs well over two hours (a big no-no for romantic comedy). Supporting performance by Anne Bancroft is the highlight of the occasion.  "},{"Title":"A joy!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not an American -living in Hellas makes you kinda anti-american. But I love Americans when they make films like Keeping the faith, cause I still think it is what they do best. Descending from the Billy Wilder school, this movie has it all. Wonderful acting, perfect character chemistry, nice directing, a clever script, hints of more serious matters (religious differences -if such things appeal to you), all in a New York setting which is always welcome. Of course Edward Norton is talented -if there was any doubt, it was settled after American History X. But this directing debut, shows he can do other things as well and personally I'd be glad to see his next move. Ben Stiller is a personal favorite, and Jenna Elfman is adorable -I haven't seen her before but I would like to see her again. Especially when she looks the lover-to-be with that special I have something in my mind look, I believe anyone could fall in love with her instantly. Having a thing for religions I especially enjoyed the first twenty minutes of the film, where Stiller and Norton discover their talent and become holy men. I believe that introducing religious matters in such a light and playful way (through a romantic comedy) can help people realize the real meaning of religions and thus make people from different denominations understand each other. But this is an added bonus. The movie is joyful, funny and guarantees a nice evening home with your S/O. I hope more films of this kind are made so as I can add them to my collection and watch them again and again. 8/10 overall -it could be 9/10 if Norton was a little more experienced as a director. But I bet he will soon be. "},{"Title":"Chick Flick Worth Watching","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a first and foremost a chick flick but there are some hilarious scenes dotted through out this movie that make it worth watching. Stiller never fails to make me laugh and Jenna Elfman is absolutely stunning.Certainly worth a look. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and humorous","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My one question to everyone who has seen this movie is  How could you not LOVE this movie? Usually I'm impartial to the classics but I took my chance with this one 'new' movie and I loved it. It is beyond what I thought it would be, and I was surprised to see some faces besides Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman that I knew from the past - Eli Wallach and Anne Bancroft. This movie is funny and some of the scenes are jsut drop-dead hilarious (I have a relationship with my phone. It's set to vibrate.) It's cute, witty, charming, funny, and overall an original sortyline with too much talent. Jenna Elfman, who plays in the sitcom Dharma and Greg was pretty mezmerizing as Anna. Ben Stiller, who plays the Rabbi Jake is pretty cute and makes some real wisecracks. The man who plays Father Brian is delightful. I haven't seen his acting before, but I'll look for it in the future. I gave this a 10. I loved it. "},{"Title":"Shine you crazy diamond","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A certain story telling theory holds that there is only a limited amount of stories. Each of these stories is like a multi faceted gem. The task of a story teller now is to take one and hold it to the light in ways so as to make the reflecting light sparkle in new directions. And have the viewer marvel at it. Mind you, this is not the same as rebelling against convention. This is about respecting the gem and trusting that each facet will do its magic, as long as it is turned in the right direction. And that is just what this movie does, written by Stuart Blumberg and brought to the screen by his buddy Edward Norton. This is the one about the rabbi, played by Ben Stiller, and the priest, played by Edward Norton, who fall in love with the same secular woman, played by Jenna Elfman. Stiller has this eerie skill to do outrageous comedy while maintaining a connection with the viewer because he remains so utterly human and not a comedy prop, from There's something about Mary, to Mystery Men, to Meet the Parents. Not quite happy enough with being one of the best and most versatile actors of his generation and having proved such in Fight Club and American History X, here Norton also turns to producing and directing and whaddayaknow, next to doing an incredible job at all three in a genre so unlike his previous work, at about the same time he also dated Salma Hayek. When it rains, it pours with this guy. These two teamed up along with such ace quality screenwriting would need no more. But the real treat, the icing on the cake that will actually make you lick every slice instead of actually eating it, is Jenna Elfman. I dare say to every male that has reached the age of reason, if you like this movie, by the end of it you will find yourself smitten with Elfman's character Anna Riley, regardless of whatever undoubtedly wonderful woman you are with in daily life. The Norton / Stiller chemistry turns the gem and makes it shine almost effortlessly; however, it is Elfman's portrayal of Riley that makes it sparkle so brilliantly to the extent that light will make sound, and will blind you to the point that you will see white spots for some time to come. She is truly amazing. The core of the gem lies of course in the screenplay, written by the guy who played the car salesman in Fight Club that gets beaten up by Norton's character. No, really. What makes it even more incredible is that this funny and brilliantly structured piece of work actually marks Stuart Blumberg's debut as a screenwriter. An easy paced story, it has highly original characters next to the leads, from the multi-religious bartender, to the rock-hard abs date-from-hell, and last but not least, Don the Karaoke machine vendor (he truly deserves a tv spin off of his own). It contains razorsharp dialogue and truly heartfelt romantic story telling, and without any disrespect integrating such a precarious subject as religion without ever having it become any issue that interferes with just this very thing a great romantic, intensely funny story. Feel-good movies like this walk a thin line between heaven and hell and most of them indeed do end up in purgatory. Not this one. Meg Ryan and Sandra Bullock may have started the book on contemporary female feel-good romantic leads, all pales compared to the next chapter. Move over. Heeeeeeerrrrrrre's Jenna! "},{"Title":"A very fine, funny film that addresses two difficult subjects, I rate it 8 of 10.","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  CAUTION -- THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SOME SPOILERS --Keeping The faith stars Ed Norton as Fr Brian, Ben Stiller as Rabbi Jake, and old friend Anna, played by Jenna Elfman. Norton also directed. The first tough issue this film addresses is the choice of celebacy by priests, and how even a dedicated priest might reach the point of giving it all up for the love of a woman. The other tough issue is inter-faith marriage, especially between a Jewish Rabbi and a non-Jew.Anna, Chris, and Jake were best friends when they were pre-teens. Then Anna had to move to the west coast, and the boys grew up into their vocations. Jake was beginning to feel pressure as an unmarried Rabbi, and women in his congregation were constantly fixing him up with their unmarried daughters, one bad date after another. Fr Brian was perfectly content with his vocation. Both were very successful and popular.Chris gets a call from Anna after 20 years, she is coming to NYC, the two ministers meet her at the airport, she has turned into this beautiful and competent executive, they spend the next several weeks hanging out together, getting to be friends again.  Anna and Jake secretly lust for each other, and soon they are shacking up, seemingly as a temporary fling for each, until they get on with their lives later. The problems start when Jake and Anna fall in love with each other, she is willing to sacrifice her career to stay with Jake, but he is not willing to jeopardize his, it means so much to him, and he doesn't believe inter-faith marriage will be accepted by his Jewish bretheren.It gets further complicated when Fr. Chris begins to fall in love with Anna too, unaware of her and Jake's bond, and he decides his and her love are so strong that he can no longer be a priest and is prepared to live a secular life with her.  Then he finds out what is really happening and is pretty well devastated.All that sets the stage for the wrap-up, where Jake finally realizes that true love is not something you can dismiss, he trusts his congregation to be accepting, and things work out well. Fr Brian re-affirms his commitment, the 3 of them become best friends again.The story is so well written, the serious subjects are treated with an appropriate amount of humor, but never degrading the underlying message. One of the funniest scenes was deleted, basically involved a phone call from Jake to Anna, while two men are trying to make a presentation in her office, and the cell phone is in the vibrate mode and strapped to her upper thigh. A totally hilarious scene but, as the director comments, probably belongs in a different movie.I saw it on DVD, perfect picture, surround sound adequate but nothing to write home about. The director's commentary over the deleted scenes was among the more interesting I've seen. There also are some funny out-takes and short bios of cast and crew.One of the more enjoyable films, in my book. "},{"Title":"not bad - a few laughs","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i thought the all the actors were great, but overall i thought the script was a bit weak and it really hurt the picture.  it had its moments, i laughed a few times.  but there were too many annoying cliches or awkward silly moments to enjoy the film.  and i didn't like the look of the picture - it was very bland - but i guess that is okay for a generic comedy.  ben stiller, jenna elfman, edward norton and anne bancroft were great.  especially stiller, who was the source of most jokes.definitely a wait for video movie. "},{"Title":"Average Movie, Weak acting in parts","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This felt more like a made for TV movie then something to pay for.  It was OK but not great.  In some parts the acting was a little sappy and weak...especially the parts that were supposed to be sad.  And some parts seemed to be too exagerated.  The movie was maybe longer than it should have been too. The editing seemed weak in a few places too. Even the story seamed weak in parts.  Not great, not terrible, just an average movie. "},{"Title":"Keep the Faith-Stop Trivializing Interfaith Marriages **1/2","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite the intentions of Edward Norton as director and priest in this film, these interfaith marriages as depicted on screen are nothing more than an attempt by the Hollywood establishment to trivialize an extremely important and serious problem.To Mr. Norton, Ben Stiller and others, it's all not fun and games. It's all not the fact that love conquers all situations.The film is an interesting one as it desperately tries to promote understanding among all people. Notice how briefly there is a one line inference that Jena Elfman is taking lessons in conversion to Judaism.Norton and Stiller do well in this film. However, Stiller as the rabbi, plays what I would term a convenient Rabbi. Eating in a mid eastern non-kosher restaurant is an example. Technical advisers needed to have done a better job here. Same thing with wearing the skull cap as he pleases or going to nightclubs. Come on now.Anne Bancroft showed that she could play a Jewish mother with dignity and understanding. She had come a long way from Mrs. Robinson.Notice that trying to modernize religion only came in the synagogue, not the church. A major prayer which ends sabbath services is sung by an all black gospel choir. This hardly would take place in an orthodox or conservative synagogue.Norton conveys the human weakness that when he learns that Elfman doesn't love him, but rather a rabbi, he gets drunk. Some priest he is!Using the Kol Nidre service on the evening of Yom Kippur for our rabbi to confess that he hasn't been honest and true to the congregation is ridiculous at best. Though this observance calls for repentance, this was totally inappropriate.With all said, the picture has to be praised for its attempt to promote human understanding. It's just not that easy or comical. "},{"Title":"It's a cute romantic comedy","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You name it, I've seen quit a few romantic comedies. Some of them are fun to watch, some of them are not so good. I'm not really into chick flicks. But I do enjoy Ben Stiller and Edward Norton. They are both wonderful actors. And I figured to give the movie a chance. I thought it was really cute. The story is original and fun. Some of it was a little bit too lovey dovey for my tastes. But that's OK. I would recommend the film. Mainly if you like Ed or Ben. They both give a nice comedic performance. I was a little disappointed with the ending. But you'll have to see it to know what I'm talking about. If you look at, it is actually just another romantic comedy. But you might want to give it a chance.7/10 "}{"Title":"Edward Norton first directing effort.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton is a priest and Ben Stiller is a rabbi both are in love with a childhood friend who is played Jenna Elfman. She cannot chose between Norton and Stiller. If Norton falls in love with Elfman, he has to give up the priesthood for her. If Stiller falls in love with Elfman, she has to change her religion for him since he is a rabbi. I enjoy watching this fun film. Good first directing effort from Norton. Hope he directs a different type of film in the future.  "},{"Title":"A Delightful Movie About Faith And Love","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping The Faith is an absolute delight to watch. Well-written, well-acted, there's very little one could criticize about it, except possibly that it's a bit predictable at the end and maybe a tad too long. These are minor criticisms, though. This is the story of the complex relationship between three friends who have known each other since they were children. Jenna Elfman plays Anna, separated from her friends for years since her parents moved to California, who returns to New York as a high-powered executive with little time for a social life, but who wants to re-connect with Brian (Edward Norton) who has become a Catholic priest and Jake (Ben Stiller) who is now a rabbi. The three easily pick up where they had left off years before, except that romantic feelings begin to intervene, and jealousy erupts between Brian and Jake. There was an amazing chemistry between Elfman, Stiller and Norton. They seemed so natural in these roles that you would think they had been friends since childhood. There was a very realistic struggle portrayed about the problems of a rabbi being involved with someone who isn't Jewish; about a priest committed to celibacy who nevertheless has to acknowledge his attraction to Anna. The movie featured an unusual combination of being funny and yet offering a powerful message about the importance of faith as well. Strong supporting performances from the likes of Ann Bancroft (as Jake's mother) and Milos Forman (as Brian's seminary professor who he seeks out for advice) add to the strength of the movie.An absolute delight. 8/10. "},{"Title":"SNORE...","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ed Norton's (an ACTOR I greatly respect) first attempt at directing tries to bring back the romantic comedies of times past and fails miserably. Perhaps the skills needed to create this art form are lost...Even though I don't believe Jenna Elfman is much to look at nor could she act her way out of a paper bag I could not resist this movie's promise of Ben Stiller and Ed Norton working together...boy, was I disappointed (except about Elfman...awful, as expected).  Keeping the Faith is long, boring, horribly written, predictable and is insulting to so many groups I won't even try to go into them here. It's simply not worth the watching. "},{"Title":"Edward Norton directs with an intelligent approach","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton gives us harmonious direction and brings different cultural groups together in a quirky little film about the temptations we all face and how it affects those at the top of their religious faith.  The old story of two guys after the same girl is given new life here with Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman turning in complex and well researched roles with edge.  Perhaps a bit too long but never boring, the film is another feather in Norton's cap and shows how a young guy has learned so much about Hollywood and the craft of acting and directing in such a short time.  A true Hollywood player for the future and God knows we need them! "},{"Title":"Solid American Entertainment (7)","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So, what's Solid American Entertainment ? Is there something original ? No. Is there sufficient comic relief ? Yes. Are the main characters young, beautiful and successful ? Of course. Is there depths to the story ? What Story ? Will the movie keep your attention ? As long as nobody's cellular rings. Is the acting worth it ? As good as any stand-up comedy.  "},{"Title":"Hysterically funny romantic comedy","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have not laughed so hard in a long, long time.  My husband and I went to see this with another couple, a Rabbi and his wife, and they were laughing hysterically too.  The chemistry between the three actors was great.  I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Full of surprises!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith is a surprising film in that it deviates from the norm.  Instead of ridiculing religion, the movie and the characters respect their faiths and tell a witty story all at once.The film features several interesting directing methods and allows three good actors to be wonderfully comic ones indeed.All around good show. "},{"Title":"hit and miss","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton's directorial debut, `Keeping the Faith' dishes out one of those plots that only Hollywood - in its desperation to bring a fresh approach to a stale genre &#150; would ever dare to come up with.  In this love triangle with a `twist,' Ben Stiller, Edward Norton and Jenna Elfman portray a trio of best friends who grew up together on the streets of New York City, but who were separated in adolescence when Anna moved away with her family to California.  The unique aspect of this particular triumvirate is that, while Anna has been away on the west coast forging a lucrative career in business for herself, Brian has become a priest and Jake has become a rabbi.  Now all three are in their '30 and Anna has decided to pay her `buddies' a visit &#150; a move that sets the story up for all the interpersonal and emotional complications that are practically de rigueur for a `Jules and Jim' scenario of this sort. Given the rather incredible nature of the premise, `Keeping the Faith' still manages to generate some interest with the uniqueness of its religious context.   Like most American movies that attempt to deal with issues of spirituality and religion, `Keeping the Faith' spends most of its time batting away at the edges of the topic rather than getting right in there and really opening up the subject for us.  Indeed, very few commercial American films are even willing to tackle or explore in any great depth the role that religion and spirituality play in the lives of people, so we should at least give `Keeping the Faith' credit for trying. Of course, much of the tension in the film is supposed to be generated by the fact that one point of this triangle (the priest, Brian) has pulled himself out of the equation &#150; or has he?  But if the truth be told, the love triangle, which takes center stage in the film, is actually far less interesting than the issues of faith, of tradition vs. relevance, of spiritual commitment on the part of both clergy and laypeople that the film at least sporadically addresses.  Almost inevitably, with a film this lightweight in tone, `Keeping the Faith' seems from time to time to be afflicted with a severe case of the `cutes,' particularly when it succumbs to the `golly gee, people of the cloth are just regular folk like the rest of us' syndrome that seems somehow unavoidable in films like this.  Thus, despite their clerical status, Jake and Brian cuss, drink alcohol, play basketball, sing karaoke etc. just to show us what regular guys they are.  We've seen this sort of religious iconoclasm used for comic effect so many times before that it has long since lost the ability to amuse.Where the film does excel, though, is in its exploration of the issue (faced by many churches and synagogues, no doubt) of whether tradition alone can sustain a viable congregation or whether unorthodox methods may be needed to reach and retain a more `entertainment-oriented' generation of worshippers.  Many times in the film, I found myself wishing that the story would concentrate less on the rigmarole surrounding the love triangle itself and more on issues like these.  However, even within the confines of the romantic nature of the story, the filmmakers do manage to touch, if only superficially, on the issues of Catholic priest celibacy and interfaith marriages.  Stiller, Norton and Elfman give generally naturalistic performances, though none of them are forced to stretch their talents too much in these roles.   Interestingly, famed director Milos Forman shows up as a wise old priest who sets Brian straight on the thorny issue of celibacy.  `Keeping The Faith' probably would have been a better film had it dealt with the same issues in a less frivolous and trivial context than is provided for them here.  Still, we should, I suppose, be thankful that any American film is willing to acknowledge religion and spirituality as part of our lives at all.  `Keeping the Faith' is, therefore, well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Too long!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had it's moments.. though they were few.  The movie dragged on and on and I never thought it would end... The movie is done very simply, seems thrown together, and just very cliche, with a predictable ending which took so long to get to.. I couldnt be happier to get out of the theater. "},{"Title":"wonderful witty comedy","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith is Edward Norton's directorial debut and he never disappoints. Just like his acting, his directorship is astonishing.Though hilarious, the movie is definitely not original. When did best friends fall in love before? In My Best Friend's Wedding, when Julia Roberts found out she had been forever in love with Dermot Mulroney. In Keeping the Faith it is Ed Norton and Ben Stiller who fall in love with Jenna Elfman. But the movie has an irresistible charm of its own. Actually the movie is so enjoyable that one forgets about everything else.While the script is a bit of a let-down, yet cleverly written, the performances are pure gold. Jenna Elfman is remarkable as workoholic business woman, Anna Banana Reilly. She shines and she's full of energy. Ben Stiller is great as modern rabbi  Jacob Schram, who is terrorized by the women in his congregation. His scene with the aerobics-obsessed woman is his funniest, followed very closely by the scene when he tries to get past a security guard. Best of all is Edward Norton, who is playing his character so low-key, that he is downright endearing. This man was capable of playing a cold-blooded killer with a fake split personality in Primal Fear, a desperate man who gets a real split personality in Fight Club, and a Neo-Nazi in American History X. Now he turns towards comedy. And he is magnificent. There are some really good jokes (Edward referring to his drunkness and to the bottle in his hand) I am not drunk. I'm Irish and this is like milk to me. Now this is original. I've never heard it before.I'm not a fan of romantic comedies where the guy tries to get the girl. But this a comedy when the girl is already impressed by the guy and jumps completely and mindlessly (they did not think at the consequences) at the opportunity. Keeping the Faith is phenomenal movie that is bound to please everyone. 8/10.    "}{"Title":"Painfully bad","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Someone must have owed Ed Norton a huge favor to let him make this movie. This is such a promising cast but this film is the quintessential vanity project ... probably only interesting for Norton and about a dozen of his buddies. I normally love Norton's films and I'm also a pretty big fan of Stiller and Paltrow so I was actually quite excited to see this film. Maybe my expectations were too high, maybe I shouldn't have gone into the theater expecting to see something good.Basically, this is an excuse for Norton to celebrate how much he loves New York City. I have no problem with extolling the virtues of a particular city. In fact, I rather like movies that serve as cinematic post-cards but there are good and smart ways to do that (think MANHATTAN for NYC, Diner for Baltimore, Singles for Seattle, etc.). This film, on the other hand, is little more than self-indulgent navel gazing wrapped up in a weak and useless plot. A movie like Diner or Manhattan gives us insight into a city through characters that are indigenous to that city's particular culture. KEEPING THE FAITH, unfortunately, uses its plot so that characters have an excuse for walking around the city. I'm sure NYC's tourist and visitor's bureau have something just as exciting. "},{"Title":"Don't do it.  Stay at home and cry","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't care for it. The slap stick comedy isn't any good. Don't care for Ben Stiller. Where do they get these guys? I think there's still hope for me. Are the actresses all taller than the actors out in tinsel town? Very poor attempt at trying to make Stiller and Norton funny. They are not funny. Two men of the cloth trying to get in a young girls pants to me is insulting. I keep seeing comments on this movie claiming how good it was. If you haven't seen it. Don't! This is not a good movie. This is one of those movies you wish would end but it won't. As far as Stiller and the leading lady being in love, I don't think so. I have more passion for my dog than they had for each other. Just a lousy movie. "},{"Title":"For woman only","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is film for woman only. I'm a man and was boring almost all the movie time. There is few moments of laugh and nothing else. It's typical romantic comedy. If you like - you may see. Otherwise don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Boring with a capital B","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this film expecting a funny comedy. Boy was I wrong. The movie was so boring I left half way through. The jokes where not even close to being funny and it took forever for the plot to move. This movie may do well only in the bible belt. I didn't get it! "},{"Title":"Disappointing, silly, & predictable","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Save your money if you want to see a film that you can't predict the ending of before the opening credits have finished rolling.  I guess 50 years ago this film would have been interesting and clever, but today there's nothing revolutionary about it and the humor has all been done before. The cast does a fine job of plodding through the predictable storyline.  Aside from the one scene in which a black gospel choir visits the synagogue there isn't anything worth seeing in this film. "},{"Title":"Loser","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I laughed at this movie - maybe once or twice. It was the first terribly disappointing film I've seen in ages. The humor was weak, the romantic storyline was awkward, and the pace dragged like death. Other than that, it was OK.Grade D "},{"Title":"love these characters","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In NYC, Rabbi Jake Schram (Ben Stiller) and Father Brian Finn (Edward Norton) are best friends since childhood. This God Squad breathes new life into their old worlds. Childhood friend Anna Riley (Jenna Elfman) returns to town and they are immediately taken by her. They were inseparable best friends until her family moved to California after eighth grade. She's now a high powered corporate fixer without any time for romance. She and Jake start dating secretly while Brian has feelings for her despite his vows.This is a different kind of rom-com love triangle. The religious aspects are unusual and good fodder for humor. The best are the lovable characters. There is no villain. It's no surprise that Stiller is funny but so is Norton. Elfman is a gem. She's sassy and lovely. It's obvious why both guys are in love with her. She's the whole package. Their friendship is natural and I love these characters. "},{"Title":"Too boring to look at...","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I looked at this film, I thought it was really gonna be a very funny movie with well known actors Ben stiller and Jenna Elfman. I don't know Edward Norton well but I heard of him.Anyways this story involves these two guys who are priests falls in love with their childhood friend Anna Riley. I swear to god, I found her voice very annoying and too saucy, Jenna Elfman didn't disappoint me with the Looney Tunes Back in action movie in my childhood but she did with this film. I mean shes a great actress but what is the point in putting on a fake manly voice throughout the film. It really made the film pretty dull and boring for me to even look through the film.The whole movie is just awful! "},{"Title":"Can't Complain Much.","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Keeping the Faith is a nice little romantic comedy that stars the iconic Ben Stiller and Edward Norton with the lesser-known Jenna Elfman. This had the potential to be as iconic as the stars, but it tries to take the safe way out by not putting enough emphasis on the love triangle bit and putting to much on the normal love situation. But for what it is, it is worth the watch.Ben Stiller and Edward Norton are awesome as always as lifelong best friends who know that their calling is to preach in their religions Judaism and Christianity. Both use their own hip methods and soon fill up their parishes and become a rock star-like rabbi and priest. It is really cool to see them hone their crafts in their respective places. I myself go to church and I really wish I had a priest like Norton. If I were Jewish, I'd wish for a rabbi like Stiller. Although I am not Jewish, Stiller's bits in the temple are just as cool as Norton's bits in the church. When they were kids for a few years, their best friend was Anna and they were inseparable. When Anna moves back both Norton and Stiller vie for her, which puts their friendship and faiths on the line. Stiller needs to marry a Jewish woman in order to be the next head of the synagogue, but is not ready to risk it by being with Anna who is not Jewish. Norton can't marry, but is ready to quit the priesthood and be with Anna. That sounds like a good plot line for the movie. She loves them both, but is in love with Stiller. That is where the movie is weak. What would make for a better plot line is would be if she fell in love with both of them. Maybe in unison, but still. They way that it works out is that a love triangle is just a tiny bit of a backdrop and most of the story is Stiller contemplating risking his status as a rabbi. Nothing wrong with that, but the love triangle had so much potential that just resulted in a big cop-out. That is what makes the ending so predictable. With Anna having the same amount of love for both guys the stakes would be higher, tension would grow, excitement would elevate, there'd be more originality and would probably be more funny. But what it does have is good. It is romantic, funny, and delivers good messages in faith and religions. I would recommend buying this movie, but it is worth seeing if it happens to be shown on TV. "},{"Title":"Keep the Faith but Not This Film.","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Keeping the Faith (2000) Dir Edward Norton / Cast Ben Stiller, Edward Norton, Jenna Elfman, Anne Bancroft, Eli Wallach Interesting concept marred by predictable circumstances. Title refers not just to the spiritual aspect between the two main male characters but also the bond between three friends. Edward Norton, Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman play childhood friends until Elfman and her family moved away. Norton became a Priest and Stiller became a Rabbi. When Elfman returns she will come between the guys. Norton secretly had a crush on her but she becomes involved with Stiller. There are questionable elements about religion. As director Norton's shots are too conventional but the performances by Stiller and Norton himself are on target. Their friendship and faiths are tested but as predicted, their friendship maintains. Elfman is unfortunately reduced to a dimwitted romantic prop serving no other purpose other than to wedge between the two males and cause friction. Anne Bancroft is also featured but is terribly underused. As his directing debut one can say that Norton's talent is best represented in front of the camera as oppose to behind it. There is no way this can end on a pleasant note but thankfully it does end. It stresses the value of friendship and love that should penetrate when everything else looks as drab and dreary as this film. Score 4 / 10 "}{"Title":"The great ones get better with each viewing","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For once I have nothing to add, or take issue with - either with the best reviews here, or with the movie itself. This film is a gem, and Edward Norton, perhaps the most talented actor of our generation, turns out to be a genius of a filmmaker as well. But everyone involved with this film deserves praise, starting with the other leads, Stiller and Elfman, backed up as they are by solid performances by the other actors.I rarely rate any movie as high as 8, but the only reason I don't give this one a 10 is that it makes no pretense of being anything more than it is a true romantic comedy, with neither aspect slighted, and with a satisfying feel good resolution that manages to dodge most of the trite clichés of the genre.The only thing I take issue with is the gross under-rating of this movie by those who can't see beneath the surface humor to the love, the artistry, and the good feeling with which it was put together. "},{"Title":"Long forgotten Jewish-Catholic love triangle flick can likely be found in nearest DVD remainder bin","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Can you imagine a scenario where you have two guys and a girl who were childhood friends and when they grow up, the two males become a priest and a rabbi and then fight over the woman? This is essentially the absurd premise of the long forgotten 2000 rom-com, 'Keeping the Faith'.The rabbi, Jake Schram, is played by Ben Stiller. He's a progressive in a conservative synagogue, getting into trouble with the temple elders by bringing in a black gospel choir who sing the popular Jewish hymn, Ein Keloheinu. Screenwriter Stuart Blumberg attempts to elicit laughs by depicting Jake's failed dating life (he dates a neurotic nymphomaniac who is a big turn-off).When Anna, returns to NYC after many years on the West Coast, a rivalry develops between Jake and his old friend, Brian Finn, now a Catholic priest, over their childhood girlfriend. Jenna Elfman, has nothing much to do in the role of Anna, except acting as 'eye candy' for the rival men of faith.Ed Norton (who also directed), is saddled by a script that knows much less about Catholics than Jews. Brian ends up mistakenly believing that Anna has the hots for him, and not Brian, who she really has fallen in love with. In an uncomfortable scene, Brian confronts Anna, and ends up humiliated when she rejects him. He takes it a step further in a reversion to early adolescence, by slugging Jake in the face. The rest of the silly plot focuses on Jake attempting to prevent his Congregation from learning that he's been dating a 'Shiksa' and dealing with his mother (Anne Bancroft), who initially is unable to tolerate the idea of her son, hooking up with a gentile.All's well that ends well, when Jake and Brian reconcile and Anna is now taking lessons to convert to Judaism. 'Keeping the Faith' fails mainly because Anna is mainly there as a forgettable love interest, Jake's obsession with her is one-note and Brian's fall from grace, simply doesn't jibe with the reality of the majority who answer to the priest's calling.For those interested in the evolution of screenwriter Blumberg's writing career, this is a good film to see. Blumberg did go on to co-write the commendable 'The Kids Are Alright'. Also 'Keeping the Faith' features performances by the great veterans, Anne Bancroft and Eli Wallach, now both deceased. 'Keeping the Faith' can be best described as both sentimental and not funny. DVD copies are likely to be found in your nearest remainder bin. Watch it at your own peril! "},{"Title":"Keeping the Faith &#x97; About a priest, a rabbi, and a girl for romance and comedy","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Keeping the Faith is unforgettable and unusual twist on the love triangle story. You know that joke about the priest and the rabbi? Well, that's not it, this is something else, something new.This movie is a sensible blend of comedy and romance. There's no exaggerations (well, maybe excepting that one weird date) and everything has a sense or realism, including the dialogs.There's a nice soundtrack attached to this interesting script with a number of cute twists. You will not be bored, you will definitively be charmed, and have a number of chuckles.See it, for some simply enjoyable entertainment. "},{"Title":"a multidimensional movie - funny & at the same time very deep","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I normally wouldn't like a movie like this ....but this was a work of art a multidimensional movie - funny & at the same time very deep!& the story line touches many aspects of relationships Acting was amazing - Ben stiller is at his best ed Norton co-produced it! very progressive religious insights gets better every time I see it. There are so many great 1 liners - I think everybody should watch this because it is timeless. All the stereotypes are there but done in a very endearing way. The Asian stereo sales man is so funny & all the characters are believable & the Indian bar tender had me falling on the floor "},{"Title":"Heard the one about the priest, the rabbi and the underwhelming script?","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jake and Brian are childhood friends who both become clergymen in their respective faiths. Their friendship and faith are tested when childhood buddy Anna returns and both men fall for her.There is one great line in this film, when Jake (Ben Stiller) says to Anna, God was showing off when he met you. Unfortunately, that is one line in an interminable procession of lines in a film that sags under the weight of a 2-hour-plus running time and Too. Much. Talking.Jenna Elfman as Anna is a joy; vivacious, engaging and free of pretension. Ben Stiller puts in a shift as Rabbi Jake, but Edward Norton is ill-fitted as Father Brian. There is the occasional smile, such as Jake being surrounded by his congregation at the cinema and declaring That's what I love about New York. There are no belly laughs. There is, however, lots of deadtime as Norton at first chastises and then encourages Stiller in his pursuit of the Goddess-like Anna. Jake has a heart-to-heart with Mum, Brian has a heart-to-heart with Anna, Brian has a heart-to-heart with his senior priest, Jake has a heart-to-heart with his congregation, on and on and on... Nora Ephron is thanked in the credits, which may account for this tedious join-the-dots plotting of the romcom arc. David Fincher is also thanked, though his influence on Norton's directing is, unfortunately, harder to discern.In the last quarter Jenna Elfman is off screen for about 20 minutes, and I felt every one of them. By that point we know where the Jake-Anna relationship will go, we know he'll leave it to the last minute, and we know he'll sprint across town in an attempt to capture her before she leaves forever. Why do three talented actors with their pick of projects sign on for such clichéd, well-worn fare? The bottom line is, this is the kind of twee, mind-numbing twaddle you get when talented filmmakers stop taking risks. "},{"Title":"Love And Religion","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Actor Edward Norton debuts as a director with this comedy-drama about love, friendship, and faith.Keeping the Faith is a romantic comedy film that is written by Stuart Blumberg which features Ben Stiller,Edward Norton and Jenna Elfman.This film tells a story of an unusual love triangle at how religion affects us in everyday life.Fr.Brian Finn,a Catholic priest and rabbi Jacob Schram have known each other since childhood. When Anna Reilly, whom they both knew as children, returns to New York, both men find themselves infatuated with her, sparking both rivalry and personal dilemmas Brian has taken a vow of celibacy, and Jacob is allowed to marry only within his faith. The movie is obviously smart, funny and touching, and there is enjoyable chemistry between the three leads.The genuine chemistry among the leads that is fun to watch, and the script will keep you giggling.Also,the script administers a relentless string of laughs, most of them genuinely funny.Aside from that,it's a unique blend of charisma, wisdom, and emotion, rendered in a most appealing package.But nevertheless,it could have been better if wasn't extended longer for in light comedy, brevity is better. What could have been a great comedy is just a good one. "},{"Title":"Elfman and Norton elevate unambitious screenplay","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Though formulaic, Keeping The Faith nevertheless does one thing which these love triangle or romantic comedies usually don't do it takes itself seriously.And so while the film's framework &#x96; in which a priest (Edward Norton) and a rabbi (Ben Stiller) both lust over a mutual friend (actress Jenna Elfman) &#x96; is pure formula and the film's resolution entirely generic, Keeping The Faith nevertheless contains a number of interesting scenes. These scenes, which take issues of religion, love, friendship and faith seriously and which allow the film's characters to chew on some dramatic moments and dig deeper into what would ordinary be pretty cardboard characters, are the result of Edward Norton, who made his directorial debut with this film.Understandably an actor-centric film-maker, Norton does his best to wrestle some substance out of his cast, and at times finds some good stuff, like a scene in which a priest talks frankly about his celibacy, and another in which best friends share emotional, teary eyed confessions.The film's love triangle plot is also somewhat interesting. Each character embodies a different type of spiritual uncertainty, one seeking sexual intimacy, one God and celibacy, the other career and money, but each with their own anxieties about the ability of these quests to actually fill their respective existential holes. The resolutions these three characters ultimately settle upon are trite, but the way they expose their uncertainties are interesting, our trio possessing a kind of raw, emotional honesty that these cookie cutter films usually lack. Throw in a sexy and at times emotionally naked performance by Jenna Elfman, a couple very well written dialogue scenes and you have a pretty good debut.7.9/10 &#x96; Overlong and with an identity crisis, Keeping The Faith nevertheless contains three or four very good scenes. "},{"Title":"A priest and a rabbi joke you haven't heard","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Catholic priest, Father Brian Finn is wandering through the New York streets, drunken.He enters a bar and starts telling his story to the bartender.That story takes back in time to his childhood, when he was best friends with Jacob Schram and Anna Anna Banana Reilly.Then Anna leaves, but Brian and Jacob remain best friends.As grown ups Brian has become a priest while the Jewish Jacob has become a rabbi.Then one day Anna shows up.And she has become a tough business woman, but yet lovable.Both of the boys start having some loving feelings towards Anna Banana.Keeping the Faith (2000) is a directorial debut of the actor Edward Norton.This romantic drama comedy is a very good debut.It's released by Touchstone Pictures and it's written by Stuart Blumberg.Norton also acts the part of Brian, and he does terrific job.Ben Stiller is superb as Jacob.Jenna Elfman does beautiful work as Anna.The late great Anne Bancroft is amazing as Jacob's mother Ruth.Eli Wallach really nails the role of Rabbi Ben Lewis.I actually borrowed this movie from the library on his 95th birthday, and it was my second time I saw this movie.Ron Rifkin is great as Larry Friedman.Susie Essman portrays Ellen Friedman, and she's good.Milos Forman, who's mainly known as a director, gives a very good performance as Father Havel.The mother-daughter team Bonnie and Rachel Rose are played by the wonderful Holland Taylor and Rena Sofer.Lisa Edelstein is hilarious as Ali Decker.Brian George is really great as the bartender Paulie Chopra.Sam Goldberg, Michael Charles Roman and Blythe Auffarth are the teenage versions of the trio, and they're all fantastic.And so is Jonathan Randell Silver as Alan Klein, who really sucks at singing.Jenna's spouse, Bodhi Elfman, plays Howard the Casanova.This movie has lots of memorable stuff.Take Jacob's date with Ali Decker, for instance.That woman sure has some persistence.And he goes and punches her in the stomach, after she asks him to.It's quite hilarious to listen to the bad singing of the bar mitzvah kid.And it's really neat to look at those two performers live at the house of God. Keeping the Faith is a movie about friendship.It's pretty great to see the old trio getting back together.It's like nothing has changed in all that time, except it's more romantic this time.And sure it has to do something with religion, too. "},{"Title":"Surprising, and not in a good way","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'd been skipping it for years. I was not sure I wanted to see Edward Norton in a romcom next to Ben Stiller. The tacky premise on the lines of a rabbi and a priest running after the same skirt also raised suspicion. Now that I saw it my doubts are justified.I am being austere. It is not that bad. Rather well done considering it's Norton's debut as a director. A little more editing could make it less dragging but still it is OK for a relaxed viewer. I loved the air and the street scenes. I'd never been in NY prior to 9/11 and they gave me that bitter-sweet feeling of second-hand nostalgie. The main problems were the plot and - surprisingly - acting. Norton is one of my favorite actors, a sort of rely-on, and I was shocked to see him definitely overacting in more than one scene, f.e. waking up from his erotic nightmare (sorry, I'm Vai's die-hard fan) or during the conversation with the girl before she tells him she's in love with the other guy. Given the fact that he directed the thing himself it seems very strange. But still for the most part he was very good, subtle and rather funny. Stiller is good at comedy but incredibly annoying as the love interest. I just can not see the appeal. The whole romantic story between him and that masculine fake blond seemed so shallow and unconvincing that it was hard to sympathize. And here we come to the plot. I am sure the story could be 10 times more touching, natural and convincing had it been just a story of love triangle - two bosom friends of different heritage and their old crush. That's enough, really. The whole faith line is so badly handled that it ruins the film and makes comedy tasteless and romance implausible. Not that I am violently indignant at seeing a Catholic priest yielding to temptation or a rabbi indulging in racy pre-marital affair. Could be. You could do a harsh satire or insightful soul study out of it, anything. The problem is it is represented but doesn't relate to the main plot. We can not see their faith affect their relationships or their decisions rather than make them abide some general rules of behaviour. In fact they don't seem to have faith, they have jobs in faith industry and they like their jobs. One just thinks a priest would be more than troubled having found himself lusting after a female friend (or anyone). But he's so OK with it. He's in good mood, and all he's worried about is if she's gonna get him. Et cetera. You don't need soul searching in a light comedy, sure, but why touch such things then?So my word is it could be very nice and entertaining if it left the faith part out. Well, and the last 1/3 of the film more dynamic. "},{"Title":"Actor Edward Norton debuts as a director with this comedy-drama about love, friendship, and faith.","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A rabbi (Ben Stiller) and a Catholic priest (Edward Norton), long-time friends, both fall in love with a girl (Jenna Elfman) they knew from childhood.The film's premise sounds like the opening of a corny joke, and this is an unashamedly old-fashioned set-up; Bing Crosby would not have been out of place playing this priest. For all that, it's hugely appealing, Stiller and Norton trade quips engagingly, and it's a genuinely feel-good couple of hours. The film opened at #3 at the U.S. Box office, behind 28 Days starring Sandra Bullock and Rules Of Engagement starring Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson. "}{"Title":"Priest and rabbi faith the music when a girl captures their hearts.","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Priest walks into a bar and starts confessing about the love triangle between himself, his Rabbi buddy and the girl they both grew up with. Sounds like the start of some joke, right? Well, it is actually the premise of Edward Norton's directorial debut, a romantic comedy that has the added quirk of being a look at faith too (religious faith, faith in those around you, faith in the one you love).The performances are all excellent. Norton is in fine fettle and shows quite a flair for comedy (as he also did in the fantastic Death To Smoochy), Ben Stiller, playing the Rabbi who's also his best friend, gives a great performance that's also not full of his usual impotent rage schtick and Jenna Elfman is sparky and vital in the crucial role of the girl these men could fall in love with. Then we get support from the likes of Anne Bancroft, Ron Rifkin, Eli Wallach, Ken Leung and even Milos Forman - a cast not to be sniffed at, by any means.Norton keeps things ticking along nicely, there's nothing fancy here but it's all engaging and fun while heading towards an ending you can kinda sense coming. It is, after all, still a romantic comedy despite the addition of religious robes.There are lots of laughs though, largely thanks to Stuart Blumberg's smart script but that's not to take anything away from the great delivery from all those involved. I'm sure I missed a few gags aimed at specific religious practices but the laughter quotient never dropped too far, even during the more dramatic/romantic moments. Good stuff.See this if you like Some Like It Hot, My Girl, Raising Helen. "},{"Title":"Very funny film about Friendship,Faith and Love....","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by the great Edward Norton who also stars in the lead role Keeping The Faith is a sweet,funny and underrated romantic comedy.If you don't watch this expecting something deep and meaningful then you will enjoy it a lot more.The story is this Catholic Priest Father Brian Finn and new Jewish Rabbi Jake Schram(Ben Stiller)have been best friends since High school and find they are working close together in New York.Brian is contacted by their other best friend Anna Riley(Jenna Elfman)who made up their inseparable childhood group and they get together to meet up.Despite having taken religious vows both men(as well as caring about her as a friend)feel romantic feelings developing for Anna Bannna(as they nickname her).The rest of the film centres on the three of them trying to sort out their feelings and Jake and Brian trying to get a new community centre open for people to come and socialise at.With great characters and fine support from Anne Bancroft as Jakes proud mum and Eli Wallach as a fellow Rabbi of Jakes this is funny and something that will cheer you up when your feeling down.Although not perfect and not the best film of all time if you give this a chance you should be happily surprised with what it has to offer,this is worth watching.Edward should be very proud of this little gem which is such a delight. "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy with excellent trio protagonist","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The picture is a romance story between three friends, a Catholic priest Brian(Edward Norton), a rabbi Jake(Ben Stiller) and a gorgeous girl(Jenna Elfman),she is an old childhood friend and now she returns to New York city and the friendship is re-established. The two male friends fall in love with the enticing executive, creating themselves a loving triangle. Jake is in a traditional congregation that want him married with a good Jewish woman but is the fact which his mother(Anne Bancroft) disapproved to his brother for marrying with a non Jewish .Jake is a little worried about his future and he's out step,out of place and desperately looking for a fiancée with numerous suitors(Rena Sofer) The problems are when Brian cannot break his vow of celibacy and Jake cannot marry but isn't Jewish . We never met a pair as liking as Stiller and Norton.They along with Jenna Elfman are agreeable,enticing and enjoyable.The film has great load of amusement,fun,giggles,chuckles and is very entertained.Besides there are a brief exploration about Jewish way of life, making a slight exposition of the rites ,ceremonies ,habits, religion and the Tora .Although the screenplay sounds some ridiculous and absurd ,the plot is well developed and has surprises and its good moments here and there. Nice and cheerful music score by the classic Elmer Berstein(Seven magnificent,Age of innocence).Direction by Edward Norton captures the special excitement or mood protagonists and scenarios. The flick will like to romantic comedy enthusiastic. Rating Nice and Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Altogether a good movie","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie really appealed to me. It had a really great cast, and they all had their own quirks that made the movie interesting. Two men(stiller and Norton) and a woman(Elfman) are childhood friends, and meet up in later life, only for the guys to fall in love with her. The problem is that they are a rabbi and a priest. The movie toils on a bit as they head towards an ending, but in the end it ties up nicely and it was a job well done. "},{"Title":"Film's stars light up this movie","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith Jake and Brian have been best friends since childhood. One has become a well-known Rabbi the other a respected Priest. They are both faithful to each other and to their respective religions. But when another childhood friend Anna walks back in to their lives, keeping the faith takes a back seat to winning her love. Jake, Brian and Anna were childhood friends who shared everything together until Anna and her family moved away from New York. Although feeling incomplete without Anna, Jake and Brian remained and grew up as friends. Along the way Jake chooses the way of the rabbi and Brian the way of the priest. With their faith strong and their friendship equally as strong, the two friends find there isn't an obstacle they can't overcome. But when Anna suddenly comes back in to there lives a beautiful and vibrant woman, both Jake and Brian fall for her, leaving them to test the strength of their friendship and the limits of their beliefs. Ben Stiller, Edward Norton and Jenna Elfman star in Edward Norton's directorial debut Keeping the Faith. Once again Zoolander star Stiller showcases the reasons he is becoming Hollywood's fastest rising funnyman. His facial expressions are comedic enough without his dialogue being delivered perfectly, but Stiller seems to want to deliver perfectly anyway, giving his character, Jake, more personality than your average romantic comedy character. Edward Norton is surprisingly funny in this film as the heartbroken priest, Brian, whose faith is seriously tested because of his want for Anna, who is of course being played by Dharma and Greg's sassy star Jenna Elfman. Elfman is great fun in this movie with no surprise, as she uses the same wit and charm that has made her television show such a success. She seems to have no problem keeping up with Stiller's hilarity and Norton's intelligence, making her another perfect choice in a film where all three of the leads show how easy a movie can be carried with a little chemistry. For his first time Ed Norton didn't direct anything extravagant, but he did craft a smart and touching romantic comedy with its good share of funny moments. Stiller's confrontations with T- Bone (Brian Anthony Wilson) are classic, as well the scene with Don (Ken Leung) belting out `Jesse's Girl' had me in an uproar for almost two minutes. Norton uses subtle visual humor, like the Rabbi trading cards, effectively to help keep a smile on the viewers face while they pass the film's dull moments, and while they deal with the fact that the film runs about half an hour too long. Yet Norton must be again credited for allowing writer Stuart Bumberg's characters a chance to really develop themselves on screen, which not a lot of directors seem to like to do anymore. Norton and Hawk Koch slightly overproduce this film, but it still looks good and the emotions are captured very well. All criticism aside it's nice to see Ed Norton bring to the table something fresh and intelligent to a genre I had almost given up on because of it being so bogged down in cliché and bad dialogue. So if you're feeling like I was, and are losing all hope in romantic comedies, just remember to be strong and try Keeping the Faith.Overall Rating 7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Pampered, over-long rom-com substitutes charm for wit.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Romantic comedies set in New York City appear to be the latest craze. With `You've got Mail', `As Good As it gets' and `Autumn in New York' to name a few, `Keeping the Faith' is the latest in line. The concept of a priest and a rabbi falling for the same woman may sound original, but there really isn't anything here that we haven't seen countless times before. All in all, this is just fluff. You have to wonder why directors bother making these romantic comedies when they don't put anything the slightest bit original into it. This may be branded as a `comedy' but there is nothing here that will make you laugh, or even giggle. That is unless you find it funny that Ed Norton is so unconvincing as a priest. Not only that, the movie long outstays its welcome, clocking in at about 132 minutes. It tries far too hard to be cute and charming when it should have went for laughs. Then again, it starts out promising with its original concept but after about an hour, it descends to blandness and you just want it to end. Average performances from an above average cast. Ben Stiller is OK as the rabbi, but he works much better in the polar-opposite `screwball' comedies. See `Meet the Parents' and `There's Something about Mary' for further proof. Even less convincing is two-time Oscar Nominee Edward Norton who is capable of much better material than this. I wasn't very fond of Jenna Elfman's boring `significant other' part in `EDtv'. In `Keeping the Faith', her character starts out well, but as soon as the romantic plot sets in, she becomes increasingly annoying in typical `girl-angry-at-boy-for-no-apparent-reason' style. An underused and often irrelevant supporting cast of characters doesn't get much of a chance to receive conviction or even be noticed. Two time Oscar winning director Milos Forman is pointlessly thrown in there for no evident reason. The great Anne Bancroft is underused, `Melrose Place' regular Rena Sofer stands around looking pretty, doing nothing, and other performances are average if unremarkable. It has an easy-on-the-eye appeal that makes it mildly believable, but many scenes should have been excised to cut it down to a comprehensive 95 minute running time. Lurking in the muddled script is one or two enjoyable moments, but they are all smothered in the many layers of pink sugar. I was surprised to see that Edward Norton also directed the film. He does an OK job, but certainly doesn't show any flare to become a major directing talent in the near future. Pointless and predictable in the usual romantic comedy fashion, it should have built up on its momentum instead of bumbling about, here and there. If you want to see a very average paint-by-numbers, run-of-the-mill menage et trois rom-com, then `Keeping the Faith' is the fluffy film for you.  Otherwise, go watch `Notting Hill' or `Nine Months'. At least they were funny. My IMDb rating 4.7/10.  "},{"Title":"oy vay!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  edward norton is an incredibly great actor, but not a good director of comedies (not yet).  the movie is silly and heavy handed at the same time. very cliched story  30-something career girl  meets 30-something career rabbi and 30-something career priest.  then there's the 60-something jewish mother who pressures her son (do such women really exist anymore?) the priest couldn't leave the church?  the girl couldn't convert?norton is an interesting actor and gets as close as looking like maybe he wants to play a priest, stiller is totally unbelievable as a leather clad rabbi and elfman is one dimensional as a super achieving career girl madly in love with stiller (a huge stretch of the imagination).no pungent religious jokes, just a silly love triangle. "},{"Title":"Jenna Elfman looks like Jonathan Taylor Thomas","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't finished this movie, and I've realized what is intriguing about the occasionally sexy Jenna Elfman. She looks like Jonathan Taylor Thomas. It's on TV behind me. This movie apparently is a love story framed into a comedy--that is the comedy is on the two ends of the movie, and in between, you need to switch the audiences. Back to the JE-JTT resemblance, Blythe Auffarth was awfully cute, and although she resembles a younger Jenna Elfman, there's enough JTT in the latter to make me miss her younger-self, how short her screen appearance was. You also miss the humor of the intro once the mush kicks in. Back to the resemblance again, it's almost as disturbing as watching the pathetic loser who was trying to move in with Mrs. Doubtfire's wife pretend to be an international spy. The movie just ended. Most of the fun was at the beginning after all.  "},{"Title":"It spoke to me","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just bought KTF on video to add to my collection. Its funny I look at my video colletion, at the movies I've decided that I like so much that I want to keep them forever and then I think what rating out of 10 i give them. Not all of them are perfect, but all of them are perfectly enjoyable.KTF really spoke to me, which is strange because Im not at all religious (in any faith). I think what spoke to me was that its about choices we make and commitments. Milos Formans character has the most true line in the film. Whether you are a priest or get married to a woman, its a commitment that you have to make again and again. Meaning that there is always temptation after we have made a commitment, a moment that we question ourself, but we must stay true to that commitment we made.The chemistry between the three leads if wonderful, one of the best on screen trio's I have ever seen, and the supporting cast if great too. This film has some technical flaws, but its enjoyable and has some serious things to say for a supposed lightweight comedy. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Well Worth A Rental","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Light, mainstream, funny, with plenty of drool time for Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman, if that's your cup of tea.  OK, so it's not the type of movie that makes you ponder, stays with you for a long time and changes your life, but as a winding - down - after - work or date movie it's hard to beat.  Enough said. "}{"Title":"You know there's this priest and this rabbi and they love the same girl... Only in New York!","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do you know how many jokes I've heard about a priest and a rabbi? NONE - not a single one... but that's because I don't live in America. However this movie is no simple joke - you could say it's about faith, you could say it's about friendship - and you wouldn't be wrong. After all it's written and directed by two best friends... however it is also a movie about New York. Maybe the most beautiful aspect of this movie was that it was mostly filmed on location, and boy could these guys pick them. The production design team certainly did their job wonderfully because all of the locations look stunning, and the views are just amazing. This is helped by the fact the Norton & Blumberg lived here for quite a while...As for the friendship part of the movie it provides us with an intriguing trio of a priest, a rabbi and their mutual girl-friend. Even if he could've easilly went for a silly romantic comedy (with Ben and 'Dharma' that wouldn't be so difficult) Norton kept his cool and decided to make it more like a drama. Actually some of the deleted scenes were hilarious - but in the 'cheap' sense and that's probably why Norton cut them out. This is a first movie for Edward Norton as a director, just four years after he stormed on to the screen in Primal Fear (where he desearved an Oscar... but failed to get it). He didn't quite storm on as a director with this film - but he didn't flunk also... I would say this is a good (not excellent but still good) start for his directing career. He has a nice visual style and a great sense of casting. Just to add that Anne Bancroft and the great Milos Forman complete the list of actors. As for the 'little' roles, usually looked over in other movies, he also picked magnificient actors.This movie is not 'fall-off-your-seat' comedy, or some thoughtful drama about faith and religion. It's a more quiet movie, and thow sometimes just a little boring - it still has it's moments. But what is the greatest achievement of this movie, and the reason everybody should watch this, is that it actually makes you CARE for the characters, and even if you don't seem so interested in what's going on - you will still want to know what happened to them. Even if it is predictable... Once again - a good start for Norton, and I hope I see him direct again soon.OVERALL *** / *****  "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie, but then I always like movies about romance - though I, myself am not all that romantic. I'm not really sure why that is. None of my male friends like these kinds of movies, but guess I'm just a sensitive kind of guy. What can I say?Because of that, I rate it an 8 - probably a little high, but I liked the characters.A Priest and a Rabbi battle it out for a girl. Have you heard that one? That is, essentially, the story - and the punch line of the movie. It only works because of the 3 main characters. All are likeable.I have to say that all three of them, likeable as they were, were a little hard to believe. I just couldn't quite buy the acting. I thought Stiller did the best job, and Elfman was ok. I thought Norton was just a tad over the top. I couldn't quite buy his pain. He has been brilliant before, so it isn't that he isn't capable. It was just that this role didn't suit him - in my opinion. But, that is VERY subjective.Any movie that I rate an 8 is a movie that I feel my time was not wasted. Most 8's I don't plan to see again, but if the situation arose years from now and I had a sleepy Sunday afternoon and I was looking for a nostalgic moment and this movie just happened to come on, I might watch it again. "},{"Title":"Keep your No-Doz handy if you watch this one !!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Maybe I'm in the minority, but this film was just a very cliche riddled script about Catholics & Jews, and watching it was like listening to someone tell the same old religious joke for the hundredth time.....Norton & Stiller are marvellous young actors, but their talents are wasted in this lack lustre vehicle...Elfman is over rated and only on screen for her stunning looks....she looks uncomfortable and ill at ease on screen.Edward Norton obviously tried hard to make a humourous religious / buddy movie, but the film lacks any real zing...the few decent laughs in this film are broken up by long boring pieces with banal dialogue & no direction in the script. I wasn't the only one to notice these weak points in the film....my six friends who accompanied me to see this film were all nodding off to sleep too !!A dissapointing film that could have been so much better....! "},{"Title":"Somewhat hilarious scenes keep this one interesting","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the type of comedy that leaves you hanging for a while and then BAM--hits you with a big laugh. The cast is great with the exception of Jenna Elfman who just doesn't have the right endearing qualities for the part. I could have seen Helen Hunt in this role and been happier. Edward Norton, a BRILLIANT actor, has made his mark as a director and has a good shot at doing either one. "},{"Title":"On balance, a clever and well acted romantic comedy.","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  On balance, this was a clever well acted romantic comedy.  In a way, it is a fusion of two elements.  The rabbi, priest, and female friend element worked well.  The ensuing romantic triangle was formulaic, and seemed to be there because every story needs conflict and this seemed the direction to take it. However the (for want of a better term) non-romantic component, was thoughtful and well written enough, and funny enough, that I found I could excuse and even in some respects enjoy the romance.  The brief review of their childhood and the airport scene with the sign were clever.  All 3 leads, plus the supporting cast, did a fine job; Jenna Elfman's performance was especially strong; and I really like Brian George and Lisa Edelstein in their roles.A bit of inside information -- as a former tutor, I really got a kick out of the scene with Ben Stiller and his student (in reality we already took into account the change of voice problem, as proof God has a sense of humor; and the real issue where there was a problem student was lack of preparation.)  Also, some unsolicited cocktail party info --the part the Bar Mitzvah student was reciting is from the creation story in Genesis (Torah1st 5 books of the Bible, not Haftarahselection from the Prophets), and is traditionally read a few weeks after, not before, Yom Kippur (order was reversed in the movie).Possible !!!SPOILER!!! ahead.Possible !!!SPOILER!!! -- I think this is OK and not unduly revealing, but I will just say that one of the leads drops a hint along the way about how things will turn out.  Particularly if you are familiar with Faye Kellerman mysteries you will know or guess the outcome.  It's a bit of a cheat, but I still thought the overall acting and writing carried the day. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton's performance may not be the bright spot in this film, but it's not bad.  Jenna Elfman and Ben Stiller are very good.  This is a nicely done story and it paints a fairly true to life picture.  If the film is intended to be funny, it fails for the most part but it is nevertheless very engaging and entertaining.  Be sure to check out the deleted scenes on the DVD. "},{"Title":"I adored","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just want to say that I just saw keeping the faith and I totaly loved it, it was very beautiful and it made me laugh a lot. I think that Edward Norton, Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman are wonderful actors and wish them a very long carer. "},{"Title":"Largely Enjoyable and Clever.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith was just a flick I picked up from the video store, it didn't look great, but, hell it was. I had a hell of a time watching this, and I wouldn't mind if I had multiple viewings of it.Keeping the Faith follows the story of best friends Jake Schram (Ben Stiller) and Brian Finn), two single, successful, handsome and confident young men living in New York City. When Anna Reilly (Jenna Elfman), once their childhood friend and now a grown and beautiful corporate executive returns to the city, she re-enters Jake and Brian's lives and hearts with a vengeance. Sparks fly and an usual and complicated love triangle is created because Brian happens to be a Roman Catholic priest and Jake is a Rabbi.It's short, simple and straight to the point, which is what I liked about this entertaining drama/comedy/romance/tearjerker. Keeping the Faith is reminiscent of There's Something About Mary, and once again, Ben Stiller takes the comic role. He is at best as Jake, while Jenna Elfman is beautifully convincing as Anna Reilly, this should be the performance that blasts her into real, big stardom. But, it is Edward Norton who is the real shining star of this film. Keeping the Faith is his directional debut, and he also takes the main part, which is brilliantly impressive since he hasn't been around all that long. There are lots of fresh ideas here, and many memorable quotes, even concerning Norton's co-stars (It's a great movie that starred Brad Pitt, come on!).Breathtaking original and seriously funny, Keeping the Faith is highly recommended.I rate Keeping the Faith 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't been moved by a film like this for a long time.  Edward Norton has certainly come up with the goods on this film marking himself as a talented director as well as actor. This was also the first time I have seen Jenna Elfman on the screen and she was well suited for the role.I gave this a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Norton's Natural Progression","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton keeps surprising us.  His first screen appearance as a troubled murder suspect in Primal Fear won him critical acclaim and an Academy Award nomination.  He did some singing in Everyone Says I Love You, then (by most accounts) took over American History X from its director.  In Keeping the Faith he directs his first film, and the result is a pleasant, if not laugh-out-loud comedy.Norton plays Brian Finn, one of three childhood friends, the other being Jake and Anna.  Sadly for the boys, Anna moves away while they are young teens.  Brian grows up to be a priest, Jake a rabbi. Then one day Anna returns, and the triangle picks up where it left off.Perhaps Norton's greatest achievement as a director is keeping his fine cast in tow.  Stiller and Elfman are used to playing goofy characters, and Norton keeps them from moving in that direction here, which would have ruined the film.  In addition, he paints a genuine and believable relationship tween the priest and rabbi.There are three problems with the film.  First, it runs more than two hours, about 20 minutes too long for a comedy.  Secondly, there's no screen chemistry between Anna and Jake, nor between Anna and Brian for that matter.  Thirdly, the movie never explores the true meaning of faith.  Someone once said that the television series Touched by An Angel is really about faith in faith, not faith in God.  That seems to be the problem here.  Neither the priest or rabbi seem to have much of an active faith in God, nor do they seem to struggle with this lack of faith.  Instead, their main concern--and that of the movie's--is in faith in other persons.  The rabbi says so in a climactic sermon.  And that's not true faith. "}{"Title":"The surprise I never expected...","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, what can I say? I was expecting a very fluff movie, and I didn't get it, and for that I am very happy. The story isn't the most original one, not really. Two guys falling in love with the same woman has been done before, but this one has a twist to it that I found interesting - one is a rabbi, the other is a priest. Well, I can safely say that I liked this movie. It was a charming, funny, sometimes exciting story that made me laugh a lot, and even cry a little. The ending was great, I thought it made justice to the whole story, and I liked the twists and turns the story took. So... go see this one, and feel a little better afterwards. "},{"Title":"See the DVD - the Cut Scenes are the Best.","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good acting and plot, but the movie is not funny enough for acomedy and not deep enough for a drama. The main problem withKeeping the Faith is that it is too soapy and long. Good part ofit could be cut. Ironically the scenes that were actually cutfrom the movie but included on DVD in the From the EditingFloor  section looked very good and would actually help themovie; particularly the scenes in the museum and the ingeniouscell phone abuse. "},{"Title":"Edward Norton's Ho-Hum Directorial Debut","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton's directorial debut is not near as spectacular as his acting debut in Primal Fear (a film where he received an Oscar nomination).  In fact this movie is quite a let-down.  Two young friends have grown up to become a Catholic priest (Norton) and a Jewish rabbi (Ben Stiller).  Life seems fine in New York until an old friend comes into town (Jenna Elfman).  Now their lives are turned upside down.  Norton is not allowed to have relations with women and Stiller's mother (Anne Bancroft) wants him to marry someone who is Jewish.  In spite of this, Stiller still becomes romantically involved with Elfman.  The usual confusion ensues as they must sneak around and what is Norton going to do when he finds out about this development?  Keeping the Faith looked like a sure-thing at first, but it loses its way.  Norton's direction is unclear and he is not in this film near enough.  Stiller and Elfman are thus left to carry the film, but both prove that they cannot accomplish this.  The screenplay is a little too smart, it mixes comedy and drama and feels disjointed in the end.  Norton also makes the film a bit too long.  There should be about 20 minutes edited from the movie.  2.5 out of 5 stars.    "},{"Title":"Funny, warm, bright, and so very New York.","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just adored this movie from beginning to end.  It's a great directorial debut for Norton.  The performances by the leads and the entire supporting cast was marvelous -- with standout support from Rifkin, Bancroft, and Edelstein.  Elfman was the revelation since I never thought that much of her as Dharma, but she stepped up to the plate and was the glue of the movie.  Norton and stiller were just marvelous together.  The movie had a lot of whimsy, marvelous one-liners, and lots of heart.  And magnificent location footage in New York.  Add a star if you're Jewish or Catholic or a re good friends with a Jew or a Catholic.  But, it should be fun for everyone.  I just adored the whole thing! "},{"Title":"it's stiller favorite movie","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into this whole movie experience expecting to be un-enlightened by a silly, petty predictible flick. Of course, I'm often (but not usually) wrong. Here, well, I was. This movie was not only funny in a ha ha humorous sense, but it in some strange way acted like an hour and a half version of Will and Grace in the sense that it challenges your humor. You have to actually know something about life and trivial matters to get the truest humor content. As I said, my premonitons regarding this film were on the whole negative; thinking it would be overstocked with religious jokes (therefore making the entire film cheesy and insulting to all and every religion and religious person), I was surprised to see that the true religious aspects of both Ben Stiller's and Ed Norton's characters were kept on the back burner. I found it sinfully adorable the way Norton (making his directorial debut) played out the relationship between the priest and the rabbi--it was simply wonderful. Their respect for each other was based on friendship, not religious sentiments. And it was more than simply a strong and meaningful friendship between two people of different religions. Here, the film juxtaposed two people STRONGLY devoted to their faith who were still able to maintain this fun loving and absolutely loose and carefree best-friendship. Then, there were the moments. The moments such as **attention!!! spoiler spoiler!!!** theapology after the fight between Jake and Brian and the apology gift--the missing Rabbi rookie card. Just great and funny and unexpected.And the Rain Man moment. And the sex talk moment. Everything was so blunt and extremely well acted and performed in a way that everything seemed like a rehearsal. Nothing was overplayed or exaggerated. There were genuine (well, genuine to the extent that a B-movie could produce) actions and reactions, making this movie truly loveable.  "},{"Title":"What a team!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ben Stiller and Ed Norton are a great combination! Then when you throw Jenna Elfman into the mix it is explosive! You want to be a part of their friendship. Both the men in this film have a beautiful gift for showing emotion. It plays a big part in what goes on throughout the movie. I would recommend this movie to anyone and everyone because it is a feel good hit.For those of you who were wondering, I would even go as far as to say it is NOT a Chick Flick. I give it 4 out of 4 marshmallows. "},{"Title":"A spiritually challenging and funny film.","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was quite moved by this film and surprisingly so.  I was expecting cute and typical comedy.  What I got was an unusually spiritual film laced with comedy.  Jake and Brian are both completely devoted to their work with people in the scope of the church & synagogue.  They have a strong conviction that this work defines them as individuals.  How many people do we know that can say that about their lives?!   What I like about the film is that they are challenged in their beliefs and tradition by an old friend (Anna) who is herself challenged by them.  I walked away with a sense of wanting to think about what defines me.  All the actors did a good job of knitting their characters together.  Ben Stiller made the movie with his myriad of expressions communicating surprise, shock and discomfort. I've seen it 4 times now!  The DVD is the way to see it with the director's commentary.  This film was directed by Edward Norton and was his first try at directing. "},{"Title":"Restored my Faith in Movies","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a funny, clever, completely entertaining movie about three likeable people.  It was a pleasure to spend a couple of hours with them.  That fact right there distinguishes this film from dozens of other current rental tapes/disks.  Two boys and a girl are inseparable childhood friends, until the girl and her family move away.  When the guys have grown up to be Ben Stiller and Edward Norton, the girl has become Jenna Elfman, a very busy businesswoman.  She returns to find that Ben is now a rabbi and Ed a priest.  She resumes her friendship with them, the threesome is restored, and romance inevitably appears.  Don't think for a moment that the outcome is instantly predictable.  It's not all that simple, and the complications provide much of the fun.  The humor is mostly visual.  The paired calamities of the two men at the outset of their professional careers are hilarious.  The script by Stuart Blumberg, if not witty, is ingenious and very well crafted, filled with amusing solutions to realistic problems.  The priest spills out his sad story to a magnificently sympathetic bartender (Brian George) whose own life, briefly summarized for Norton, would provide plots for 10 movies.  My only complaint I'd have liked more of Anne Bancroft, as Ben's mother.  She's a long-time favorite.  This was Ed Norton's first work as a director.  The film is dedicated to his late mother, Robin.  She was surely very proud of him, and this movie could only have made her still more so. 8/10 stars "},{"Title":"Funny, interesting and sweet","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton really surprised me with this wonderful romantic comedy. I all most lost the opportunity to watch it on the movies, it was there for a long time and I wasn't very interested to watch it. But then, I friend of mine ask me to go to the movies and this was the only movie we haven't seen yet.Unfortunately we couldn't go, but I got interested and when it was in his last week I watched and loved it.  It is a romantic comedy with a incredible plot. Three inseparable childhood friends &#150; two boys and a girl &#150; meet after been apart from a long time and the two men fall in love with the girl that now is a beautiful woman. The weird thing is that one of the men is a priest and the other is a Rabin. With a plot like that there's no need to say that it's a romantic comedy different of all the others. It also touches a point in our religion life. Isn't it time to unite all the religions? They try to do that and sometimes are repressed, but they conclude their little project of a Catholic-Jewish karaok bar.In romantic comedies what really matters is the plot and the acting. This movie has more than enough talent. Edward, Ben and Jenna are excellent, very funny, very convincing and very sweet. It's impossible not to fall in love with all of them. Their relationship is very funny and touching. Excellent!!! "},{"Title":"An OK date flick...","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is alright but I caught it at a sneak preview with a (male) friend so I thought the whole experience was a little disappointing to say the least. The story is ok, the acting is very good and some of the situations are kinda funny, too. Ed Norton, aside from being the most talented actor of his generation, turns out to be a quite talented director too. If you are female or if you're watching with a female, I highly recommend this flick. But it's definitely not an 'All Guy' movie. ***(out of five)   "}{"Title":"Yawn...","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the trailer and thought it might be ok to watch...on video. My girlfriend had different ideas so I was talked into seeing it on the big screen and I don't think I have ever been so bored watching a movie on a big screen in my life. It just dragged on and on and on.Ed Norton made a reasonable attempt at his character but Ben Stillers swingin' rabbi scenes were just laughable. Take my advice, give this one a big miss! "},{"Title":"breezy, very enjoyable comedy","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found it extremely enjoyable to watch. Normally this kind of movies doesn't appeal to me but Keeping the Faith is so well constructed, so well written and so funny it's just irresistable. No cheap laughs, no cynical humor (which is rare these days) no slapstick crap. That alone is worth a compliment but the acting also happens to be excellent! All the characters in this movie are real and sincere. Who would have thought Norton is also capable of playing this kind of roles let alone direct! The scenes with Ben Stiller are very funny, he's terrific when he's so uncomfortable. Which leaves Jenna Elfman. She just so natural and so radiant you can't resist her. Did i mention she's also gorgeous ?(that always helps) Norton wasn't afraid to throw in a little dramatic tension which is usually too sentimental or too fabricated in this kind of movies. Recommended! "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Have you heard the one about the priest, the rabbi and the businesswoman? They became the main characters in Stuart Blumberg's comedy Keeping the Faith.Blumberg artfully begins by playing on the joke as Ed Norton's priest tells his story and the story of the movie to a sceptical barkeep.Romantic comedies are the most popular of genres and very difficult to get right. How do you avoid simply reworking past works? Blumberg manages this quite successfully with the only hint of formula coming in the last reel.This movie is Edward Norton's directorial debut and a very accomplished one it is too.  The movie travels from low comedy to high comedy while stopping at pathos along the way without disorientating the audience.The leads are excellent and more to the point convincing in their roles.  Religion isn't just a gimmick to give the movie its high concept but is genuine and thought-provoking.Like the equally excellent Return to Me, Keeping the Faith is old-fashioned wonderful entertainment proving that they do make them like they used to do.  "},{"Title":"Oh my God!","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a nice film.  I can't believe I said nice!  Anyway, this is not all that bad.  Norton shows he can direct here as well as act.  It's a world away from Fight Club.  He plays a Fr. Brian Finn, an Irish priest (how stereotypical!) who along with Ben Stiller, who plays Rabbi Jake Schram, meet their childhood sweetheart/friend after 16 years.  Both of them are in love with Anna, played by Jenna Elfman (Dharma and Greg). There are some funny scenes in the film especially the one where Ed Norton does an impression of Rain Man.  I won't spoil the ending for you, but it's a happy one... Are you surprised?  I didn't think so.   "},{"Title":"Mildly amusing but a little too long for the material.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The idea behind the film is an amusing one and has some mileage. There are some amusing moments in the unlikely portrayal of a priest and rabbi falling for the same woman.One of the funniest moments of the film is the point where Rabbi Schram and Father Finn have a confrontation in front of Schrams congregation. This is a rare belly laugh most of the humour is milder than this moment.Having said all this however, there is about 90 Mins of good material but, alas, the film lasts for 129. It does tend to drag along in places. "},{"Title":"Funny, intelligent and emotive","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think we are witnessing the take-off of Edward Norton's career. First Fight Club, now this. Although Fight is the better movie (by far), this one has its charms which cannot be ignored.First of all, Norton's character is likeable. Very, very likeable. He is not a loser, he is not a romantic geek. He is a priest, a rather cool priest, with a great sense of humour. Ben Stiller's rabbi is even cooler, and a perfect match for Norton. Their relationship on-screen is so real, you will leave the theater wondering whether they are real-life buddies or not.The timing of the film is impeccable. The jokes come in at a steady pace, and each one of them is built to perfection. You might be watching a scene, thinking it is a serious point in the film, when BLAM! there comes the punchline. And all of them were effective, since the entire movie audience I was in with was laughing a lot louder than when I went to see Big Momma's House.But most important, Norton seems to be maturing as an actor, and his first stint as a director is a great one. Of course, the film has its low points; the last half of the film seems to be very slow, and there are a couple of scenes that could have been deleted altogether. Still, this films ranks a solid 8 as a movie, and marks the start of what can be an excellent career. Way to go, Norton! "},{"Title":"Intelligent insightful comedy about faith!","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping The Faith is a romantic comedy starring Edward Norton, Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman! All three leads are excellent and have a magnificent chemistry on screen. Edward Norton also directed this film!An uplifting film about friendship, love and faith. It explores topics and issues about religion in a humourous but positive way. It concentrates on Norton and Stiller's character's conflict between their feelings for Jenna Elfman's Anna and adhering to the codes of their respective faith- and eventually the conflict between Norton and Stiller themselves! This proves to make interesting viewing as each character begin to learn more about themselves and their 'faith', and also having 'faith' in yourself and others!My only gripe about the film, that it was a little over-long! That aside, Keeping The Faith is a intelligent comedy/romance that has strong performances from the whole cast! I'd wholeheartedly recommend this film to anyone because it's one of those  realistic, deep insightful romantic comedies with a positive message-without the politics! Great stuff!! **** out of *****!  "},{"Title":"Great movie, especially for couples!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, Actually I'm a huge fan of the matrix, and one of the best movies I've seen was the rock. So when I went to Keeping the faith I didn't go to the cinema for the movie, but for a great time with my girlfriend! (Which we actually did have) I was really surprised how the story grabbed me and didn't let me go! It's a story about 3 kids, 2 boys one girl who become quite close friends when faith tears them apart by separating Anna to the other side of America when they're in the sixth grade. Sixteen years later she suddenly call up the boys (who're still best friends)to visit them. Brian is a catholic priest by this time in NY, and Jacob a rabbi. For assigning Jacob as a 'regular' rabbi in the synagogue he has to be married to a Jewish girl. So he's searching for the 'perfect Jewish girl' when he falls in love with Anna! For Brian there's no such thing as a girlfriend described in celibacy, so for him it's actually more difficult to discover him loving Anna!This whole plot was really set up with a lot of humor!Quote Do you write your own ceremonies?  No actually there's this site www.hotgod.com where I download them! I would like to  recommended this movie for everybody!  "},{"Title":"lots of solid","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  lots of things go by in this movie. Being in love, family bonds, originality in religions, friendships, slapstick, faith in several subjects of life. All actors are good, genuine and beautiful if and where they should be. Not exceptional, though. Each one's job and other activities are portrayed exactly right. Alas, never and nowhere superbly or exemplary. A seven & a tear. "},{"Title":"Sit back and relax","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that makes you sit back and relax bring popcorn and lemonade! An interesting story about the problems that one normally would not think of these days those concerning the celibacy of the Catholic priest and those concerning what the people expect of the Jewish rabbi. Makes you think! And for those who don't like to think too much there's plenty of good fun too! A definite thumbs up. "}{"Title":"Comedy That Sparkles","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	(**Contains possible spoilers**)  Edward Norton stars along with Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman in `Keeping the Faith,' a comedy which also marks Norton's directorial debut.  This is a funny, sometimes hilarious film, that succeeds in maintaining the humor even while dealing in a straightforward and very serious manner with the subject of faith and, ultimately,  its effect on the relationship of three people.  Brian (Norton), Jake (Stiller) and Anna (Elfman) are an inseparable trio in childhood, until the eighth grade when Anna's family moves from New York City to California.  The boys continue on as best friends but lose contact with Anna until sixteen years later, when she unexpectedly shows up back in New York and calls Brian.  Anna is now a successful businesswoman; Brian is a priest, Jake a rabbi.  They manage to pick up right where they had left off all those years ago, but of course things have changed for all of them.  Soon Brian and Jake find themselves falling in love with Anna.  Brian's vocation, however, prevents him from pursuing a relationship, and Jake, though single and able to marry, encounters  an obstacle in the fact that Anna is not Jewish.  All of which is a moot point, of course, until Anna also falls in love with one of them; and we suddenly find ourselves in the realm of Ingmar Bergman. 	At this point, many comedies sink into that nether world of genre identity-crises  Is this really a comedy, or drama?  Happily, Norton keeps things moving right along with a steady hand.  Instead of turning dark, the story goes on to explore what a real commitment to faith means in terms of the sacrifice and choices that go along with it, and Norton manages to pull off a magician's trick of keeping it light and thought-provoking at the same time, no easy accomplishment when dealing with such sensitive issues as love and faith within the framework of comedy.   	The charismatic Norton and the likable Stiller put real life into the characters of Brian and Jake, and Elfman brings a quirky, accessibility to Anna that makes you want to root for all of them.  These are good people you quickly come to care about; you laugh along with them and at their situation, while at the same time you're hoping they all make the right decisions so we can all live happily ever after.  The fine supporting cast includes Anne Bancroft, Eli Wallach and Milos Forman.  `Keeping the Faith' is a movie that will make you laugh and smile, but it will also give you much to think about for a long time afterwards.  I rate this one 9/10.              "},{"Title":"The lighter side of Religion...","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Delightful story of true and lasting friendship. Statement of the simple fact that priest or rabbi, they are still men, faced with the same temptations as everybody else and at times, too weak to fight them off.There is also an attempt at the ever elusive inter-religious coming together, in this case between Jews and Catholics.A movie that will tickle your spiritual funny bone!! "},{"Title":"THIS is a good movie !","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very funny feel-good movie !There are some excellent scenes and characters in this movie. I particularly liked the Irish bartender and the Asian karaoke-salesman ! You'll know what I mean. -)) The scenes where the boys are rookie-priest and -rabbi are hilarious without being stupid !! -)) Some of the spoken lines are excellent too ! E.g. ...the pressure from the families is unbelievable. It's like the Kosher-Nostra ! -)) Edward Norton's Rain Man impersonation is brilliant and very funny ! -)  A must see !Ben Stiller, Jenna Elfman, Edward Norton and the others are all great. The credits at the end are good too.Go and see this film -NOW !   -)) "},{"Title":"The Melting Pot","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I' m not used to watching Slapstick Movies. I also miss all the romantic Comedys. But the combined types make this film extraordinarily good. Plus the movie plays with clichés, so you think you know exactly what will be on screen the next second (because you believe you have seen it in many movies), but the scene turns and you see unexpected solutions.This combination of new solutions and the old genres is great.  "},{"Title":"A funny but inconsequential movie","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Keeping the Faith is the kind of movie you watch when you have nothing better to do for two hours. It was funny, featured good performances from the leads, and for the price I paid, I feel I got more than my money's worth.  Jenna Elfman (Dharma and Greg) plays Anna Riley, a high powered executive who returns to visit her high school friends, Rabbi Jake Schram (Ben Stiller) and Father Brian Finn (Edward Norton). Of course, Anna is no longer the gawky girl the two men remember from their teenage years, but an attractive and confident young woman. Her return causes Father Finn to question his commitment to celibacy. Similarly  Rabbi Schram finds himself hard put to restrict the group of women he dates to those belonging to the Jewish religion. Jenna Elfman seems to have shed off her image as Dharma. A sure sign of this is that I actually liked her in this movie, whereas I would only watch Dharma and Greg if someone pointed a gun at my head. Both Stiller and Norton are good in their roles, though nothing in this movie calls for Norton's considerable acting skills. For the most part, the jokes work and are inoffensive. Judging from the reaction of the rest of the audience, I get the feeling that most other people would think so as well. The only problem I had was with the ending, which I do not want to reveal because it might be considered a spoiler.I think this is a good date movie. I give it a 7/10, but it is quite likely that I'll forget about in in a few weeks' time.  "},{"Title":"Lightweight, easy to take, but not exactly great","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When an actorr like Edward Norton makes a directorial debut, you'd expect a tough, violent movie about serial killers or rapists or cannibals. Instead, you get Keeping the Faith, a lightweight, old-fashioned, and likeable romantic comedy. It's an OK fare, but I expect a bit more from an actor of Norton's calibre.PLOT 5 SCRIPT 7 ACTING 8 DIRECTION 6 LAUGHS 4OVERALL 6 "},{"Title":"An American Diversion","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my first ventures into the romantic comedy genre.  Check out my list of other comments.  The genre, which I know, isn't for me, is in my understanding, a static genre.  This movie did not change my mind.  I guess that you need to be two things in order to enjoy this movie.  1) a romantic.  I am not a romantic, but I am a realist.  Romantics should enjoy this film because it works at their level.  2) a non-cinephile.  As a cinephile, I have learned so much about pacing, that I found movies drag so much at times.  I don't remember being like this until I saw South Park.  With its whiplash pace, I feel that all movies should be slightly faster, though not at its pace.  Now, that I gave you my basis, here is my review  The movie starts with the basis of the rabbi and a priest walk into a bar joke.  It remains as stale as the joke line is.  I found myself laughing at parts, and thought that it would be better if I had a different look on life than I do.  But, I don't.  The movie has a laid-back feel, which is good to alot of people.  But, in my opinion, it was just too simple to be 120 min.  It is your basic three act movie with each act lasting forty minutes.  It felt like it was written in a film class.  **SPOILERS AHEAD  wATCH oUT SPOILERS AHEAD**  The first act is all meeting people, the second act has the start of the conflict and has a second act climax, which leads to the third act, and its resolution.  The movie could have ended at a nice time at the end of the second act.  While, it would have been a downer, it would have been better.  Paced like a snail, things never happened, and when they did, you were at the edge of your seat because something is developing.  Whoo Hoo!However, this is not your typical chick flick fare.  It has many moments that will make guys and girls enjoy the simple movie, if they are romantics.  You don't even have to be overly religious to enjoy this film, but you just have to have the mindset.  And, I did not hate the movie for what it was, I just was simply bored, and the ending did not sit right with me.  I somewhat enjoyed myself, but wish that Edward Norton, or the editor, would have paced it quicker, and cut out some parts.  It would have made great extras on a DVD.  But, I think that it is a great, all-American and Hollywoodian diversions for the general public.6/10 "},{"Title":"Age-old love triangle","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping The Faith is an-old fashioned yarn involving Stiller (There's Something About Mary) and Norton (Fight Club) as two men in love with the same girl. The twist in this age-old love triangle being that the participants are a priest (Norton), a rabbi (Stiller) and a dynamic executive (Jenna Elfman). Occasionally charming and sometimes rather amusing, Ed Norton's first directional effort never really rises above the average Woody Allen film. However, Keeping The Faith should score well in video stores. Ultimately, a pleasant diversion.  "},{"Title":"Honest, crisp and funny writing. A real winner.","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The honest dialogue and plot turns are a welcome break for predictable outcomes and trite jokes.Edward Norton, Ben Stiller, and Jenna Elfman have great chemistry.  Best Stiller since Mary. "},{"Title":"Very nice debut as a director for fantastic Edward Norton!","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to the premiere of the film in Porto, my home town and I loved the movie, and so did everyone else. It´s a great comedy, very funny, lots of rythm and some things to think about. I could not expect anything less of Edward Norton. He has proves a great actor and a good director as well. Go and see the movie. You will not regret it. Can really brighten those sad days in which everything seems to be wrong! "}{"Title":"An uplifting comedy","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith was generally an entertaining movie but a little too long. I found the comedy uplifting but the drama a little forced, especially toward the end of the film.  Elfman is radiant, Stiller always manages to create sympathy for his humorous characters and Norton is very watchable. I did find some of the religious elements inaccurate but was pleased to see a mainstream film dealing with such issues as materialism vs spirituality. "},{"Title":"A clever, intelligent romantic comedy.","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best romantic comedies I've seen in a long time. It has just the right blend of comedy and romance and the story is very clever.The comedy is a wonderful blend of obvious physical and spoken comedy and intelligent, clever, adult humor that assumes a certain level of intelligence in the movie goer (rare in films these days as most cater to the lowest common denominator). Many of the comic bits require an understanding of Catholicism and Judaism for full appreciation.The romantic side of the story is just as intelligent and clever as it uses several angles to deepen the tension between the characters. As the IMDB summary states, it IS a love triangle; two men in love with the same woman but there's more to it (you haven't heard this one before). The resolution to all of this tension is wonderful- it's, cheery, uplifting and believable (still with a little comedy thrown in); I felt like applauding and screaming 'yes!' at the end (I think I did).This is important STAY FOR THE CREDITS! There's a bit of nice comic stuff in the credits.I would offer one observation to the filmmakers. I know it's always a tough problem for comedies but some of the lines were so funny that, when I saw the film with a full house, the crowd was still laughing after the comic lines so that when new dialogue came along it got squashed under the laughter. It's a tough problem, I'm sure.Thank you to Ed Norton and crew for a great movie. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Somebody's Fantasy","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The previews and trailers try to make Keeping the Faith  look like a zany comedy. Thank goodness it's not. Some have made a joke about a priest, a rabbi, and a scientologist. Now, that's funny. The movie is a story about two guys and a girl who grew up together and then meet 15 years later as adults. One's a Catholic priest, (Edward Norton) another is a rabbi (Ben Stiller), and both still live in New York City. The girl (Jenna Elfman) is now a workaholic businesswoman in San Francisco who comes back on a temporary assignment, and looks up the boys to catch up, and renew their friendship. Apparently, all three were too busy with their careers to ever keep in touch after the 8th grade. The reunion sparks attraction, jealously, and the expected complications.Stiller seems to have taken another break from doing the highly successful broad-stupid-gross-out-slapstick-comedy-thing, and chose a more gentle and intelligent choice for a script. This is the kind of light fluff that I didn't feel embarassed watching, though. There IS the occasional pratfall, and that robe catching on fire bit, but that's not the whole movie. Stiller has done a lot, TV comedy, romantic comedy, big screen drama, wacky gross-out stuff, and just oddball humor, all with varying degrees of success. His strong suit seems to be in the romantic comedy realm. A rabbi? I don't think so, but we accept it anyway.Elfman is A-dor-a-ble. She's bound to be getting offered every script Meg Ryan turns down, but will henceforth be on the A-list. She just glows, and has such Dharma-like enthusiasm for life that I suspended my disbelief about her working in her kind of job enough to follow the story, which is really about these relationships. Even if you hate to love her, she's very watchable in this `shiksa' role. Good casting. I can't picture another actress in it.Norton is very good, as well. You couldn't find an actor more suited to play an idealistic young Irish Catholic priest. The big surprise is that he also directed the movie. Who says you can't have it all? Instead of the story turning in outrageous directions, it actually keeps an even course and contains what seems like realistic, believable reactions, and intelligent writing. Another nice surprise.So, go see it if you're in the mood for something light. These three main characters are so likable, as far as blondes and the clergy go, that I actually did care what happens to them. With supporting cast members like Anne Bancroft, Eli Wallach and Ron Rifkin, you know they're doing something amazingly right. It's no spoiler to mention that you DO expect the story to be obligated to follow the ancient formula of the boy meets girl, gets girl, loses girl, etc. premise, which does get stretched a bit, but it's forgivable. That's the main thing. E-mail and comments are welcome. "},{"Title":"An adorable romantic, comedy","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith is all about the faith in love. Jacob and Brian met Anna in grade school, and have been best buds ever since...until Anna has to move to California. Brian and Jacob went on being best friends. Jacob became known as Rabbi Jacob Schram, and Brian as Father Brian. One day Anna calls Brian to tell him that she is moving back to New York. Brian and Jacob meet Anna Reilly at the airport with an Anna Banana sign. When she walks off the plane, they find her so gorgeous, that they aren't sure that it's her.  The story unfolds as they catch up on each other's lives.  The boys find out that Anna Reilly is an important businesswoman.It's a must see movie!!!!!!!!!! If I had ten thumbs, I'd give it 20 thumbs up!  "},{"Title":"Edward Nnorton debut is a competent straight romantic comedy,and he`s proud of it","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Keeping the Faith`is a nice directorial debut for prolific actor Edward Norton.His debut isn`t made in the vein of his recent controversial roles in David Fincher`s and Tony Kaye`s masterpieces.This movie is an old-fashioned romantic comedy which is made in a competent way.It can be included in the library of the glorious Big Apple movies because it has a neat and precise romantic subplot while it packs a nice ethical punch all the way.All those ethical question of love versus dogma and rules of heart versus rules of church written by people,are explored in a good-natured but overall trivial way.Norton tackles those questions but he doesn`t give any answers because this isn`t a movie about answers.If you want to see straight faced movie about priest dilemmas see Antonia Bird`s `The Priest` in this one you will find lots of fun and energy.Three leads give us nice performances and Norton`s direction is fine.He doesn`t do flashy editing but he knows how to set up a shot and fill the screen which is a nice start. Norton is one of the greatest actors Hollywood has and with this movie he shows that he is also capable of making a movie in a precise way.Some of the older romcom hacks would kill for an entry like this and Norton did it like an `in-between` job.     "},{"Title":"True to life humor!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife (raised Catholic) and I (raised Jewish) saw this together. We both loved it and came to understand each other's pasts a little bit better. Additionally, the Rabbi at our Temple was recently widowed and is having similar problems with dating. (We went to see the film on his recommendation!) "},{"Title":"Have ya heard this one? A priest and a rabbi...","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, here's how it goes, a priest and a rabbi are friends, and they are both in love with their mutual childhood friend, Jenna Elfman (looking rather fetching). Edward Norton, in his directorial debut, and Ben Stiller play the two holy men respectively.  Each of them thinks that he is the one that Elfman likes and both are forced to question their faith and religious traditions because of it.  The film is overlong and uneven, but has enough truly funny moments dispersed throughout the first hour that the film is entertaining.  The comedy is toned down at that point and most of the remaining attempts at humor towards the end are cliched ones that are already worn thin in other films.  The cast is charming though, and the movie is certainly pleasant enough. "},{"Title":"This is the movie Woody Allen should have made after Annie Hall.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping The Faith is one of the most enjoyable movies that I've seen in a very long time.  It has the feel of a Woody Allen from the Annie Hall period (picture Woody in Ben Stiller's role and Tony Roberts or Michael Murphy in Edward Norton's role).  The dialogue was very sharp, Edward Norton made an auspicious debut as a director, and the performances were great.  Stiller, Norton, and Jenna Elfman (who is going to be a major star for a long time) work beautifully as a team, and how can you go wrong with Anne Bancroft or Eli Wallach in a movie?In addition, I also enjoyed the fact that Keeping The Faith restored one bit of Star Trek lore, the Vulcan Live Long and Prosper hand sign to its religious context (in a very funny sequence in the film, Stiller shows Norton how to use it).  As a member of the Jewish faith, I was always tickled by the thought that the Vulcans might have been one of the Lost Tribes of Israel. "},{"Title":"Stiller and Elfman in very entertaining film","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Visually entertaining. Elfman well performs a role that lessor performers might play too sappy. She is will be a strong contender for future leading lady roles. Stiller, Elfman, and Norton don't seem to click as an acting trio in the early going, but warm well to the subject of a love triangle mixed wrestling with love and religion.  Several supporting actors give enjoyable performances. This is not an Oscar level film, but one that is without weaknesses. A perfect fit in the romantic-comedy arena. Well done, well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Word of Mouth, Please","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My feeling after reluctantly seeing the movie and then loving it is that Keeping the Faith will be depending a lot on Word of Mouth.I thought the film was absolutely terrific.  In my user rating I gave it a 9 instead of a 10 only because it *does* get a little bit long.  This is mainly because the framing device with the bartender ends about twenty minutes before the movie does.  You think it's almost over and it very definitely isn't.Other than that, Ben Stiller and Edward Norton did their usual excellent jobs.  I've never seen Dharma & Greg, although I probably will now.  Jenna Elfman glows in this film.The supporting cast shines.  Anne Bancroft, Eli Wallach and Milos Forman are wonderful.  There is a nicely understated antagonist performance by Ron Rifkin and a hilarious scene with Lisa Edelstein.This is an intelligent, compassionate film.  Go see it. "}{"Title":"Funny, touching, brilliant...","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of the few examples in modern Hollywood of a good concept that actually goes somewhere. The God Squad of Edward Norton and Ben Stiller are a lot more than just a two hour Saturday Night Live skit. Norton's direction is right on and his skill as a dramatic actor extends seamlessly into comedy - I hope he continues in both roles in the future. Stiller is vintage Stiller, blending outrageous physical comedy with more subtle and intelligent humor. Jenna Elfman as the love interest is about as far from her annoying TV character as one can get - her performance is surprisingly good (it may owe to the direction of Norton).Overall this movie is pure comic genius. I've heard some people say it was too long, but I sure didn't notice. It definitely holds it's own with There's Something About Mary. "},{"Title":"A great movie with many things going for it.","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I thought this movie was great.  It had a great cast, Edward Norton and Ben Stiller played excellently and very naturally as friends.  And who couldn't be in love with Jenna Elfman?  This was a very witty movie dealing with some religious questions very cutely.  Unfortunately every once in a while it tried to be too cute.On the romance side it was very cute, dealing with a love triangle in a friendly sort of way.  There is a definite relationship with this movie and the French films Jules et Jim.  Watch for a similar story line and even similar scenes, such as the race.  Luckily the girl isn't quite as neurotic, though also not quite so mysterious and probably not as memorable.  I would definitely recommend this film for a date, though not if the girl is an exercise freak.  (you'll see why)  Enjoy "},{"Title":"Ruggedly decent is about right","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Washington Post reviewer called this movie ruggedly decent, and I thought that was on the mark.  I don't think it's a perfect movie.  Too long?  OK.  Predictable ending?  Sure.  Pat supporting characters?  Yes.But it's thoughtful, charming and an excellent opportunity to feel more optimistic about humanity.  Man, I'm glad that Edward Norton and the rest made it.  Keeping the Faith is my favorite in quite a while. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but somewhat questionable","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alright, I'll admit that this was a film with three very appealing leads. Ben Stiller and Edward Norton (who also directed) are probably two of the most talented young male actors we have today, and Jenna Elfman effectively breaks away from ditsy Dharma to give an intelligent believeable performance. The New York locations are absolutely beautiful, the film is well-acted, by the three leads and by old pros Anne Bancroft and Eli Wallach, and the story is essentially a basic romantic comedy.Those are my plusses, now for the minuses. I realize that I'm probably going to sound like an incredible Philastine for saying this, but, as a Catholic, I am very much offended by the spate of films over the past several years that show Catholic priests as, if not breaking their vows, coming very close to it, as Norton's character comes very close to doing in this film. I imagine the people involved see this as humanizing the priests. Well, Bing Crosby (Going My Way, for one), Gregory Peck (Keys to the Kingdom), Spencer Tracy (Boys Town, for one), and even Humphrey Bogart (The Left Hand of God), all played priests who were eminently human, yet who were always treated with the dignity of their office. Keeping the faith, in short, in visually enjoyable, morally ambiguous, and anyone who wants to see it can make their decision based on that. "},{"Title":"Funny if you're Catholic, hilarious if you're Jewish","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is another in a short list of films I would not have seen unless my wife dragged me to it, and I actually enjoyed.  I figured, Yeah, priest, rabbi, Dharma... whatever.  But it was actually *good*.What impressed me most was the lack of schmaltz and cheap laughs that I kept waiting for.  It deals with issues in a genuine way, and doesn't resort to easy Hollywood solutions to problems.It also has a good share of laughs, with the majority of them dealing with life as a rabbi  what you're mother expects of you, what the church elders expect, and what your congregation expects.  These subjects are treated humorously, but with serious undertones so it doesn't seem cheesy.We get see a little of what the priesthood is like, through the eyes of Edward Norton's character (great directing job too, Ed!).  Some good laughs there, too.And of course there's Jenna, who looks great and does a fine job.So take your poor mother out for dinner and a movie.  What could it hurt?  "},{"Title":"Provides a steady one-hour giggle with an occasional guffaw.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith, like any romantic comedy, is harmlessly trite and completely predictable. Just forgive the formulaic approach to what actually is a pretty clever story line and a really good movie. Stuart Blumberg's script (first?) has so many little treats and references -- arcane and accessible -- that the viewer who watches and listens carefully will be richly rewarded.  I judge smartness of a film by how many different people scattered in a theater get to laugh alone. I had three solo snickers, jokes that only I got or found funny, and the people around me got some of their own, too. It probably helped that I am Catholic with a Jewish father and several Jewish friends, but I'm guessing the movie can entertain most folks.Jenna Elfman is a delightful minx/ingenue combination. She basically plays Dharma with a high-powered job. (She analyzes synergy or synthesizes analogies, Norton explains to Stiller) Keeping the Faith is loads of fun. It does stall at the 90-minute mark. Just wait a few minutes, the lift on the wings returns in time (barely) to stop the free fall and prevent vomiting.  Dialogue, physical comedy, and, obviously, the denominational humor are outstanding. Hardly iconoclastic or irreverent, but naughty enough to enjoy. "},{"Title":"What is old is new again","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith works because it aspires to be nothing more than a screwball comedy in the vein of the 1940's films such as Lady Eve or Arsenic and Old Lace.  Even with a religious theme, this film has no heavy handed message.  Indeed, at times, it sinks  to the level of a sit-com but the characters, not the dialogue, are what keep this film afloat.  Edward Norton could easily be James Stewart especially with his double take mannerisms, Ben Stiller could be Cary Grant, serious but not too serious, and Jenna Elfman could be Rosalind Russell, a charmer who knows what she wants.  If we could fault the writers for being a little too pretentious - a bartender role-playing as father-confessor, two men of the cloth walking down the street as the 'God Squad', the priest and the penitent hugging in front of shocked bystanders, and a Karaoke machine salesman speaking with two voices, we have to be reminded that it's all in fun.  The fact that both the Jewish rabbi and the Catholic priest act less than religious shouldn't be taken as a sign of disparagement.  Like a good screwball comedy, Keeping the Faith shows that the shortest distance between two points is filled with complications.  Will the religious men give up their vocation to marry the girl of their dreams?   Will old ways stop them from getting what they want?  Can an innocent kiss lead to totally wrong conclusions?  Is a career more important than a commitment to someone?  All this and more are answered in Keeping the Faith.  Norton, Stiller, and Elfman are just fine but what a difference it makes to have Anne Bancroft as the doting Jewish mother and Eli Wallach and Milos Foreman as respected old men.  The ending is corny with all differences resolved neatly and happily but then so were the 1940s comedies and that's why those films, like Keeping the Faith, hold a warm place in our hearts.  "},{"Title":"Thank you Ed Norton . . .","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton has created a romantic comedy that has both elements, romance and comedy.  This is a rare feat nowadays.  In the era of Runaway Bride, My Best Friend's Wedding, The Bachelor, Three to Tango, The Other Sister (ugh), etc. etc. etc. finally a film comes along to breathe some life into this dead genre. "},{"Title":"Extremely enjoyable film","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very pleasantly surprised by this movie.  About 3/4 through this movie I remembered this was directed by Edward Norton, and was impressed even more.  This movie is well written, well acted, well directed, very well photographed, amusing and touching.What may have been most impressive was Edward Norton NOT using this as an homage to Edward Norton.  Matter of fact, a case could be made that he is really a supporting actor in this film.This is more than just a great date movie.  It is just a very enjoyable movie for adults. "},{"Title":"not exactly what I expected","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The previews fooled me on this one;  I was expecting a comedy.  And I guess I got one, though I only laughed in earnest a few times because, really, Keeping the Faith is sort of a serious movie - something of a romantic drama.  But that works to its advantage, actually.True, it is a little long, but this is a movie that makes you care enough about its characters to get past that.  Stiller, Norton, and Elfman are all likeable, realistic people that have believable character flaws.In fact, the only real problem I have with Keeping the Faith is its somewhat inconsistent (though at least respectful) treatment of religious relations.  Sometimes, it's pretty grounded in reality, such as when Stiller, as a Rabbi, is concerned what his congregation will think if they find out he is dating a non-Jew.  At other times, though, the film seems to enter a weird fantasy land where Catholics and Jews get along perfectly.  I mean, is a joint Catholic-Jewish elderly hangout really that realistic?But, even with its flaws, Keeping the Faith is worth a viewing.  There might not be anything that profound here, but it's good for a few hours of escapism.  7/10 "}{"Title":"average storyline but really funny","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a little better than average.  It was funnier than I thought it would be.  I wish that Edward Norton had a bigger part than he did.  I was surprised to find out that he directed it.  Jenna Elfman did a better job than I thought she would and Ben Stiller is, well, Ben Stiller. Overall, a pretty good movie.  I'd recommend it for the laughs.  It seemed kind of long, however. "},{"Title":"Use Extreme Caution Watching This Movie","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an extremely serious movie masquerading as a comedy.  I went to it expecting another 'Something About Mary' with some religious overtones.  I was, er, in error.  The story is full of tensions between friends, sex and religion.  Since I was expecting it to be funny, I was unprepared for such depth of emotion and was hit quite hard.  I strongly identified with one of the characters and it was difficult to see their life turn out less than satisfactorily.Jenna Elfman turned in a wonderful performance, as did Ed Norton.  Elfman's character showed a shocking wont of sensibility in dealing with her Priest and Rabbi friends.  With the way she behaved, whether on purpose or not, it is no surprise the way the movie turns out.As long as you expect the movie to be a philosophical look at religion, friendship and very serious relationships, you won't be disappointed.  Just don't expect it to be a lighthearted comedy to see on your afternoon off. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie...Deals with a Significant Problem for Jews","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie very much.  It was very funny and the characters are enjoyable.  On another level, I felt the movie deals in an interesting way with a subject near and dear to committed Jews; dating non-Jews (by the way, I'm Jewish).  It was interesting that Jake's concern was what his mother and congregation would say.  He himself didn't seem bothered by the idea of a Jew dating a non-Jew.  What would he have said to a congregant who was dating a non-Jew?  I think the movie could be used as a spark to generate interesting debate in the Jewish community. "},{"Title":"Wrestling with demons","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Along with the humor and warmth and romance, this movie had a lot to say about religion and the ministry. Both Edward Norton and Ben Stiller had to wrestle with the demons of their calling and reconcile it to their self-fulfillment. Norton's job was tougher and he illuminated the ambivalence of priestly celibacy well. He yielded too quickly to Jenna's seductiveness, but it could hardly be otherwise in a romantic comedy. The movie's focus was much more on the Jewish congregation and Stiller was given more space to cope with the peculiar pressures and prejudices of that community. Showing the challenges of religion and faith in a high-powered secular world is a quiet, non-intrusive subplot that gives this film added depth. "},{"Title":"Amusing romantic comedy with fine performances","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	What a pleasure! Edward Norton's first directorial effort, `Keeping the Faith,' is a delightful pastiche which will entertain and amuse. Norton (Brian) also portrays a priest who is the lifelong friend of Ben Stiller (Jake), a rabbi. After many years, their boyhood friend, Anna, winningly portrayed by Jenna Elfman (Dharma & Gregg), returns to New York. She re-enters their lives as a vibrant, ambitious and charmingly sexy young woman. The rest of the plot is quite predictable. However, it is all in the execution here. Anne Bancroft is perfect as Jake's Jewish mother. Her wise words of advice and witty repartee light up every scene she's in. Eli Wallach is the president of the Temple in which Jake officiates. Milos Forman (director of `Amadeus') makes the most of a cameo appearance as Brian's senior priest. The rest of the cast is super. The young women Jake's congregationists try to match him with have hilarious encounters with him. Of course, the whole thing comes out as you would expect. And you will walk out with a big grin on your face.  "},{"Title":"If you believe in something, you might as well believe in love.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so adorable. The 3 main characters were spectacular. It shows a true friendship and a cute romance. Edward Norton is cute, Ben Stiller is cute, and Jenna Elfman is a wonderful actress(Dharma and Greg). I'd love to see a sequel, but only if it were equally as good as this. "},{"Title":"A fun, heart-felt movie that deals appropriately with its religious undertones.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am Catholic and was concerned when I read that a priest falls in love with a woman in this film.  Much to my happiness, the movie does well in making one realize that priests are human.  I also have been aware of Edward Norton's work since seeing him in Larry Flynt vs. the....  Unfortunately, I have yet to see other works of his but with my curiosity peeked, his having starred, directed and produced this film instantly won me to go.The film decently portrays these human beings of faith and deals with the very constant issue of God in a serious and, well done, light hearted tone.  They are not too passe' as to make you feel they have no real convictions but then they also keep open to the masses.  I am concerned that the old-fashioned belief of waiting until marriage for sexual relations has seemed to totally gone out the window; I thought the Jewish faith believed that, but then the priest, who knew since he was 8 of his calling, has had sex, and I _know_ the Catholic faith still has strong convictions on waiting, but I see that not much of a story line may have transgressed without that aspect in this film. Maybe that issue will come up in some other film in the future. The aspect of the rabbi and priest falling in love is a reality.  I am ecstatic of the straightforward realization that the priest, to stay a priest, cannot go with his drive and that the rabbi is under the realization that certain factors of his life do effect his congregation and their view of him as a spiritual leader.  Their mutual love interest makes it more understandable as she is delightfully played and is erroneously affectionate at times, thus making the priest's feelings more forgivable and the rabbi a very blessed man.  All characters are going through very believable situations and that is what makes this movie so universal.I overall give it a ten, yes, a perfect 10, since it not only deals universally with a very touchy subject but it did deal with it in a strong light of the respective faiths and overall views of God.  It was a perfect example of what _many_ feel today, and that is what movies do, portray our current views, help us not to feel so alone and, hopefully, to make us look in the mirror, too. "},{"Title":"Finally a smart comedy","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very satisfied with this film.  It was intelligent and didn't stoop to crude jokes to make it funny.  It also kept my interest as it explored several issues including faith, religion, friendship, and trust.  The actors are superb in their respective roles.  Definitely a film I would recommend; funny, romantic, and interesting. "},{"Title":"Good movie, Strange Humor","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw Keeping the Faith tonight, and, as a Romantic Comedy fanatic, I had a few of comments about the movie1.  I love Ed Norton.  I haven't seen a lot of movies with him, but he really pulled off the part of the lovable priest well.  I could hear myself wanting him to get Jenna Elfman throughout the movie, and I wanted to know more and more about his character than Ben Stiller's.  At first I thought the movie would focus more on his character, and I was a little disappointed that it didn't.  Overall, all of the actors portrayed their parts well (I got into the roles), and that was one of the movie's stronger suits.2.  I liked the plot- even the ending.  I was glad to see that this romantic comedy had a slightly different twist than other romantic comedies I have seen lately.  Maybe it was because I didn't find this comedy as predictable as others.  I even liked the ending because I felt it was one of the only ways it could REALISTICALLY end.  (Spoiler.)  I mean, come on, I didn't see either of the people in the God Squad leaving their faiths for her, and as much as I wanted Norton to get the girl, he didn't.  It would have just been too farfetched.3.  The camera angles were cool.  Remember the scene where Stiller and Elfman are talking about how their relationship was going to work out? The angles that the shots were taken at were different from any other shots I had seen.  It really made the whole scene more interesting.  The Cloisters, the MMOA, and the shots of NYC really brought out the beauty of the city as well.4.  Strange Humor.  My biggest complaint-and one of my only complaints about the movie-was the constant back-and-forth types of humor.  At times the humor of the film was very Leslie Neilsenesque-the incense, the scenes with T-Bone, and the scenes in the bar.  At other times, the humor was very different.  If Norton or the editors of the film had just decided to stick with one type of humor, the film would have come off much better.Overall, I enjoyed watching the movie. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance...","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting a boring film with brief moments of comedy but was surprised to find a warm and very well done movie. For once, Ben Stiller is given a chance to break out of his edgy persona and portray a flawed but good natured guy. He nails it. Edward Norton is right at home playing a meek but confident priest. They really play off each other well and in way that seems natural and not forced. Jenna Elfman is dead on as the object of both of their affections. I never like her in anything but I fell in love with her in this picture. She is the girl any guy would love to open a door for. By now you already know the plot so I wont go into that. There are moments in the film that really make it one of the best of 2000. The scene where Ben and Jenna get together and the movie goes into a montage of various activities of them together is perfect. It isn't sappy or dripping with Hollywood flash. The music compliments the scene so well that I walked away thinking of it over and over. The scene where Ben and Edward are walking down the street and the song that is playing is priceless. Some didn't get the tongue in cheek aspect of it. You be the judge. I say it works. The karoke salesman almost steals the show. The characters draw you in and make you care about what is happening. The bottom line is go see it. Take a date, or your mom, or anyone who would enjoy a nice and funny little movie. Keep an eye out for that montage scene. "}{"Title":"Great Shots of New York City","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was very well made.  Like the good romantic comedies of old it keeps you entertained with a very likeable cast. It takes on questions of faith and love with a good nature.  It has good writing, good acting, and the best shots of New York you will see in a movie.  From the basketball courts uptown, to central park, to office buildings downtown, and surreal night shots of the city from Brooklyn, this movie is just fun to look at.   Its not the greatest movie of all time, but it is the kind of movie that you would like to take your whole family, including your parents, to see.  And how many movies can you say that about.    "},{"Title":"Wonderful, sexy romance","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie surprised me in that the trailers tried to make it out to be a slapstick There's Something About Mary-esque Ben Stiller vehicle.  But it's really a wonderful comedy about falling in love with someone who totally disrupts your life. And also about the bonds of friendship and how faith can help to strengthen those bonds. It's really sexy and all of the performances are spot on.  This will grace my video shelf the day it's released.  "},{"Title":"A comedy worthy of praise","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping The Faith is less about religion than it is about what makes us who we are. More specifically, it leads us to ask ourselves if our lives and our careers are interchangeable terms.  The film has three well-drawn characters Father Brian Finn (Edward Norton, who also directed), Rabbi Jacob Schram (Ben Stiller), and Anna Reilly (Jenna Elfman) who all have to answer this question in very different ways. When you're man of God, as Brian and Jake are, you can't leave your work at work. You live your job more than any other profession because you're in constant communication with the Boss even after regular office hours. Anna's office is also wherever she is at any given time, thanks to the almighty cellular phone. When these three are reunited for the first time since Anna moved to California in the eighth grade, they find themselves re-evaluating their stations in life.The minute Anna gets off the plane from Los Angeles, we know these two guys are in trouble. Brian falls for her, an obvious problem. Jake's problem is that the mother of every single woman in the church expects Jake to date her daughter. His own mother is seemingly dead set against Jake marrying a gentile-she already ruined his older brother's inter-faith marriage. Jake is worried about people finding out he's in love with a non-Jew and yet, never questions the fact that he, a rabbi(!), is sharing a bed with a woman he's not married to. This would have been a compelling subject to deal with, but the film's creators chicken out (unless the rules have changed and no one told me). This is a rare exception in a film that is not afraid of its subject matter. Faith takes on two big subjects-Love and Faith-and gives both their due. Its creators aren't afraid to do a little preaching on either subject and it all works really well together. The film is a sign of the times, the way it blurs the lines that separate the religions and also the long-standing traditions within those religions. In the world of this story, having one half of the Good Book in common is enough for the Jews and Catholics to get together. Too bad reality is a lot different. This might be the most secular kind of movie there is, one that portrays religions casting aside their customs in favor of something simpler, something easier to understand and live by-Love. Brian and Jake's friendship is the reference point for all of it and it is touching to watch.I hope people will take a chance on this film (yes, go to the theater, don't wait for the video). After all, it's spring and Keeping The Faith is one of the best things going at the movies right now.Grade B  "},{"Title":"Beautiful mix of Romance, Comedy & Drama","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most of the time when a movie is released as a Romance Dramedy (Drama & Comedy) it only focuses on one aspect. There are millions of examples, especially the teen flicks. Never before has a movie taken all three into account and explicitly handled them all. Norton as a director on this film is exceptional, but as one of the lead roles leaves a little to be desired. The chemistry between his character and Stiller's was far from believable, as it was for him and Anna Banana. Norton and Stiller did not work on this movie, and both performances left me unsatisfied. The script of this movie, was by far one of the better ones I've seen in a while. The comedy was well placed, and not forced at all. Stiller's blockbuster Something About Mary, had jokes written in, but they weren't very well placed, and I caught myself laughing just because the rest of the audience was. Not true in this movie at all. I laughed at some of the more intelligent jokes that the rest of the people in the theatre didn't catch, especially about religion. The way this script deals with religion is definitely what the two largest faiths of the world needed. It gives a new spin on faith, and about God. It presents the hypothesis that you can have fun while you worship. One of the greatest moments was when Stiller (the rabbi) brings in the Harlem Gospel Choir to sing one of the songs during the jewish service. All in all it was a great movie with a horrible cast, excluding the actress who played Anna. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Edward Norton spreads his considerable wings.","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Norton who first caught my attention as the innocent looking but creepy Aaron in Primal Fear, and cemented my admiration in his equally brilliant portrayal of the menacing skinhead, Derek, in American History X, has taken another step by directing and staring in a comedy.  I don't know if this was a deliberate attempt to show his versatility as an actor, but it made the point none the less.  This guy is a quality talent on the screen and if Keeping the Faith is representative, a good director also. "},{"Title":"Very Funny But Half-Baked","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was really very funny...for the most part.  I loved (almost all) of it!  I came out of this movie not knowing what to say.  The story is funny, the setting is picturesque, and the characters are great.  I liked their personalities.  They speak to each other like real friends do and Edward Norton, Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman did a great job at filling out their characters with lots of details and great dialogue.  For the most part, I totally enjoyed this movie.BUT...it came up to a certain point at which I was cringing at the cheesiness factor.  You'll know it when you see it, and I do recommend that you see most of this movie.  I'm not sure how much the good outweighs the cheese, but this movie is great for more than a few laughs.  If you don't see it in theaters, maybe a nicely edited director's cut will come out that actually cuts out the cheesy scenes.   "},{"Title":"A priest and a rabbi walk into a ...","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With a run time of 129 minutes, about 20 to 30 minutes of this movie could have been cut and it would not have been missed.Jenna Elfman gives a remarkably restrained performance -- for her.Ben Stiller is more restrained than his usual edgy performance.But the primary reason I wanted to see this movie was to check out Edward Norton.Norton usually plays very dark, bleak characters and I was curious to see how he would handle romantic comedy -- both as an actor and as the director.He shows that he is a very versatile actor  handling the comedic scenes with an adept touch.However, as a director I am not sure...  Even though three of our most beloved contemporary actors are in this movie there is little chemistry between them -- with the possible exception of Norton and Stiller -- who should not have had the 'real' chemistry.The script is at least partially responsible for this  It is over-long and attempts to be a course in Judaism 101.While it was sensitive to the religious issues raised I believe it was unnecessary for Anna (Elfman) to go through the change she did at the end of the movie.There was the perquisite ethnic humour  I'm not drunk -- I'm Irish being one of the primary examples.  The photography and locations were outstanding, at times over-shadowing the characters.Anne Bancroft (playing Ben Stiller's mother) just played herself -- see 'To Be or Not to Be' -- but who cares?  She is always a delight to behold.There are lots of good, under-utilized actors in supporting roles -- but that was part of the problem -- they were vastly under-utilized.When you have Eli Wallach and Milos Forman in a movie you USE them to the fullest extent possible.If you have seen the previews on television you have seen all of the comedic bits -- apparently the distributors are trying to sell this as slapstick -- which it is not.  Most of the rest of the movie is just talking without any real character development.In spite of the pacing, being too long and other flaws, this was a nice little movie.  But it is NOT, by any means the best of the summer romantic comedies.Both 'Next Best Thing' (Madonna and Rupert Everett) and 'Return to Me' (David Duchovny and Minnie Driver) were better romances AND better comedies. "},{"Title":"okay ...but could have been better","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this because I'm a big Edward Norton fan, and wanted to see him play a comedic role and direct for the first time. I liked the movie but it did have some slow parts and could have ended sooner, lately movies have been long when it's not needed. This could have be resolved alot sooner. I personally was a fan of Ben Stiller, but now that he's everywhere I'm starting to get sick of him, people went to see the movie knowing that he was going to get the girl, they just didn't know when or how or what problems would come up. Ben's character Jake was a very humorous character, and added in most of the laughes throughout the movie. I liked the karoke guy, there should have been more of him, it was nice that they noticed he was a humourous character and had him appear at the end of the movie.I thought that the ending was kind of unbeleavable, maybe since the character is a priest him might be able to forgive his friends for lying to him for months. I don't think he would have been able to forgive them so quickly. Especially since embarassed himself so badly. I give this movie a 7 out of 10. the movie could have been better but I usually give special consideration with romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"a refreshing movie","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith was so refreshing to see - great for a wide range of audiences.  Few writers have managed to produce a non-cynical script involving religion that is actually entertaining.  The performances and directing make a truly genuine movie. I can't recommend it enough.          "},{"Title":"Simply extraordinary.","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    Edward Norton is progressing faster than any other has ever done in Cinema history.  And now he's declaring himself as a great director.  It's incredible to see just how much talent an actor can pack in.  Steven Spielberg and Francis Ford Coppola should soon be accepting him in the same director category as them.  In Keeping The Faith, he not only does a great job directing but he also gives a terrific acting performance and I felt he upstaged Ben Stiller in all the scenes where they were together.  Another new discovery is Jenna Elfman who shows us she is able to do much more than just Dharma from Dharma & Greg.  She delivers the goods with a strong and convincing performance and Ben Stiller is also good in his role which is not at all the same as what he had to play in There's Something About Mary.  Brian Finn (Edward Norton) and Jake Schram (Ben Stiller) are two life-long friends who have always been inseparable.  As the years went by, Brian became a priest whereas Jake became a rabbi.  They hang out together all the time.  Then, one morning, after playing basketball, Brian asks Jake who he believes is the coolest woman the two of them have ever known and Jake immediately answers that it is Anna Reilly (Jenna Elfman).  Brian agrees and tells Jake that she will be coming over to New-York and that they should get together during her long trip.  Brian and Jake are also life-long friends with Anna and have known her since eighth grade.           Anna arrives to New-York and she's all grown up.  She's a total knock-out and the two men immediately fall in love with her.  And so the relationship they had together when they were in eighth grade starts all over again.  They go out the three of them and hang together.  Anna asks them about their relationships and Brian is not allowed to have one.  However, Jake's congregation tries to set him up with a bunch of women whom he does not necessarily like but goes out with just to please the congregation and especially his mother (Anne Bancroft).  But Jake falls in love with Anna and Anna with Jake.  They begin a loving relationship which they hid from Brian and naturally, the worst happens and Brian finds out.    When he finds out, their relationship breaks up.  At first, Anna seems to be the victim but it soon becomes clear that it is Brian.  But being a priest, he knows how to forgive.  Anna is forgiven but he waits a little for Jake.  But they eventually become the best of friends again and Jake starts to date Anna again and everything finishes happily.  This might sound like a 21st century version of movies like Sleepless In Seattle or Forget Paris but it is far different than those movies.  I thought it looked a lot more like American Beauty in the way that it was the story of love and betrayal and friendship and beauty.  There are many funny scenes in the movie but make no mistake, this movie is not a comedy.  This is much more than it appears to be and is Oscar-material and if American Beauty which I personally loved won all those Oscars, then Keeping the Faith should win as many.  I know I am kind of early in the season to be talking about Oscars but it is so incredible.  Three obvious nominations should be Edward Norton for best actor, Jenna Elfman for best actress, and Edward Norton for best director.  This is sort of an American Beauty meets A man and a woman with a third party in it.  But in any case, it is one you won't want to miss. "}{"Title":"Good comedy, if not a bit long-winded.","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film could've used a better editor, but other than that this is a pretty good film. Norton is somewhat downplayed in terms of his acting, though I think this is an admirable first attempt at directing for him. Stiller gives a fine performance, in what could be as much emotion as he's actually shown in any of his films to date. Elfman is FAR improved from her annoying TV show. She can be a good actress when she isn't screeching, this movie proves that. Please, Jenna, for the sake of your show, keep away from the helium and think of your performance here. She also looks stunning in the film, but we won't get into that. One thing to watch for is the scene with the karaoke salesman. It's perhaps the best scene in the film.Overall, this film could be even better if shortened a bit. But it's still a good film on its own merits. I'd recommend it, though not strongly. 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  They got it right. Edward Norton directs his first film, and does he great job of it. Stiller and Elfman along with Norton as the Priest do a great job. Anne Bancroft is great as the Jewish mom. Eli Wallach and Milos Forman also join the clergy/cast.  This film will make you laugh, and think. It is superbly done, in great taste. My Mother loved it. What more can I say. THe only thing I'd say negative is that it drags 5 or 10 minutes too long towards the end. But I guess its shorter than any other movie I've seen recently, so that is good. SEE THIS MOVIE "},{"Title":"Funny, Sexy, all around great movie","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton has done it again.  His name is becoming synonymous with quality films.  Keeping the Faith is funny, sexy and gently nudges you to think about love, life and priorties.  It is long, but keeps your attention because the characters are so engaging. I give it a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent and funny","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie I've seen in a long time. The script is intelligent, the characters are vivid and consistent. I hope it wins a ton of Oscars and makes a zillion bucks. I'm going to see it again, and buy it when it comes out on video.  "},{"Title":"More than an Elfman breakout vehicle","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not your usual Hollywood fare, this movie sneaks up on the audience and wins its admiration and respect. Jenna Elfman's glowing performance counterbalances the necessarily heavy themes; she makes one understand why men of faith have such a conflict. Visually stunning; made NYC seem fresh and attractive. A hat tip to the writer, Stuart Blumberg, and to Edward Norton for making this movie. "},{"Title":"Keep Faith In This Move","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a great comedy featuring a great threesome, Elfman, Stiller and Norton.  I am a big fan of Ben Stiller and he out-shines all the rest in this film.  If you are in the mood for a good laugh go see this movie and you will laugh your self silly!  Jenna Elfman's best film to date. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into this movie with very low expectations.  The commercials made it look goofy and mildly blasphemous for all church-goers.  All of my hesitations disappeared as soon as the movie started.  It was very cute and showed some very human emotions that--I'm guessing--men of the cloth experience.  Although there is no way you can convince me that Jenna Elfman is a high-powered executive, she was charming.  I was most impressed with Edward Norton as Father Brian.  His acting is done so naturally that it is hard to believe he's speaking from a script.  My favorite line?  When the Indian bartender with Jewish in laws says, I'm a bartender.  I don't do penance--I do shots.  Enjoyable! "},{"Title":"Good, but too long","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	Edward Norton's directing debut, Keeping the Faith is full of charm, wit and brains, but might be the slowest moving film of the year.	There is a lot of fun to be had at this movie, which tells the story of a rabbi (Ben Stiller) and a priest (Norton) who are best friends and both in love with the same woman (Jenna Elfman). 	Despite the obvious possibility of religion jokes, this movie admirably only occasionally makes light of the characters' faiths. It actually handles the topic perfectly - it has plenty of humor, but within the dignified confines of the religious overtones.	The movie also has sharp performances all around. Stiller and Norton are terrificly blended as friends, and actually quite believable as hip spiritualists. Elfman (Dharma & Greg) does the impossible by shedding her sitcom persona without losing any of her charm. And the three actors together have terrific chemistry.	Plus, the film has an intelligent theme throughout. Norton's character must deal with the temptation of sex in light of his vow to the church. Stiller's character must handle the fact he has fallen in love with someone outside of his faith.	So how can a movie with everything going for it still not be worth seeing?	It is unbearably long, and for no reason. The dialogue in the film, although well scripted, is often repetitive or obvious. The characters are given too much time to speak to each other, which simply results in lines being said over and over.	Pacing in this movie is indeed a big problem. The first half of the movie goes nowhere, and there is so little tension, it makes the plot to that point unmemorable. Once the ball does get rolling, there seems to be little deliberation on the already mentioned sharp themes. Three weeks go by for the characters to think about it, but then the tension is relieved without any healing process.	The ending is also a bit disillusioning, although it's hard to avoid that when the topic is about a love triangle with all good characters.	There will be a great deal of people who will see this movie and enjoy it greatly - as I did - but chances are most will still take a few glances at their watch periodically throughout the movie. No matter how many great things a movie does, it still shouldn't be recommended if it doesn't begin or finish well. "},{"Title":"Very Funny, Especially For Being a Religious Movie","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very funny movie. Having never seen a tv show or movie with Ed Norton, Ben Stiller, or Jenna Elfman, it was a treat to see three professionals shine. They all embodied their roles so well, you never felt they were Ed Norton being a priest, Ben being a rabbi, and Jenna being a corporation rescue expert. There are two levels of humor in this film, in terms of physical comedy the big-laugh routines, and the small stuff. The small stuff had me laughing in the theater when nobody else was. Small stuff, like when Ed Norton needs a drink in Jenna's apartment, opens the little fridge, and stuffs a bottle of beer or liquor into the pocket of his jacket. It reminded me of old Ben, the guy living on the beach in Local Hero, when he went to a party and stuffed snacks into his jacket pockets. Good marks to the supporting cast. I completely didn't notice that the old priest who Ed Norton consulted late in the film was Milos Forman. Anne Bancroft was delightful. They flesh out the film so well, you can enjoy the stuff the supporters do.The writer of the script, a guy named Blumberg, I think has a cameo. Early in the movie, when Ed and Ben hold a sign at the airport for Jenna to recognize them by -it reads Anna Banana- somebody is standing near them with a sign, Blumberg. So, you might check that out.It runs a bit long, and they could have cut some of it out in the second act, when the friendship of the three is threatened by two of them falling in love (not Ed and Ben), leaving one man out. However, I was never bored. You can spot the ending long before it comes, but so what? It's a wonderful, light-hearted romantic comedy, it treats the religious issues with respect, and the most important question it deals with -keeping faithful to the things we say we love- is explored intelligently here.Excellent film, go see it. It's a great date film.  "},{"Title":"wonderful comedy","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith is Edward Norton's directorial debut and he never disappoints. Just like his acting, his directorship is astonishing.Though hilarious, the movie is definitely not original. When did best friends fall in love before? In My Best Friend's Wedding, when Julia Roberts found out she had been forever in love with Dermot Mulroney. In Keeping the Faith it is Ed Norton and Ben Stiller who fall in love with Jenna Elfman. But the movie has an irresistible charm of its own. Actually the movie is so enjoyable that one forgets about everything else.While the script is a bit of a let-down, yet cleverly written, the performances are pure gold. Jenna Elfman is remarkable as workoholic business woman, Anna Banana Reilly. She shines and she's full of energy. Ben Stiller is great as modern rabbi  Jacob Schram, who is terrorized by the women in his congregation. His scene with the aerobics-obsessed woman is his funniest, followed very closely by the scene when he tries to get past a security guard. Best of all is Edward Norton, who is playing his character so low-key, that he is downright adorable. This man was capable of playing a cold-blooded killer with a fake split personality in Primal Fear, a desperate man who gets a real split personality in Fight Club, and a Neo-Nazi in American History X. Now he turns towards comedy. And he is magnificent. There are some really good jokes (Edward referring to the the fact that he is drunk and to the bottle in his hand) I am not drunk. I'm Irish and this is like milk to me. Now this is original. I've never heard it before.I'm not a fan of romantic comedies where the guy tries to get the girl. But this a comedy when the girl is already impressed by the guy and jumps completely and mindlessly (they did not think at the consequences) at the opportunity. Keeping the Faith is phenomenal movie that is bound to please everyone. 8/10.    "}{"Title":"Good Comedy with characters who have some depth.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Keeping The Faith at a sneak preview a couple days ago and found it to be a cute comedy with more depth of characters than most comedies that come down the pike.  Although the movie seems a tad long, the characters are developed to be more than surface and you actually see that people have more to do than just worry about their love life.  All three of the major characters were likable and some of the social situations were very realistic.  Edward Norton did a good job in his directorial debut.  New York City was shown as a jewel.  I highly recommend it!   "},{"Title":"Keeping the Faith is very refreshing.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith starts strangely, changes to the story of three children growing up in New York City, then quickly turns into one of the best written, and nicely directed movies that we have seen in a long time.  Most movies are so very predictable that it is very hard for me to find something original to laugh at, but this one got me and after the movie my girlfriend commented about how refreshing it was to hear me laugh at a movie.  The story, about two boys who grow up to be a Rabbi and a Catholic Priest, and their old tom-boy female friend, gives us some pretty clear messages that we need to hear.  The humor is refreshing and the acting is quite good.  The character development gives us a real feeling for each of the characters and they all reach us equally, without one overpowering the others.  I would highly recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Keeping the Faith'll KEEP your interest...","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a refreshing look upon religion for a change!  The starringtrio were incredible and I'm simply thanking my lucky stars that all involved used an unconventional plot twist to give the viewers something other than melodrama with concerned religions. An absolute date film and BIG vehicle that showcases Ed Norton's comedic side...something overlooked, I believe, until this film. I'm NEVER one to reveal a movie's plot, but it is safe to say that KEEPING THE FAITH will be a bonafide hit at the box-office and an enjoyable movie experience! "},{"Title":"clever dialogue for all but jenna elfman; overall enjoyable","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let's get to the point  norton and stiller are great, so is bancroft (of course), and so is milos. And the writing for their parts is great--clever, witty, and all that. Really funny and entertaining. But... the big mystery for me is  who is this anna character?  norton says during the movie that she has 'more spirit than a lot of people in robes', but how are we supposed to accept that--on faith?? all we get are closeups of jenna elfman's toothy grin (not that there's anything wrong with her grin, but do I need to see 2 hours of it and nothing else?) and of her face in general.  Come on, camera-people, she's not the only thing to look at on the screen! granted, the makeup job on the entire cast was just beautiful, but let's keep things equal, ok?* MILD SPOILERS AHEAD*the main problem is that the script for anna's part is really drab--what are we, back in the 20's when men acted and women were supposed to just grace the screen?  how is she so great? why are these two holy men fighting over her??? maybe if, instead of one scene after another of her tumbling into bed with stiller, she had a few clever lines herself, we fathom what's so great about her other than her figure.come on, scriptwriter, give her something to sink her teeth into--some nice dialogue on her part rather than just a bunch of flirtatious glances, sheesh!unfortunately, the non-dialogue between anna and stiller, especially, leads to non-plot and non-action wherever it occurs.  norton says in the film that he wishes he could have seen them together-- well me too! they weren't 'together', they were just playing in the same scenes!my only other problem with the movie is stiller's quick turnaround in the street scene where he changes his mind and goes back to anna; come on! you'd think a dyed-in-the-wool relationship-avoider would put up a little more fight than that!  he could have at least been a little non-committal about it and changed his mind when he got to the building!well, it's no _when harry met sally_ (meg ryan and billy crystal actually get a great script together); no, it's not tight enough to have achieved that. but it is worth seeing, a good first attempt and overall enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Witty, enjoyable movie","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very funny, smoothly done, a great debut by director Edward Norton. There are no great surprises, it is fairly predictable as far as story lines go, which usually turns me off to a movie. But this script is strong enough to carry this fault; weak movies usually resort to some big dramatic twist, which is not needed here. At the end my first comment was, No film critic could find one thing wrong to say about this movie. (However, not being familiar with Jewish customs, I did not get a couple of the jokes) On the whole, I definitely recommend it, Jenna Elfman is a very charming and talented actress, moving effortlessly to the big screen. Ben Stiller and Edward Norton interact very well together. This movie is a definite must-see. "},{"Title":"How could you not enjoy this movie?","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I tend to yawn at the typical love-triangle romantic comedy, Keeping the Faith kept me smiling from the moment the film began.  Yes, it was predictable.  However, it touched on some realistic issues about faith and how it plays a role in relationships, which is not nearly addressed enough in Hollywood.  Ben Stiller and Edward Norton were amazing (as always)!  And it was funny!  I hope that no one frets too much about the details to overlook how refreshing this movie is as a whole.  Highly recommended "},{"Title":"Stiller & Norton make a great combination","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stiller & Norton make a good duo and play off of each other very well in this film.  Elfman does a very good job, and the script really keeps the film moving at a good pace.  Comedy is fairly decent, and a few really good belly-laughs. "},{"Title":"This is such a fun movie!","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has been a long time since I have enjoyed a romantic comedy this much. Ed Norton has pieced together a unique, touching, and hilarious motion picture.  No, it's not perfect.  After all, it is Mr. Norton's first time behind the lens.  The story has some holes in it, as well as a few cliches, but they are kept to a minimum.  This is just a fun movie.  And only this cast could have pulled it off.  Edward Norton is great in his first real comedic role.  Ben Stiller is at his best.  And then there's Jenna Elfman. WOW!  She is beautiful, sexy, funny, smart, sensitive--the perfect woman for this role.  I can't wait to see it again.   "},{"Title":"Worthwhile viewing...","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie at a sneak preview last weekend and enjoyed it very much. I'm a huge Ed Norton fan, and he did a surprisingly good job at making this film.  He definitely is someone with a lot of talent.  The movie was really driven, though, by Ben Stiller's performance.  He did an incredible job with his part, and was completely believable.  Although the movie isn't something that will be sticking in my mind for some time, it is certainly worth seeing at least once.  Very funny and entertaining. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of 2000 So Far","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really loved this movie!  Directed and starring Edward Norton, one of my generations finest actors, Keeping The Faith is funny and heartwarming. The performances, especially that of Ben Stiller are hilarious.  You will not stop laughing at this movie. I have never been a fan of Jenna Elfman but in this she shines.  By the end of the film you really care about these characters and want them to be happy.  It was also great to see legends like Ann Bancroft and Eli Wallach as great supporting players.  I think this would be a great date movie or just a fun way to spend your Saturday night. I think everyone should go out and see Keeping The Faith.  It's been the best movie I've seen this year. "}{"Title":"The adventures of a rabbi, a priest and a blonde, how original!","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Weak variation on smart/small talk New Yorkish TV sitcom. The good thing about a sitcom is that it doesn't last for more than 40 minutes, so this movie lasts and lasts and nothing really happens, just empty-headed philosophizing about the traps of relationships. The religious stuff leads to no where; it's mostly about the Jewish side, where the sport is to collect as much cliché's as possible. The Christian side falls far behind and I wonder why were they afraid to step on dangerous toes or was there just not much interesting to say about it to keep the viewers in their seats? Well, who cares any way?Norton is a very good actor, but has so little to shine with here that his role is not much to get exited about. Elfman does not manage to shake off her Dharma character and Ben Stiller is the kind of actor who manages to keep his face in the same shape no matter what. In my eyes, this makes him a lousy actor, much in the same vein as Keanu Reeves and Al Pacino. No chemistry at all therefore between him and his fellow leads.You guessed right one of the best movies I've ever seen! "},{"Title":"Not Keeping the Faith!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, the premise of this whole is about two men in love with the same woman. The only problem is that one man is a Catholic priest and the other is a Jewish Rabbi. I liked some moments in the film when Brian tries to explain why he is a priest and the whole celibacy vow that you have to take to become a Catholic Priest. It's like he's trying to rationalize why he doesn't have sex as his choice or vocation in life. Men don't become priests for the glory, the high income, or the power. Men who become priests do it as a service to their communities, their families, etc. Sorry but priests get a bad rap lately because of all the scandals and politics but the personal rewards are so much greater than money, power, or popularity. There are priests and rabbis who do so much services to their communities whether handling funerals, counseling distraught families, dealing with poverty, AIDS, homelessness, etc. that they don't have time to think about the celibacy vow. Maybe if we didn't live in this age where sex is counted, we could have lived in an age where deeds, services, contributions, and generosity counts. So, I'm not crazy about Jenna Elfman who is a Scientologist. Technically, Ben Stiller is Half-Jewish but his mother Anne Meara is Irish Catholic herself so technically he's not. Edward Norton is cast as Father Brian. The other cast members including the divine Anne Bancroft as Jake's mom is worth watching. The friendship between Jake, Brian, and Anna are enduring but the whole sexuality just messes it up for all of them. It might have been nicer to have just Jake and Brian's relationship despite their different religions which are not so much different. People are so fascinated with the whole celibacy that society practically dictates that if you're not getting any, there's something wrong with you. Maybe there is or maybe there is such a fuss about sex in the general, you wonder what's so great about it in the first place. Of course, love makes the world of difference after all. "},{"Title":"Ever seen better?","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is actually my first vote in here! Anyway... Keeping The Faith is just an awesome movie - Especially the pictures from NY - Looks great! Now don't tell me it's not the real NY but some other city. That would be like taking candy from a little boy! Keeping The Faith must get some higher votes! "},{"Title":"Keeping the faith&#133; of the viewers is just about achieved in this so-so romantic comedy.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Somewhat was made of how Norton's debut directorial piece was a change from his previous hit `Fight Club', or his previous director tinkering in `American History X', both of which I love and for which Norton received my admiration. Now he presents a piece of mildly diverting romantic fluff for an audience&#133; that's enjoyable but quite forgettable.The set-up is purposely like that of a joke &#150; a priest, a rabbi and a woman. The Catholic priest in question is Brian Kilkenney (Edward Norton), the rabbi is Jacob Schram (Ben Stiller) and the lady is Anna (Jenna Elfman). Anna is an old friend of Jacob and Brian and when, after being out of their lives for years, she suddenly turns up &#133; and has both her friends fall for her. A love triangle is hardly a new device, but it's done alright here. The romance is, obviously, complicated by the matter of religion interfering and Norton's movie handles this quite intelligently &#150; it respects the religions without feeling any need to promote them, or make them the obvious target for gags. Speaking of humour the humour is generally light hearted. It doesn't fall into the `American Pie' style of physical humour, nor the black humour of Norton's previous `Fight Club' project. It's instead a definite character piece, and the three characters are generally fleshed out strongly.Norton is, as always, fine but Ben Stiller again shows his ability to work the comedy/drama genre angle that his contemporaries, such as Adam Sandler, have yet to adapt. Jenna Elfman is&#133; okay in her role. She adds a smile, a bit of hard nosed attitude, et cetera but her character often appears to be just a foil for which the two leads can bounce off and explore themselves. It makes her somewhat forgettable, although at least she never grates.Norton shows a fine hand with his picture here. Thankfully he felt no need to try and be clever in his approach, and instead gets on with telling the story. There's some nice choices in music, the lighting and camera work are never intrusive and always to the point (characters framed, et cetera), and the pace is fairly uniform. However there's nothing quite original about this movie &#150; not one quality that stands out. Yes it's smart, but not witty enough to have you chuckling after the credits. The performances are good but the characters aren't fleshed out enough to imbue them with any memorable features. The humour is there, but it's a `smile' form of humour rather than bellyaching. The script is fairly grand, yet you're unlikely to receive much in the way of surprises at any moment. `Keeping the Faith' rises above mediocrity by doing everything well enough &#150; it's just a shame it never rises above `diverting' level of entertainment. A harmless night's viewing &#150; 6/10. "},{"Title":"A Great Feel Good Film.Keeping The Faith Is A MUST See.","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the faith is a brilliant feel good film.Ed Norton did a great job directing and starring in the film,Jenna Elfman was a great co-star and Ben Stiller the man of the movie brought lots of delight to many peoples faces especially mine as he played Rabbi Jake the man of the movie.Great film and always will be. "},{"Title":"Funny, warm, winning, feel-good, magnificent directorial debut for Norton.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The humour never stops and neither does the excellent balance between humanity and spirituality as every character rings true and honest.  I cannot recall another instance where a novice director has gotten as passionate and honest and essential a performance of him or herself as an actor.  Norton is GREAT, and Elfman and Stiller are both excellent, with terrific support from Forman, Rifkin, Wallach, Bancroft, Taylor, and an hilarious newcomer, Lisa Edelstein. Bit with security guard is only false note struck in entire film, buit rest is so marvelous, it can be forgiven one small sin.    "},{"Title":"Well-Done and Wonderful","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie expecting a lot out of it. Surprisingly enough, I got more than I thought I would. Ben Stiller didn't disappoint me; I've always been a fan of him, and this movie was no different. Jenna Elfman did a really good job playing someone that's the opposite of her usual Dharma persona. But I was blown away by Edward Norton's performance; he has joined the ranks of my favorite actors.Overall, I thought it was an excellent movie, and I would gladly see it again. "},{"Title":"Biggest disappointment since Random Hearts (Possible Spoiler)","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The premise is insightful and risk-taking....Jenna Elfman displays her marvelous talent, Edward Norton is our finest, and most intelligent young actor.  But after a marvelous first hour,the film left me feeling cheated. Guilty I allowed my personal emotions influence me....deceit and lies have made me suspicious of relationships, and most uncomfortable during the last hour, the premise may have been a bit strained BUT more than anything else, I didn't feel any chemistry between Jenna and Ben Stiller.  Their interaction seemed more about lust than love, and this tipped the scale for me.   "},{"Title":"Vaguely unsatisfying","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You ever enjoy a movie while it's playing, but then walk out feeling a little cheated?  That was my experience with this movie.  Certainly, there is stuff to like here.  Edward Norton is rapidly proving himself to be one of the best actors of his generation(and to those who are saying, Oh my God!  He can do comedy?, I'd suggest taking a look at EVERYONE SAYS I LOVE YOU, or, for darker comedy, THE PEOPLE VS. LARRY FLYNT or ROUNDERS), and he continues to demonstrate that here.  He's very subtle in conveying how he gradually falls in love with Anna.  He also does a great RAIN MAN riff.  And as director, it's nice to see he doesn't let himself hog all the screen time, but shares it equally with Stiller and Elfman.  Stiller is, as usual, very funny, and manages to convey his character's conflict in a way that makes it feel real, rather than just plot.  And Elfman continues to prove there's a lot more to her than Dharma.BUT(and beware, there are some spoilers coming up)The movie can't help getting sitcom-ish at times.  Some of it, of course, is personal; I must admit liking verbal gags more than physical, unless the physical ones are done well, and Norton indulges in too many for himself at first(the one with Stiller fainting at the circumcision may have been obvious, but that was nicely done).  More importantly, while the movie tries to respect each religion, it still seems a little cartoonish and unbelievable at times.  I know each of them are trying to make their congregations come into the 21st century, as it were, and I'm all for that, but sometimes, I just didn't buy them(I'm a Catholic, and while I went to a liberal Catholic college, I'm not sure I'd believe New York Catholics would want the movie SEVEN to be involved in a discussion of the seven deadly sins).  But most of all is how Norton and writer Stuart Blumberg seem to rely on romantic comedy formula rather than genuine feeling.  Yes, I'm talking about the reconciliation scene; that came straight out of Sitcom 101(also Stiller's revelation scene at the traffic light right before that).  At the end, Norton thanks Nora Ephron and confirmed in an interview I read that he called her up for advice.  I wish he hadn't, because scenes like this are hallmarks of her films and why they're so shallow.  And did they have to sing Barry Manilow at the karaoke center?This isn't a terrible film, understand, I just found myself vaguely irritated even while I was laughing at some of it.  Overall, I'd recommend it, but it's not without flaw.  Brief aside I chuckled when Norton was holding the ANNA BANANA sign at the airport because in high school, I had a friend named Shanna who, when she ran for student council, had the slogan Don't be a Banana/Vote for Shanna, whereupon her friends started calling her Shanna Banana.  We also tried calling her sister Stacy Banana, but that didn't take. "},{"Title":"LET IT END!!!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now, i didn't hate this movie, but it was simply too long and not very funny. I didn't like Stiller or Elfman in it, though Norton is very likable. The movie really overstays its welcome, it drags on and on and on and on. It has a few funny scenes, but i really felt spending two hours for about 5 minutes of laughter is really not worth it. I'd only pick it up on video if there's nothing better. 3/10 "}{"Title":"This Priest, a Rabbi and this Woman ...","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very well done story. Great dialog and a very good delivery. Set in NY, this is a very plausible scenario. I think you will like this one. "},{"Title":"Funny movie, good directing debut for Norton.","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith is a long movie, and at some points it does drag a little, but it is well-worth the time spent on it. Edward Norton is one of the brightest young stars in the movie business and he does a great job directing and co-starring in this comedy. Jenna Elfman is convincing, but isn't given a great deal to work with. Norton and Ben Stiller act well off each other and provide lots of laughs, but some of the funniest parts come from small characters with spot appearances. As a whole, the movie was enjoyable. If nothing else, it should at least make you laugh some. "},{"Title":"Fairly entertaining, but way too long","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie might have been more entertaining if it had not started to drag about two-thirds of the way through. The cast is extremely good, and it was nice to see Ann Bancroft, Holland Taylor, and Eli Wallach. Jenna Elfman was okay, although I still tend to think of her as Dharma. Ben Stiller and Edward Norton were enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A fresh and funny fiasco of friends","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping the Faith A priest and a rabbi have been best friends since boyhood&#133;  No, it's not a joke, rather the story of two hip young religious leaders referred to as The God Squad who are intent on opening a multi-faith center where anyone can join them in worship.  Their friendship and faiths are put to the test when a vivacious and dynamic old friend from the past re-enters their lives.I have never liked Ben Stiller.  I'm not sure why, but whenever he's onscreen (Black and White being the most recent example) I normally spend my time shuffling uncomfortably waiting for him to leave.  Which brings me to this film - I don't know if it was the writing, the subject matter or his interactions with the other leads, but I actually found him funny and enjoyed his performance.  Maybe it was meant as an epiphany&#133; Norton meanwhile does double duty as actor/director proving that he isn't a one trick pony limited to playing the serious straight guy.  His understated portrayal of a priest in love (and hence crisis - the two going hand in hand) feels genuine and is simultaneously funny and tragic.  I like him even more than before.Finally, Elfman does a passable job as the workaholic-businesswoman-love-interest (in a role that could not possibly be more different than her TV character, which makes it all the more enjoyable).  A novel romantic comedy that makes for a good night out.  "},{"Title":"Did you hear the one about the priest and the rabbi?","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seriously, folks.  Keeping the Faith is a primo movie with a dynamite cast.The story revolves around three childhood 'best friends', now grown up a Catholic priest (Edward Norton as Father Brian Finn), a rabbi (Ben Stiller as Rabbi Jacob Schram), and a savvy business woman (Jenna Elfman as Anna Reilly).  The excellent cast also includes Anne Bancroft as Jacob's mother and Eli Wallach as an elder rabbi.Father Brian and Rabbi Jacob had not seen their old friend Anna Banana for sixteen years.  But now she's back in the Big Apple as a workaholic executive ... and looking far more fetching than either had remembered her. Danger romantic entanglements ahead.The storyline works well both as a romantic comedy (there are several hilarious scenes) and as a drama (Catholic/Jewish interfaith cooperation on several levels adds depth and interest).On-screen chemistry among the three leading actors adds to the 'feel good' nature of the film.  All are superlative in their roles.  Norton also directed.If you're a fan of Dharma, I think you'll be impressed (as I was) with Jenna Elfman's ability to portray Anna without ever slipping back into her Dharma personna. The two women are as different as night and day, and Jenna nails it convincingly.It's a great date flick and intelligent, too!Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Fresh, smart and funny!","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really liked every aspect of this movie. The fact that a Rabbi and a Catholic Priest not only are good friends but also are being shown with all their qualities and flaws, as young men with personal in addition to the spiritual needs who dare question the very religious conviction they stand for. The fact that Norton proves to be quite gifted as a director and that he is funny, too. Also the fact that he chose this register as his directorial debut.The fresh and today overall atmosphere, leaving out the usual religious and man of God-related stereotypes.The witty dialog including religion-humor without being offensive to any of them.Ben Stiller. The great supporting cast. Anne Bancroft, Eli Wallach and especially the fact that Milos Forman accepted to appear in this movie.The story.The music.The pace.Even Jenna Elfmann, whom I'm not a big fan of.Well, everything. "},{"Title":"Wait until it comes out on video","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really can't believe a movie like this did so well at the box office. I, sadly, was one of many suckered into a bad movie because of its enticing trailers.  It was completely clique from beginning to end. I must say however, Ed Norton did a good job in front of the camera. He pretty much carried the whole movie. I mean, come on, Jenna Elfman and her crying jags get boring after a while. Ben Stiller was ok, but Ed was better. The length was also horrific! It could have been done in about and hour and a half, but instead it dragged into two hours. This is definitely one to rent when its on video......and even then I might think twice about getting this one.... "},{"Title":"Disappointing, silly, & predictable","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Save your money if you want to see a film that you can't predict the ending of before the opening credits have finished rolling.  I guess 50 years ago this film would have been interesting and clever, but today there's nothing revolutionary about it and the humor has all been done before. The cast does a fine job of plodding through the predictable storyline.  Aside from the one scene in which a black gospel choir visits the synagogue there isn't anything worth seeing in this film. "},{"Title":"young Norton presents","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I did not give a high score to Keeping the Faith although I liked this delightful and decent movie. It was Norton's director debut, presenting a young gifted artist who is full of goodwill, hope and confidence for everything in his world as well as the whole universe. Love, faith and friendship were the center themes, presented in warm, sincere and cheerful ways. The flashback structure of the film was almost fine but was compromised by a rather lengthy ending. There were quite some good lines in the ending part from Norton, but refinement was a skill to learn in order to make a good end, and at many times a good end defines a good movie. "},{"Title":"A good film, but...","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSThe best thing about this film were the great turns from the support actors, especially the barman and the Rabbi's first date. I liked the female lead but fear her features are too quirky , she will be forever condemned to play kookie roles. I was a bit let down however at how conveniently the priest fell out of love when he knew the rabbi also loved Anna. I also thought it a bit of a cop=out to have Anna taking lessons secretly from the main Rabbi. Did she have to conform? "}{"Title":"OK OK","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The love triangle plot is way overdone but could've had a new twist but not in this movie. The chemistry between these three just weren't there and you didn't really feel for them. It does however provide a brief   insight to the religious issues in love and marriage. With a different cast, it could've provided some solid story telling. "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy in a nutshell","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Edward Norton's directorial debut is not much of a shocker. in fact, it is fairly predictable and a bit old in it's basic plot. But the friendship between the rabbi and the priest is a clever touch, not to mention making them the coolest rabbi-and-priest-buddies on the face of the Earth. The scene where they walk through downtown with their shades and leather jackets on is one I sure will remember.A fairly benign, normal and entertaining romantic comedy, no more, no less. "},{"Title":"A priest, a rabbi, and a career girl.....","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"       Edward Norton has shown the film industry and world his outstanding acting talent in most of his recent films.  FIGHT CLUB, AMERICAN HISTORY X, PEOPLE VS. LARRY FLYNT, EVERYONE SAYS I LOVE YOU, and PRIMAL FEAR have been a showcase of awe and amazement for this young actor.  Now he takes a different approach, not only as a star, but also as a director in his new film, KEEPING THE FAITH.      Norton plays Father Brian Finn, who is a priest at the local Catholic Church in New York City.  His best friend since grade school is Rabbi Jacob Schram (Ben Stiller) who is the rabbi at the local Jewish Temple.  They get along great, play basketball together, go to each other's services, they even have plans for a new business of a mixture of Catholic and Jewish night spot for elderly couples.  Everything is going great for these two, until someone from the past comes back into their lives, Anna Reilley (Jenna Elfman).  Anna was friends with both Brian and Jacob back when they were twelve.  Anna moved to California, and became a career girl in helping failing businesses.  She is coming back to New York City, and would like to see her two old friends.  When Brain and Jacob see her, they are amazed on how much Anna has grown up, and shapely.      Now comes the trouble, Brain and Jacob who both devoted their lives to God, now have fallen for Anna.  And this leads to even more problems, Brain for breaking his vows on love, and Jacob for dating a non-Jewish woman.  I guess one can say that a woman can tear things apart (not to be sexist).        KEEPING THE FAITH is a pleasurable film for first time director Norton.  There are some really funny parts in the film, and there are also some very emotional and sensitive moments of romance.  But all and all, FAITH does manage to work, however, the film does have it's flaws.      One flaw is it's length, I'm not one to complain of length, I love a lengthy film (i.e. INSIDER, GREEN MILE, CASINO, HEAT) but FAITH is a film that if it was cut by 20 mins. or so, it would have been better.  But the story is complicated, so Norton does a good job on balancing the film's characters.  The other flaw is the conclusion.  I'm not going to say what happens, but I personally felt that the conclusion could have been worked out a little more.      Now the strengths, the acting!  All three leads, Norton, Stiller, and Elfman are great!  Norton is doing his usual character routine that he exhibits in PEOPLE VS. LARRY FLYNT. It's funny, compassion, and touching the way he acts out his character of a man who has fallen in love for the first time. Stiller does a great job also as the man who is forced to date so many different women from the temple, only to discover that his long time friend, is really his true love.  And Elfman is good as well as the career girl who is torn apart by the two men in both friendship and emotions.  There is also great support from veteran actors, Anne Bancroft, Eli Wallach, Ron Rifkin, and FLYNT director Milos Forman.  Forman has a excellent little scene where he tells Norton the first time he fell in love.      This is a enjoyable film, but it's not the best romantic film that I've seen.  Yet, it is funny, it is enjoyable, andit is romantic.  I guess that you can say that it is a good date film.  But, you're just going to have to make sure that the date won't mind sitting down for two hours and nineteen minutes. **** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Originality eludes romantic comedy","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So I was supposed to go see High Fidelity last Friday night. Much to my dismay, the new comedy was all sold-out. I was forced to settle for a sneak preview of the romantic comedy, Keeping the Faith.I was weary about the movie after seeing a trailer, but kept an open mind. Seeing as how Edward Norton co-produces, directs and co-stars in `Keeping the Faith,' I had to give it a chance. After all, he was marvellous in `American History X.'The movie begins interestingly enough a drunken Catholic priest, Father Brian Finn (Edward Norton) spills out his girl problems to a bartender.Brian recounts to the bartender the events that sent him on a two-day bender, involving his best friend, Jewish Rabbi Jacob Schram (Ben Stiller) and their mutual friend, the business-oriented Anna Reilly (Jenna Elfman).After many years of separation, Anna has re-entered herself in the lives of Jacob and Brian. To no surprise, they both begin to like her as more than a friend. She falls in love with one, leaving the other hurt and jealous.The sub-plot in this movie was a great deal more captivating than the romantic love story it plays out to be. Both Jacob and Brian are attempting to revitalize their churches and modernize their themes, emphasizing faith and tolerance over tradition. On this level the movie succeeds only partially, as it sacrifices most of this plot for the recycled love story.On the plus side, there are some good scenes, including Brian and Jacob's quest for a karaoke machine.While it can be humorous, this movie, sadly, fails to escape the grasps of predictability.If you're willing to suspend disbelief, enjoy. I know I didn't. "},{"Title":"Yellow","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is supposed to strike the audience as novel -- interfaith romance complicated by a love triangle complicated by life-long friendship.Yet the structure and content are completely conventional. All of the writing is sitcom fluff, and all of the self-reference is obvious. This genre relies on giving the movie audience a sense of participation, of validating the on-screen romance. One audience in this film is confronted with notions of guilt and the intent is to leverage that emotion in us, the movie audience. To complete the arc, a second audience is 'on speaker phone' with the couple. They cheer, so we are supposed to cheer. Totally risk-free and sufficient for the genre, nothing more. "},{"Title":"rather losing the faith","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a common belief that Edward Norton is at the moment one of the finest actors around, and even if there's no doubt about that, it leaves me puzzled why such a talented guy wastes his time with such a flick! It's even getting worse seeing that Norton also is the director of this bland comedy that balances between the ordinary comedy and the usual trash you can find Ben Stiller in. Just reminds us that Ben Stiller is here as well! Stiller plays a rabbi Jake Schramm while Norton is a catholic priest Brian Finn. Despite religious differences they both share a timeless friendship which get disturbed (since childhood as well) by the appearance of Anna (Jenna Elfmann). Both the rabbit and the priest are in desperate need of finding a woman for the future and they both seek their hope in Anna. Who's winning? What will be the consequences if Schramm's family finds out Anna isn't Jewish at all? You name a cliché and you'll find it here, that along with a very boring movie in where nothing funny ever happens and for the 100th time you're facing the overacting from Stiller. Regarding it all Stiller only was good in Duplex, Along came Polly and Meet the parents but for the rest... "},{"Title":"Runs Too Long, Quite Boring","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really like Edward Norton as an actor. He has much to learn as a director but the movie was not a disaster. I did enjoy the story. There were just far too many lulls in the story and I kept losing interest. With the right editing this could have been a better movie. "},{"Title":"Boring, Insulting, Predicable, Dumb","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie - what can I say? The grueling 2.5 hours I sat through this was without a doubt one of the worst I've ever seen. This movie is A) Ridiculous B) OffensiveIt's A) Ridiculous because it was predicable, boring, and things that happen in Keeping The Faith do not happen in real life. If a Rabbi sleeps with a non-Jewish girl, the consequences are serious. Jewish Law states that this is unacceptable - thousands of years ago, if a spiritual leader slept with a non-Jewish girl right out of the blue, he could have been killed according to the law.Now, they resort to booting him from his position as Rabbi. What happens in Keeping The Faith? Not only do they keep him, they promote him! And Catholic Priests do not try to sleep with or even date girls AT ALL - period! And if a Priest does, he does not talk with a Bishop about it over a cup of coffee - this is serious stuff we're talking about!The movie is B) Offensive because of the reasons stated above. The blatant ridicule of their faiths is likely to offend (and it has offended) Catholics and Jews greatly, especially if they take their faith very seriously (I know I do, and I found this movie very offensive) - and that's not a way to sell a movie. When a film maker makes a movie, he/she wants to make the movie accessible to anyone (except if they want a strong message that can tip off a lot of people with the movie) - and one would think that a cheesy date flick would be accessible to anyone. Think again.I think I laughed twice while watching this movie - and it was because of the T-Bone gags. But two gags can not save a really bad movie. I only hope I never waste my money with another film like this again. "},{"Title":"Not clever and intellegent at all","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see Keeping The Faith expecting that it would be not so good. I was, sadly enough, right. TV's Dharma is a so-so actress who I don't think would really have so captivated the attention of Stiller and Norton, especially not to the degree that they'd give up their faith to have her. Ben Stiller gives a downright lousy performance as an unfunny, supposedly hip rabbi who the film tries to show the light side of religion through. It is plain ridiculous, and the film seems to think that it's ok to make so much Jewish humor just as long as it's at the expense of it's own characters. The humor is all cliches, as is the screenplay. I'll admit it's an original idea, but it's completely implausible. No one would go to a Synagouge that had a gospel choir sing Ein Keloheinu, and they certainly wouldn't like the rabbi. Norton is the one saving grace in the film, but unlike in American History X, the strength of his performance is not nearly enough to carry the movie.  If you are contemplating seeing a touching, funny, contemporary movie about relationships, see When Harry Met Sally or Annie Hall. Don't see this unless you laugh at anything merely because it is classified as comedy.  "},{"Title":"I had faith in the fact I would hate this film","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite my complete obsession with Edward Norton, and my generally ambivalent, though generally benevolent feelings toward Ben Stiller, I really thought I was going to hate this film, because of two words Jenna Elfman. Jenna Elfman, one of the banes of my existence for her oh so quirky perky characters, but mostly because she asserted once that AIDS victims were suffering needlessly because the disease was all in their minds, is an actress that I try to stay from for many reasons, at all costs. Unfortunately my parents didn't get my memo regarding this subject because they not only recommended this film, but shoved the DVD in my hands on a recent visit and sent me home to watch it.Surprisingly, neither the film nor Jenna Elfman was annoying. Approximately twenty years ago, Brian (Norton) and Jake (Stiller) became close friends with Anna (Elfman) when she stood up to a bully for them. Her family inevitably moves from New York to California the following year, and they don't see one another until Anna calls Brian, now a Catholic priest, to tell him that she is coming into town and wants to get together with he and Jake, now a Rabbi. The two friends, known colloquially as the God Squad grew even closer over the years after Anna's departure and managed to bring new ideas and unconventionality to their respective positions, make them two of the most popular holy guys in their neighborhoods. Jake is being pressured to date and find a wife because there has never been a head Rabbi in his congregation that was single, so he has to endure endless set-ups by congregation members and their daughters. This all changes when Anna returns and she and Jake begin a secret relationship, no strings attached. Unfortunately their feelings for one another become very strong and Jake must cope with the reality of his position and the effect that an interfaith relationship could have on his congregation. In the meantime, Brian has been developing feelings for Anna himself and, not knowing about the secret relationship going on under his nose, starts to question his own faith and position, wondering if he should chuck it all for the chance of a secular life with Anna.Keeping the Faith is Edward Norton's directorial debut, a rather curious notion because I would have expected something a little less conventional and heart-warming than this film turned out to be. This is not to say that he didn't do a good job; he did &#150; there weren't any obvious pacing issues and he was able to capitalize on the obvious chemistry the three of them shared. Unfortunately, perhaps because of his dual role as director, or perhaps it was completely intentional and in the script, his role is billed as a main character, but he racks up a lot less screen time than the other two principals. Certainly this is a minor quibble with the overall film. All of the performances were good (particularly that of Anne Bancroft, who has a small but pivotal role as Jake's mother), but nothing dynamic. Frankly, however, going into this film I would have settled for not annoying, so it worked for me.After watching Keeping the Faith I felt like I had eaten a tuna melt on white bread; it tasted okay, but it could have been so much better if it had just been on some hearty rye. The general idea behind and execution of Keeping the Faith was okay, but I was left wanting more. Whether that is possible with this material is something that I'm not sure of, but I AM certain of one thing; I may not be a religious person, but I was thanking my lucky stars that the role of Anna was not played by Meg Ryan. Hell, I should award the film one extra point for this fact alone, so I'll just round up my true assessment of 5 ½ stars and give it a deserved 6/10.--Shelly "}{"Title":"Eucchhhhh","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Think for a moment of one of the stupidest, corniest, most poorly acted, overly done, cliched, slap-in-the-face annoying movie you can think of. Are you thinking of Keeping the Faith? I am. This movie was awful. So awful. And a huge portion of that awfulness is due to Jenna Elfman. Ed Norton, I used to love you. What, oh what, have you done to yourself?! I should have just read the part on the back of the video that began with A priest and a rabbi... and put it down. I would have spared myself the agony of sitting through this horrible excuse for a motion picture.  "},{"Title":"First half rocks, second half is a rock","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first half of this movie had me in stitches. The second half had me consulting my watch every five minutes. We know where it's going-- did Edward Norton have to drag it out so long? We get heart-to-hearts in the confessional, in the temple, at the mother's bedside, on the doorstep-- enough already!!!!!Some producer let Edward Norton be totally self-indulgent as the movie droned on. What a genuine pity because, for the first half, this movie rocked my world! "},{"Title":"For The Saints Among Us","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am far from ever being up for sainthood from His Holiness, but I think I should get some points for sitting through this movie which touches on religious issues.  Nothing happened in this movie.  Virtually, nothing, and that's for over two hours.  There is no subplot, no layers, NOTHING.  No chemistry either, in a movie screaming for a flicker of life. No problem with the actors, except the fact that the only way in the world this would be passable would be if Katherine Hepburn, Spencer Tracy and Cary Grant played the roles Jenna Elfman, Edward Norton and Ben Stiller had. Okay, I am being too rough.  I did like the last ten minutes but in all honesty it was very tough going, especially down the stretch. 3/10  "},{"Title":"Craptacular","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of only two movie I've ever walked out on, and the other one was because I went into the wrong theater. (I had meant to see Amelie, but ended up watching 20 minutes of In the Bedroom) I usually like Ben Stiller and Ed Norton, but this movie is just too sickening. What's this? I have to write ten lines of comments? Good lord, that's a lot of work just to get the chance to use the word craptacular.Seeing as I didn't see the whole thing, I don't know how it ends, but I don't really care. What else can I say?Not interesting.Predictable.Cloying. "},{"Title":"Norton's Apprentice Piece","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Ed Norton has ambitions. He's done some resonant acting and now tries his hand at shaping a picture. He chose a comedy/drama which is on the hard side, but he chose do work on the simplest, smallest level. And he surrounded himself with competent actors.The notion is simple, but the script chooses to not exploit any element of the possibilities. Everything is so watered down, you have very little left except a few jokes. There's no picture. There's no relentless focus. (See `the Pledge,' for an example of how high Ed should shoot.)Two actors interested me. I don't watch TeeVee so don't know her. She lacked magic in EdTV. Here she really does well. It is a simple character, but she grows it from inside, so when she shines you feel warm. That's her job and she does it well. I kept thinking of her as a Gwyneth who knows how to use her face. Hope she doesn't get stuck being cute.Bancroft is a blot. Since the director wasn't in charge, she elected to do her patented shtick. Offensive.Norton played parallel roles on top of each other in `Fight Club,' so we know he's interested in folded texture. I kept seeing him trying to make his plastic priest into something more. I'd say this was a directorial failure because he didn't see that the story was weak, didn't have the moxie to overcome it and didn't have a clear vision of how to direct himself.I see he's optioned 'Motherless Brooklyn.' He's going to have to come a long way to get around that one directorially. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly Average...","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Average ho-hum comedy with Ben Stiller and Edward Norton playing childhood friends who meet up with another old friend (Jenna Elfman), who they both fall for and argue over. Intriguing plot but it's been done before, Ben Stiller and Edward Norton are great actors but they cannot overcome the basic material. Not many laughs here.2.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Jenna spoils this","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie starts out well, and is entertaining... until Jenna Elfman appears. Her personality spoils the vibe of the comedy. An actor with a more subtle delivery would have worked better for this movie. Jenna's over-expressive delivery, in this role, makes her look like a scene-stealing hack. She seems to telegraph the comedic punches, ruining the impact for the audience and overshadowing the performances of Norton and Stiller.Perhaps the flat comedy is not Elfman's fault, but her performance definitely makes things worse. This movie rated an 8 pre-Jenna, and plummeted to a 2 or 3 with Jenna. "},{"Title":"I Lost My Faith In This Movie In About 10 Minutes","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*When I first saw commercials for this movie it looked funny and I wanted to see it.  So about a week after it came out I decided to check it out since I like comedies. Unfortunately I was wrong.  This movie was boring, predictable, stupid, and unfunny.(Aren't comedies suppose to be funny)  The plot was just dumb!  My sister agreed with me, but my friend liked it.Keeping the Faith is the kind of movie that I should have known would be stupid.  I don't know why I spent my time seeing it.  I advise everyone to stay away from it and watch something else.  I give this movie 4/10 stars. "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy in which the characters are just going through the motions. ** out of ****.","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  KEEPING THE FAITH / (2000) **	Keeping the Faith is a romantic comedy that starts off with high spirited energy but, as the story progresses the film becomes sleepy and losses its verve. With big comedy stars like Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman, one would expect this film to be explosively funny. Instead we get a movie that is plot-heavy and tries for narrative conflict rather than just being light-hearted. 	The Plot Struggling Rabbi Jacob Schram (Ben Stiller) is in love with a pretty workaholic named Anna Reilly (Jenna Elfman). Father Brian Finn (Edward Norton) is also in love with Anna, but his faith does not allow him to engage in relationships. The three characters were once childhood friends. Jake and Brian have not seen Anna in more than twenty years, however. Conflicts arise when the two men discover each other's passion towards the same woman. 	Development of the setup consists mostly of voice over narration by a drunken Brain explaining his troubles to a bartender. Supporting the opening scenes are actions and development, acquiring believable and likable characters. These characters are a lot of fun to watch. They are also nicely cast and portrayed through lightly inspired performances and some witty dialogue. The story also features a bartender, overbearing parents, an exercise fanatic, demanding schedules, a TV news reporter, religious teaching techniques, and a collision of faiths.  	In the movie's first forty-five minutes, ample amounts of physical humor and slapstick gags are supplied-perhaps more parody than you might expect. Some of the material is funny, like Jake's dating life, and others, like flashbacks of Brian's childhood, are not. Specific incidences of religious humor appear to be take from funnier Sister Act series.There is  too little romantic or dramatic tension involved with the story due to the lack of amiable conflict. There are two separate points of view here, involving Jake and Brian. Both revolve around catalytic Anna. Anna is too passive and reactive, however, acting as a median between Brian and Jake. She is such a loosely based and reactive character there is no tension in her character. This leads to the audience's lack of involvement.	Edward Norton, experienced actor but novice director, does not focus well in Keeping the Faith. There are distracting subplots about sex, music, dating, controlling parents, siblings, and working too much. The occupations of Jake and Brian, the main gimmicks of the film, are mostly unexamined. The filmmakers use each religious concept to pursue conflicts in relations, but are never really explored.  	Edward Norton is pretty good in one of his first comic roles. He performs light-heatedly and contains the right amount of parody to make his character effective. Ben Stiller is also right on the money here, with his usual sarcastic humor. Jenna Elfman is wildly full of energy and likable charisma. It is unfortunate she could not do more with her character. Just a few weeks ago I saw the romantic comedy Return To Me, full of lovable characters brusting with believable romantic chemistry. Unlike Return To Me, Keeping the Faith concentrates more on situation than on overall appeal. I felt the characters in Return to Me were actually in love. Here, I felt the characters were just going through the motions. "}]