[{"Title":"beautiful romantic film","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"67 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the great joys in movie watching lies in stumbling across films that, by their very nature, should be nothing more than clichéd, hackneyed versions of stories we have seen a thousand times before yet, somehow, through the insightfulness of their creators, manage to illuminate those tales in ways that are wholly new and unexpected.  Such is the case with Neil Jordan's `The End of the Affair,' a film that in its bare boned outlining would promise to be nothing more than a conventional, three-handkerchief weepie centered around the hoary issue of romantic infidelity, but which emerges, instead, as a beautiful and moving meditation on the overwhelming force jealousy, love, commitment and passion can exert on our lives.Ralph Fiennes stars as Maurice Bendrix, a British writer living in 1940's London, who has an affair with Sarah Miles (Julianne Moore), the wife of Maurice's friend, Henry (Stephen Rea).  Based on a Graham Greene novel, the film achieves far greater intellectual and emotional depth than this skeletal outline would indicate.  Part of the success rests in the fact that both the original author and the adapter, writer/director Neil Jordan, have devised a multi-level scenario that utilizes a number of narrative techniques as the means of revealing crucial information to the audience regarding both the plot and the characters.  For instance, the film travels fluidly back and forth in time, spanning the decade of the 1940's, from the initial meeting between Bendrix and Sarah in 1939, through the horrendous bombings of London during World War II to the `present' time of the post-war British world.  This allows the authors to reveal the details of the affair slowly, enhanced by the even more striking technique of having the events viewed from the entirely different viewpoints of the two main characters involved.  `Rashomon' &#150; like, we first see the affair through the prism of Bendrix's limited perspective, only to discover, after he has confiscated Sarah's diary, that he (and consequently we) have been utterly mistaken as to the personal attributes and moral quality of Sarah all along.  Thus, as an added irony, Bendrix discovers that he has been obsessing over a woman he `loves' but, in reality, knows little about.The authors also enhance the depth of the story through their examination of TWO men struggling with their overwhelming jealousy for the same woman and the complex inter-relationships that are set up as a result.  In fact, the chief distinction of this film is the way it manages to lay bare the souls of all three of these fascinating characters, making them complex, enigmatic and three-dimensional human beings with which, in their universality, we can all identify.  Bendrix struggles with his raging romantic passions, his obsessive jealousy for the woman he can't possess and his lack of belief in God, the last of which faces its ultimate challenge at the end.  Sarah struggles with the lack of passion she finds in the man she has married but cannot love as more than a friend, juxtaposed to the intense love she feels for this man she knows she can never fully have.  In addition, she finds herself strangely faithful, if not to the two men in her life, at least to two crucial commitments (one to her wedding vows and one to God) yet unable to fully understand why.  Henry struggles with his inadequacies as a lover and the strange possessiveness that nevertheless holds sway over him.  Even the minor characters are fascinating.  Particularly intriguing is the private investigator who becomes strangely enmeshed in the entire business as both Bendrix and Henry set him out to record Sarah's activities and whereabouts, a man full of compassion for the people whom he is, by the nature of his profession, supposed to view from a position of coldhearted objectivity.  (One plot flaw does, however, show up here  why would this man, whose job it is to spy on unsuspecting people for his clients, employ a boy to help him who sports a very distinctive birthmark on one side of his face?).`The End of the Affair' would not be the noteworthy triumph it is without the stellar, subtly nuanced   performances of its three main stars.  In addition, as director, Jordan, especially in the second half, achieves a lyricism rare in modern filmmaking.  Through a fluidly gliding camera and a mesmerizing musical score, Jordan lifts the film almost to the level of cinematic poetry as we sit transfixed by the emotional richness and romantic purity of the experience.  `The End of the Affair' takes its place alongside `Brief Encounter' and `Two For the Road' as one of the very best studies of a romantic relationship ever put on film. "},{"Title":"Love and the spiritual life made beautifully visible.","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"43 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love and the spiritual (i.e. inner) life have rarely been better portrayed! Graham Greene's novel has been translated to cinematic imagery with an almost religious devotion.  It isn't easy to make profound and meaningful experience so immediate and felt as this film does.  Watching it on video...a second viewing...I was even more deeply moved than the first time around.Julianne Moore, very much on the big screen these days (and for good reason), gives another of her splendid performances, this time as Sarah Miles, a middle-class English woman, married to a good, but dull man who takes her for granted.  Her encounter with Maurice Bendrix (played to a T by the consummate actor, Ralph Fiennes) is electric and sets in motion an affair of deep consequence...for all three people involved.  Stephan Rea as Henry Miles, Sarah's husband, trapped in his desire, but inability to fulfill the emotional and sexual needs of his much-loved wife, is another convincing and touching portrayal.The spiritual aspects expressed in the film, reflect the life-long struggle of Grahame between his Catholicism and his doubts.  The deep pulls of each character toward both personal and impersonal love give the film a dimension and an honesty that reward the participant (for that's how potent the film is) with an indelible human experience.To Neil Jordan, the director, my wholehearted gratitude for his sensitive, nuanced presentation of this beautiful film.     "},{"Title":"Controlled and emotional at the same time","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two years after the sudden end of his affair with Sarah, Maurice bumps into her husband, Henry, who confides in him about his wife's possible infidelity.  Driven by the same jealousy that plagued him during their affair, Maurice poses as Sarah's husband and hires a private detective to follow her and find out what she's doing.  As his investigators probe Sarah's personal life, Maurice remembers back to his affair.Having seen the 1950's version of this book, I was interested to see a version that didn't have to worry about the heavy censorship of that period. Funnily though, it is not the nudity, passion or sex that adds to this version of the story; rather it is the ability of the film to show the strong feeling and emotion between the characters.  The plot is pretty true to the book and follows the same turns that are ultimately quite touching (even if their reliance on honour and promises to god seem out dated today). The film manages to evoke sympathy, pity and dislike for each of the three main characters - each is a victim here and the film allows us to see that and feel for each of them regardless of the rights and wrongs of their respective situations.It is difficult to describe but the film is very much of the period; it is very reserved and honourable considering the material, but yet it is deeply emotional and involving.  The only sticking point is the plot's reliance on Sarah's prayer; as I said, it seems difficult to accept in this age that this would have been held to - ironically the 50's version was more acceptable for some reason; maybe because I saw them having sex in this film, maybe then I found it harder to accept a `sinner's prayer' as it were. Besides this, it still does work well and is quite tragic as a love story - this is not a romantic date movie sort of thing!The main reason I was able to buy into the heart of the emotion was the performances.  Fiennes is so perfectly English in the role; he is restrained yet bursting with emotion.  He does a wonderful job of having his character eat away at himself with jealousy without ever seeming pathetic. Conversely Rea does a good job of making his character pathetic but still very much keeping the sympathy of the audience.  The fact that I get to see Moore in the buff (again!) is not a boost to this film, however her performance is. She is good in the role (better and freer than the 50's actress) even if I didn't feel she was as good as Rea and Fiennes - maybe because her character is less expressive and, simply, a `good' person I can only assume Greene was unable to look down on his lover even after the end of the affair.Overall this film has a few sticking points but it is a wonderful version of Greene's book of the same name.  Much was made of the nudity and such, but it is the rawer emotion of this telling that makes it work well.  The script puts them on the screen and the cast do well to bring them out as complex as they are in real life. "},{"Title":"Thanks to the excellent performances this isn't just another romantic drama","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As so often, I haven't yet read the novel this movie was based on. So again, you can't expect from me that I make a comparison between the two. But even if I had read the book I don't think I would have talked about it, because this doesn't honor the many work and inspiration that the director has put in it. It's not because he uses an existing story, that what he does with it, has to be completely the same...Even though the largest part of the story is situated during the Second World War, it doesn't start there. We first meet the novelist Maurice Bendrix and Henry Miles, the husband of his ex-mistress Sarah, on a rainy night in London in 1946. For a reason we don't know yet, the affair between Bendrix and Sarah was abruptly ended by her, two years before, and since then they hadn't seen each other. Now Bendrix's obsession with Sarah immediately gets a new spark and out of jealousy he arranges to have her followed. That's when we learn the reason for their separation. During a bombing raid, Sarah made a bargain with God. She would sacrifice their relationship in exchange for Bendrix's life. He survived and that's why she didn't want to see him anymore. But when he reappears, she soon realizes that it will be very difficult to keep her promise to God...When you hear in the trailer that Ralph Fiennes and Julianne Moore are magic together, you might believe that this is just some nice promo talk, only intended for making you buy the DVD. But for once they really didn't exaggerate. Together they lifted this movie to a higher level, although it must be said that Stephen Rea did a very fine job too. The fact that they had a very good and well-written script to work with, must have helped them too of course. Some were not pleased with what they called a couple of 'soft-porn scenes' but personally I didn't have a problem with that at all. In my opinion this only added to the rawness of the emotions.Some will also say that this is an incredibly boring movie. Well, if you don't like or are not used to watching a movie without big action scenes, than this is absolutely true. If you are such a person, than you better leave it alone and choose something else. But when you like to see a quality product (and no I'm not going to use the title 'art'-movie because I hate that name and this certainly isn't such a movie), with believable emotions, a great story and some excellent acting performances, than this might be a movie that you definitely should give a try. I really liked what I saw and that's why I give it a 7.5/10 at least, maybe even an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Complicated, powerful and intriguing","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an engrossing tale of love, passion and betrayal invloving three star-crossed lovers.  Maurice Bendrix (Ralph Fiennes) is a man haunted by jealousy and pain over an affair he had with the wife of one of his friends, Henry Miles (Stephen Rea).  The affair has been over for two years when a chance encounter with Miles takes Bendrix to his house where he once again encounters Sarah (Julianne Moore).  The obsession for her returns when Henry tells him that he suspects that Sarah is having an affair. At hearing this Maurice gets jealous, thinking that he has been replaced as her paramour.  What follows is a complex and tangled web of suspicion, jealousy and dolor.This is a wonderfully complicated story that opens slowly like a flower.  It is a first person narrative delivered by Bendrix and it gets more intriguing as the film progresses.  The use of flashbacks is subtlety effective, where the realizations about misinterpretations come not from the dialogue, but from seeing the same scene from two perspectives.  The love scenes are sensuously done and the general tone of the film is poignant and sensitive.The film was nicely photographed with various filters to give it an old feel without losing the richness.  Director Neil Jordan did a fine job of giving the film a genuine look of the period with proper English costumes from the 1940's.  Ralph Fiennes was excellent as the jealous lover.  He played the character as civilized and staid with molten lava just beneath the surface.  He was masterful at conveying strong emotion with a sideways glance or hand gesture without losing his composure.Julianne Moore has added another fabulous dramatic performance to her resume as Sarah.  She played the part with fatalistic passion, victimized by vortex of events she felt powerless to control.Stephen Rea also shined as the impassive cuckold.  Rea tends to be very understated in his portrayals, often too much so.  But he was the perfect choice for the hapless Miles; so intellectual, withdrawn and defenseless.  His phlegmatic response upon being confronted by Bendrix about their affair, showed a resigned helplessness that was both pathetic and believable.I enjoyed this film immensely and gave it a 9/10.  It is finespun yet powerful.  It takes its time unfolding, so if you like pace this film might test your patience.  But if you enjoy a good old fashioned steamy love triangle, this film will do nicely.  "},{"Title":"In Greeneland, God writes the punchlines","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film tells the story of a wartime love affair between Maurice, a successful, cynical and rather callous novelist, and Sarah, the beautiful but neglected wife of a dull senior civil servant. She tends to believe in the supernatural, he does not, but both are spurred on by the danger of both discovery and the bombs raining down on London. Perversely, when her husband confides to Maurice his suspicion that Sarah is having an affair, Maurice hires a private detective to investigate, in effect, himself. In the end, it is God who decrees the finale, not the characters, who accommodate as best they can to their destinies.Do we really care? This is not easy to answer. Maurice, the narrator, is a prize prick, unfeeling of others, concentrated on his misery and his work, yet obsessively jealous. Sarah provides a focus for his substantial sex drive but he does develop an affection for her. Sarah, on the other hand, clearly likes a good bonk as well, but she needs the relationship to full the void left by her husband's emotional absence, and Maurice is too self-centred to be a real soulmate. She is also quite a nice person in comparison with nasty bitter old Maurice. So yes, we are sorry for her. We have to admire Maurice for being honest enough to tell the story but there is an air of self-flagellation about it. As a film, this is a terrific piece of work, directed by the Irish director Neil Jordan who was responsible for The Crying Game. Greene is a very cinematic novelist - at last count there were at least 40 screen versions of his works - and Jordan has very cleverly used a present - flashback - present and then forward technique to tell the story from both Maurice's and Sarah's viewpoint. The gloom and danger of wartime London is effectively invoked but there was a bit of overkill in having it rain almost continuously from 1939 to 1945 (London has less rain days than Sydney!) It struck me early on that Ralph Fiennes was by no means inevitable in the part - I was reminded of the early Sam Neill. His character is really rather empty - a man whose only real commitments are to his work and sex. Julianne Moore, delightfully bad as Mrs Cheveley in An Ideal Husband, and delightfully slapstick as the childish Cora in Cookie's Fortune, is much more sympathetic here. Stephen Rea (a Jordan favourite) as the cuckold is the most sympathetic of the lot or at least the most self-aware. He gives us a wonderful portrayal of stitched up dismay and yet it does not seem beyond the bounds of credibility that, knowing of the affair, he should invite Maurice to come and live with them towards the end.Greeneland is a pretty bleak place, but a couple of apparent miracles brighten things up. Greene clearly thought God had a sense of humour. The novel is said to be semi-autobiographical, but the real affair Greene had with the wife of a wealthy businessman, while no doubt equally painful, did not end so melodramatically as the novel. Looking at a biography of Greene by Michael Shelden I note that Catherine Walston, whose relationship with Greene was the chief inspiration for The End of the Affair, died in 1978, aged 62, 13 years before Greene. According to Shelden, Catherine refused to see Greene on her deathbed because she didn't want him to see how sick she was. The affair itself petered out in the early fifties, though they remained in touch. Henry Walston, it seemed, asserted himself and demanded that Catherine cut down on her contact with Greene. Greene went overseas to find danger and forget, to Vietnam and elsewhere, and these trips produced at least one more major novel, The Quiet American. However Greene's career as a writer peaked with The End of the Affair. His later work is interesting and readable, but never again did he reach the same emotional depths and heights.Greene is often said to be a Catholic novelist but on the basis of this work at least he wasn't a great pitchman for the Almighty. Greene was, however, an eloquent portrayer of spiritual suffering and this aspect has been effectively brought to the screen by Neil Jordan. Perhaps it takes an Irishman to understand an English Catholic. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, extraordinary, perfect","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Look at the comments on this site.  There's pretty much a perfect split between people who think the film is unrelentingly dull with no redeeming features, and people who think the film is an amazing achievement. I fall into the latter category, and can't for the life of me figure out the former.  This is not an action film.  There is no violence.  There are no thrills, chills, spills, or anything along those lines.  There are three terrific characters, there is an amazingly romantic relationship, and there are superb performances.  There is a wonderful director who keeps everything tightly reigned in.  There is nothing superfluous in this film.  It is perfect.  Maurice Bendrix (Ralph Fiennes) is a novelist who meets beautiful Sarah Miles (Julianne Moore) at a party hosted by her husband Henry (Stephen Rea), whom Bendrix is researching for a book.  In no time at all, Sarah and Maurice begin a tempestuous and passionate affair which continues through World War II, until Sarah breaks it off suddenly after an air raid which nearly took Bendrix's life.  A chance encounter with Henry two years later brings Bendrix and Sarah together again, and they rekindle their affair as the truth about that air raid is revealed.  A nice enough story on its own.  But what makes this film great is the approach that Jordan takes (or perhaps it's not his approach... I'm not familiar with either the novel by Graham Greene or the 1955 film).  The opening line of the film is typed by Bendrix onto a clean sheet of paper  This is a diary of hate.  It is only at the end of the film that the viewer understands who it is that Bendrix hates, and why.  The story is a dramatization of what Bendrix is writing.First, he tells us about 1946, when he just happened to see Henry walking in the rain.  It's this moment that opens the door for Bendrix, and for us, into his own past.  Then Bendrix proceeds to interweave his recent experiences of 1946 with events that transpired during the War.  That gives us three distinct time frames for the film, which are introduced to the viewer in reverse chronological order.Also, it is useful to remember that everything we see on screen (with the exception of several scenes of Bendrix typing away) is a depiction of what Bendrix writes.  The entire film is told from Bendrix's point-of -view.  This allows us two things 1) more intimate access to the inner workings of such a fascinating character, and 2) it allows us to enjoy the mystery element of the story much more.  If you'll notice, all of the best mysteries tend to have single-character POVs.  Look at Chinatown, or The Maltese Falcon.  Splitting the POV tends to give audiences information which they should not get before the main character does.  Not that this film is a mystery.  There is a mystery in it, which is central to the plot and to Bendrix's situation, but I wouldn't call the film itself a mystery.  What makes this film great is its understatement.  It is a very English film, and the characters and performances are all very English.  Emotions are fiercely felt but subtly expressed.  That makes it highly demanding of its audience, but even more rewarding.  It also explains why so many call the film boring.  Sarah was described as an ice queen in one review here, and Bendrix was called shallow.  Like most reviews (including this one), those comments say a lot more about the people who wrote them then they do about their purported subject.  Sarah is intensely passionate, Bendrix is a layered and complex character.  So, not for all tastes, but a brilliant film.  Better than any and all of the Best Picture noms of 1999.   "},{"Title":"Both sides of the coin","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning! This review is unabashedly sentimental.I first saw this film in the midst of the strongest love affair of my life and thought it was a beautiful love story, with beautiful actors and beautiful music. I loved it because I was in love and it reinforced all those wonderful feelings.Then, almost masochistically, I rented it after the break-up of that same four year long romance and I loved it then as well for entirely opposing reasons. I could feel the bitterness of how cruel love can be when it's been taken away.  Maurice Bendrix (sp?) became my sympathetic friend. I could feel why he pulled his hand away at the table -- too painful and too dangerous. Whereas when I saw it the first time, I just thought, That cold b*stard! Why does he want to hurt her? I felt his frustration at trying to slay a beast without a face. He didn't hate anyone or anything except his own awareness of the realities of love.The book and this successful cinematic adaptation paint the whole picture... 360 degrees. And I think it works from all the different perspectives. Love is the most wonderful emotion but it can also carry as much danger along with it as hate can. And there's no way to completely be in love, your guard let completely down, without risking your neck. If Bendrix could do it all again, would he do anything differently? Would he have stopped himself from falling in love with Sarah? Could he have stopped himself?I still appreciated many of the same things as I did the first time -- the acting of the leads and the strong supporting cast, the warm beautiful interior shots, the way the plot untwists ... but other things came to forefront on second viewing that slipped by the first time -- Maurice's little flashbacks on the stairway (god, that's just how it is) and the music! It seemed so benignly beautiful the first time I saw it, but it became almost too painfully intrusive the second time.Maybe I'll watch it again when I get a more neutral perspective on the whole matter. I wonder if we ever have that when it comes to love.  "},{"Title":"Curiously remote work from Jordan","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a diary of hate, is the opening line of this film, said by the main character and narrator, novelist Maurice Bendrix(Ralph Fiennes).  That opening line tells you this is, or should be, a tale of passion.  The novel by Graham Greene the film is based on is certainly a novel of passion, though much of it is within, and hard to dramatize in a film.  But if any director could do it, surely it could be Neil Jordan, who makes films which overflow with passion(with the exception of MICHAEL COLLINS, but that was a different kind of film); even his disaster IN DREAMS was a failure of excess.  And yet this film doesn't really come to life until maybe at the end.Contrary to what one comment said, it isn't because Greene isn't relevant.  Adultery will always be with us, and therefore always ripe for stories of any kind, and Greene told it in a way which is still fresh today.  And Jordan makes the interesting decision to shoot the film in mostly medium shots or close-ups, rather than in panoramic wide shots, perhaps to fit the setting(London) or make you feel events are crowding the characters.  But if you're going to take a microscope to your characters, you better show something, and Jordan really doesn't.  Instead, he relies too much on narration and conventional storytelling(contrast this with how he adapted THE BUTCHER BOY), and until we get to hear the story from Sarah's point of view, we don't get a sense of what drives these people.Fiennes is one of my favorite actors, but he doesn't do anything distinctive here.  Only at the end does he truly come alive.  Moore is also a favorite, but she too has little to work with until the story shifts to her point of view.  And even when we find out about Sarah's fate, it wasn't moving enough.  The ones who really come through are Rea, who not only has a note-perfect British accent, but is terrific as someone who, as he puts it, is not a lover.  And Ian Hart brings some comic relief as the detective hired to follow Sarah.  But this is definitely a disappointment; IN DREAMS I hated as well, but that could be dismissed as an experiment which went wrong, while this film should be the type of film Jordan excels at, but doesn't here. "},{"Title":"Remake of the 1955 film of the same name, a fine modern version.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, my complaint. I saw The End of the Affair on DVD, and although the picture is always exquisite, the dialog in quiet scenes is sometimes impossible to understand.  We had to resort to using the subtitles feature on the DVD to understand dialog in two key scenes. Fortunately you can easily do this on the DVD.The story is set in London in WWII, spanning 1939 through 1946. I did not see the 1955 movie of the same name, but one critic described it, in part...<quote>When I thought the film had come so far to bring so much of human existence, with all its emotions, philosophy, belief, and religion to the fore, the film found more fertile ground. The relationships are complicated, and the nature of faith, God, sin, and belief become part of the complex mix, along with the very human desire to do the right thing. Sarah most particularly must struggle with these age old questions as she searches from sources of different, even contradictory viewpoints. The dilemmas and questions all of us ask at one time or another are dealt with in a detailed manner, without passing along the answer to everything. What could have been trite turned out to be a film much more than the premise, and even more than the sum of its parts. <un-quote>All I can say is amen to that for the 1999 version.  I found it to be a totally absorbing film and rate it a solid 8 of 10. "}{"Title":"* * for The End of the Affair","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Adultery in and of itself does not necessarily make good drama. Sometimes, it can make good farce, I suppose, but as far as drama is concerned, the best way to handle a love triangle is to tell the story backwards. Neil Jordan's adaptation of The End of the Affair does, in some sense, attempt to tell the story sideways, and is occasionally interesting as a question of, `Where am I now &#150; in their idyllic past or the grim future?'The opening credits of the film are quite reassuring. Neil Jordan has always been a superb craftsman, and very often a strong storyteller.For the first ten minutes, I thought I was in for a treat. The camera drifts over the belongings of the protagonist, Bendix (Ralph Fiennes) and then settles in on him typing his novel. `This is a diary of hate,' he begins, and I smiled, knowing that he was going to be the laconic, smart but silly everyman akin to Joseph Cotton in `The Third Man', the Graham Greene protagonist, tough yet brittle, with a wise acre mouth but deep wells of insecurity underneath.Fiennes and Moore flirt at a party, and talk about the characters in the book he is going to write. This seems to be the most interesting part of their relationship &#150; the attraction stage. Once they get into the affair, which is steamy and highly charged sexually, I promptly lost interest in the movie.See, there's really not much interest in watching people who are having an affair on film. Perhaps the Graham Greene novel handled this in a poetic way (and the dialogue sounds very much like prose), but onscreen it plays itself out as a somewhat predictable romance which comes to its end. See, it turns into a love triangle between Fiennes, Moore and &#150; well &#150; the Holy Ghost. An incident which caused The End of the Affair brought about Moore's complex relationship with God.This leads to the movie's major problem, which is that I never felt the Presence of God in this film as a character.  `Breaking the Waves' had me convinced that God was a guiding force in Beth's life, and was always there. In this film, the miracles feel like plot points.Perhaps God is underdeveloped as a character because Moore (though excellent) is really given a somewhat limited role. She remains in the background, in a way &#150; a mystery. Fiennes and Rea come through clearer as three dimensional characters. We are never really given insight into what Moore feels &#150; she's always being observed by someone else, be it Fiennes, the private detective he hires, or Jordan's camera. She seems to be a product of the Male Gaze. (Emily Watson was, too, but that was part of the point in `Breaking the Waves' and never flinched from the disturbing aspects of that.)I spent a good deal of time squirming in my seat, fairly bored by the romance and the ramifications of this affair. However, there was a subplot which really worked. Ian Hart plays the befuddled and lovable detective who is trailing Moore, who strikes up a friendship with Fiennes. He's very by the books, but not a particularly good judge of character.He's smart enough to get it done though, and to realize that his son (who follows him everywhere in training) will be an even better detective than he is.First of all, the father and son (a little kid) detective team is simply adorable and comic &#150; a welcome change from the heaviness of the rest of the story. The little kid gets our sympathy not for being a cute tyke but because he's a clever sot and a likable joe, like his old man. He has a huge purple birthmark on his face which he's sensitive about, but otherwise seems happy-go-lucky. He becomes perhaps the best, most moving thing about the movie, even though he disappears from most of the second half.Interesting that the subplot manages to have more heart and soul than the central story, and even more winning is that this is where the movie finds its real miracle. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although visually striking, this movie does no great service to Greene's masterpiece. Greene's concerns here are love, jealousy (not envy - Neil Jordan's Henry confuses the two in a way Greene never would have) and the irresistibility of grace - to an Augustinian or even Jansenist degree. This film does not adequately grapple with the third of these ideas, and so renders Sarah's actions incomprehensible.Fiennes and Moore deliver painfully stilted performances; to an English viewer, Moore's 'English' accent is amusingly distracting.More importantly, interpolations and changes to the plot of the novel (conflating Mr Smythe and Father Crompton, for example) weaken the structure and dilute the Catholic spirit of the work.For a more accurate depiction of 'Greeneland', watch Edward Dmytryk's 1955 version; you'll see what a transcendent character Sarah Miles really is, and perhaps get a glimpse of this novel's greatness... "},{"Title":"A thought-provoking film","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's hard to praise this movie without spoiling a major plot twist, but I'll try.  Cinematographically breathtaking and featuring Oscar-caliber performances, The End of the Affair is a must see.  Ralph Fiennes is wonderfully brooding, and Julianne Moore is astounding as an adultress who turns out to be much, much, much more than she seems.  I am very human she says.  At first she appears to be nothing but a deceptive woman who cheats on her husband and leaves her lover for another, but as the film progresses and we realize how complex she is.In a brilliant stroke of direction, the couple takes off more and more items of clothing in successive love scenes.  When Sarah and Maurice make love for the first time (on her couch, minutes before her husband walks in)they take off only the necessary items of clothing.  By the time the critical scene that reveals Sarah's true nature comes, the pair is completely naked.  The metaphor works brilliantly  the more items of clothing that come off, the more they confess their love for each other, and the more Sarah is figuratively undressed.  Maurice's envy also increases with each scene.  I am jealous of this stocking...because it kisses your whole leg, and I cannot...I am jealous of this shoe, because it will take you away from me.Also excellent is the showing of the same incident twice; once from his point of view, and once from hers.There is also a moment of cinematic reference that few will catch unaided On a date to watch one of his books that was turned into a movie, Sarah and Maurice watch The End of the Affair (1955).  This, of course, is a clue that the character of Maurice might be slightly autobiographical (representing author Graham Greene).The End of the Affair features both a love story and a mystery, and is a movie that deserves for viewers to watch with both eyes open.  "},{"Title":"Another Hollywood script betrays a great book","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Fordham roommate and I went to see this because we both loved the book. I had read Neil Jordan's comments in an Entertainment Weekly article about how he had naturally toned down the religious element of the story because he thought modern audiences would be uncomfortable about it. . . still, I continued to hope against hope that Graham Greene's vision would come through.  No such luck.Once again, as in so many movies I've seen recently, the production aspects and acting were superb, but where the movie really fell down was the script, particularly the thought behind the script.The book is a wonderful story not only about love and sexual passion, but also about faith and self-sacrifice.  Sarah (the best character I've read in any of Greene's books) goes through a tremendously moving journey from seeking fulfilment in sexual passion, to finding that only love of God will really satisfy her. (Interestingly enough, the movie left out the fact that she had apparently had a number of affairs before Maurice).  This was almost wholly discarded in the movie in favor of depictions of sexual passion that, exciting as they were (wow! bombs dropping and orgasm together!) didn't add up to much in the end.WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD!The script's major flaw was not really trusting the story and the characters that Greene wrote.  Now, in the book, Sarah actually does stick to her sacrifice and doesn't go back to Maurice -- but this is blunted in the story, with a great deal more of their affair added, that didn't go anywhere, and seemed to make the ending pointless. In fact, for much of the movie, the script seemed to be chasing its tail -- why play over the scene where the bomb fell twice over?  It seems to me that the audience could have been trusted to remember the first one, and to understand and put two and two together when Maurice gets Sarah's diary.  Why (at my count) four different mentions of the scene where Sarah finds Lance sleeping, instead of developing that relationship, as was so charmingly done in the book?  And why so many sex scenes (forget it, I already know the answer to that). The repetitiousness left no room for development of the characters, especially Sarah and her journey, the theme or anything else.  Well, Hollywood always has its reasons.Nevertheless, I did like the performances.  I had always thought that the Maurice of the book was a bit of a pill, so I was pleased that Ralph Fiennes was able to give him some romantic appeal without violating his essentially selfish character. Stephen Rea was excellent as the tormented husband. And the beautiful, radiant, heartbreaking Julianne Moore clearly understood Sarah so well -- why, oh why couldn't she have been allowed to do that character as written?  It seems to me that people today don't need nearly as much to be told how great sex is (everyone knows that), as they do to learn about the One who is greatest of all . . .  "},{"Title":"Exceptionally dreary adaptation","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The End of the Affair is an excellent example of a curious sort of film adaptation, shall we say a fourth category of adaptations. First, there are the great majority of adaptations which fall far short of the source material; they completely re-write characters for dubious purposes; they trivialize the author's concerns; they end of a falsely upbeat note, etc. Examples of this type of film are legion.Second, there are films which measure up to the original material, and in so doing remind one of what was good about the original work. See, for instance The World According to Garp; Deliverance; Tess; Doctor Zhivago.Third, there are the rare films which manage to transcend the material on which they are based. The Godfather by Puzo, lest we forget, is really a potboiler; hardly a classic piece of literature. Somehow, Coppola is able to infuse Puzo's book with a spirit and mood all his own; the text is transformed into something truly great. Other films which are superior to the source material might include All the President's Men; The Ice Storm; The Day of the Jackal. I'm sure you can think of a few more.Finally, there are films like The End of the Affair, faithful and intelligent adaptations which nonetheless leave so much to be desired that one is forced to question one's opinions about the novel in question. I liked Greene's novel; I thought it did a good job of balancing sexual and spiritual issues and of conjuring up the atmosphere of wartime London. The characters were a bit slight (almost as if they had been sketched for the screen, actually), but well drawn nonetheless. For me, the novel fell somewhere in the middle of Green's canon, but until I viewed Neil Jordan's film, I would have hardly been liable to cast aspersions on the book. Jordan's film, however, though reasonably faithful to the book, decently cast (although the choices are not inspired), admirable photographed, etc. is dreary almost to the point of being unwatchable. Very few directors can film unremitting dreariness to good effect. Bergman is the only example that comes to mind. Downbeat, depressing, pessimistic, cynical, yes. But even superior directors like Tarkovsky (Nostalgia), Allen (Interiors), and Malle (Vanya) are tripped-up by dreary. Jordan's End of the Affair just wears one down with its persistent ponderous dreariness. Fiennes projects misery and loathing; Moore, with a marginally passable British accent, is exhausting to behold; Rea is rain-sodden and crumpled. Among such a cast of characters, Ian Hart's performance as the private detective Parkis, apt to be overlooked in a different film, stands out. Hart is able to convey a wealth of emotions and attitudes (other than hate and guilt) with which we can identify, pride in his job, longing for companionship, love for his son, professionalism, and as a result brings much needed life and light to the film.But I digress. The point is, this film is at once so dreadfully unpleasant yet so skillfully done in a technical sense that I began to wonder, what did I like about the book in the first place? If this is the result of a good adaptation, either the book itself is not very good, or the book is more or less unfilmable. Incidentally, the other film that caused me to question the value of a novel I had enjoyed was Keith Gordon's Mother Night. Two films do not quite a category make, do they? I wonder if other film fans have had a parallel experience? "},{"Title":"A Little Less Conversation","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, I just turned off the DVD player and gave up on watching this flick. I saw it for approximately 60 minutes and asked myself what was going on. People will think I'm kinda dumb, but I sincerely didn't understand what was director's point in intercalating past scenes with current ones. Sometimes the story was sooo slow and uninteresting that I was asking myself if the scene was old or current, since director didn't mind doing that all the time. The only things I could appreciate were the good acting and the beautiful photography direction, which delivered some beautiful scenes and dialogs. However, it feels too Shakespearian and too abstruse to make the spectator care about what's happening. Maybe some little less conversation and much more action-- even in a drama film-- would make it far more interesting than that. I still have hope I'll enjoy other Neil Jordan movies anyways. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is the type of period romance film I dislike. It's all so sad and emotional, with the loud overbearing score intended to make you truly feel. It's all obnoxious. The performance are good enough, but none of them resonate that strongly because of the very pat direction and the incredibly vapid writing. It's all so clichéd, it's the reason these sort of films don't age very well and the reason why many (like me) don't look forward to them. I'm surprised Moore got a nomination for this, she's just not up to par for the Oscars. Easily her weakest nomination. I can't say I recommend this at all, it's just not up to very high standards and not very entertaining. "},{"Title":"The most conventional movie I have ever seen","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How can the same director who gave us The Crying Game with its provocative situations and characters, come up with something as banal and boring as this? It really looks like a small-scale, small-budget television piece, and the interesting thing is that you can watch it without sound, because the story is so simple and predictable. But, even there, they will show you many scenes twice, to make sure that you understand that reality is different depending on the person who is looking at it. Wow...  I was expecting a nice recreation of the London atmosphere after the war; we were offered one aerial view of London and a couple of outside scenes where we can streets and houses. The rest of the movie could have been filmed anywhere in the world.  A final point to illustrate my deception  I sincerely think that there are better ways to suggest the heroine's growing illness than the gross coughing Julianne Moore was asked to simulated. In my opinion, this movie has been made with a deliberate disregard of all the advances made in movie-making in the last forty years. It is so strange to see, back to back, a movie like this one and a movie like Being John Malkovich... "},{"Title":"'So I was a disappointment in the end...I lived'","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How can Hollywood run short on plots when there are so many great authors from early 20th century Britain alone? Consider the menu W. Somerset Maugham, D.H. Lawrence, Aldous Huxley, Vita Sackville-West, Virginia Woolf, and Katherine Mansfield, amongst others. How can a good storyline be so hard to come by these days?One filmmaker who recently understood this was Irish-born Neil Jordan, whose notoriety still rests with the 1992 gender-bender 'The Crying Game.' In 1999, Jordan quietly released 'The End of the Affair,' a loose adaptation of the novel by late Nobel Prize nominee Graham Greene.'The End of the Affair' is from Greene's 'Catholic phase' of work that took place years after joining the Roman Church in 1926. For all of his faith, Greene could not escape life's complications and had more than his share of romantic entanglement. This novel is largely autobiographical, toeing the lines of his affair with Catherine Walston that spanned three decades. 'The End of the Affair,' like other such works as 'The Heart of the Matter' and 'Brighton Rock,' focuses on the seemingly hopeless conflict between otherworldly faith and our need to be human.Neil Jordan took liberties with Greene's plot but stayed generally in line with its tone. 'The End of the Affair' opens in London shortly after V-Day, when a writer Maurice Bendrix (Ralph Fiennes) meets up with an old friend Henry Miles (Stephen Rea), who suspects that his wife is being unfaithful. Henry's suspicions turn out to be correct, as Bendrix was having an affair with Sarah Miles (Julianne Moore) during the war years before she strangely broke their relationship off.Without Henry's consent, Bendrix arranges a private investigation, itching to know why Sarah left him. Sarah eventually gets in contact with Bendrix again and we are taken back in time, being gradually exposed to the circumstances of their breakup. What results is a portrait of the 'soul/flesh' conflict, that relentless struggle between an inner need for faith and sexual passion.'The End of the Affair' is a bleak, challenging work. The majority of this film takes place under rain showers and there is no dominant sunlight until the action moves to Brighton in its final half-hour. The religious themes, which Jordan actually raises to a more prominent level than Greene, will not be to everyone's liking and the final outcome, with a typically British irony, will leave people high and dry. But those who don't mind profundity and exercising their brain should find much to like. Jordan takes big risks in his screenplay, with generally good results there are times when the film verges on cheap melodrama, but the talent of its cast keeps matters afloat.Ralph Fiennes is his low-key, effective self in portraying a scruffy writer driven by pleasure and jealousy. Julianne Moore, arguably the most gifted redhead in Hollywood these days, is surprisingly good with her taken-on British accent and fully convinces us of Sarah's vulnerability. Stephen Rea, as the timid civil servant Henry, gets the job done in a drippy fashion, besides good supporting work from Jason Isaacs as Father Smythe (Smythe is an atheist in the novel) with trench-coated Ian Hart and young Samuel Bould as investigators.The End of the Affair's design team created excellent settings with a 1940s feel and Roger Pratt's cinematography is as sharp as a tack. My only complaint is that Jordan did not make full use of London, preferring a closed-in setup rather than letting the city breathe free. The minimalist score by Michael Nyman ('Carrington,' 'Gattaca') is one of the best I've heard in recent years and has gained considerable following amongst CD buyers.Julianne Moore and Roger Pratt (also of 'Harry Potter') were nominated for Academy Awards in 2000. Neil Jordan, Moore, and Michael Nyman were also nominated for Golden Globes that year, along with the film itself for best motion picture drama. 'The End of the Affair' is available on DVD from Sony Pictures, the blanket agency of Columbia Pictures. I have to confess that I watched the film in VHS format, which meant full screen presentation and no extras. Treat yourself better.*** out of 4 "},{"Title":"The Pain of the Muse","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.A film about a book about writing, and in particular the writing that book. Further, about the pain of being a writer when the target of life is the passion of narrative.This story is about a man who needs to create something that makes sense emotionally. He engages in an affair which gives sense and life to both his life and the `sense' he is cobbling together for the book. The book gets stressed when the affair does, and that stress turns out to be the new matter for a better, different book.This is a rather complex film because of all the layers involved, and serves as a real eyeopener about how sophisticated the viewing audience has become. The layers come from just what is `reality' that is the context within which the book is written, and what is the subject of the book. We see both, apparently undifferentiated.This would have fallen flat, like say the similar `Mansfield Park,' were it not for Julianne. I continue to be amazed at her ability to populate multiple layers of the narrative at the same time. Here, she plays the muse, the passionate victim, the fictional character, the schemer creating the whole mess, the representative of all the layers the book, the context and reason for the book and the life outside the book.Much of the direction competently understands this and accommodates. There's nothing notable other than that respect for the richness of the material and the ability of Moore to make it live.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "}{"Title":"stay with it...","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forty-five minutes into this movie, I still couldn't tell if I was liking it, if I was going to like it.  It was on the brink of being too much like The Ice Storm - a gorgeously executed film that ends having been too clinical, too heartless.  But, as the minutes ticked away, Jordan and his plans became clearer.  Here is an elliptical, icy, intellectual story of heartbreak with profoundly spiritual underpinnings and revelations.  It is a movie that I was undecided about until about halfway through.  Now it is over, I'm ordering the DVD next week.  The End of the Affair has shot up to number 4 on my best of 1999 list.  The finest we've seen from Neil Jordan since The Crying Game. "},{"Title":"Have those who hated this film missed something?","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Have those who hated this film missed something? Looking through the comments it seems as though this is a film people either love or hate. Maybe the later went with specific expectations. I have read nearly all Greene's novels - but not this one and thought it was brilliant. I must get the book...  "},{"Title":"bloodless","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's odd as a viewer to be in the position to say that there is nothing technically wrong with a production (This isn't your usual bad movie...) but that there is still something deeply wrong with it (...it might as well be). The central plot is about a man who is supposedly bananas for his married mistress, but the screen is filled with bloodless Brits who can't drum up an ounce of energy. Everything is vague and suffocating in disinterest, except the physical details. Keep in mind, Orwell's '1984' was written around the period of Graham Greene's original novel. The numb, post-torture couple in 1984 who confide without emotion, I betrayed you, and I betrayed you too are perfectly matched here by Fiennes who declares mechanically over lunch, I'm in love with you, which is met with Moore's indifferent Me too. I watched this movie wondering, THIS is the world that needed to be protected from political dehumanization? ..the job's already done. Strangely, the movie shows no such reticence in the 4 sex scenes. Beyond that, I really cannot relate to characters who think a dissolved boundary with their soul-mate is the apogee of being alive. I find such characters risible in An Affair to Remember, Damage and Brief Encounter too. How awful are you if you need to flee yourself to some over-esteemed other? There's just no thought in it, and no thought to be had in observing this kind of obsessive relationship.Fiennes especially is at fault for not creating a character of any interest or complexity. Critic Mick La Salle had it right when he said, the movie was ...guaranteed to be mistaken for a first-rate picture. "},{"Title":"an exquisitely sweeping and passionate romantic drama","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Are you looking for a sweeping and powerful romantic drama for that special date with the one you love and you don't want to yawn through a three-hour marathon movie?  If the answer is yes, look no further on the video rack than The End of the Affair.  It has all of the drama of an English Patient in a compact 100 minute running time.I have nothing against long romantic dramas like The English Patient or The Horse Whisperer.  They are fantastic films, but The End of the Affair is perfectly timed and even more perfectly acted.  Academy Award nominees Ralph Fiennes, Julianne Moore, and Stephan Rea all are at the top of their game.To keep things brief without giving anything away, the plot surrounds a torrid love affair between Fiennes and Moore during the German Blitzkrieg of London during World War II.  It is told in flashback as Fiennes' troubled and bitter character is trying to filter his emotions and memories into a novel.Again, Ralph Fiennes and Julianne Moore are excellent.  Fiennes has a powerful presence and stare that could melt any women's inhibitions. Moore, an American playing a Brit, surprisingly plays a very serious role in comparison to her previous efforts in movies such as The Lost World Jurassic Park and Boogie Nights.  This was definitely a new side to her range.If you see the British characters and British setting and immediately think this movie will be boring and bland, don't.  The movie is truly an adult drama, that is very passionate, and, at times, very erotic.  The best similar movie comparison/connection I can make to The End of the Affair is the Henry James adaptation The Wings of the Dove starring Helena Bohnam Carter and Linus Roache.  That too was a forbidden torrid affair and another very good romantic drama that is under three hours for the sleepy-eyed.I cannot recommend The End of the Affair enough.  The movie was a gorgeous piece of work from the acting, the design, the cinematography, and the outstanding score from Michael Nyman.  Like I said before, it is a quick, well-paced, sexy, and smart romantic drama, which is very hard to find these days.  "},{"Title":"The end was just the beginning...","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  WARNING SPOILER ALERTIn these days, many people have been raised as Catholics, but didn't grow up as being a religious person. But the great majority of them (and I can be included there) ask God for help and swear to believe him ever after in an emergency situation. This is what happens to Sarah Miles (Julianne Moore), one of the main characters of The End of the Affair. She is married to Henry (Stephen Rea), but feels nothing about him. One day, at a party, she meets Maurice Bendrix (Ralph Fiennes), a young and charming novelist and guess what happens... They start to live a sudden, prohibited, but passionate and strong affair during World War II. Sarah promises to him that she will never be with another man. However, during a bomb attack to Maurice's house, she seems to be another person and goes away in order not to see him ever more. The first scene of the film, actually, is Maurice in front of his machine writing the sentence This is a diary of hate. Then his memory goes back to some time before, in a rainy day, where he meets by chance Henry Miles. He says to Maurice that Sarah is probably cheating on him and he wants to hire a private detective. After seeing Sarah for a moment, Maurice decides to hire the detective by himself. During the investigation and his sudden meetings with Sarah, he remembers the whole situation I told you above, but what he discovers is more than surprising.What makes The End of the Affair such a great film is, at first, Neil Jordan's direction. He treats the story with the complexity and the beauty it deserves. He adapted Graham Greene's novel, which is said to be not a very easy adaptation, but the results were astonishing, and I can't understand why the screenplay was not nominated to the Oscar.But there are many more merits. Michael Nyman's score is just wonderful, showing by itself the strong feelings in the story. Not to forget of the costumes, the scenery and, above all, the cinematography, which takes us to a rainy and cold London. However, the acting is the best of the film. Ralph Fiennes, Stephen Rea and Ian Hart are great, but Julianne Moore gives the best acting of her career. As Maurice does, we feel love and hate for her. It is maybe the best female performance of 1999 and, if the courageous Hilary Swank wouldn't have been nominated, Julianne should have won.What I really liked in The End of the Affair is the way it treated the theme of God. Last year, very good films had God as one of the main subjects (Stigmata, Dogma, etc), but this one showed the theme perfectly. HE is present in everything, every time, even in the most unexpected situations.With realistic sex scenes and mixing strong feelings as jealousy, faith, hate and, more than anything, LOVE, The End of the Affair is not only one of last year's best, but also one of the most complex films, along with American Beauty and Eyes Wide Shut.Director Neil Jordan said that in all his films there is something that can't be explained logically. If you watch the film, you'll know what I'm talking about. "},{"Title":"Best Picture? No Way!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was pathetic, totally unconvincing.  The reactions of the characters to the events that surround them are so unrealistic.  The story fails to focus on the important points, the script does not reflect the plot, and much of the critical detail is left out.  The following examples might be SPOILERS, so beware The character Henry was unconvincing.  What kind of guy would be so idle and passive after discovering that his wife was having an affair with the very guy standing in the room with him.  It's as if Henry was short on testosterone that day.  Even the script and storylines in Beverly Hills 90210 are more believable.  The movie attempts to show that Sarah (Julianne Moore) truly loved Bendrix (Ralph Fiennes), but all the movie shows is lust, lust, and more lust.  Even in the 1940's, there was more to love than just sex and physical attraction.  I would comment on the chemistry between the characters, but there was none.  And ladies, how satisfying could that 20-seconds of sex on the couch really be?  The whole movie is just filled with inconsistensies and impossibilities that are normally found only in daytime soap operas that get cancelled after the pilot episode. "},{"Title":"Old-Fashioned Romantic and Religious Guilt","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" End of the Affair is a throw back to black-and-white movies like Bette Davis' Now Voyager, Greta Garbo in Camille, Brief Encounter, and so on, though there wasn't a tear in the house. Ralph Fiennes has a face made to make period pictures for some reason but in color we get to look deeply into those blue eyes. The costumes and mise en scene were perfectly period (I hadn't realized that lust took almost as long to get satisfied in the 1940's as in the 1890's, those hats, spats, suspenders, garter belts, buttons and hooks, oh my). And there's a lot of lust satisfying in this movie--especially when some coupling is shown twice, from both participants' viewpoints.It's a very adult movie that will bore young romantics to death, but the senior citizens in the audience hated it because they didn't understand the repeating scenes.I was just starting to think it was more than a visually satisfying menage a trois voyeuristic dance macabre when Julianne Moore (whose bland Brit accent is out of place compared to the pro's around her - what no Masterpiece Theatre beauties were available?) started to cough. Oh no, she did actually come down with Dreaded Movie Star Disease. I've been avoiding these kinds of movies for years and had no idea this silly plot turn would be in a serious movie, but I assume it was in Greene's book. It's surrounded by much discussion of God vs. belief a la Mulder and Scully.Poor Stephen Rea has to play the bland civil servant as a nice guy instead of the usual upper class cuckolded twit.Maybe this is just all too veddy British, or maybe chick flicks from the guy's viewpoint don't work as well.(originally written 1/29/2000) "},{"Title":"Captures the essence of Greene's classic novel","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I read the book and then watched the 1999 film version of the book which stars Ralph Fiennes and Julianne Moore.The book is written in the 'first person', and is based on a Greene's love affair with a married woman that he had during the 2nd world war. I doubt whether this novel would sell many copies today as it contains too many pages devoted to an existential examination of the narrator's feelings and motives; and also of his lover and her husband. At the heart of the book is a philosophical debate over whether God exists and what part, if any, God plays in our everyday lives. Greene himself was an atheist who became a catholic in later life.I found the book a fascinating read, although I confess I was more into the characters and events surrounding the affair than the religious and existential elements. The 'affair' of the title is about a woman (Moore) who, after carrying on an illicit love affair for four years, suddenly breaks it off without any explanation. The man (Fiennes) discovers the truth when a private detective, who he hires to follow her, steals her diary. We learn about the affair and its break-up from two points of views &#x96; the man's and his lover's - via her stolen diary.The 1999 film of Greene's book is a bit of a gem and is well worth 102 minutes of your time. It is produced and directed by Neil Jordan, who also wrote the screenplay. For much of the film, Jordan didn't have a lot to do as far as the screenplay was concerned as Greene's original dialogue comes shining through in every scene. (It is said that so many of Greene's book were made into films because they were so 'cinematic' in their construction.)But towards the end of the film, Jordan strays from the original story. He didn't just cut out superfluous events and characters, which is what is usually done in film adaptations, but he actually changed part of the story. In the book, the cheating 'femme fatale' breaks up with the man and meets an atheistic street orator who has a badly pock- marked face. In the film, the atheistic orator becomes a catholic priest and the person with the badly scarred face is the son of the private detective who the narrator hires to follow her. The essential elements of the film remain more or less faithful to the book, but I do wonder why Jordan made these changes. He obviously didn't consider them to be 'fundamental' to the story and must have decided that his version was more cinematic than the book version. I have to say that the dialogue during these cinematic diversions from the book was pretty seamless and could have easily been Greene's own words. It was very cleverly done.Greene died some 8 years before this film version was made. Had he been alive, I doubt very much whether he would have agreed to the changes, as he was always personally involved in the screenplays of earlier films which were based on his books.Nevertheless, it is a fine film and captures the essence of Greene's classic novel for a new generation. "},{"Title":"didn't love it, didn't hate it...","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A previous comment mentioned this was a love or hatekind of film...I beg to differ.  It left me strangely ambivalent. Some scenes were wonderful, some boring, some plot  features interesting, others mundane.  Julianne Moore wasgood, but not Oscar worthy by any stretch of the  imagination.  And I was struck how similar Ralph Fiennes'character was to his English Patient character; jealously ofinanimate objects and owning body parts seemed  remarkably alike to me.  The only really intriguing part of thestory was the friendship between the lover and the  husband...an interesting dynamic that I have to admit mademe think.  I liked seeing the scenes from different  viewpoints, but on the whole, I think the overarching  themes of God and love weren't as intense as they shouldhave been.  Still, a pretty movie to watch and appreciate forits cinematic value.  Pick a rainy day and rent it.    "},{"Title":"Drizzle Drizzle","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Author Graeme Green (The Power And The Glory, The Quiet American, The Third Man) had an affair with the wife of a wealthy English politician, one which they openly flaunted before the husband, with Greene often living close by to facilitate the relationship.	The woman was completely without jealousy (hard to believe that's possible!) but Greene was consumed by it, obsessed with the fact that the woman had many other lovers.	The husband meanwhile seemed to ignore the whole mess, reasonably happy to take from his wife what tidbits she might offer. The woman, introduced to the drink by the wastrel Greene, became a drunk and died some years later from the effects.	Now that sounds like a pretty interesting plot line for a film! But fiction often is a lot less entertaining than the truth.	To complicate matters Greene wrote a book about the whole thing. He called it The End Of The Affair, adding a good dose of Catholic guilt, attempting to chronicle the gradual turning of his chief character Bendrix (himself) from atheism to a belief in God. 	His attempt in the novel failed. He acknowledged that the ending of the book, especially the miracle was clumsy but by then its course had been run.	He also made no attempt to publicly acknowledge the identity of his former lover Lady Catherine Walston. 	And now we have Neil Jordan's (The Crying Game, The Butcher Boy, Interview With A Vampire, Michael Collins, Mona Lisa) version of the book on film.	This is Jordan's England of the early years of World War 2. It's drizzly, overcast or pouring with rain. The affair becomes tempered by the weather and by its terribly well mannered participants. 	The film drips wetly with dourness and gloom. Julieanne Moore as Sarah (Catherine) and Ralph Fiennes as Bendrix (Greene) make stolid, joyless work of even the sexual side of their relationship and Stephen Rea as the husband Henry looks miserably content.	Irishman Neil Jordan is a strong director and this film isn't to be dismissed but it certainly isn't entertaining.	A bit of levity is introduced by Ian Hart as the detective Mr. Parkis but generally if this was an affair in London during the war, well it's a wonder German isn't now the dominant language.  "}{"Title":"A Spoiled Affair","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This should have been a good movie.  The story line was intrigueing and the actors were superb.  However, I thought I was going to see a love story in London during WW11 and it would probably be a tear-jerker.  Was I ever wrong!  When the theatre filled with ladies a group of men came in and sat in front of us.  This movie had been playing for a few days and I guess word had got around.  We were not thrilled to see nude sex scenes not once, but several times.  In a book you can always skip a  chapter, but how can you do it on the big screen. If this is against your guidelines, then so be it. Sorry I went to the movies this time. "},{"Title":"Love of no consequence","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm bored with my husband. I'm bored with my life. Let's have sex like teenagers. Sweet.Welcome to true love, _End of the Affair_ style. No indication of how the lead characters came to actually love each other, or what that love consisted of besides sex or creepy obsessive jealousy.The twist when it comes is underwhelming, to say the least, and involves retreading material that was dull the first time, and depends on the trite inability of the estranged hormone-weasels to actually TALK to each other. That's true love right there, folks.But hey, being a creepy obsessive stalker pays off, which is sarcasman awesome moral to impart/sarcasm. Or rather, it would pay off for more than a brief interlude if it weren't for the glaringly obvious Chekov's gun being fired. The predictable denouement that follows rambles rather interminably, right to a saccharine beatification and cheap attempt at a metaphysical love/hate relationship with God. Meaningful, see?This movie wants to be a self-indulgent tragedy, but it's just tragic. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Weak","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A surprisingly weak adaptation of fairly strong novel Graham Green. Much of the strength of Green's novel lay in its unsentimental, almost stark prose. This movie, on the other hand, is all violins and histrionic embellishment. (The lovemaking scenes border on the comic by the third or fourth round). I guess the clipped, wooden dialog is supposed to reflect Green's austere style. Unfortunately the film misses the mark on both points.The cast is good with the usual cinematic liberties - Henry (Stephen Rea) is supposed to be somewhat corpulent. Julianne Moore seems like an odd choice for the captivating Sarah, but she does her best. Ralph Fiennes is a good choice for Bendix and Ian Hart almost singe- handedly saves the movie. Almost. Unfortunately, a major character who provides significant influence on the plot is completely absent from the film. As a result, Sarah's path and the eventual outcome stray a fair bit from the novel's intent. I like character driven movies as much or more than the next guy, but this one doesn't seem to have much gas. Please don't judge the novel based on this filmNote I always check the spoiler box because I'm never sure when discussion of plot is considered spoiling. Seems to me it's difficult to have a worthwhile discussion of a film without touching on plot at least a little. "},{"Title":"The end, is the beginning, is the end.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rain-swept locations, men in hats, desperate longings, sex during the blitz... there are some interesting stylistic touches in Neil Jordan's The End of the Affair, but few of them manage to overcome the curiously stilted, somewhat detached performances by the central trio of characters.In mounting (no pun!) this adaptation of Graham Green's semi-autobiographical novel, director Jordan has opted for a restrained, somewhat old-fashioned tone.  Yes, there are still enough scenes of jiggling bare-buttocks and the knocking of boots to keep the 'art-house crowd' happy, and yes, Ms Moore does 'get them out'... but apart from the odd scene of soft-focus humping the film is fairly unabashed in its romanticism.  The effect is less DH Lawrence, more Mills & Boon, with Ralph Finnes either moping around post war London, or sitting in front of a typewriter pouring out his diary of hate.  ...in fact, the film works better as a detective story than a romance, as Finnes tries to piece together the events that actually led to the end of the affair... which, needless to say, makes for much more rewarding cinema than the description above.  In the film, Finnes plays Maurice Bendrix, a sort of alter ego for Green, who after meeting an old acquaintance during a midnight stroll in a rainstorm is re-introduced to his one-time lover, Sarah.  For the rest of the film we flash backwards and forwards between past and present as Bendrix questions how the affair began... and why Sarah decided to end it.  Coupled with this, we also have Maurice's difficult relationship with Sarah's husband Henry who suspects that his wife is involved with someone... but is painfully oblivious as to who that someone is. Of course we know that the film will build to an inevitable, emotionally staggering finale, but one must regardless of expectancy, commend Jordan for actually pulling it off.  In a film filled with particularly ridged characters, it is a miracle that we ever managed to care anything for our protagonists at all.  With these final scenes, director Jordan is aided by composer Michael Nyman, who supplies the film with a lush, highly sensual score, bringing to mind his most popular work for The Piano.  Cinematographer Roger Pratt deserves special mention also, for giving the film a wonderfully old-fashioned Technicolor glow, no doubt drawing his inspiration from the fantastical compositions he created for Terry Gilliam.  The other key, technical contributor is production-designer Anthony Pratt, who creates an evocative, and wholly believable recreation of post-war London. Naturally the whole thing looks spectacular, with each contributor being the best in their chosen field, but, regardless... the film never really takes off the way it should.  This is all down to performance.  Finnes is strong in the lead, lending the film an old-fashioned charm, sort of like Trevor Howard in Brief Encounter, but he fails to spark any form of chemistry with his supposed love-interest, Julianne Moore.  As for Moore, well, technically speaking her performance is fine, but this is the problem.  She's simply going through the motions, never really feeling her character or allowing her emotions to take her beyond the limitations of the story.  She isn't helped by her put-on English accent, which I'm sure sounds fine to anyone outside of the UK, but to us natives, she is far too mannered and overly pronounced.  Stephen Rea is also a disappointment as Henry, again struggling with the English accent and never really 'interacting' with either Sarah or Bendrix. Overall, this is still a highly impressive film, with some fine support by Jason Isaacs, Ian Hart and the youngster Sam Bould.  As previously noted, every technical element is as impressive as it could be, whilst Jordan's script manages to overcome some problems in drive by retaining a much-needed subtlety, which is more than you can say about some films.  I'd speculate that the film's financial failure was probably down to the controversy kicked up in America due to Ralph's naked backside writhing around atop Ms Moore, something they call 'strong sexuality'.  This will be most misleading to European viewers who are more than familiar with films like Romance, The Idiots, Intimacy and Baise-Moi.  So if you're planning on watching The End of the Affair merely on the basis of explicit sexual content, then don't bother... the only things 'stiff' in this film are the upper lips.Save for a few scenes of mild sexuality, this is a film about lovers, as apposed to love.  It's often quite bitter and sad, and never really celebrates the joys of life possible exception; the scenes that take place in Brighton as one might expect from such a film.  However, this is something that makes The End of the Affair all the more unique.  Its old-fashioned-ness seems alien in comparison to such films as Fight Club or The Matrix and I for one find that very commendable.  If Jordan had perhaps directed his actors to be a little more 'spirited' then we may have been looking at a classic.  This isn't a classic, but it's certainly very good.  "},{"Title":"beautiful movie","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  many films nowadays seem to lack depth and feeling, but not so with The End of the Affair. Beautiful film and the lead characters were great... Julianne Moore was wonderful as the trapped and doomed Sarah and i have to say that though Ralph Fiennes is usually wooden in movies (great on stage though) in this movie, his acting is pretty convincing. It was a fairly emotional movie and i cried to the end! watch it! "},{"Title":"Very sad, but equally interesting.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about the hatred and jealousy of a man who never actually understands what he's really jealous or hateful about.  The whole film is filled with a mixture of emotions of all three of it's main characters.  Every character has their own perspective of the way things are happening and none of them really understand each other.  Even the two lovers, Maurice and Sarah, though being completely aware of their own emotions and their undying love for each other, never really understand or know what the other might be thinking.  Sarah's husband, Henry is also a very complex person, who, knowing the situation to quite an extent, isn't quite sure what to do about it or how to face it. The movie is sort of slow in the beginning, but gradually increases pace as the mystery of the end of Maurice and Sarah's affair starts to unravel.  The inclusion of a private investigator (wonderfully played by Ian Hart) gave an interesting touch to it.Brilliant performances by everyone.  Ralph Fiennes, as Maurice Bendrix, gives yet another splendid performance, excellent expressions, everything he does seems perfect.  You can almost feel his character's pain in his eyes.  He's wonderful. Julianne Moore did a great job as well as Sarah Miles.  Her facial expressions give her character a lot more meaning and she put on a very good accent too. Stephen Rea's was the most complex character and he was excellent as the confused, Henry Miles.  I spent the whole time feeling sorry for the guy. The whole gloomy, dark atmosphere of the film helps to explore the depths of these three characters as well.  It's just very, very gloomy throughout. Ian Hart and Sam Bould gave the movie a lighter feel to it by playing the private eye, Mr. Parkis and his son, Lance.  Watch this movie if you like these types of movies, because even though it was pretty good, some might consider it a bit boring.  I didn't.  I thought it was very interesting, to say the least.  If you still can't decide, I'll be a bit biased here...watch it for Ralph Fiennes.   8.5/10. "},{"Title":"a beautiful film","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the End of the Affair and all I have to say is (contrary to the other insipid remarks given by other viewers) that this is a wonderful film. All three actors are great in this movie, particularly Julianne Moore.  I was not raised as a Christian, but I still felt myself moved by this movie, in particular, Sarah's relationship with God.  Graham Greene is a wonderful author and anyone who is interested in seeing an emotionally moving and intellectual movie that not only has something to say, but says it well, should definitely see this movie.  (But then again, if you have a short attention span and go for movies with action and sex with a low i.q. level, maybe you should skip this one...) "},{"Title":"Ralph & Julianne instead of Romeo & Juliette","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  first of all  a great cast *Ralph Fiennes = Maurice Bendrix  *Julianne Moore = Sarah Miles  *Stephen Rea = husband of S.Miles  *Ian Hart = detective Notes -Directed by Neil Jordan  -This move has been made before with Deborah KerrThe story Sarah Miles and her husband meet Maurice Bendrix. The passion in the relationship of Sarah Miles and her husband is over. When Sarah decides to go out with Maurice, the affair begins, but when will it end?Well the story is set during the second World war were Maurice nearly died in an explosion, but he survived. Sarah promises God to forget him and reconcile with her husband, however Maurice wants her back, but she refuses to be with him At the end of the story, Maurice and Julianne come back together, but she dies about 2 months later. Work of the actors -Ralph Fiennes he is very good, although his part is very similar too The English Patient, he still plays wonderfully. He is A great British actor. He played his part with a lot of passion and feelings. (8,5/10)-Julianne Moore she is great, what a performance! She loves two men and she gives an explanation why she does everything. I have a lot of sympathy for her character.  She is a great actress, good work Julianne... (9/10)  -Stephen Rea a very difficult part, a husband who doesn't fight for his wife's love, is that normal? He loves her, but he let her go to another man.He played well, but a very odd part. (7/10)  -Ian Hart a small part, but worth watching (7/10) Remarks -It is a typical Romeo & Juliette story, like many we see these days. But it is a good movie... great acting performances by Ralph & Julianne...-It is different from the previous version, but this one is certainly as good as the 1956'S version.  -God plays an important part in the film. Sarah believes in him, he doesn't.This gives this movie is a twist between them. Rating 8/10 or ***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"It will grow on you - really","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Art is always personal.  For me, Graham Greene is THE great UK novellist of the 20th century (sorry DHL).  This production succeeds brilliantly in transferring the novel to film.  It is wonderfully cast and acted.  How many great novels have been spoiled by poor casting, but this works so, so well. Greene had a wonderful way of writing about people tortured by their relationship with God, whatever that relationship was, and with their fellow man, and the film captures that brilliantly.  That sounds so po-faced, doesn't it, but it's not meant to be?  The film really is very enjoyable, although it feels slow-paced at the start.  Greene also had a strange way of making you feel good at the end of even his gloomiest writings.  I don't think anyone could see this film and not find a whole range of emotions moving them at various times.After watching it I was left feeling that, yet again, Hollywood had failed to recognise the outstanding film of the year when it came to awarding the Oscars.  There are very, very few films to which I would award a 10, but this is one. "},{"Title":"Beautiful story (some spoilage)","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this film when it was out in the theatres. As it started, I figured it would be some slow-moving, uninteresting British drama. I was right - there is next to no action in this film, even the dialog, while beautifully written and spoken is somewhat minimal. In the age of blockbuster film, it is sometimes easy to forget that the profession of acting began in theatres where an actor had to be a good orator, had to make that initial connection to the audience through verbalization instead of digital effects. This movie shows how, even still, the complexity and range that can be demonstrated just with words can wrap the viewer into the story just as much if not more than any CGI. There are not many actors in this film. Moore, Fiennes, and Rea carry almost the entire movie. And it was a pleasure to watch; each one of these actors can, with a single look, a flicker of their eyes, capture the essence of an emotion. Some people find it off-putting to watch Julianne Moore, an American actress, doing a British accent (although she does a wonderful job), but she has truly proved to be one of the very talented actresses working today. This is a small story, the three main characters are trapped in a love triangle. Although the timeline is rather fluid, in the same manner as The English Patient, what moves this plot along is emotion. That's it, just human emotion. There is also much discussion or interpretation of religion that the story revolves around, but even much of that can be distilled down to having faith. In my opinion, what draws one to this movie is that same sense of connection the audience member feels to the story. Many adults have at one time loved and/or been jealous, even if there was no reason.I personally feel that beyond the wonderful acting and directing in this film, it is how it represents, for me, what any kind of art should do. It allows us to be swept up in a story, and even to shed light on what it is to be human.  "}{"Title":"Only in the last 20 minutes does it really get going, but it's still worth a look...","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"     The End of the Affair, Neil Jordan's impeccably rendered and finely acted version of Graham Greene's classic novel.  Plus points as these may be, it's mostly well intentioned but dull up until what I would describe as the narrative turning point (see if you can work out when it is for yourself.)  I could never feel the burning passion that INSISTED these two people had to be together 'til then. I am unaware if Greene's novel suffers from a similar lack of urgency.  Previously it had been acts of frenetic copulation on and against various props. Perhaps that's what translates as 'ultimate passion' to most people, I dunno...   Don't go seeing this for titillation, either. It should never in a million years have been classed as '18' in the UK.  Yes, there are people having sex, but its all pretty decorus under the circumstances, suiting the piece's overall stately feel perfectly.  The picture is crafted in the usual consumate way by Jordan, so there are very few obvious flaws, I just wish it had moved a bit quicker.  Once it gets into gear, it duly earns the 'for romantics only' tag it was given by my flatmate before I borrowed it from her.  Of course, such a development is hardly surprising when you have performers of the calibre of Fiennes and Moore in attendance.   It obviously conformed to Jordan's vision, so it deserves to be seen on its own merits.  Some may even find the deliberate pace appropriate.  I couldn't help wanting a little more gut-wrenching emotion in my experience, and it was only in the last 20 minutes that I was rewarded.  Don't let me put you off though, because people's idea of romance is different; and if nothing else, if you appreciate the 'art' in film more than the 'action', you will find much to admire here. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is truly one of the saddest movies I've ever seen, if not the saddest.I recommend this to anyone who can watch a movie based on love. Fiennes and Moore are perfect and brilliant in their roles, and Rea is pretty good but a bit sluggish in a scene or two.The movie sadly shows the effect jealousy has on an obsessed lover and just how powerful the love of God is. It's based in the time of war and the aftermath of the movie will most likely leave you feeling angst and melancholy. It's a classic film, truly one of the top romances I've ever seen, and I'm quite a movie buff. I give this masterpiece a 10 out of 10 and I recommend this movie anxiously to anyone who's reading this and hasn't seen it.  "},{"Title":"Best romantic film I've ever seen!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I fell in love with this film the first time I saw it! contrary to others opinions It never bored me once! Julianne's performance is fab as always! and with a character which I would die to portray! she deserved the academy award. Fiennes was wonderful and they were so great together! they had such chemistry! I bought the soundtrack which is so different from anything I've really ever heard, and making Michael Nyman my Fav. composer! see this film if you are in the mood for love, passion, tears, and a wonderful time!~Tina~ "},{"Title":"Stunningly filmed romantic drama.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE END OF THE AFFAIR (1999) Rating 8/10A highly recommendable romantic drama, The End of the Affair proved to be an indulging and intriguing film for audiences world-wide. It may not have got the Oscar success that Neil Jordan was hoping for, but it was a competitive year and The End of the Affair certainly got mentioned in other ceremonies (the Oscars did give it 2 nominations, which is less than it deserves), which is refreshing. Anyway, on about the film. It has stunning performances; Ralph Fiennes is at his best, waltzing through jealousy with ultimate passion. Most notable though is the brilliant Julianne Moore, who captures Sarah's romantically unhappy side with grace. The script does have flaws - it gives no real explanation of why these 2 people would want to fall in love, but the literature is beautiful and has quality. Nice costumes and beautiful cinematography added, and you have a very moving story that includes almost every human emotion possible. The End of the Affair is a film that is recommended for people who are willing to take it seriously, or else you will be disappointed and most likely bored. I was not bored because I was enthralled in the story, and unless your favourite movie is Drive Me Crazy, I think you will be enthralled as well. "},{"Title":"A real tear-jerker","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like sad endings, I definitely recommend this one.  A story of a woman torn between her husband and her lover; torn between feelings of lust for her lover and her pact with God to be faithful to the man to whom she made her wedding vows.Not only was the acting superb, (and, I must add that I'm a Ralph Fiennes fan-he has such alluring eyes!)but the music score is very compelling-I just brought the soundtrack.Anyway, this story is a perfect example of some of the sacrifices that we as humans make for the the one's we love.  A real must-see. "},{"Title":"not your usual love affair story","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  I loved how the characters were not what you expected... at least not for me.  It was a very different way of looking at people.  The way jealous is and isn't is very interesting in this movie. The speculation of whether or not God exists and whether or not miracles occur was also interesting to see in a love story.  I don't think I can accurately explain the movie, but if you liked the English Patient and/or the Crying Game for its intriguing way of looking at human feelings the way they are and not how they should be, then you will definitely like this movie.  The only thing I did not like were the way the flashbacks were shot and how often they were shown. "},{"Title":"A Note about the movie,The End of the Affair","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best way I can tell if a movie is great is if it makes me think about it days and weeks later. Not only did this movie do that, but it also prompted me to read Graham Greene's novel of the same name. The movie tracks the book closely but there are more things in the book that show you the genuine attraction these two had for each other.I think this movie will eventually become a classic with its war torn setting that seems to prompt these two to lower their guards and allow their love to grow. And that is what is so attractive about this movie. That you believe these two people really loved each other. Julianne Moore is so real in this role that you forget she is an actress and that's why she is so good. She makes the men in the audience envious that a woman would love a man that deeply. The sound track is pleasant but not too syrupy with the songs of those great artists from the thirties and forties. I mainly see movies on video since there is so much junk out at the theaters that aren't worth a $20.00 throw. This one is the best I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"This is what love should be","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually with love you go to Hell- not Heaven -but sometimes... Love is still there when the two lovers separate, and, because there is no other way of being expressed, it changes the world around it. Great film, wonderful performances! "},{"Title":"Brings Tears to the Eyes...","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful film.....excellent acting and great mature direction with hauntingly beautiful music. This movie is about love and hate.....desire lust and jealousy.....God and miracles.... The film is superbly scripted and very clever... the acting wonderfully and justifiably subtle and under played....ironically the stars of the movie are two of the supporting actors...playing Mr Parkis and his son...... One of the best romantic dramas I have ever seen.....I shed tears for its beauty...  "},{"Title":"English Patient Redux","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  So far superior to most of the rest....so far distant from the Porky's retreads, that despite its somewhat mawkish & formulaic plot, it is one of the better movies of the year (which is not necessarily saying a whole lot). Fiennes & Moore do excellent work. "}{"Title":"A Moving Tale of Love's Repentance and Redemption!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The End of the Affair based upon the work of Grahm Greene, the wonderful British Catholic novelist, is one of the few films of recent years to move me to tears.The only fact that prevented me from giving it 10 instead of 8 stars was the confusing aspect of the flashbacks used to tell the story of the two lovers.The period aspect of the film--wartime London during the Blitz of WWII--is evocative and realistic down to the costumes, building, and manners of the participants.After a torrid illicit lover affair, the wife in the trio (Julia Moore, in an outstanding performance) has an epithany which leaves her resolved to end the affair with her writer lover.  Her remorse is palpable and believable.  Ralph Fiennes, the spurned lover, is hurt, and in his rejection, determines to find out why and how she no longer sees him.Give yourself a treat and rent this film. "},{"Title":" worked for me--spoilers","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  excellent mood set via music and sets.  solid actingspoiler?  actor playing husband had a thankless role and I frankly had a hard time despising his character as much as the lovers did (more by how they acted than anything they said) .  And the ending in lesser hands would have been too easy a way out, but I was ok with it. It did smack of touched by an angel but i kinda like that show too.  pedestrian tastes, hunh?Good movie but particularly for the feel of the times (London Blitz through '46.  you have to be open to the metaphysical however.  "},{"Title":"Excellent romance with a supernatural touch","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The End of The Affair is a top of the line tear jerker. The compelling story of the affair between Maurice (perfectly played by Ralph Fiennes, that look, those eyes, if you thought he played well in The English Patient you're going to have a pleasant surprise!) and Sarah (the fourties look which suits Julianne Moore brilliantly) takes you by the hand until the end. The supernatural touch, the prayer that keeps Maurice alive after been hit by a bomb and the boy who Sarah heals with a kiss makes it only more gripping. A totally must see for the romantic among us! "},{"Title":"A Real Tear Jerker...","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I still have the headache and swollen eyes from sobbing my head off during this movie! I have to admit to being gah-gah for anything Ralph Fiennes does,but I also love Stephen Rhea.The story was so realistic while being romantic at the same time--yes,I said realistic! There are real husbands out there just like the character that Stephen Rhea plays-I should know-I'm married to one. Now,when I meet someone like the character Ralph Fiennes plays,I'll let you know what happens! "},{"Title":"An excellent film...well acted and written.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fine job again by Jordan.....Rhea and Fiennes superb as always and I was quite pleasantly surprised by Julianne Moore...I knew she could act but she really stepped it up a notch with this performance....A fine film all around. "},{"Title":"Over-looked, but in my opinion, best film of 1999","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After my viewing of this film, all I could say was Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant, BRILLIANT! Although this film is, I shall admit, not for everyone.  I happen to be a sucker for anything epic.  People not into the epic/art-house kind of films may find this long, tedious, and melodramatic (and, yes, the average film-goer should guess the end of this film within the first twenty minutes.) If you care more for non-stop action than character development and a full cinematic experience, pass this one and see another film.  On the other hand, if you want to actually have a film go past entertainment and actually makes you think, run to see this.The thing that strikes me most about this film is it gives you the feeling that it takes it subject matter--and the viewer--intelligently.  This is something that's void from many films, and is therefore even more remarkable.  The use of repeating scenes from different points of view is used wonderfully, as well as the use of flashback, etcetera.The film also made me run to buy and read the book.  I was absolutely shocked at how faithful to the novel the film was.  Minus one or two very LARGE plot-changes, it's extremely faithful.  Even a lot of the dialogue is exact from page to screen.  This was also a nice change after so many novels are absolutely butchered when they make it to the screen. The acting is also absolutely first-rate, not a single member of the ensemble gives a flawed performance.  Everyone is absolutely right-on and brilliant.  Although I'm still surprised that Julianne Moore's performance brought on the most attention and nominations out of the three leads. While she is wonderful in her role, for me, the two men (Ralph Fiennes and Stephen Rea) stole the show.  Ralph Fiennes brings out yet another brilliant performance as Maurice Bendrix, in fact, I'd say it's as close to perfect as a performance can get.  Stephen Rea is absolutely unforgettable as Henry, the forgotten husband. This character could have easily drifted off into the background, but his performance certainly makes one take notice.This film is also relatively short compared to similar films, it runs just under two hours.  But it makes you feel that you've witnessed a film of much more length and depth.  When the final credits rolled I could not believe the film covered so much in such a short amount of time.  It just goes back to my original comment... brilliant!  Certainly my favourite film of 1999 (next to The Red Violin) and high up there on the best of all-time. 10/10. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Film","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Much has been made of the reasons behind the making of this film.  Neil Jordan has been accused of misogyny and, horror of horrors, making an old-fashioned movie.  What the majority of critics fail to see is the craft and the skill behind this movie - the attention to detail and the paring down of the language until we get a sublime film experience in which the notion of romance becomes an exploration of faith and trust.  These characters do belong to another era; there is no doubt.  Their world is one in which the rules are stringently applied and the price for rebellion is high.  Modern audiences love to wallow in their supposed freedoms, but they fail to acknowledge the battles fought to win them those freedoms. Between 1939 and 1942 a love affair develops between Maurice (Ralph Fiennes in top form) and Sarah (Julianne Moore in even better form).  The blitz serves as a metaphorical backdrop as these two damaged individuals consummate an affair that is lustful but lacking in spirituality.  Sarah is married (Stephen Rea in a sublime piece of acting) and follows no religion ( but turns to Catholicism in a time of need)  and, inexplicably, she breaks off the relationship much to the chagrin of Maurice.  The story does not end there and what follows is a painful examination of trust and faith and betrayal seen from different points-of-view.  Jordan gets his characters to speak through their actions and uses dialogue sparingly.  Just watch Ralph Fiennes shaving and you will pick up what kind of a man he is.  The way he makes love, watch his braces and his clothing.  Watch Julianne Moore's hands, her walk and you will pick up the crisis of faith that this woman must endure in a man's world.  The trademark Jordan touches are there; fairgrounds, lots of rain, tracking shots, flashbacks, jagged editing - all part of a perfect movie experience.  This study of obsessive love, jealousy and contempt is true to the spirit of Graham Greene and a moving, intellectual and ultimately satisfying movie experience.  I have seen it three times and I am still finding new things, new insights and enjoying it every time.  This film is close to being the perfect film because it uses the medium of film to get the audience to analyse itself and its reactions - one to think about and talk about.  "},{"Title":"love and jealousy","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The remake of the 1955 film edition based on Graham Greene's novel brings the extra thrill needed after the 'English patient'.Ralph Fiennes is here again in an era movie showing London bombarded during WWII.Julianne Moore will suffer the consequences of fierce jealousy by her lover.Psychology and social relations take precedence in this philosophical novel.Sarah Miles will promise in her great faith to God not to see her beloved Maurice Bendrix if he survives the explosion and stay with her husband Henry forever.Hard decisions intermingled with passionate feelings in a conservative society of that timeline.The act of love in a war catastrophe gives colour to difficult ways of life. "},{"Title":"WoW","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most moving films I have ever seen !! Jordan and Fiennes Rule. Go see the Crying Game too, Jordan's masterpiece. WoW "},{"Title":"SUPERIOR SPIRITUAL MOVIE","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very short comment about this movie.  I found it the best Greene adaptation Yet.  Jordan has made his best movie so far.I enjoyed every second of this life affirming movie.  It is like The Cider House Rules a movie about doubts in a humans life.Fiennes is really in topform and the Oscar for actress should have gone to Mrs. Moore.  It is great to see Hollywood making such movies.  Stephen Rea as the tormented husband is absolutely superb.For anybody who likes an old fashioned but still philosofical and mindblowing love story... just go and watch this incredible told story.May your gods be with you. Whatever god may be, to anybody... This movie is FANTASTIC.  "}{"Title":"Good movie..","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Niel Jordan has done an excellent job on this movie. The Direction is very good as is the Acting. Julianne Moore deserves the Oscar Nomination. Stephen Rea should also have been nominated for his excellent acting! Ralph Fiennes is at his usual best. I also thought the Production Design and Art Direction as well as the film Score were excellent. The story has been very well adapted. I would give this movie an 8 on 10. Definitely a recommendation! "},{"Title":"Best Neil Jordan's movie so far!","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best Neil Jordan's movie since The Crying Game, with the plus of Nyman's music and the astonishing dialogues and narrations. Its impossible not to be shed in tears and feel lifted up your chair pratically the WHOLE movie through. 10/10. "},{"Title":"much more than your average romantic weepy.","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neil Jordan is not usually a director of love stories. he has a wide range of subjects that he has covered, but love has been only a subplot of most of his films.  still, his films all have a similar quality that leaves the audience thinking about them for some time after.  The End of the Affair is no different.even for a film about love and romance between the characters played by Ralph Fiennes and Julianne Moore, they seemed to play as secondary roles opposite jealousy and faith. if Jordan had directed this film any differently you would think you could find the novel by Graham Greene, from which the film was adapted, in the section of the bookstore in which you would find Danielle Steele.very much not the case.  this film, highly driven by the excellent performances of the cast, captures a different kind of love that is true but forbidden - at first by conscience, then by God - and because of it drives our jealous hero up the wall. as the questions are answered throughout the film we see the same timeframes from the points of view of both Maurice and Sarah, and this is when we see the finest moments of the film. we are given realistic images of true love and heartbreak that make this film more haunting than most soapy love stories.the film relies very much on the performances of Fiennes and Moore, which may imply a weakness, but Moore carries the film on her shoulders with such grace and beauty most people won't notice its minor flaws. with every facial expression you see every ounce of suffering that Sarah feels.  also with excellent cinematography and the haunting score of the brilliant Michael Nyman, this is quite the underrated film people should see. "},{"Title":"I like End of the Affair","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this film and really enjoyed it.  Warning spoilers ahead....Firstly i must say that the music although repetitive was hauntingly beautifully.  Next i have to say that the story developed very well.  The three main characters Ralph Fiennes'Julianne Moore and Stephen Rae were exceptional.  By the end of the film i was  so moved that i know on second viewing i will be crying.  Stephen Rae was heartbreaking.  Ralph Fiennes was just perfect as the moody jealous obsessed lover. Julianne Moore was beautiful and endearing.  The scenery was so atmospheric and one particular scene had the hairs on my neck standing on end.  Not since the film Ghost with Patrick swayze have i felt this.  You probably have to be a romantic to enjoy this film but saying this it has subjects that can touch anybody's lives.  Jealousy, guilt, hate Love.  Neil Jordan for my money has done the book justice.  Maxine Santer  "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The End Of the Affair is one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen. The imagery and the different themes are interwoven in a such a way to make this an incredible movie. And perhaps this movie is as much about love and hope as it is about war and what it does to people's mentality. How it turns them to or away from God, how it makes them hold on to everything they got with jealousy and passion because the fear of losing it is so real. The war, of all things, makes people realize how exactly important love and hate are, and how fragile relationships are. The war was one of the main themes of the movie and everything else went from there. The affair, the lovers, the husband, the priest, all were instruments of war...their actions were dictated by the bombs falling down, and once that was over, so was a major part of their lives, so was the affair. Is war good or bad? The answer is easy, but not in this movie. See it, hopefully it will effect you as much as it has me.  "},{"Title":"a mature romance that aims higher than making you weep","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Screen adaptations of great novels invariably disappoint, so I had the benefit of not having read the Graham Greene novel before watching this movie.  For those who feel the movie failed the novel, I'll tell you that I now want to read the novel because of this movie.  It is refreshing to see a mature romance that aims higher than making you weep. There's a real chemistry between Fiennes and Moore as well as strong performances from all of the cast.  Some of the actions/behaviors of the 3 main characters may appear irrational or unreal, I view them more as symbolic/literary figures.  Even though it is not a masterpiece, I am deeply affected by its exploration of love, faith, sacrifice and jealousy.  Perhaps, it is because I am currently suffering from a lost love and this movie helps me to meditate on the meaning of love and on transcending beyond destructive self-pity. "},{"Title":"A complicated flick with outstanding camerawork","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie serendipitously.  Where I am a new cineplex was opening up, and this was the one showing closest to the time I had available to check it out.It is one of remarkable complexity and sensitivity.  As an exploration of the interaction of human emotions it's at a high level.  As a kind of whodunnit it's medium.  That part was figured out halfway through.  But the star's portrayal of his reactions to predictable situations was superb. Anyone who likes thinking about how we interact with each other will like this movie.  It's not a challenger for mystery buffs. "},{"Title":"A soggy tug-of-war that shines through the rain","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A splendid rendition of Greene's ongoing theme of love, guilt, duty and religion captured with class and delivered by a gifted cast.  Jordan captures the atmosphere of blitz and post-blitz London and that of the period's proper English classes struggle between perceived duty (to God, country, mate)and experienced senses. "},{"Title":"I thought they didn't make them like this anymore","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so beautifully crafted,  so well written, so well acted, so gorgeously well made, that it reminds me of the time when movies knew how to tell a story with a lot of class and in less than 3 hours.  This is the best Neil Jordan film so far and it's a beauty and a joy to watch, because it is made with such care and intelligence.   Both Ralph Fiennes and Julianne Moore are excellent, but Stephen Rea steals the show with his heartbreaking portrayal of a cuckold, and the guy who plays the photographer is also fantastic.   Ah, the simple, yet increasingly rare pleasure of watching a story unfold on the screen with luxurious and subtle attention to detail, both psychological and of atmosphere. What a joy!  "},{"Title":"A spectacular soap opera that would make William Wyler and Bette Davis Proud!","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neil Jordan's End of the Affair, based on the now classic novel by Graham Green cannot help but be compared to The English Patient, only because it stars Ralph Fiennes, it takes place during World War II,  and it uses a narrative that flashes back and forth between two parts of one man's life.  Suffice it to say that the comparison end there.  End of Days stands on its own as a love story gone bad.Fiennes plays Maurice Bendrix, a writer who, as the story opens,  is filled with 'hate' but for whom he cannot say.  While out on a walk one rainy evening, he runs into an old acquaintance, Henry Miles (played by Stephen Rae) who is looking somewhat distraught.  Henry's wife might be having an affair and, if he didn't think he would appear foolish,  Henry would like to seek the services of a private investigator.  To alleviate Henry's concern, Bendrix take on the task of seeking a private investigator on Henry's behalf.  As it turns out, Henry's wife Sarah had an affair with Bendrix a couple of years back, and Bendrix is still bitter about her leaving him.  He has just as much interest in her secrets as her own husband.  As the film builds we learn that their affair was certainly torrid.  We also learn that while Henry is a gentle man, he is not the best of lovers, and this has left Sarah cold.  Throughout much of the film we see Bendrix and Sarah happily making love while all around them, London is being destroyed by Nazi bombs.  Ralph Fiennes has a natural flair for playing romantic leads.  He elicits the right amount of sensitivity and passion, without jeopardizing his manhood.  While he has better work behind him, his portrayal of a jilted lover is dead on here.  Meanwhile, Julianne Moore shines in her performance as the woman seeking real love.  Moore gets better and better with each film she stars in, and as a desperate, but contained Sarah, she offers her best role yet.  While I was watching her on screen I couldn't help be reminded of Bette Davis.  Moore seems to have the same piercing stare that once mesmerized Davis fans.  Moore takes it one step further though for audiences today, offering a character that is also very sensual.Neil Jordan creates an quiet masterpiece, capturing a certain war-era feel.  Like the characters, the city of London is deluged with gloomy weather, as the sound of enemy fire echos in the background.  End of the Affair is tragic soap opera, reminiscent of those old William Wyler films, like Now Voyager and The Letter.   "}{"Title":"Evocative and powerful love story of redemption","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neil Jordan has exquisitely adapted Graham Greene's novel and produced the most lushly romantic and deeply felt evocation of mid-century English Catholicism since BRIDESHEAD REVISITED.  This is really a love story about a woman who leaves a man for God, and that's where it gains its greatest power and uniqueness  a movie in 1999 daring to say there may be something greater in life than shtupping Ralph Fiennes.  Add to that gorgeous photography, achingly beautiful music, eloquent narration, and all that rain, and you have an extremely moving experience, which, like the director's other work, operates very successfully on a number of levels, some of breathtaking depth. "},{"Title":"Here's What I'm Grateful For","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm grateful that even though Big Daddy made gazillions, there are also people out there who think that sexy romances like End of the Affair also have an audience. I'm grateful that Neil Jordan knows how to adapt a script, and film it lushly. I'm grateful Julianne Moore does more than just Boogie Nights and Cookie's Fortune (though she was wonderful in both)--in End of the Affair, she is luminous. I'm grateful for Sandy Powell's fantastic costumes, that I enjoy in picture after picture. I'm grateful that there are actors like Stephen Rea who can play both sexy terrorists (Crying Game)  and sad sack husbands with no sex appeal (End of the Affair). I'm grateful that there are people like Neil Jordan, who believe in magic and the power of love, even if most reviewers don't understand it. But most of all, I am grateful that Ralph Fiennes stole back the Sexiest Fiennes Brother crown from Joseph. Not that Joseph wasn't fabulous in Shakespeare in Love, but it's wonderful to know again the Ralph we fell in love with in The English Patient. Why see The End of the Affair? For all of the above reasons, but most of all, because Ralph Fiennes presents us with some very sexy love scenes, some very passionate kisses, and BOY! is it great to see that on screen again. "},{"Title":"Graham Greene Brought Splendidly to Life","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having always considered THE END OF THE AFFAIR one of Graham Greene's finer works, I was nervous that unless it fell into the hands of just the right screenwriter and director, the film version could never live up to the original source. Neil Jordan excels on all levels, especially in drawing out a stunning performance from Julianne Moore. Ralph Fiennes and Stephen Rea are equally strong as the two men whose lives are shaped by their unique expressions of love for the same irresistible woman. I think if Graham Greene were alive he would be very satisfied and proud of this adaptation "},{"Title":"Sensational return to form by Neil Jordan","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is Neil Jordan the right director to adapt Graham Greene? The End of the Affair shows that he is not just right but near perfect. With a structure that flits backwards and forwards in time with effortless fluency, this magnificent morality play deserves to be seen as one of the defining films of our era.It is so refreshing to see a film that is not ashamed to actually be about something. So what is it about? The destructive power of jealousy, the fleeting nature of happiness, the power of fiction to monumentalise fact, and the cruelty of God (plus a few more...).What is strange is that Neil Jordan, prize-winning novelist, seems to make most of his best films from other people's fiction - witness Butcher Boy, Interview with a Vampire, Company of Wolves... (Okay, not The Crying Game).If the Academy have any sense, he, and some of his actors will be back in L.A. come March. "},{"Title":"Miraculous","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neil Jordan's picture-perfect adaptation of Graham Greene's novel about the romance between a sour, successful novelist (Ralph Fiennes) and a married woman (Julianne Moore)--a soap opera that turns into a medieval mystery play. Moore's stuffy cuckolded husband (a superbly anti-typecast Stephen Rea) would seem to be the third wheel here, but the unseen interloper in the affair is really God--through circumstances too melodramatic, and perfectly rendered, to reveal here. Without losing a jot of present-tenseness, THE END OF THE AFFAIR is a model of literary adaptation. Every camera move, every detail of production design furthers meaning--not to mention that every performance is right on the money. Not since John Schlesinger's underrated THE INNOCENTS has a movie made such thrilling virtues out of never putting a foot wrong. Don't be bamboozled the reviewers who assailed Jordan for making a tame version of Graham Greene know their fiction as little as they know their movies. "},{"Title":"A brilliant, lyric film","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's impossible to forget The End of The Affair and it's difficult to describe it in a few words. One of the most beautiful, complex and moving films I've seen in years. It's about love, faith, hate, obsession and jealousy. And to bring all this to life, there was a Graham Greene's great book, Neil Jordan, a very talented director, and an extraordinary cast. Ralph Fiennes is superb as Maurice Bendrix. We can feel what his character is feeling, see the emptiness in his eyes, sense the despair in his voice. When Sarah leaves him, his face is marked by deep melancholy. We forget there is an actor there. Instead, we see a passionate, tormented man. Julianne Moore is also wonderful. She delivers a deep, delicate performance, showing all her loneliness and love for that man. Stephen Rea has a subtle and intelligent performance. The love scenes are passionate. The chemistry between this beautiful and charming couple is perfect. The cinematography is stunning, creating a lyric atmosphere. A great film, a surreal world where you have never been before. The film and the actors should be nominated to the Oscar. This film should not be compared with The English Patient (which I loved, especially because of Ralph) because it's a diferent story and very different as a film.  "},{"Title":"Neil Jordan's Latest Affair","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In lesser hands, End of the Affair could have become a Soap Opera by way of Masterpiece Theatre. But director Neil Jordan has fashioned Graham Greene's autobiographical tale of stolen love into a quietly haunting film. It's set in Post-War London, thick with constant rains and illicit sex between a cynical novelist (Ralf Fiennes) and the bored wife (Julianna Moore)of hard-working government official (Stephen Rhea). I'm a sucker for period films..any period, so this was my cup of English tea. Graham Greene's knack for story-telling coupled with Neil Jordan's elegant film technique offer a compelling film experience in The End of the Affair.  "},{"Title":"Miracle And Belief In God","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The End of the Affair is based on the novel by Graham Greene.This film stars Ralph Fiennes as Maurice Bendrix, a novelist who had an affair with Sarah Miles,portrayed by Julianne Moore,during World War II.Sarah happens to be the wife of his best friend Henry,played by Stephen Rea.It was directed by Neil Jordan.Maurice Bendrix is the narrator in the film.On a rainy London night in 1946, Bendrix has a chance meeting with Henry Miles,husband of his former mistress Sarah. She abruptly broke off the romance in 1944, but two years later, after Maurice runs into Henry, he becomes obsessed with the affair and hires a man to investigate Sarah. He reads her diary of their forbidden romance in the midst of the London Blitz and discovers that, overwhelmed with fear and guilt, she pledged to God that she would end the affair if Maurice's life were spared. Maurice is determined to reintroduce himself into Sarah's life, but she fears that being near him would be too great a temptation.This film is an effective love story that's intensely old-fashioned.But nevertheless,it remains watchable as it is a thought-provoking film that was built around a theme many will find difficult to accept that miracles can happen to perfectly ordinary and non-religious people.Also,it greatly depicts the way a lapsed Catholic is surprised by grace and a defiant unbeliever is convinced to believe in God.Aside from that,the movie is filled with great performances from Fiennes and Moore.The only thing about this film is that it puts too much emphasis on lust having many explicit sex scenes instead on the inner conflict by the characters. "},{"Title":"Not for the impatient or the facile","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Splendid film 'The End of the Affair'. Not because it overwhelms, but because it underwhelms. Ah, but today's postmoderns seem to crave being overwhelmed. More's the pity because so many IMDb subscriber reviews claim 'The End of the Affair' is dull. It isn't dull, of course, but postmoderns impatient of films such as this one, and who express the desire for more facile scripts and direction, are indeed dull because they're incapable of comprehending that the period in which this film is set was governed by different social, religious, political, moral values and customs.I do have a problem with today's athletic-bodied actresses playing women characters of earlier times. Julianne Moore's well-defined musculature would be rare for a woman of 1939-44. That, however, is merely my peccadillo about filmmakers' inattentiveness to body types as artifacts of historical authenticity. I merely found Ms. Moore's sculpted calves to be a minor distraction from a film whose recreation of the dreariness of WWII England was superb. Indeed that well-communicated dreariness may have also provoked too many reviewers to label the film dull, But war is not a bold, crashing, relentless symphony of movement, explosions, and adrenaline; war is an étude of dreariness and deprivation, boredom and drudgery, punctuated occasionally by fleeting passages of breathless excitement.Moore's put-on English accent is workwomanlike, not better, but not worse. Her acting in this film is adequate, not brilliant; but it is nuanced and it does communicate the themes of Graham Greene's novel and of this film adaptation of it. It's not Moore's accent that jangles, but her American body language that, occasionally, trumps her actress's discipline and reveals, with subliminal distraction sufficient to have caused me some small but insistent unease, her un-Englishness. Fiennes, to some extent, reproduces the detachment of his character in 'The English Patient', but that detachment also works well in 'The End of the Affair' because detachment is a skill, facility, talent, characteristic (call it what you like) that people of that era enjoyed and which is dismally absent from narcissistic postmoderns bent on instant gratification; and that detachment is, it should be appreciated, somewhat exaggerated in an observant writer such as Bendrix. In any event Bendrix's detachment contrasts and illuminates the tension between his cool exterior and inner passion - which we learn of through the stark, angry slaps of his typewriter's keys.Stephen Rea's performance is beautifully restrained, so that his cuckold seethes and hurts beneath the civilised veneer of his English civil servant's reserve. This is, I think, Rea's finest film effort he communicates volumes with the smallest shift of expression, the most ordinary postures, and with watery, sad eyes that he rheostats up to tell us of the keen wits and senses that lurk beneath the cipher of his physiognomy. Rea deceives us into believing his character dull, unimaginative; but, as his delicate acting later reveals, his mind and soul are as sharp and as sharply tormented as are Bendrix's. But his tongue is not that of a writer, and for that Bendrix's character has his typewriter.Graham Greene was not the twentieth century's finest English writer (for the sheer, incomparable brilliance of his prose Evelyn Waugh gets my vote), but his writing and its themes resonate in all ages because Greene probes expertly human nature as it operates in his cultural context. I expect Greene would have been pleased by Neil Jordan's multiple-viewpointed, fly-on-the-wall, adroit adaptation of his novel for 'The End of the Affair'.What struck me most about this film is that it dealt with issues which nowadays are commonly dismissed, evaded, or weighed and judged peremptorily by most people. In our postmodern age one is expected to wear his politics (which word nowadays means one's entire, instantly recognizable and categorisable Weltanschauung) on his sleeve. That was not true of people in Greene's heyday; and I think self-contained people made Greene's a better time because self-containment made people less apt to judge, and more apt - despite our pervasive postmodern culture of garishly public Dr. Phil therapeutics - to examine intensively and genuinely themselves and the effects of their actions on others. We see in 'The End of the Affair' how people who are self-contained - disciplined, if you will, as well as constrained by the expectations and conventions of their time - deal with the vicissitudes of their nature, beliefs, experience, and desire. This is introspection when people had, and used, the time - uninterrupted by pagers, cell-phones, and digitally-cheery announcements of You've got mail -  to BE introspective.Even the private detective, Mr. Parkis, is respectful of expectation and convention - he is no Jerry Springer diabolically, profitably splashing the details of personal lives on billboards in Picadilly. Parkis's attention to convention and respect for sensibilities heightens for us the delicacy and drive of Bendrix's passion, the weight and profundity of Sarah's promise, the bitterness and equanimity of the cuckold's heart, and the tenterhooks of love.'The End of the Affair' is a long, tender-tough look at the trials of souls. I expect its failure to gain acclaim owes to the techno-dessicated asperity and overblown hubris of our time and that, in the future, it will enjoy greater recognition of its profound insight into the flames that illuminate, and torment, our existence within the limits of our flesh.My final word on 'The End of the Affair' they do make films like they used to; this is one of the new ones that is better than many of the old ones - and far better than most of the new ones. "},{"Title":"Should have been an oscar for Julianne Moore!","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a diary of hate, writes Maurice Bendrix, beginning the narration of The End of the Affair, a highly sensual and emotional melodrama that takes place during 1939 in war-torn England, where two people will discover a love that can resist all boundaries, even that of marraige. Through the intensely creative eyes of director Neil Jordan, the story of this love comes to life through artful cinematography, a highly impactful story and complex characters that weave the vivid web of desire and chance.Henry and Sarah Miles, who live in England, share nothing but a house and words, no intimacy or words of love. One night at a party, Sarah in introduced to Maurice Bendrix, one of her husband's acquaintances, who is a novelist whose books become motion pictures. There is an immediate attraction, and after spending an afternoon and evening together, they embark on a lustful and passionate journey into the depths of love and devotion. When the war makes its way to their city, they are only able to see one another in the shelter of the exploding bombs and air raids. One day, Sarah walks out of his life, telling him that Love does not end, simply because you do not see me. After two years, Bendrix and Henry cross paths again, and Henry confesses his suspicions of his wife's adulterous actions. Bendrix becomes determined to discover the secrets Sarah is hiding, all the while falling more and more in love with her again, and what he discovers will lead to a shocking revelation for the both of them.Based on the novel by Graham Greene, who is supposedly the person that Maurice is based upon, The End of the Affair is a gorgeous and almost lyrical tapestry of events that all fall into place like a canvas of pastels. Jordan uses flashbacks and memories to tell a major part of the story, with Maurice narrating each event as he is writing his memoirs. As he recounts the events that lead to he and Sarah's reunion, the characters are able to develop complexity and integrity, and the audience can fully appreciate and understand the actions they take and the emotions they feel.Neil Jordan's own sense of style comes to play in the film as well, with his use of multiple flashbacks and certain color schemes. It is raining most of the time in the movie, which adds to the coldness and isolation that the characters feel when they are separated from one another. He is also able to bring to life the city of London during the war, with authentic building structure and the elegance of aristocratic homes and public places.The story, while being quite simple, is made incredibly complex by the affair, and in turn makes the movie strikingly original. When their affair is abruptly ended by Sarah, the intensity begins as Maurice begins his search for the answers he has been waiting for for two years. He takes the audience along with him on this journey, and through the narration of different characters and the exploration by his private eye, we learn the secrets of Sarah's heart and her reasons for leaving. This also leads to Maurice's inner conflicts with God, his disbelief in Him, and Sarah's coming to terms with her religious background and beliefs. Of all the characters in the film, Sarah is the most complex and attention-grabbing. In the beginning, she seems normal and content with her life, even when she begins her affair with Maurice. She knows that she loves him and not her husband, which proves that she knows her heart. But, as the film progresses, we soon learn that their is another side to her, one that is not easy to explain. This has to do with her reasons for leaving Maurice, and what she feels for him after leaving. Julianna Moore does a stunning job portraying all of these emotions, and fits the role perfectly. Ralph Fiennes is remarkable as Bendrix, and is able to convey the jealousy and possessiveness of him in a straightforward and believable manner. Stephen Rea, while not having a lot of onscreen time, plays the role of Henry wonderfully, though his character is nothing more than downcast and trodden most of the film's duration. Visually stunning, highly sensual and emotional, The End of the Affair is an entertaining and complex journey along the path of the unknown chambers of one's heart. Once everything falls into place in the ending, we realize that there was so much more going on than we originally thought, how different people react to different events, and the overall quest to gain the love and affection everyone looks for in life. 9/101999 101 minutes Rated R CC. "}{"Title":"Graham Greene's Take on Camille","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The End of the Affair is saved by the wonderful performances of its talented cast and by Graham Greene's brilliant writing.  It is a chick flick that succeeds.  The always excellent Julianne Moore makes credible an incredible character.  Moore's mixture of sweet vagueness and inner strength work perfectly here in her portrayal of a woman who leaves her lover.  She does so because, in a prayer offered when she thought her lover was dead or dying, she promised to leave her lover if God would spare his life.  I know it sounds a little silly but Moore's acting and Greene's writing combine to make it work.  Ralph Finnes as the writer who loves Moore but is jealous of her husband and Stephen Rea as the husband could hardly be better.  About three-fourths of the way through The End of the Affair I was thinking that it was obvious and largely a waste of time.  But by the end, Graham Greene's patented twists and turns and his unique view of Catholicism had saved this movie, which was based on his book.  I should add that the entire production is elegantly mounted and beautifully photographed.  Recommended. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":" a fine film adaptation of Graham Greenes novel","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"      I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Its a tragic  love story about a novelist & the wife of a politician at the end of WW2 & what occurs 2 years later  when  all 3  meet again.   Most of Greenes novels do not translate to the screen very well.Neil Jordan, adapted the screenplay & directed with his sure hand for detail.  Very well acted & made, with a music score that  prominently feature one of the most beautiful songs ever written  HAUNTED HEART    A must see for those that love romance rating is   ***1/2  as alwaysJay Harris "},{"Title":"A shallow story of love.....","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neil Jordan has a diverse manner in his direction of motion pictures, and as evident in The End of The Affair, it is a rather clumsy one. Sure enough this a high quality motion picture, particluarly in the acting of the three leads, as well as most of what there is of a supporting cast. The problem is the depth of the movie and story with which we are presented. Graham Greenes novel is a classic and has epical qualities as did The vampire Chronicles (Interview), but in Jordan's transition from paper to screen, certain things are lost. The movie comes across less of an event and more of a story, he seems to have spent a lot of time condensing the written material into pastiches of the novels content. He rather chops away at certain parts. I am not saying that if he had made a longer movie out of it then it would solve things but as evident in most of Anthony Minghella's and Frank Darabont's work, modern epics do need to have the sweeping quality of the Lawrence of Arabia and other David Lean pictures.Perhaps he is uncomfortable with padding what he would feel to be a 'nice' love story. With added sub-plotting the movie would have naturally looked more comfortable with being lengthy. The only possible areas for this happening would have been in the character of Parkiss. There is certainly more to be explored there. Mainly thanks to the out-standing performance of Ian Hart, who has a very underrated role in british cinema. His scenes are all with Fiennes and maybe this would put him in the market for more mainstream roles. Fiennes himself is excellent and the love scenes with Moore have a definite chemistry. Stephen rea is always capable of giving a character an emotional twist and he does so again with a lumbered drool. Jordan's direction is by no means bad and he proves once again that he can cross genres with ease. Overall a very good movie which gives a difficult message about love which the majority may not understand. "},{"Title":"Missing the Point","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One rainy evening shortly after the end of the Second World War, Maurice Bendrix, a novelist, meets an old friend, Henry Miles, a senior civil servant. Miles confides to Bendrix that he suspects his wife Sarah of having an affair, and that he has considered having her watched by a private detective. Miles is unaware that Bendrix himself was Sarah's lover for several years, although she broke off the affair without explanation in 1944. Bendrix, who has been tortured by jealousy ever since Sarah ended their affair, and who suspects her of having abandoned him for another lover, himself instructs a detective to watch her and to obtain her diary. From this he discovers that the truth is stranger than he had thought. Bendrix was knocked unconscious during a bombing raid and Sarah, believing him to be dead or fatally injured, found herself making a vow that she would end her relationship with him if God would let him live. When she realised that Bendrix had only suffered minor injuries, Sarah believed that she must fulfil what she had vowed, even though she does not know whether she believes in God.It is at this point that the film starts to diverge from Greene's original novel. In the novel, Sarah tried to flee from God, desperately trying to persuade herself that He does not exist so that she could return to Bendrix with a clear conscience. In the film, Sarah is shown as being in search of God, positively trying to convince herself of His existence. The character of Richard Smythe, who in the novel was a militant and embittered atheist, here becomes a Roman Catholic priest who tries to help Sarah with her religious quest. The central theme of Greene's novel is that God can touch the lives even of those, such as Sarah and Smythe, who attempt to flee from him. The filmmakers have kept the names of the characters, and the same basic plot, but have removed the central concept of the book; the result is that they end up missing the point.The acting is not particularly distinguished, and all three of the main roles seemed to be miscast. Julianne Moore played the part of Sarah with great seriousness which may be appropriate for the older woman beset by religious anxieties but which meant she was unable to suggest the passion and vivaciousness of the younger Sarah, the characteristics which attracted Bendrix to her in the first place. As for Henry and Bendrix, I felt the film would have been better if the actors playing them had exchanged roles. The rather cold, patrician Ralph Fiennes could have made more of the part of Henry, the sexually and emotionally repressed English gentleman, than did Stephen Rea, and Rea, who is often seen playing edgy outsiders, would have been better as the more bohemian Bendrix.Greene's novel is an excellent book, but I wonder if it is really suitable material for a film. This is the second attempt to film it; the first was in 1955. This earlier film, starring Deborah Kerr and Van Johnson, was faithful to Greene's text, but rather stolid and pedestrian, and chiefly notable for the memorable performance of John Mills in the minor role of Parkis, the seedy private eye employed by Bendrix. The difficulty in making a successful film of the novel arises because it has little in the way of action; its interest lies in the inner lives of the characters and in its religious and philosophical ideas which do not transfer well to the screen. Although most of Greene's novels have a philosophical background, some of the others have proved easier to transfer to the screen precisely because they have more in the way of external action. `Brighton Rock' and `The Honorary Consul' are perhaps less distinguished as literary texts than `The End of the Affair', but both were made into more successful films, helped by excellent performances from Richard Attenborough in the first and Michael Caine in the second. `Brighton Rock' is a good example of a film which was able to depart successfully from strict adhesion to the plot of the book on which it was based; its famous final twist is not actually in Greene's novel, but makes a powerful coup de cinema, and one which does not alter the book's deeper meaning. `The End of the Affair' in its modern version, by contrast, lacks the philosophical depth of its original text, and ends up as just another film about adultery among the English middle class, with the novelty of a period setting. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"If I wasn't watching this at home, I would have walked out.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the most difficult movies to sit though that I have seen in a long time.  The amazing thing is that IMDB recommends Eyes Wide Shut if you liked End of the Affair.  I think they are the only two films in recent memory to which I gave a 1 as my vote.  My compliments to the database for its knowledge of similar movie tastes. "},{"Title":"A flawed piece but made with artistic integrity","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Flawed but wonderfully acted wartime Graham Greene drama of a secret affair. Ralph Fiennes, unlike the wonderful Julianne Moore, is somewhere between a stuffed shirt and his usual impression of Olivier reading the bard. The atmosphere of wartime England seems beautifully re-created. "},{"Title":"As good as it could be, but why was it thought filmable?","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although not always explicitely, generically so, Neil Jordan's films are often framed as detective stories, and his latest film is no different. Here, there is a puzzle to be worked out, enlightenment to be sought, perception to be questioned.  Graham Greene had a similar interest in the genre, and he used the thriller format as a means of exposing, if not always unravelling, the confused, the murky, be it personal or political.  Both artists are literary men involved in film, and both have an interest in combustible relationships, historico-political investigation, and a Catholic background.  So it seems strange that two artists so eminently suited to one another, both aesthetically and personally, should produce a film that, while never less than entertaining, seems, if I may say this under the IMDb guidelines, oddly pointless.There are a variety of reasons for this.  The first is the lack of real conflict.  Nominally a story about an adulterous couple and a cuckolded husband, the latter is too passive, too gentle and kind (despite Sarah's protestations of coldness), too understanding, too ENGLISH to object, and any brief, ominous actions of his are quickly, bathetically explained away. The battle between a human being and God might interest some of a theological bent, but the Deity is insufficiently dramatised here (as is appropriate Bendrix spends much of the movie refusing his existence; when he finally does, it's only to lock him out) to make this compelling.  And the interior conflict within a person himself works better on page than on screen, as the failure of FIGHT CLUB demonstrated.As an author, one would expect Jordan to be faithful to Greene's analysis of the act of writing itself, and this is the most satisfactory element of the film.  It begins with a pan of manuscript, and Bendrix narrating the creation of his novel.  The relationship with Sarah begins with reference to his writing, his 'stealing' Henry's wife being part of his project of studying Henry for a character.One of the film's main structural devices is the visualising the same incident from different points of view, revealing the blinkered perception of protagonists who make decisive judgements without learning the full story.  The problem with these scenes, it seemed to me, was that they weren't a Cubist device offering different perspectives on the same scene.In each of these, there was an objective reality that each narrator agreed upon, which was later fleshed out by the provision of missing information - there was no essential unreliability, each character was inherently trusted as far as their limited knowledge went.  This had seemed problematic - none of us see objective reality - until I realised that there was something that could absorb both Bendrix's and Sarah's confessional subjectivity - God.Because it is unenlightened subjectivity that destroys everything in the film.  Unfortunately, for this to work, there should have seeped into the film a sense of the unknown unavailable to even Greene or Jordan.  The closing miracle is lovely, but this could simply be a typical Jordan moment, an example of the unsolicited kindness of strangers brightening the darkness.So a film with three detectives (Bendrix, Parkis, and us) cannot contribute a plot, because there is an easily won, ungraspable solution.  What else is there?  Character study?  I have always found Ralph Fiennes an unyielding actor, although there isn't much he can do with such an unpleasant, selfish, jealous, mean-minded, inward character, one very close to being a lunatic.Julianne Moore, who can do so much with so little, has the opposite problem. Jordan has often been accused of an inability to portray women; Greene was often charged with sacrificing characterisation to schema.  Moore's character suffers on both counts here, a rather odd throwback to Victorian values.  The first, Bendrix-clouded, half of the film sees her cast as a duplicitous, sex-mad whore; the second, diary-aided, defence, white-washes her as a near-saint.At no point does she come across as a real, vibrant, playful, complex woman like her real-life model, with whom Greene stayed for a good few years after writing the novel.  She is even punished like a 19th century heroine (e.g. Violetta in LA TRAVIATA), killed for her carnality, ascending into heaven, conveniently out of the way, for her remorse.  The sex scenes are shot with rare maturity and knowledge, even if Jordan frequently lights Moore like a Botticellian goddess, and the air-raid as sexual explosion was more convincing in THE CRANES ARE FLYING.Stephen Rea is Stephen Rea, wonderful but, you know, the usual, untaxed, although there is humour in having an active republican playing the paralysingly archetypal Englishman.  Ian Hart as the detective Parkis is a lovely creation, inept, understanding, resigned, desperate for friendship, bringing his beloved 'boy' in tow, but he seems somewhat sentimentalised for a Greene character.Not even the historical recreation affords much pleasure.  While it is entirely believable that an obsessional couple might block out the Second World War as a minor inconvenience, the lack of contextualisation makes their opting out seem like flailing in a vacuum.  Jordan seems unable, whether through low-budget of ill-judged scale, to transform his materials into a vision of the past - too often we just see actors in period suits in what passes for period locales, not lived-in people trapped in a living environment.Most curious of all, though, is how the mere act of recreating history and paying attention to detail makes shabby, dank, dusty, deceptive, murky, seedy Greeneland seem quaint and nostalgically pleasurable, thereby betraying it - because it was as much a state of mind as an actuality. Jordan's greet skill with the seaside and the carnivalesque does achieve a shimmering epiphany in Brighton of all places, making you wish this frustrating film had more oomph. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'The End Of The Affair'","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This has a number of good and bad things (at least, to me). It is not normally the kind of movie I might enjoy since the story is a bit tedious and bogs down with an adultery theme. The main participants are the adulterers (Julianne Moore and Ralph Fiennes) which is just plain wrong. However, this is a strange case of cheating because the husband (Stephen Rea) seems to almost give it his blessing as Fiennes and Moore become involved.Speaking of morality, Moore's character makes both good and bad statements regarding God and makes and breaks a promise to Him. Fiennes, meanwhile, is an all-out atheist who at the end finally admits the existence of God but wants God to leave him alone. On more insignificant note, Moore's fake British accent is too fake and distracting.The best part of this film is the cinematography. It's just beautifully shot and I liked the 1940 setting to it. I never have any complaints looking at Moore's face, either. "},{"Title":"The End of This Film Couldn't Come Quicker.","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The End of the Affair (1999) Dir Neil Jordan / Cast Ralph Fiennes, Julianne Moore, Stephen Rea, Ian Hart, Jason Isaacs Overrated spectacle where it seems to justify an affair where a man sits at the woman's sick bed at the privilege of her husband. The problem is that the affair never ends but it glamourizes adultery for the sole purpose of showing two irresponsible people having sex. Ralph Fiennes and Julianne Moore play the two we are egged on to pity. Her workaholic husband consults him and admits his wrongs but his reaction isn't believable. Production is top notch with its 1940's galore. Skillful directing by Neil Jordan who has made better films such as In Dreams and Michael Collins. He also directed a controversial film called The Crying Game. Fiennes and Moore are hardly sympathetic even when tragedy hits. Stephen Rea plays the husband who retorts to reasons that do not seem likely. It is one thing to feel guilty within a marriage but it is another to stand back and permit an affair as right. As a result this highly praised film becomes nothing more than a tedious showcase bent on being an art house peep show. While the film has its defenders it also should be noted that its portrayal of sex overrides any message it hoped to get across. It should have examined guilt and regret instead of heaving those emotions on me as I left the theatre. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Touching, yet unnecessarily philosophical","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i thought that a lot was left unsaid in this movie. The acting was great (actually Ralph Fiennes is great by default i think), costumes and settings almost tugged you in their world, the chemistry was extremely believable. The only thing that was a considerable minus was the screenplay, which jumped from a tangible romance story, with heated emotions (and i don't just mean sex by this, but love, hate, and foremost jealousy), to a drag about fate and God, and hate for God... It felt like a great movie just took a wrong turn down a road of many possibilities of endings... and let me tell you that was a baaaaaaaaaaaad ending. Mr.Graham might have had something to do with this unfortunate outcome) "}{"Title":"Just a snobby romance novel.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not Bad.  Not sensationally unforgettable either.Positives The end was actually much more interesting than the beginning (a rarity during this Age of No Attention Span and Fluke Plots).  Sometimes the film was gorgeously subtle.  Julianne Moore received a Best Actress nomination (her performance was so little at the start, but by the finale she pulled out all the magic and managed to extract from her 'Sarah' character a bold, beautiful spirit that simply enraptures you.)Negatives Number one, the set.  Every room and interior looked nearly exactly like the previous.  Everything was the same color (a tepid, peristalsis green) and there was just no differentiation in sets.  This annoyed me.  It murdered a certain element in the film.  Another negative is the scenes seemed just glued together.  It was a bunch of parts that made the body....well, here the level of quality is higher than in other movies (look at the cast and the poetic, graduate-level script) so the seams and rips of the quilt will not show, but to gloss them over is no justification that they just aren't there.  Simply said, the fluidity was poor.Also a part of the film was incoherent and sometimes the story itself you just can't understand until you think it over.Although, something interesting was the soundtrack.  Usually now-a-days when a scary part happens, scary music is heard; when a suspenseful part happens, suspenseful music is heard; etc.  But in this movie, you've got that flowery, melodramatic piece (of crap?) that is in scenes when the guy is just sitting in an office.  Wait a minute, did I miss a love scene? (Which, by the way, are pretty cheeky).  The sdtrk style was weird...but in a good way since at least it was original.It all depends on connections and how good the people are who are hired to do the crew jobs.  If the director's technique stalls then at least it isn't as gruesome to witness.  $$$=quality  (or at least in this case $$$=a good glossing over)The End of the Affair = 5.7 "},{"Title":"So So","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a bad movie and not a remarkable one. The atmosphere of the movie is enchanting. All of the characters in the movie are challenging with their loneliness. It's a cold sad movie. But screenplay is not very good. In some scenes you lose the time. It fails in use of flashbacks. Its tragic ending doesn't fit the movie. I don't know why Julian Moore has been nominated for the best actress. She offered nothing special in this film. However, the movie is worth watching.   "},{"Title":"the most unromantic romance to ever make for a good movie","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching The End of the Affair is never an experience which is onesidedly good or bad. It starts off as extremely boring as one of those talky movies where all the characters have complex psychological problems but never seem to say anything interesting. Also, in the beginning, as the movie switches between the past and present, it is hard to tell what takes place when. Nevertheless, as the movie progresses, the plot becomes clearer and much more interesting, especially because the plot is then presented as a mystery which gives the movie a badly needed sense of suspense. With Neil Jordan´s unique sense of style, the movie becomes hypnotic if not absorbing and manages to effectively ask some important existentialist questions about love, sex, and religion. The scene where Maurice tells off the Catholic priest towards the end is a joy to watch. So is the scene where the little boy is said to have undergone a miraculous transformation. However, if the movie was intended as a romance, it left me cold. It is a fact that if you want to present a romance effectively in a movie, you should focus on smaller details  such as tender dialogue and knowing glances rather than sex scenes. That is why movies like Love Story, Casablanca and , dare I say it, Pretty in Pink worked so well as love stories and why The End of the Affair failed in this respect. Maurice and Sarah just don´t seem  to have any reason for liking each other besides the fact that they like to sleep together. Plus, in the roles, Moore and Fiennes just don´t seem to have much chemistry as a couple. Still, this is Neil Jordan and not some prissy chick flick so the lack of real romance may not really be a flaw to those who don´t expect it. I recommend this movie to all those people who thought The English Patient was simply wonderful. The rest of us should watch this while under the influence of some intoxicating substance to get the full effect. "},{"Title":"Not my favorite Jordan.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am an avid Neil Jordan fan. I was disappointed by this film. I will admit to not being an avid Ralph Fiennes fan. I think his brother Joseph is a more talented actor with better range. I am a Julianne Moore fan, and I think her performance in this film was excellent. Stephen Rhea's performance was a saving grace. I actually wished I could join Parkis and son on their detecting game, rather than return to the tortuous Fiennes-Moore dynamic. The visuals were quite affecting. The love scenes were artfully realistic. Perhaps Mr. Jordan's determination to remain faithful to Graham Greene's style, while commendable, is what made the film seem rather depressed and ponderous. I would like to see this film in a double feature presentation with the Deborah Kerr/Van Johnson version.  "},{"Title":"I was very sure I would like it, but I didn't","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everything about this movie indicated I would like it the actors, the director, the tag line... Every comment I read here about this movie (negative or positive) indicates I should've liked it it's slow (my kind of a movie), romantic, it explores the questions of religion (or faith should I say) and miracles, jealousy and acceptance. Yet, I was not moved at all by this film. Nothing penetrated the skin. I really have no explanation why. Somehow the story seems a little outdated. I haven't seen the old movie (filmed in 1955), but when I learned that there was one, I thought that naive and earnest style of old films would fit this story better. OK, being objective I think it's a good film. Not empty, not stupid, beautifully filmed, with superior acting. Nothing about it is cliche. May be it has to appeal to your personal taste and likings. Interesting how some people weep over it, while others find it icy cold. I think I do find it a little cold.If you don't like slow films, don't bother to rent. But even if you do like slow films, Ralph Fiennes and English weather, be prepared that you might not like this one.  "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While certainly beautifully filmed and wonderfully acted, this is simply a boring film. It takes almost the whole time to go anywhere. None of the main characters have any redeeming values, and it makes it very difficult to care about them, with the possible exception of Sarah's husband, who only merits pity. Maurice is shallow, Sarah is the ice queen, and it doesn't really matter if they are destined to be together when you can't stand either of them. Both characters seem so self-absorbed and emotionless that it's hard to imagine either of them feeling any passion at all. At any rate, it's a great film to watch when you're having trouble sleeping and reading Roberts Rules just isn't doing it. "},{"Title":"Good movie but....","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This comment may contain a spoiler!!! In general a good movie.A good script that unfolds the events in an interesting way and a good performances from all the actors.However the film left me cold to what happens to the characters and seems to luck the passion that motivate the story.Michael Nyman's score is not one of his best.Usually his scores adds something to what happens on screen(for example- The Piano), but here it is use as merely a background.And the presence of Ralph Fiennes reminded me constantly of The English Patient which has a similar story and was much better.Neil Jordan should have waited a few years and we probably would have get a much better film.   "},{"Title":"Julianne Moore is so beautiful, it's worth going for her.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julianne Moore is so beautiful, it's worth going to see her.  But the film ends up making a kind of religious statement, and we see far too much of Ralph Fiennes, both his body and his trademark intensity.  The private investigator is very good. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary, effective story for fragile non-believers","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first I was afraid that it will be an ordinary, boring love story as for example English Patient. After a few scenes I supposed that it will be a kind of a detective movie. And what I have received in the end? Very tactful treaty. Not about triangle, not even about betrayed husband but about friendship that is stronger than jealousy and about God who may appear to non-believers. "},{"Title":"Meticulous but dull.","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful to watch, excellent performances (especially Stephen Rea who is quite astonishing), superb period detail - but oh so serious!  Thank God for Ian Hart, who livens things up a bit.  Is true love really so grim? "}{"Title":"Where the grass is Greener","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Time to drag out the not as good as the book discussion.  And I can do that from the safe perspective of not having read the book.  However, I did feel that Neil Jordan was labouring a familiar story of adultery until religious overtones came and woke me up. Unfortunately this direction was not sustained and in the end I felt a little undersold.  Reading reviews now I gathered that this was down to insensitive abridging.  So I'm in the middle of the Graham Greene novel as I write.  And I'm afraid my brain hurts just as much.Somewhat prettier than the book.Ron  "},{"Title":"A few dimes short of a dollar...","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of these movies that are apparently flawless but nevertheless come across as oddly indifferent. The performances are good (Julianne Moore is in fact more than good, she's exquisite), Neil Jordan's direction is competent as usual, the period atmosphere is okay, but the movie falls short somehow. I didn't find it boring, but I found it difficult to take seriously what was going on. I have not read the book, so I cannot criticize the screen adaptation, but I find it hard to believe that Graham Greene would have told his story so shallowly, especially where Sarah's spiritual development is concerned. A previous comment has compared Sarah's story to La Traviata I think this is quite accurate, but I should add that this is La Traviata without the benefit of the lovely music, since the music is actually one of the things that is definitely off-kilter in this movie. I usually love Michael Nyman's music, but this time I found it strident and jarring. The sex scenes look as if they've been tossed in to update a story that otherwise sounds hopelessly dated, and in fact they get on the way since we hardly see Sarah and Maurice out of bed, it looks as if their relationship was only about sex, and I don't think this was intended. "},{"Title":"Other comments here more or less say it all!!!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  On reading over the other good comments here, I feel there's very little for me to contribute. It has all been said. The repetition of the sex scenes etc., ... but for the life of me, I can't feel any warmth coming through in the acting of Ralph Fiennes. He's a very wooden type of actor. Julianne Moore's acting was excellent and very natural, as was Stephen Rea's. Who can forget him in The Crying Game? I saw Fiennes in The English Patient and wasn't impressed with him in that one, either. I suppose it all comes down to having a special type of presence before the camera. Some actors just don't have it, and therefore don't come through as believable. I didn't read Graham Greene's book and therefore cannot compare it to the movie, but he certainly makes you realize what jealous thoughts can do. Facts can be distorted, and  valuable time can be lost with people we love. A lesson here for all of us.   "},{"Title":"Less than the sum of the parts","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  books do not always fare well when going to film. I do not know if this was a great book, but I do know that the movie was too much of a book.Three characters. One, Sarah (Julianne Moore) is the embodiement of love. She is given the great line of the movie. Do you think that I do not love you when I leave you. I will always love you. (or something close) Unfortunately the movie is not so much about her, and she gets little real time on screen for her importance to the action, as it is about the love of two men for her.One of these the husband Henry, is incapable of seeing beyond himself and his career. He doesn't notice me Sarah complains. The other, played by Fiennes, is incapable of sharing love and can only recognize it but he is too comsumed with jealousy to accept her love or really reciprocate.I suspect that the book hits a deeper spiritual note that is only hinted at in the end but we are robbed of any real revelation because we can see no change in the main character as a result fo his having been loved. The movie ends to soon for that.Too bad the parts could have added up to so much more. "},{"Title":"Ehhh...","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit, I went to see this movie expecting the Casablanca of the 1990's.  Almost needless to say, I didn't get that.  What I did get was a rather contrived plot whose ending was obvious from second one, a few interesting twists and the strangest and most random emphasis on God I've ever seen.  And yet, despite the trite plot line, I liked it.  It was intricately directed by Neil Jordan.  He reveals his characters to you as if removing endless veils of gauze from their motives.  From there the actors were required to deliver where the director could not.  Stephen Rea does a nice job in his role, but he is rather unremarkable.  Ralph Fiennes is to WWII melodrama what his brother Joseph is to Elizabethan tights.  He does a good job, but it's still the same character.  And so the rest of the film's merit falls onto the shoulders of Julianne Moore and she carries it masterfully.  It seems no matter what this woman does she not only succeeds, she excels.  Her performance is artful and understated, simply beautiful.  She almost makes up for the plot...  but not quite.   "},{"Title":"A good cup of herbal tea spoiled by too much sugar","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dear All,Got to see The End of the Affair, the new Neil Jordan film starring Julianne Moore (one of those rare performers congenitally incapable of turning in a bad performance),  Ralph Fiennes (who might be in danger of getting type-cast as WWII era tragic lovers and/or villains), and Stephen Rea, who appears to hold a similar relationship to this director as Robert DiNiro has with Martin Scorcesse.I entered the theater with high expectations.  I have admired the work of all concerned, including Graham Greene, on who's work this film is based. Imagine my disappointment to discover this movie to be one of the most overwrought enterprises of the year.  Saccharine, overwritten, claustrophobic, badly scored with a wearing, wearyingly repetitive musical score (yes....their love is obsessive and unfulfilled.....I get it.....so enough already!), and horribly cliched throughout.  Not even the fine acting could save this multi-faceted attack on the cinematic sweet tooth.This film has been given accolades, and I'm at a loss to understand why.  A badly written script is to a movie what a breach to the hull is to a ship. No matter the talent of the crew, and the bravery of all concerned, nothing is going to keep that vessel from going down.After the film, I put on my coat, dusted off the snow on the way to my car, and pondered when to make an appointment with my physician to have him check my triglycerides.  "},{"Title":"A Three-Hankie Weeper","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having heard that this was the best Greene adaptation since 'The Third Man', I was looking forward to it. I have a soft spot for classic Women's Pictures, and was looking forward to a good weeper. However, after stepping out of the theater, I felt manipulated beyond belief - yes, yes, the tears did flow, but I was left with the sour taste in my mouth that comes from digesting too many sweets.It started out promisingly, but seemed to drag about halfway through. The cast was quite good, although Stephen Rea seemed a bit wasted in the role of the dull bureauocrat. The costumes were impressive.However Gripe  #1 heavy handed direction. Oh my. For example, enough with the Symbolic London Drizzle. We get it!!! I am tolerant of this sort of tripe in old films, but it is merely hackneyed today, just as the spinning newspaper headline shtick cannot come across as anything but parody today. Gripe #2 Michael Nyman's score was, well, Nymanish. That is to say, self-indulgent semi-symphonic, amateurish. And poorly used at that - too many swelling crescendos intruding upon one's senses during the key scenes. Gripe #3 Not that I am opposed to the sight of either of the romantic leads in the buff, but after the first (and very steamy) love scene, it was enough. After that, it became a little silly. The soft-core love scenes felt out of place and contrived - this isn't Boogie Nights! Leave something to the imagination.If it was their intention to make a true old fashioned matinee weeper (although the Nyman and the nude scenes would seem to indicate otherwise), nice job, but too long. As a modern film, even a period piece doesn't have to contain these flaws. Wish I could say otherwise. "},{"Title":"Good acting, but not so catchy plot","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, the events are credible and romance visible, but the background is too gloomy and tragic even for Neil Jordan. Everything is complex, sophisticated and the only one finally happy is the boy, a supporting character. Ralph Fiennes as Maurice Bendrix and Julianne Moore as Sarah Miles are great, of course; unfortunately, Stephen Rea (as Henry Miles) is too briefly on screen - he is a great actor and Jordan has used him repeatedly. The book behind (a 1951 novel by Graham Greene) is strong, providing the movie an additional value, a tight backbone; the scenes are tight and do not become blurred. However, the movie is not for everyone, not necessarily for lovers or husbands to enjoy. Due to the above-mentioned gloominess and pain. "},{"Title":"An awesome movie","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I never thought the movie would turn out so well.I loved the acting of Juliane Moore and the simple fact that at the end of the movie you are left with a cherished memory of a movie.The way the story is plotted is also amazing. The story kind of unfolds from an ending - kind of keeping with the title.I loved the fact that the movie doesn't end cheesy.The chemistry between the lovers portrayed is absolutely amazing in that you take over the characters and experience their heated romance.Each character is well portrayed and the same for a solid purpose contributing to the story.Its a good inspiration for all who stand for what they believe in and exemplifies it correctly. "},{"Title":"A love affair to keep and savor.","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like love affairs, possibilities and sacrifice, you will find this amazing movie a charmer. You cannot go wrong with Ralph Fiennes and Julianne Moore on the screen. It palpates with sexuality and beauty.No matter what your moral stances on the subject, this is possible reality in times of war. Just a wonderful story. Amazing acting and performances.For the women, Moore's wardrobe is gorgeous. If you love 40s clothing, you will adore hers. Every time she appeared on the screen I was moved by her face and simplicity. Fiennes spent most of the movie, angry and brooding. He is so believable all the time. He never lets his guard down. He is gorgeous. The direction was special and so moving. Wonderful movie. "}{"Title":"Where one learns that an affair can be quite unfair.","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One could argue that there is much autobiographical information in this story, seeing as how Graham Greene and his wife were separated for many years while he maintained relationships with other women. The opening scene, for example, has novelist Maurice Bendrix (Ralph Fiennes) pounding out the opening sentence of his new story This is a diary of hate. That's a grabber, in anybody's language. And, being a story from Greene &#x96; one of the all-time masters of story-telling - I sat clued to my seat for the show without moving, except to fast-forward through TV commercials. I'd not seen the Van Johnson/Deborah Kerr offering from 1955, nor read the book; so it was all fresh for me.Melodrama, yes. Tear-jerker, check obviously for some, maybe for many. Or, as Greene perhaps would've said An entertainment! But, ordinary wife-cheats-on-husband bedroom romp? A resounding no! An affair takes place, yes, but this story is not just about an affair.No &#x96; this is intelligent, perceptive, and intriguing (no pun intended) story-telling, with a narrative structure that shifts between past and present in a flash, so that &#x96; perhaps for a moment or two &#x96; you're not quite sure of where you are. In that regard, The English Patient (1996) comes to mind; or even An Affair to Remember (1957).To be sure, there are raw sex scenes, but they are contextually pertinent and non-violent &#x96; Antichrist (2009) and Irreversible (2002) vie for the sexual violence cake, I think &#x96; but as adults are the only people who will fully understand the psychological, emotional and religious underpinnings of the plot for this film, those scenes cannot be regarded as objectionable, surely. After all, everybody does it, at some time.The action takes place before, during and after the Second World War but not in that order; scenes shift, as I said, between time periods. Hence, you must concentrate and be aware of visual cues to reduce confusion, maybe. I, for one, thoroughly enjoyed the narrative structure.Rather than go through the plot &#x96; the short synopsis on the IMDb main page is sufficient &#x96; it's better to simply ask this how can you possibly resist a story where the lover, not the husband, hires the PI to follow the wife?Julianne Moore as Sarah Miles is a great actress; Ralph Fiennes is equal or better; and Stephen Rhea as Henry Miles is voice and picture perfect as an icon of the British Establishment. All three give outstanding and believable performances, and ably assisted by an effective supporting cast, with special mention for Ian Hart as Mr Parkis, the private detective.The only criticism of note, perhaps, concerns the ending and resolution of this extended ménage-a-trois from one perspective, it's fitting for the times in which the story is set. For a modern audience, though, it's probably clichéd and overly agonistic. Being Greene's wish-fulfillment-in-fiction, however, it is probably quite appropriate. I liked it, even the metaphorical, but silly, slap-in-the-face for poor Maurice and his arrogance. But, you must see the movie to understand that comment and the whole story.Put it this way if you are having an affair, or even contemplating doing so now or in the future, do yourself a favor see this movie.Highly recommended.November 21, 2011. "},{"Title":"Solemn profundity","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is much to like and admire in this the script is well-turned, nuanced and may actually be better than the novel in many respects; the photography is perfect in detail and lighting and renders the characters ideally.The music is extremely effective and really underlines the film because it is elegiac; it echoes the past and because memory works in fragments it reminds strongly of those special moments which are gone.It is the direction and performance which give this film real depth and emotional engagement and for anyone who has ever had someone taken or lost, it will resonate.The three main characters are all solemn in their duty, in love, in pain and in regret. It is a technique that works powerfully and is in times with the war period and with the generation that saw life in dutiful and solemn terms. It gives a pitch of authenticity to the film and the casting has worked perfectly as Fiennes does solemn like no one else in the business, and he seems just right as a writer introverted, analytical, abstract.It is a film,(a novel) and it offers the best of people and a connection to the mystical. The truth of the real affair that provided the basis to the story was not, however; that was debauched and narcissistic, but that fact is not important with this film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, sensual, but downbeat romance.","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on a Graham Green novel (which had been filmed previously with Van Johnson and Deborah Kerr in 1955), this story of tortured love is beautifully appointed and creatively directed, but also tends to be very one note and dour. In WWII England, Fiennes is a handsome author who is using statesman Rea as a research subject for an upcoming book. When Rea shows little interest and hasn't much available time, he suggests that Fiennes spend some time with his wife, Moore, in order to get her viewpoints of his life and career. Unfortunately, this leads to a hot and heavy affair as Fiennes awakens passions in Moore that Rea hasn't ever even tried to ignite. The couple enjoys a clandestine romance, meeting frequently in less-populated buildings during the Blitzkrieg and creating their own fireworks until one day, following a particularly nasty explosion, Moore refuses to see Fiennes again. The reasons why are shrouded in mystery as both Fiennes and the audience attempt to uncover what has changed and why. Fiennes is understated, but good, in his depressed role and doesn't shy away from the surprisingly vivid love scenes. Moore looks incredible throughout, her hair, face and figure melding beautifully with the period clothing and hairstyles. She also gives a varied and compelling performance, sporting a British accent that has few faults (one of them being her pronunciation of the word God, for some reason.) She, like Fiennes, has no problem conveying the physical lust of her character. Rea is effective, but displays the same hangdog expression for virtually the entire movie. Hart enjoys a captivating and amusing role as a dogged private investigator with some interesting methods and conjecture. Isaacs, who would later play a vicious villain in The Patriot, does what he can with the fairly colorless role of one of Moore's confidantes. The film has a lovely look to it, rain and all. The settings are attractive, the clothes are fine, the camera-work is creative, as is the editing and the atmosphere is, at times, palpable. However, the downbeat material is presented in a way that has very little variety or relief. This somewhat plodding approach (not helped by the overriding, insistent score by Michael Nyman) may be off-putting to viewers who aren't captivated by the stars or who aren't invested in the mystery. Ditto the religious angle, which makes its presence known eventually. Fans of tormented romance stories should find it enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Fiennes again stealing the wife of the other","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good drama with good acting of Ralph Fiennes and Julianne Moore. This time Fiennes is not the usual villain of the film but plays a role similar to the one he had in The English Patient (1996). In both the becomes a lover of a nice lady not very well cared by their husbands. The plot here has an additional ingredient, Maurice Bendrix (Fiennes) is asked by Henry Miles (Stephen Rea) to watch the behavior of the Miles wife, Sarah Miles (Julianne Moore) and to inform him whether she has any lover. The fact is that Bendrix does what he was asked to do for and became jealous since in the past he had some love relations with Sarah. At the end all three knew what happened but since Sarah was sick, they all decided to do the best for peaceful Sarah's death. This end perhaps is only possible in England, I cannot imagine such an end and agreement in any Latino country.  "},{"Title":"A melodramatic story whose power is faithfully recreated by the cast","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Good acting all round (I have general caveats about Julianne Moore, but she works hard here). Steven Rea is period-perfect English-with-antifreeze-for-blood. Ralph Fiennes is at turns irascible, narcissistic and a bone-headed misogynist; it's very difficult to feel sympathy for his Theistically cuckolded writer. However he manages it, largely by presenting a flawed selfcentrism that, having been genuinely propped up by love, reacts bestially, irrationally at its incomprehensible removal.Ian Hart's private detective provides essential levity and soft humanity - the whole film creaks and freezes with the austerity of not only wartime London but of the implacability of the Englishmen's contemporaneous wills. Coal-face romanticism, with a small r, but thoroughly rewarding. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Too much faith","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neil Jordan's 'End of the Affair' could have been a very good film, but ends by being a bizarre mix of WW2 love story in London, with erotic and mystic nuances at once, and a spin of soap opera. I think that the main problem is the over-playing of the Catholic miracle themes in the script, to the point where neither logic or artistic truth is left. There are some good moments of cinema, after all Neil Jordan was the director of 'Mona Lisa', although  in my opinion he is still to get back to the level of that masterpiece of the eighties. Acting is also good, with Ralph Fiennes and Julianne More in two of their best roles. Unfortunately, the religious conflict between carnal and divine love is too much emphasized, to the point that it spoils the whole movie, as happens in my view with many of Graham Greene's novels. It is worth seeing, but it gets only a 6 out of 10 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSI have read the book, and while it is unfair to compare two different media, it is worth noting that following the book more closely would have strengthened the movie in at least one way having Sarah die from pneumonia suddenly beats having her die from what Roger Ebert calls Ali McGraw Disease a fatal illness whose chief symptom is that the sufferer gets progressively more beautiful as she gets sicker.It was also a mistake to let  Bendix and Sarah have a weekend romp in Brighton before her death.  Sarah's death is literally deus ex machina, but by having her learn of her fatal illness right after she goes on a sex-filled bender, the theme appears to be that if you break your promise to God, he will kill you.  I do not think that this is what the filmmakers had in mind.One other departure from the book, which I think majes a huge difference in the movie there is one obvious miracle attributed to Sarah - healing Parkis's boy's birthmark.  There needs to be two; the third miracle which then allows us to realize Sarah's sainthood becomes the atheist Bendix's bitter and resigned acknowledgement of God's existence at the end.Even on simple movie terms, the movie just does not work.  The movie drags almost the entire time; it never really comes to life.  Stephen Rea's character never has a moment of reality.  Fiennes and Moore are good in their roles, but the whole project should have been much better. "},{"Title":"a modern day classic as good as they get","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i found this adaptation of the graham greene novel to have the depth and character study of the old black and white classics, yet with so many modern twists on the order in which the story is told.  a must see of the choice of love for God, spouse and/or lover. done by touching on every basic human emotion that i can think of. extremely high quality,almost too good for myself. ;-) timeles classic "},{"Title":"Vehicle for writer's anger with God.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you enjoy watching a beautiful woman cheat on her faithful husband then this might be the movie for you. Although the actors performed their roles well, I'm growing tired of movies which portray the unfaithful, cheating spouse as the victim of either a dependable spouse or somehow God himself. Not having read the book on which this movie is based I can only assume that Mr. Green had some serious problems with his concept of God, and sought to suggest that God is to be blamed for our own stupidity. Not a movie I would recommend as an uplifting, positive contribution to one who wants to clearly think about the meaning of common events in life. This story is too quick to blame God, and doesn't explore the possibility that we often create our own misery. "},{"Title":"NO OTHER WORD  BORING","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is tedious beyond belief. It's totally fixated with being a 1990s Brief Encounter. But there's one stiff upper lip too many, and you're totally disinterested by the characters.Fiennes continually fails to connect with an audience, and know he has no sexual chemistry with the usually excellent Moore. "}{"Title":"Awful! Terribly tortured. The 4 of us nearly left the theatre, but...","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...but OK, I will acknowledge all of the positive comments below.  It is well acted.  It is a 'fine film'. It is the story line, the substance of the film that was terrible. We 2 couples in our 40s & 50s agonized through this film ordeal.Ask yourself Do I really want to see a long film about a dead marriage with a problematical affair, of people who cannot find love, who do not trust, who are so unhappy, and who are as cold and wet as the miserable English weather that they live in?  Everything was so COLD and RESTRICTED and COMPLICATED with confined emotions and highly reserved actions.  My heart felt chained, frozen. I left the theatre feeling waisted, tired, and depressed. Even my wife and the other woman in our group, who both usually like what I classify as 'dull upper class English movies' - even they disliked the film.So if you like miserable cold feelings about relationships that are impossible, then go ahead - you will probably love this film. "},{"Title":"good raunchy sex","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never expected such great sex scenes from a movie about WW2war-time England.  This is a good film.  Liked and cared for all the characters and all the plot twists.However, 4/10 because halfway through the film all became predictable, none-the-less; excellent acting and brilliant ending with the detective's son.  But, that's it. "},{"Title":"* 1/2 stars- boring and sex, sex, sex..","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The End of the Affair is suppose to pull you in with the romance and make you cry. You sit there bored and waiting for the end. There was no chemistry at all between Juliane Moore and Ralph Fienes. Their passion is more like lust and sex, that is all that fuels their love for each other. You never understand what made them come together. Most of the time I felt like I was watching a pricey porno. Maybe if their was more chemistry between the two characters having the affair it would be more tragedic.PLOT A married woman has an affair with a writer during WWII. After a few months, she leaves him for no reason and he becomes obsessed trying to find out why.VIEWS Because I have seen Ralph Fienes show such passion in his roles- ex. Wuthering Heights, Schindler's List, I was so surprised how dull and boring he was in this role. Juliane Moore was practically a nympomanic, trying to get his pants off in every scene. Because you don't understand why they attracted to each other, it ruins the movie. Passion is so important to this movie and Neil Jordan does not put the actors in the right direction. I was wishing for so much more. SCENES TO WATCH FOR I would say the sex scenes but they are not even worth watching. "},{"Title":"Drama turned Comedy","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the best way to describe this movie is by describing the audiences reaction to the movie...  during dramatic moments in the film burst of laughter could be heard around the theater. I noticed over 10 individuals leave the theater during the movie never to return.  One group of 3 ran out of the theater attempting to control their laughter.  Where the movie attempted to be deep- it turned simplistic, MELODRAMATIC!, and even humorous.  It seemed no one in the production had ever experienced the love they were attempting to depict... their depiction of Love failed miserably.  The sex scenes got duller and duller as the same movie score repeated itself for the 1,000 time. As the credits rolled and the rush for the door started, I heard everyone commenting on their dislike of the film.  The 17 year old boy behind me said it best, That SUCKED! "},{"Title":"Yawn..the best Ralph Fiennes wartime romance since...","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A couple minor spoilers hereMuch as I wanted to like a film from a talented director, that exposes Julianne Moore once again...for the tremendous talent she is...it bored me silly.A gentleman two rows behind me snored except while the two leads were shtupping...i.e., about the first third of two interminable hours.I saw fine filmmaking, including a narrative structure that hangs on two diaries -- one framing the film while in progress, one central to the plot turn. Neil Jordan knows what to do with a camera, and he uses all kinds of rain and half-lit closeups and fuzz-bordered (slow) flashbacks. On the downside, the score kinda sucks. The script wastes Stephen Rea's talents, and Ralph Fiennes' career continues rolling down into oblivion. Julianne Moore excels, and holds an English accent just fine, despite reading lines that would sound familiar and comfortable to a six-year-old.Which brings me to the problem with this movie. If I could remember who advised me that this trite and stupid story had something profound to say about love and God, I'd ask them for my $8.50 back. I haven't read the source material, but some of the best parts must have been excised from this script in order to show more of Ralph Fiennes' pale, hairy shank and Julianne Moore's luminous eyes and chewable lower lip. I'm ready to grant that artistic license only in the latter case.Some hints to remember if you hope to greenlight the next great romantic movie1. Graham Greene wrote great 20th century novels, conflicted and passionate and decent and stillborn...but as the 20th century fades, Greene needs to go. We already know everything he has to say. Love hurts. Lovers die just inside the border of Happiness Forever, and others never get there. Blah bleak blah. Even Forrest Gump looks profound in comparison to this timeless message.2. If you want a profound meditation on love and God, make a movie about St. Theresa, or St. Augustine, or even St. Francis; you could set the latter in Haight-Ashbury in the 60's. A woman is challenged and a man embittered by parallel conversion experiences in London during the 2nd World War? How interesting can that be? Lotsa lotsa people find or lose God when bombs rain around them. Nothing revealing or miraculous about that. "},{"Title":"One of the best films made","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The obvious lack of insight shown by some of the commenters is more than merely shocking. There are so many layers, Gordian-knot twists and intricate dialog in this film that, I guess, there are many who simply don't understand the subtleties contained within it. But, then, what can one expect from those who misquote dialog and level their expectations based on their own ego, in believing that displaying unimpressibility is a sign of intelligence?One scene in particular explains it all... in which Bendrix runs limpingly, desperately, across the common in a vain attempt to catch Sara as she is driven away, sobbing uncontrollably, in a cab. When he finally does reach her, in the church, her resignation to him and his melancholy in recognizing her reason it is far too wonderful and moving to explain.Much of the dialog should keep one up at night to ponder the nature of our own existence... Strange how much dignity there can be in a hat. But, I am sure this is lost on those who, when they attend a movie, understand only one-punch knockouts and shots to the groin as expressions of emotion. "},{"Title":"Haunting!","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If only Maurice Bendrix (Ralph Fiennes) believed in God perhaps things would have turned out different. Maurice is the second half of an ill-fated love story, of which Sarah Miles (Julianne Moore) is the first half. Sarah is married to Henry Miles (Stephen Rea) but carrying on an affair with an obsessive writer (Maurice) with whom she finds more passion and zest than in her husband. One day, while carrying on with Maurice, a bomb hits the boarding house in which the lovers are busy loving (the film in set during WWII by the way) and believing that Maurice has been killed Sarah begins to pray to God and begs for Maurice's life. She also promises that she will cease carrying on the affair if he is brought back to life, and miraculously but much to her broken hearted dismay, he is restored. Sarah tries to end the affair and many years pass by but when she comes across Maurice again, things are reignited. Her punishment for this (as stereotypically in most period films) comes in form of the terminal illness of tuberculosis (or maybe it was lung cancer, the film wasn't specific this time) for which Maurice refuses her prayer to save her life. It isn't until she has passed away that he realises that she was an anointed human being but of course it is too late. Selfish and stubborn as ever, Maurice addresses God in his latest diary entry(which looks most likely to be published as a book), begging to be left alone forever. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the best movies I've ever seen! Julianne, my favorite, is great. She tried to give her best and she succeeded indeed. Excellent act just like in The Hours-she is so natural, so real, so..her . At first I thought it was just a simple love-story, but the movies tells us so much more about life and faith. There's a great script too. Hidden things done against le bon sens of love, are always more passionate and much more intense. But if you promise something to God you should respect your promise or else you will be punished. And God took Sarah because she promised Him that she would never see her lover again, if only he came to life again. always must lose smth to gain something else. "},{"Title":"One of the most romantic dramas I have ever seen","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though I've never read the book, THE END OF THE AFFAIR, in my opinion, is one of the most romantic dramas I have ever seen. If you ask me, Michael Nyman's score was absolutely romantic. In addition, I thought that the performances were superior, the directing was excellent, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the casting was perfect. Also, I was surprised that Julianne Moore sported her British accent. Kudos to Neil Jordan and everyone involved for a job well done. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Ralph Fiennes or Julianne Moore, or you enjoyed Graham Greene's title novel, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a feel good time, so see this movie today. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"The finest adaptation of a Greene novel","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, so I'm a huge admirer of Neil Jordan, but I don't like all of his work. But this, this is truly wonderful. To answer the question 'what is cinema?' that might be too difficult. But 'What does the cinema do best?', the answer to that is that is makes real the greatest human dilemmas.And this wonderful film makes a special and precious contribution to that end. Aided by flawless performances by Ralph Feinnes, Julieanne Moore and Stephen Rea, Neil has given us as much of Graham Greene's novel as we could reasonably expect, and he has made it oh so real.Great novels (and films) are not about just one thing (there's more to The Wizard of Oz than 'There's no place like home'), they are about several complex things that interact with one another. Here it is love and religion and betrayal, to name a few. All of Greene's characters are wonderfully, indeed unforgettably represented and they work together to illuminate the interaction of those themes.Controlled anger is one of the rarest emotions in the cinema, and one of the most powerful, and in the final moments of this film we are presented with its most perfect expression. "}{"Title":"Great performance by Julianne Moore lifts this film to brilliance.","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's all I have to say really. The film still would have been great without her, but it wouldn't have been brilliant. She has possibly one of the best English accents I have heard by an American, and the scene where she's praying is truly devastating and very nearly made me cry (a rarity). Ralph Fiennes and the support were also really good, but Julianne, always excellent, made it for me.  "},{"Title":"Love In The Blitz","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The End of the Affair is one of those old fashioned romantic type British films along the lines of Brief Encounter. Julianne Moore got an Oscar nomination for Best Actress, but no one in that year was going to beat out Hillary Swank.Ralph Fiennes has a chance meeting with Julianne Moore and her husband Stephen Rea and the passion gets going almost immediately. The apparently indifferent Rea almost makes the affair too easy for both Fiennes and Moore. Eventually though she breaks it off abruptly with Fiennes and he's obsessed to find out why.He hires a private detective played by Ian Hart and his report leads to some surprising developments for all concerned.The film is based on a Graham Greene novel though you can bet that the very Catholic Mr. Greene would not have approved of what Fiennes tells to a Catholic priest played by Jason Isaacs.Actually I liked the rather droll performance of Ian Hart as the detective who winds up working for two of three sides of the triangle and has no scruples about getting his 10 year old son involved to achieve results. Hart did very good work also in Backbeat, playing a young John Lennon.This is a remake of a 1955 film that starred Van Johnson and Deborah Kerr though you can bet it was not as graphic as this version is.For those who love old fashioned romances, you'll like The End of the Affair. "},{"Title":"How to Exorcize the Soul of a Book","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Jordan has produced a travesty of Graham Greene's book. He has completely omitted the central confrontation between the local militant atheist and the heroine, and has so diametrically changed the ending as to trivialize her passion and strength. It seems he has tried to tackle a subject far too deep for him, and has settled instead for a shallow reinterpretation that signally fails to convey the dramatic agony of the original. As a consequence, not even Julianne's brilliant acting can give life to her limp character.If I was a grandchild of Greene's, I'd demand that the studio change the name of the film so as to protect Graham Greene's reputation. "},{"Title":"Not jaded, just opened my eyes","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The End Of The AffairIn the midst of a passionate affair with writer Maurice Bendix (Ralph Fiennes), Sarah Miles (Julianne Moore) has finally encountered the soul mate she never had with her husband (Stephen Rea). When a freak accident befalls Maurice, Sarah prays to God to spare her lover, promising to leave him forever if he was to live. Maurice recovers from this near death experience, leaving Sarah to struggle with her heart in trying to keep her promise to God. In this abrupt new film from director Neil Jordan (THE CRYING GAME), we see three people who want so intensely to live happily ever after, yet cannot truly have what their heart desires.It seems to be Jordan's talent to craft a film with parts greater than the whole. END OF THE AFFAIR starts out very slow, builds to an interesting conflict, then dissipates into something akin to an ending. Every film the man has directed has followed the same blueprints. Jordan is capable of amazing work (even in his loopy underrated thriller from last year IN DREAMS), but his gift certainly isn't control over the tone of his pictures. AFFAIR is set in the 1940's - during World War II - and Jordan has modeled the acting and screenwriting as if this 2000 picture was a long lost gem of the 1940's. The performances are very awkward, dialog is spat out between clenched teeth, and the character movement is more theatrical than practical. All the actors have trouble trying to convey anguish and yearning while trying to maintain the poker face needed for the era. This film needed more of the method acting approach, not a retro take on material that needs fire to come to life. And like a film of the time, the music by Michael Nyman (THE PIANO) harps endlessly trying to awaken the listless drama unfolding onscreen.Coming from two spectacular actors like Fiennes and Moore, I thought AFFAIR would have been more engaging. You never feel for these characters the way the film certainly does. The tragedy that occurs in the film is merely a tepid plot device, not one of those splendid hand-over-mouth-oh my!-type of kicks. I do give Jordan plenty of credit for this film's bile spewing rant on Catholicism (delivered with typical gusto from Fiennes). He also uses nudity with an unexpected bluntness that in the current wave of modern film, seems like true inspiration. In the end, AFFAIR comes up short. As powerful as the material is, I believe Jordan missed the boat in trying to express the desire to the audience. -------- 5  "},{"Title":"Maurice Dance","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although I did see the original version of this Graham Greene novel on television it was several years ago and nothing has remained with me, possibly because of my aversion to both leads, Van Johnson and Deborah Kerr. Whilst I do admire Julianne Moore - never more so than in Vanya on 42nd Street - I can take or leave Fiennes and consider Neil Jordan little more than a journeyman with a Ken Loach type anti-English chip on his shoulder. So, one out of three going in. Despite the graphic sex scenes I detected no chemistry whatsoever between Fiennes and Moore, not an ideal situation when passion is presented as the driving force. Nor was there any serious attempt to replicate the mid-forties, for all the authenticity they may as well have updated it half a century and substitute an RTA for the German bomb. James Bolam provided an entertaining cameo but then disappeared. All in all not much to write home about. "},{"Title":"When the Almighty is at fault","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The narration begins and ends with one of the three main characters in the adaptation of Graham Greene's novel of the same name - Up-and-coming novelist Maurice Bendrix (Ralph Fiennes). It is his 'diary of hate'. The 'diary' began in 1946 London on a rainy night where he had a chance encounter with important civil servant Henry Miles (Stephen Rea), the husband of his ex-mistress Sarah (Julianne Moore).As the film progresses with Miles telling Bendrix of his suspicions of his wife Sarah having an affair, so do the audiences beginning to see the early flashbacks of Bendrix and Sarah having their affair amidst the backdrop of during the Second World War as well. The two first met at a party and began to fell in love quickly. Coming back to the present, Bendrix hired Parkis (Ian Hart), who uses his young birthmarked son Lance (Sam Bould) to investigate. In Parkis's early investigations, Bendrix learns that Sarah has been making regular visits to a priest in the name of Father Richard Smythe (Jason Isaacs), under the guise of dental visits.What happened in the flashbacks is a stark contrast to the present where Sarah has been cold towards her former lover Bendrix when they met up and talked about her husband. Because in the flashbacks, Bendrix is expressing jealously at Henry and asking Sarah to leave her husband. And though the two did expressed their love for their each other, the whole affair ended abruptly during the Blitz when a bomb explodes near where Bendrix is residing as he is out of the hallway. He fell down from the staircase and was being awoken later, not seriously hurt but was bloodied. When he went back upstairs, Sarah is shocked to discover that he is still alive. Bendrix took her reaction in the wrong way and left, but not before telling him that Love doesn't end, just because we don't see each other. Coming back to the present again, Parkis has managed to obtain Sarah's diary and passes it to Bendrix. The diary would come to show the affair from her viewpoint, including what really happened when the bomb exploded near Bendrix's residence. She had been trying to revive him and when she assumed that he could not make it, she went back to the room and prayed for Bendrix's life. Just as she was doing so, Bendrix appeared. After learning the full story which also included what happened to Sarah after the war ended through her diary, Bendrix begs Sarah to reconsider their relationship.Around the same time, Henry (who would come to rue his inadequacies as a lover to his wife Sarah) had figured out the relationship between his wife and Bendrix, asks Sarah not to leave him. But Bendrix's persuasion held sway and she spent a weekend with him. Henry did manages to track the couple down, informing Bendrix that Sarah has actually being contracting a terminal illness all along.It may be morally wrong, but it is admirable from Sarah's part in terms of being strangely faithful to the two men in her life in her amicable but dour husband Henry and the lover she cannot have in Bendrix. But as well, the two crucial 'promises' she has ever made in her life. As the film went on, one also get to discover that despite being obsessively in love with Sarah, Bendrix discovers that he actually knew very little about her. While Sarah does not need the sight of God to love him, Bendrix blames the Almighty on taking Sarah away from him.It is quite a concept of telling the story of having flashbacks and switching to the present at times, as the audience get to see the full story as the film unravels. Apart the main characters, the minor ones played their role as well, in the form of Ian Hart as the investigator Parkis and the young boy who played his son. "},{"Title":"Far from Perfect Adaptation of Greene Novel, But Not Bad","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The End of the Affair offered up one of the most interesting conceits to appear in any of Graham Greene's novels a love triangle not between a woman and two men, but between a man, a woman and her faith.I'm not usually a stickler for exact faithfulness in book to movie adaptations, as I've never understood the point of making a movie if you're just going to try as closely as possible to replicate the book. However, I will admit that there were far too many liberties taken with Greene's story -- which was perfect as originally written -- for me to fully enjoy the film. What I did enjoy, however, was Julianne Moore's performance, which takes a tricky character and nails it perfectly. And I give writer/director Neil Jordan credit too. He may have made some errors in writing his adaptation, but his direction captures the tone of Greene's book flawlessly, and that's usually more important than capturing all of the plot details.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Exploration...","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are faces that cameras like. Ralph Fiennes, for example, in any movie you watch him, whether he is a psycho killer (Red Dragon) or Voldemort himself (Harry Potter), he looks good. If the camera loves you, you don't need to worry because at the end of the day everything will be okay, and I say this because I've never thought of him as a great actor. Again, the camera loves his face but that face says nothing to me. Even more interesting, I've never seen him hit the right chemistry with a female co-star; not with Jennifer Lopez in Maid in Manhattan, not with Rachel Weisz in The Constant Gardener. Here, in Neil Jordan's The end of the affair, the chemistry is not the best with Julianne Moore, but we feel the overwhelming love the movie is trying to express. Has it got to do with other things? Julianne Moore, undoubtedly one of America's best contemporary actresses and one that can do just about anything, plays Sarah Miles, the wife of Henry Miles (Stephen Rea) who falls in love with Maurice Bendrix, the character played by Fiennes.This is the basic establishment of the film, which will revolve around these three characters in what we could define as an 'exploration'. Jordan, who adapted Graham Greene's homonymous novel in a very ambitious script, is great at playing with expectations. The viewer never quite knows when things are occurring and if they are truly occurring characters wear the same clothes most of the time, scenes and conversations are repeated from different perspectives and flashbacks come out of nowhere. From the very first scene, Roger Pratt's cinematography suggests quite a dreamlike mood; and Michael Nyman's intense score accentuates it. So Jordan develops the characters, makes them talk, shoots them making passionate love in sex scenes that say a lot, works heavily on the looks and everything turns slow, very slow so we can understand this 'affair'; but nothing is ever boring. To contribute to the definition of 'exploration', the film introduces a private investigator as a major secondary character (played by Ian Hart) as both Sarah's husband and her lover in different occasions attempt to investigate her. Turns out Sarah is a woman with a very profound inner world, that translates differently on the outside.This ambivalence is the key of Moore's brilliant performance, and in a film with very few of those we would call moments, she composes a human being we want to understand and we finally do because Moore and the movie gladly help us. There is one scene, maybe the film's only 'moment', in which a siren sounds and Sarah has to leave Maurice. Pay attention at Moore in that precise moment, at everything she does and says before concluding in one simple word Yes. What she does can't be described because it must be experienced; and that whole scene in which Fiennes shines like man filled with love, is a scene I'd like to be able to watch frequently as it occurs to me with scenes in movies that represent pure, perfect acting (I recall one scene with Winona Ryder and Cher in Mermaids&#133;do you remember?).The portrayal of Stephen Rea as Sarah's husband Henry is also crucial, because his character needs to appear as completely naive and insubstantial, and it's not easy to sustain that image for two hours. Rea really seems like an anonymous guy in the world. Fiennes' work on the other hand expresses the monumental love I was just talking about. His character is a writer, and as Sarah's lover, he finds a new meaning for love every day, and astonishes her with how he puts it in words. Henry and Maurice are two jealous men, of the same woman; and it will be the writer who will at one point tell Henry Lovers are jealous, husbands are ridiculous, resuming in this way their fundamental difference. I still haven't talked about God; about another part of the definition of 'exploration' that is related with exploring the faith. It is not a minor subject of the movie and it's implicated in some of the things I've said in this review, but I'll leave it for you to discover that plot line and relate it with the things I admired about this very ambitious piece. A piece you could see as a story about an affair, as a tale about love, as a character piece, or more concretely expressed and interesting the story of two men united by the love they felt for the same woman. Would you go see a film promoted like that? Everything is possible. "},{"Title":"read the origin novel before watching!!","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After reading this novel, I was told to watch the movie. The camera skill and the techniques are great fitted with this movie. I can feel strongly that Maurice (Fiennes) is a jealousy-lover for Sarah. Bendirx assesses Sarah's love toward Bendrix with the jealousy but there seems to be a Gap between seem-to-be lovers.I am curious about Bendrix' state of mind and I learn this from the novel by Greene. It is the inferiority that makes him arouse his dark side of heart.But there is nothing wrong with this. I suppose it could be a good topic or material that is used to talk about Male sentiments and feelings.Sarah, a woman who pursues her happiness and satisfactory of sexuality, diesat the end. I can foresee the outcome of this story but what if Sarah's still alive and live happily with Bendrix? It would be an outstanding romantic ending but wouldn't produce any echo from the audience.Moreover Sarah won't become a holy character just on the account of her sudden death. "},{"Title":"So close, yet so far","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *spoliers*Why oh WHY does the romance genre do this to us?!?Either we are subjected to sugary cute Meg Ryan-esque romantic comedies with little or nothing of the true complex emotional range of human interaction, or we get films like _The End of the Affair_.  Up until its last twenty minutes or so, this movie had me convinced that it could very well be the best romantic drama of all time.  However, then I was operating under the assumption gleaned from a hideously misinformed source that Jordan's film ended happily.The emotional and spiritual aspects of the film are intricate and wonderfully refreshing.  They are matched only by the superb performances of the three leads.  WHY, though, must EVERY serious romance end with a death?  Is there some rule I don't know about?Don't be so dense, you say.  Love lasts forever, even beyond death. Blah, blah, blah, yadda yadda yadda and all that rubbish.  I'm not an idiot.  Hollywood's been drilling THAT little doozy into my head for over 20 years now.  Wouldn't it be nice for a change just to see a romance end happily?  Isn't that, in the end, more realistic anyway?  Or is the truth maybe that we are all bitter old farts who want to think that true love can only exist in some sort of existential vacuum?ENOUGH ALREADY.  This is depressing.  Do it again. "}{"Title":"Extremely predictable film, which is unfortunate considering the cast.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Extremely predictable film, which is unfortunate considering the cast. The plot would have worked forty or fifty years ago, but in these modern times the tone of the movie did nothing to set the mood and left the audience with a highly predictable ending. This film was just a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Good movie with some unhealthy tendencies.","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interesting story speaks of an affair between an author and an unhappy wife. It has an interesting story a beginning that has many flashbacks, the point where everything connects and a happy-sad ending detailing, one would bet, the mysterious ways of God. One wonders though how necessary all the sex scenes are, especially in a day and age where expectations of the act are already a bit much! The mental torture of the husband makes it hard for the audience to perceive him as a wimp or as a sad and lonely person. A good movie that could have accomplished more, THE END OF THE AFFAIR is a half decent rent. "},{"Title":"Jealousy leads to misery","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has all the potentials of being a great love story, but lacks the subtleties of other great romances like Out of Africa and The English Patient.  No doubt why Ralph Fiennes was cast if you've seen the latter. The pacing of the movie is somewhat slow at the beginning and not very clear, but does get interesting as the plot progresses and Fiennes does a good job portraying the overly suspicious and jealous lover.  If you enjoy Fiennes then you'll certainly enjoy him in this film. "},{"Title":"Atrociously smarmy melodrama, not for the faint of stomach","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are plenty of interesting, excellent and introspective cinematic explorations out there. This is *not* one of those movies. Neil Jordan' self-absorbed direction propels the plot into high melodrama, assisted by a score marred by unrelentingly saccharine strings and banal chords. The characters' inner conflicts are so straightforward it becomes ridiculous to watch them wallow in fake turmoil. I couldn't begin to start caring about their pathetic predicaments. Despite all this, the actors' performances are authentic and the love scenes are steamy, but nothing can save this film from being absurd, empty, nauseating drivel. I usually trust Finnes' and Moore's taste in scripts. Lesson learned. I assume the competition was thin on the ground the year this film won a BAFTA and an Oscar nomination. "},{"Title":"Superior and a beautifully touching remake with a fine leading cast","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those incidences in which the remake is so much better than the original. Although I like both movies, the 1999 version is a much better treatment of the Graham Greene book than the 1955 version. I thought both Julianne Moore and Deborah Kerr were great as Sarah Miles, but Ralph Fiennes was more effective than Van Johnson as Maurice Bendrix. Regarding the story telling, the message of the spiritual awakening was very touching in this 1999 version. The revelation of each layer of Sarah Miles' secret was handled very well, which makes you feel very sorry for Bendrix. Ralph Fiennes hit a bull's eye in the expression of his sorrow. In addition, I love the music, the visual, and the strong religious overtone presented in the movie. "},{"Title":"OK, I Get It... I Think...","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, I Get It... I Think...They made this movie so Ralph could practice being Francis Dolarhyde and Julianne could practice coughing on cue.No wait. This was the nostalgia genre to take me back to the old British movies I used to watch on TV as a kid. You know, where they filmed all the scenes and then put them in a hat and drew them out one at a time in order to decide their order in the film. And where if a particular scene gave the viewer any sort of a clue as to the plot, direction, or purpose of the movie it got trodden upon on the cutting room floor.AHA! I SAAAAAAAY! BY JOVE! I THINK HE'S GOT IT! JOLLY GOOD SHEW!Seriously, it's one of those that leave you with questions, this movie is. Nagging questions, since I am a people watcher. Questions I wish I could ignore, but can't.For starters, I wonder if in the book Sarah Miles was a redhead too. That would explain perhaps her desire to make it with a man other than her husband who, whether due to physical impotence or staid British upbringing, was apparently dead sexually.(Redheads are famous for being hot blooded, not to mention fiery of disposition, and must have had an awful time with the internal conflicts caused by suppressing their temperaments in merry olde (and stuffy) England of the period.) Now to his credit, Sarah's husband (Henry) did love her in his own stiff-upper-lip way. Perhaps he even understood his wife better than the movie may have given him credit for. If so that would explain his willingness to look the other way when she was having an affair.OK, so Sarah had an affair. But why with Maurice? What did she see in him? OK, so he was handy, maybe. Not sure. But why love him so you would even promise God to not see him any more if He would only bring him back to life? Why the sudden selflessness on Sarah's part? I mean, what was Maurice's attraction in the first place? Was it because Sarah's husband seemed disinterested in her and Maurice was obsessed with her? Did she go for the opposite to fulfill a need? If so, does that sort of need fulfillment engender deep undying love? The movie never did explain (to me anyway) what their mutual attraction was; how it got started; how and why it grew. Maybe I got too glassy eyed while watching it? Yeah that's another question, and a legitimate one. Did this movie put me half to sleep so that I missed some things? Towards the end we find our three characters in a polyamory situation of sorts. But jealousy is the bane of any sort of poly relationship. Henry could have been a successful member of such a relationship, but never Maurice. How did Maurice make it living with the couple and keep from crawling out of his skin? Like I said. Questions. Maybe if I read the book they would be answered. I'm glad I hadn't. Perhaps if the book did a better job of explaining things I would be unconsciously filling in the holes this movie left in the story, and this review would never have seen the light of day.But it needed to be written, in my humble opinion.Now if someone who works as a film writer would only see it... and derive inspiration... (sigh). "},{"Title":"The Greatest Love Story?","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The End of the Affair works on so many levels simultaneously that repeated viewings are necessary to assimilate the genius of everyone involved in making this intoxicating movie.Neil Jordan's screenplay allows us to experience the film as literature, as a creative process of writing. The film is literate and there is some superb editing that moves the story back and forth in time. It works as a film-novel. The film does homage to Graham Greene's examination of human and Divine love.The acting is superb from Fiennes, Moore and Rea. The supporting cast is marvelous and perfect. The costume designer, Sandy Powell, gets it right again. The music score by Michael Nyman is beautiful and the background songs, Haunted Heart and Symphony are right out of the period (although I think Haunted Heart came a few years after the story ends.) I consider this a perfect movie. There aren't many of them around. It gives me pleasure to show it to people for the first time. They never have any idea where the story is going, and are always deeply touched by it.Also, for such serious content, there is a lot of humorous dialog.Bravo. "},{"Title":"Julianne Moore and Stephen Rea are amazing!","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first started seeing this movie, I enjoyed it but I didn't love it. You know what I mean? This was because the story was a bit confusing and not very clear in the beginning. But when I continued watching, it all became clear and I ended up really loving this movie. The story was an excellent mix of all the ingredients of a real love affair. Julianne Moore was great as always. She can play any role and it's a shame she hasn't won any Academy Award yet. I think she should have one for her performance in The Hours, which was without any doubt her best up to now. But I'm not worried, because I know she will certainly win an Oscar some day.Ralph Fiennes was fine as well, but next to Julianne Moore I loved Stephen Rea the most. There is only one word to describe his performance and that is 'intense'. I loved him in every scene! Brilliant actor. The story was amazing as well. I think it showed the different stages of falling in love and loving very well. How the love is very physical in the beginning and afterwards develops to wanting to be with her all the time and holding her and being there for her.Although the story of The Wings Of The Dove was something completely different, it reminded me a bit of this movie from time to time. Neil Jordan managed to make another great movie with an excellent cast and a classic story.Worth watching! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic acting...","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  On a comment left previously here about the Detectives 'employee';'(One plot flaw does, however, show up here why would this man, whose job it is to spy on unsuspecting people for his clients, employ a boy to help him who sports a very distinctive birthmark on one side of his face?).'He didn't 'employ' him, he was his Son.I liked this film, not a favourite but I thought the acting was brilliant. Especially from Ralph Fiennes and Ian Hart. It did drag somewhat in certain places, but I liked the storyline. It twists a bit. Quite a classy film.  "},{"Title":"soul-less","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went along with expectations of a wonderful love story and instead got a soul-less mish-mash.  The characters were unbelievable, at times their dialogue was simply ridiculous - 'Love doesn't end just because we don't see each other'  -  was this supposed to be the moment when the audience clutched their hankies to their eyes and beat their bosom?  Give us a break.  Perhaps if the characters seemed to genuinely love each other I might have been able to swallow this line.  Oh and the 'ending' of the affair, as it were, well.... a bit too glamourised and mysterious for me. The thing about this movie that I did like was the excellent settings and costuming.  Just gorgeous.  Sumptuous.  But all for nothing if the storyline is completely soul-less.  I give it a 4 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Harlequin via Greene","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a sensitive man. I grew up in a mostly female household. I went to a predominantly women's college. I have many female friends. But I'll stereotype myself as a guy in this case - this, despite being from a Graham Greene story, is as much of a women's movie as anything.Any man, in Steven Rea's shoes would either kick the holy hell out of Fiennes' writer or cut off his cheating wife pronto - instead, Rea is all loving and ok with the fact his wife has been cheating on him, because of her fate. The scene where the illicit couple run into Rea in Brighton is one of the most laughable confrontations in film history - who acts that way?Throw in the supernatural stuff at then end (no spoiler), and its a wasted 2 hours or so. "},{"Title":"blase blase","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning;  may contain spoilers.Why is it that the woman played by Julianne Moore is riding roller coasters and having much sex the day before she finds out she is going to die?  Then when she does find out, all of a sudden she is bed ridden and tired and weak and decides that the best thing to do in her final days is to mope and live a life of seclusion and deprive herself of life's pleasures.  Why is that?  I'll tell you why, because not only is this film slow and tedious, it is downright stupid in many ways.  Brilliance is not a euphanism for fatigue and absurdity.  Those are two words that best describe this film.  Fatigue because that's what you're going to feel when you watch this and absurdity because that is what the film.....absurd.I think what people and critics rave about is the morality and struggles with God in this film.  Struggling with God seems to be the theme du jour in recent films.  From films like Stigmata, End of Days and Magnolia ( to name a few ) to this one, it seems that you can gain almost instant praise if you have the theme of God in your film.  And that topic does make for an interesting film if done properly, which this film isn't. Was this film bad?  No, not in the sense that it was poorly made in every way.  But it is bad in ways like keeping our interest.  I had no interest in Julliane Moore, Ralph Fiennes or Neil Jordan's sidekick, Stephen Rea.  Their lives didn't matter to me and I could really care less who was cheating on whom and who was going to die.  You could see almost right at the beginning that Moore was going to die at the end and I certainly didn't buy the fact that two men that loved the same woman could co-exist in the same household while she withered away.The End of the Affair is not worth seeing, unless you want to make fun of it.  Then it is worth spending five bucks on it so you can see how poorly it was written.  That is all that I can recommend about it.  In other words, this film is very very weak.Julianne Moore is a great actress and it is apparent that she loves to work.  I read recently at boxofficeguru.com that she was one of the busiest actresses of the 90's.  Good for her.  But as much fun as she is to watch, maybe she would be wise not to do the Michaeal Caine thing and appear in every single film that is thrown her way.  Remember, Caine appeared in Jaws 4.  Well, Moore is starting to do the same thing, to me she has appeared in four pretty bad films in the last year ( End Of The Affair, Magnolia, the remake of Psycho and An Ideal Husband ).  I would like to see her put her talents to use and appear in better films.  Just my humble opinion of course.4 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Wonderful script, fine acting, excellent direction&#133;but hoo-boy the plot!","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Fiennes, Rea and Moore, and all of the lesser cast, are superb. (Forget Britteny, Julianne Moore is the Babe of My Heart.) The direction is great, the camera-work impeccable, and I was really absorbed by the film. Until&#133;Moore goes kaf kaf kaf into her handkerchief, and I say to myself, Oh no, she's not going to die of tuberculosis, is she? And by golly, she does (and performs a miracle on the way out.). It's the book's fault, but what a trite, clichéd, cornball ending! It is because of the ending that I awarded the film 5 points&#151;out of resentment that all this talent was wasted on such a mediocre piece of literature. A major disappointment. "},{"Title":"I almost prayed","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was this really a whole novel? Seems like a short story -  there's about ten minutes' worth of material eked out over an hour and a half. Not only do we get lots of flashbacks, they're even repeated two or three times. And the subject Fiennes having an affair with Moore, who's Rea's wife, isn't particularly interesting, so in a vain effort to spice it up a bit there's a supernatural angle. Well, I almost prayed it would hurry up and end. "},{"Title":"It didn't work for me","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   This weepy melodrama was either supposed to be about a dull English marriage or a comment about the religious games people play. Neither angle was interesting to me.Julianne Moore I can take or leave. She's an okay actress, and amazingly she never Madonnaed her fake English accent.  She held it up right to the end quite decently.Ralph Fiennes I can definitely leave.  This man may be a wonderful human being but he's the coldest actor I have ever seen.  I never connected with his character. He was exactly the same in the English Patient.  I couldn't have cared less what happened to him.  Had he blown up in the explosion I would have shrugged. Stephen Rea was sympathetic as the cuckold.  His stodgy, middle-aged husband is as far away as you can get from his edgy character in The Crying Game.And my last comment is that religion always seems to be portrayed as something negative and oppressive in the movies.  You hardly ever see a character uplifted and kept on the straight and narrow by his religious practice.  Here we go yet again, with God getting between two sweethearts...even though they're adulterous sweethearts.  Oh, brother. "},{"Title":"Like the book, nice yet dull","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the book, I liked the movie, but I'm not sure if It's like everybody is saying about it.  Ralph Fiennes and Julianne Moore embody their characters like in the novel, but I found it kinda boring (for a few very good exceptions I believe that all the Ralph Fiennes pictures are dead as a doorpost).  Good plot and good acting/direction don't make up for making the audience fall asleep.  Yet, for fans of the English Patient this film is calling for you like in the ricola commercial.  C+ (cause it's Neil Jordan). "},{"Title":"The answer to an insomniac's prayer","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is difficult to believe that the man who gave us the first-class writing, imagery, and characterizations of The Crying Game and Michael Collins was responsible for this exercise in brain-numbing tedium.  It's one redeeming feature  a relatively short length of 101 minutes, though it seemed like 1,001.    "},{"Title":"Read the book.","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't read the book myself, but do as I say, not as I do.  I'm sure the story works in prose.  But it moves so very slowly on the screen ...  Consider the explosion scene, which we see twice, with a little more information revealed the second time.  It was hard enough to make it through this arid scene once - twice is intolerable.  And the sex!  Why is movie sex always so EARNEST?A satisfying conclusion to what I though would turn out to be a pointless pointless story compensates for the previous tedium; one walks away well disposed towards the film, and with a high opinion of its intelligence.  But I wish I'd encountered the twist in the book first. "},{"Title":"avoid","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  mild spoilers aheadThis is was simply *awful* - what was it, a soft-porn + catholic guilt film for the art house crowd? Whoever thought anyone in the audience actually wanted to see Ralph Fiennes' naked behind emerging from his trousers while he's banging Julianne Moore? And speaking of soft porn scenes, that scene where RF puts JM's stockings and shoes on her and tells her how much he's jealous of them since they carry her away from him, we're obviously meant to a. be titillated and b. amused/impressed with his wit and infatuation. Frankly, the only thing I could think (other than oh god, what a bad acting job) was that JM really didn't have such nice legs.Graham Greene's gotta be one of the most dour writers around, and translating his books into movies usually results in dour boring affairs. Avoid at all costs, unless you are into the naked behinds of not so terribly attractive men. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a yawner.  Neither of the main characters has any redeeming qualities save looking attractive for the camera.  Even that wears thin after the first fifteen minutes.  The story is incredibly predictable made even more so by the repetition of scenes from each character's view point.  The best part of this film is when the credits come up at the end of an unbelievably long two hours.  Avoid this dud like the plague or better yet, treat yourself to a nap.  It amounts to the same thing. "}{"Title":"A piece of rubbish","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoiler Alert It is really a bad adaptation of a magnificent novel. Boooooring. Juliane and Ralph are so plane in the film. I didn't feel any of the feelings described in the book. The only good part was mixing the odd characters that are cured by Sara.The main idea of the book is to make you hate Sara til the climax when you discover that she left the man coz she loved him so much. I didn't feel anything like that with the movie. Just lame and corny chit chat.I read there is an older adaptation of the same book, I wonder if it is as bad as this one.0 of 10 popcorns  "},{"Title":"OK, but sappy...","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A decent romance film starring Ralph Fiennes and Juliane Moore as a young couple caught in a romance during the throes of WWII. Good direction and some fine performances, but it's hardly an excellent film, and Fiennes continues his same persona here as that in The English Patient and other such films.Moore (Boogie Nights) is the most impressive of the cast, but it's not a great movie in any way.For its good points I rate it 3.5/5 stars, but I wouldn't give it anything more than that.3.5/5 stars-John Ulmer "},{"Title":"cure for insomnia","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have only feel asleep during two movies - Plan Nine From Outer Space, and End Of The Affair. Why does no one ever speak above a whisper? I'm sure it's a good movie - if anyone can stay awake through it! The total lack of excitment and the lethartic pace make this movie seem like a never-ending bad dream, the kind that make you toss and turn all night, but can't wake up from. Don't be tempted by ratings or good comments. Watch something else. "},{"Title":"too bad it took so long ...","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever had the misfortune to see. Whose idea was it to show us Ralph Fiennes' naked butt while he's copulating with the equally unattractive Julianne Moore in her living room? And were we supposed to be titillated by that scene where he puts her stocking and shoes on her and tells her how he's so jealous of her shoes because they carry her away from him? All I could think was that the lady really was past her prime and should avoid roles that exposed her thighs. And the story line! It makes sense and arouses sympathy/understanding only in lapsed catholics who believe in bargaining with God (you could see that bit about her bargaining with God for his life from about 100 miles away). This Graham Greene at his most sour, and it makes for a spectacularly joyless, sour film. To be avoided at all cost. "},{"Title":"Why does Ralph keep making these awful movies?","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not trying to be harsh, but does anyone else find the ending to be a bit predictable? I love Neil Jordon, he is an awesome director, and the movie is well made. I have not read the book The End of the Affair, but I'll tell you this much, I don't think I'll be reading it too soon. Because this story was boring, simple, and unoriginal. How in the heck was I supposed to feel sorry for these characters? The wife cheated on her husband, the lover knew she was married and messed around with her anyways, and the actual husband didn't notice his wife was there until he realized that she might leave him. You tell me how these characters are sympathetic? They're just pathetic to me. I just didn't like this movie. I wouldn't recommend it.1/10 "}]