[{"Title":"It's just a film, and it's a funny one!","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"40 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Last night, I saw Cecil B. DeMented at a special screening hosted by John Waters, who took questions after the fact. After taking into account my own impressions of the movie, John Waters' apparent impressions, and the comments on this site, I really have to conclude that most of the commentors don't quite get the point. This movie was not in any sense meant to be taken seriously, and yet the detractors label it a hypocritical satire while the fans read it as an honest indictment of Hollywood- in both cases, the commentors are barking up the wrong tree, in my opinion. If Cecil B. Demented is to be taken as a genuine satire, it is clearly meant as a satire of both sides of the argument. Waters does not take sides in this movie- he portrays Cecil and his Sprocket Holes as pretentious loons and cultists, and the Hollywood (actually Baltimore) Filmmaking Establishment as tasteless middlebrow panderers. It is obvious in these portrayals that Waters thinks they're ALL pains in the ass- after all, Pauline Kael-ite auteur-lovers ARE pretentious, and Hollywood DOES turn out a lot of lousy shlock. The critic who points out that the Sprockets' tattoos read like a list of directors kids SHOULD be watching and who compares the love of Preminger with the dislike of Lean clearly doesn't realize that Waters is in on the contradiction. The Sprockets celebrate art movies as they celebrate pornography and Kung Fu flicks. It should be apparent to almost anyone that the Sprockets are no more meant to be role models for the moviegoing public than the makers of Forrest Gump II are. First and foremost, the movie is meant to be funny, and it succeeds admirably on that count. True, the humor is sometimes overly crude and often falls flat, but any movie with memorable dialogue such as Before I was a drug addict, I had all KINDS of problems- now I just have one! can't be considered bad. Waters seems to consider this film, like most of his others, a lark- a reflection of his own sense of humor. When asked his inspiration, Waters pretty much admits that he just thought it would be fun to suppose what would happen if the readers of Film Threat magazine really took their anger to the next level. When asked if Cecil is a reflection of himself, Waters is quick to discredit the notion, pointing out that Cecil has utterly no sense of humor. In fact, the main target Waters skewers in this film are people who take things too seriously. Judging from the other comments on this page, those humorless people have trouble recognizing themselves in the film. "},{"Title":"a treat for movie lovers","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  All you `movie lovers' out there who are the genuine article, prepare to laugh &#150; HARD!  In `Cecil B. Demented,' famed off-Hollywood filmmaker John Waters has turned his attention to a subject that is obviously near and dear to his heart, and, in fact, near and dear to the hearts of all true lovers of movies everywhere.  In his latest wild comedy, he has tackled the seemingly irreconcilable conflict that exists between the worlds of big budget mainstream Hollywood moviemaking and low budget, renegade independent cinema - a conflict that the latter always seems unfairly and unfailingly to lose.  Waters certainly knows whereof he speaks - he, himself of course, being one of the great pioneers and icons of the underground film movement. He launched his directorial career and made a name for himself in independent film circles way back in the 1970's with such crude landmark underground classics as `Pink Flamingoes' and `Female Trouble.' Since that time, he has himself received some heat from diehard indie film purists who have considered him something of a sellout for producing offbeat but decidedly more `commercial' works like `Hair Spray,' `Cry Baby' and `Serial Mom, ` often with big name actors and actresses in starring roles.  Yet, even with this more polished sheen, Waters' films have always retained that quality of outrageousness and that willingness to push the envelope that distinguish his vision from that of more mainstream filmmakers.`Cecil B. Demented' is a particularly funny film for those who share Waters' outrage at the mass audience's seeming preference for the bland unoriginality of much of the product churned out by the cinema factory known as Hollywood and its seeming dismissal of the cutting edge experimentation and originality that define so much of independent filmmaking.  And he lambastes a money-hungry industry that is all too eager and willing to supply the public with the big budget, special effects-ridden pablum it seems to crave.  Or is it &#150; in classic chicken-or-egg fashion &#150; really the STUDIOS that condition the audience into thinking that those are the films that they want to spend their hard earned money to see?   At any rate, Waters' clever parody follows a Patty Hearst-type storyline (as usual, Patty Hearst herself appears in the film) in which a group of bizarre, renegade independent filmmakers kidnap a Hollywood starlet (Melanie Griffith at her most likable) then force her to star in their reality-based new film which involves them filming themselves as they storm, guns blazing, into theatres that are showing putrid mainstream films, all in a righteous effort to bring commercial cinema to its knees.`Cecil B. Demented' provides a rapid-fire onslaught of clever inside jokes lampooning both mainstream and independent filmmaking.  Although his heart obviously lies with the latter, Waters also can remain objective enough to skewer some of the self-righteous pretentiousness that occasionally creeps into that type of filmmaking as well (he even shows that, as a director, he is damn good at staging one of those slick car chases he professes to abhor).  Yet, as this clever parody plays itself out, most of us watching the film can't help but nod our heads in amused agreement with much of what he is showing us.  In addition to the jokes themselves, Waters provides amusement with his sharply delineated comic characters each of whom satirizes a different aspect of the renegade subculture.  We have, for instance, the maniacal, fanatical, single-minded director (delightfully played by Stephen Dorff) who sees himself as nothing less than the messiah sent to destroy commercial filmmaking and erect a cinema based on iconoclasm and originality in its place.  We have all his devoted followers who run the gamut from Satanists to porn stars to punk rockers to straight hairdressers to gay truck drivers etc.  Without question, much of the zestful energy that propels this madcap film forward comes from the dead-on performances of the actors and actresses in these roles.Energy and originality are in fact the hallmarks of this film from start to finish.  `Cecil B. Demented' may not be Waters at his most outrageous, but it provides loads of pleasure for film lovers who have been thinking many of the same thoughts that only Waters, in his uniquely humorous way, could effectively get across.  Real movie lovers of the world unite!  Cecil B. Demented is here to save the day!  "},{"Title":"Waters' return to form","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While I've enjoyed John Waters recent output, movies like Pecker and Serial Mom have played it a little to safe for my liking. It's great to think of middle-America watching any kind of Waters movie rather than pap like Pearl Harbor and The Mummy Returns, but these movies only give half the picture. While Cecil B. Demented isn't pure unadulterated Waters like Pink Flamingos, it is his best movie since Cry Baby, and a complete HOOT. Man, the sheer energy and humour of this movie, and the basic message of its love for REAL cinema, really pushed my buttons and left me grinning from ear to ear, and UP for a week afterwards! Hopefully someone out there is listening, 'gets it', and will check out some earlier Waters, and some of the work of Sprockets heroes, and their lives will be enriched forever. "},{"Title":"Unstill Waters","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Many of you have probably never heard of this film, which stars Stephen Dorff as a rebel filmmaker who goes to some interesting extremes to get his movie made. The film is directed by noted underground director John Waters, and Waters tosses in scores of Hollywood in-jokes (check out the marquee during the opening credits!). The reason more people didn't see this in the theater is simply that it's so... so... different. It's highly unique, and therefore less likely to appeal to a mass audience.But you do need to see it, really! Cecil B. Demented (Dorff) is the leader of a motley band of would-be film aficionados who kidnap a Hollywood actress (Melanie Griffith) at the premiere of her latest film. Demented's idea is to make a movie using guerrilla tactics, making the statement that studio films are Bad and independent films are Good. Waters' point is that the studio system is such that any movie coming out of it fits into a formula to make it more palatable to the masses - that is, that the movies you see in the multiplexes are dumbed down for your viewing pleasure.Demented tries to achieve his vision by staging protests of a sort at movie houses, film screenings, speeches, and even a drive-in. His entourage includes a Satanist, a former porn star, and many other social and sexual deviants. There's hardly a taboo subject Waters doesn't cover here! And to be sure, the character of Demented himself never changes, which is in itself a welcome respite. Had this been a Hollywood film, you might have seen the nefarious filmmaker suddenly see the error of his ways in the final three minutes. I won't give anything away to you, folks, but rest assured that the characters remain true to themselves, except for Griffith's character. She changes, but it's a subtle, honest change. There are surprises everywhere you turn, but let me warn you this is absolutely not a film for everyone. There is plenty here to offend even the most open of minds. It is at once a unique, refreshing, and exciting film. It never even rests to catch its breath - it doesn't want the audience to fall back into its Hollywoodized lull. Major kudos for screenwriting go to Waters and to his amazing cast. If you're into offbeat films, please watch this.   "},{"Title":"Watch Out for Those Genre Specific Audiences","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Any film with Alicia Witt and Maggie Gyllenhaal has very good things going for it visually. And although a little weird for mainstream audiences, Cecil B. DeMented is a very entertaining film. Imagine a spoof about the American film industry and American movie audiences, packaged as a cross between Dr. Strangelove and State and Main.It is after all a John Waters film, and a film set in his hometown of Baltimore. Which means the jokes will be hit-and-miss, with many best appreciated by film industry insiders and Baltimore natives. But the obvious fun the cast has playing their out-there characters is infectious. Melanie Griffith (Tippi Hedren's daughter) has a ball tweaking her diva image as she plays an aging star gradually won over to the cause of her kidnappers (insert Patti Hearst here who actually has a small part in the picture). Alicia Witt gives her best ever performance as the delectable porn star turned revolutionary. The best scene is when she and her fellow film revolutionaries hide out at a porn theater showing Rear Entry, an anal epic co-starring Witt and a randy gerbil.Stephen Dorff, before he went insane and got involved with Pamela (slug) Anderson, does a good job as the title character. But watch closely for an absolutely glowing performance by Gyllenhaal. She is something special with lines like I haven't had this much fun since my last livestock mutilation! Worth watching if you have a sense of humor, even better if you are demented. "},{"Title":"I'm Ready For My Close-up, Mr. Demented...","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mainstream movies and the studio system, as well as independent films and filmmakers, are sliced, diced, hammered and shredded by writer/director John Waters in his biting and funny satire, `Cecil B. Demented,' starring Stephen Dorff and Melanie Griffith.  Railing against convention and adamant in his quest, a young man who wants to make a statement about bad movies, the way they're made, those who participate in these cinematic transgressions and those who flock to theaters to see the final product, dubs himself `Cecil B. Demented' and sets out to make a `real' indie film.  Toward this end, he assembles a group of like-thinking would-be filmmakers and forms them into a lethal band of cinematic guerrillas he names the `Sprocket Holes,' and has them take jobs at and infiltrate a theater in Baltimore that is about to hold a lavish premiere of a new movie featuring Hollywood star Honey Whitlock (Griffith).  Honey herself is scheduled to attend, and Demented's plan is to kidnap her and force her to star in his film, which will be shot `ambush' style, intruding upon real people and situations, rolling film and getting it in the can before anyone knows what happened.  He hopes. Dedicated to making the kind of movie that should be made, the Sprocket Holes are not only willing to die for their art, but go so far as to take a vow to remain chaste until the film is completed.`Demented' is by turns outrageous, violent and hilarious, and-- some would say, subjectively speaking-- that Waters pushes the envelope of good taste to the limit.  But then again, he usually does, and it usually works. Anyone who knows John Waters' movies knows what to expect (indeed, anticipate), but those who come to his work unawares may be in for a jaw-dropping eye opener.  When satire is done well it can cut both ways; this one is, and it does.  Movies made by the studios for no other purpose than to make a buck, and which contain no artistic merit whatsoever are the obvious target of Waters' barrage, but so are the `auteur,' legends-in-their-own-minds `indie' filmmakers with a penchant for taking themselves too seriously.  Along the way, Waters is having a laugh at himself, even as he laughs along with his fellow filmmakers at both ends of the spectrum, those at whom his shots are being fired.As Demented, Dorff takes a somewhat over-the-top and highly energized approach to the character, in a performance punctuated with exclamation points.  But he leaves no doubt in the mind of the viewer that he IS Cecil B. Demented.  And you know that come what may, there's going to be no stopping him.  Griffith, meanwhile, adds a nice touch as Honey, a character through whom we see all the transparencies of a Hollywood `star,' whose career has never been hampered by bad acting.  Inured of a caustic and ego driven personality, she nevertheless manages to garner some sympathy as the story moves along and her vulnerable side is exposed.  Griffith is perfect for the part, which is something of a good natured nudge in the ribs of her own image.  As intended, it's just another instance of Waters pulling aside the curtain to reveal what is really behind the facade.In a supporting role, Alicia Witt gives a memorable performance as Cherish, the porn star who sees her co-starring role with Honey in Demented's film as a way of legitimizing her career, while at the same time thumbing her nose at the industry that has for so long shunned her `talents.'  The additional supporting cast includes Adrian Grenier (Lyle), Larry Gilliard Jr. (Lewis), Maggie Gyllenhaal (Raven), Jack Noseworthy (Rodney), Michael Shannon (Petie), Harriet Dodge (Dinah), Zenzele Uzoma (Chardonnay), Eric M. Barry (Fidget), Erika Lynn Rupli (Pam), Mink Stole (Mrs. Mallory), Patty Hearst (Fidget's Mother), Ricki Lake (Libby) and Kevin Nealon (Himself).  A film that will definitely get your attention, `Cecil B. Demented' sets pretentiousness on it's ear by saying what most people think but rarely say due to the constraints of social protocol.  Waters crosses some lines and doesn't pull any punches with this one, which may make it a bit hard for some to take; but movie lovers in general, and aficionados of independent film especially, should get a real kick out of it.  It may be a bit skewed, but it's all a part of the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 8/10.  "},{"Title":"A wildly satirical look at mainstream and underground cinema","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't seen enough John Waters movies to make a comparison to this one, so I can't tell if this was his most impressive work or not.  But impressive, it is.  I can see that Waters has a keen eye for satire.  He does a fine job at mocking both underground and mainstream cinema, without being too exaggerated.  He never goes over the top.  Some of the scenes may be a little less than satisfying, the comedy may sag at times and there are very few actual laugh out loud gags--but at least Waters doesn't overdo the comedy to the point where it's sickening.  Sure, he has a quirky sense of style that doesn't have a worldwide appeal.  There is a scene in the movie involving a porn star and a gerbil (use your imagination).  However, what Waters has is edge with taste.  None of this mindless, gross-out crap we often spot in recent years; his stuff has intelligence.What's great about this movie is its sense of irony.  Stephen Dorff is perfectly cast as the emotionless, soul-less cult director Cecil B. Demented.  The great thing about his performance--and Waters mentions this too--is he blurts out the most blatant, silly ideas and he totally plays it straight.  He's serious about his cinematic deeds, no matter how far-fetched and stupid they sound.  The movie is full of quirky characters.  One quote that I will always remember is by Adrian Greenier, who plays the bong-toking crew member, when he's talking to Melanie Griffith's character.  He offers her a hit from his crackpipe.  She refuses, and he tells her, I used to have all sorts of problems.  Now it's just drugs.  It's given my life a real focus!The climax is pretty...well...snappy.  Unique but snappy.  And I think Waters could've come up with something better.  I don't know what, I just felt it was missing something.Cecil B. Demented is wild, original and often funny.  And after seeing this movie, I'm anxious to check out Waters' earlier work.  On the DVD, there is a pretty good commentary by the director.  He rambles on at times, but it's often pretty insightful.  It's also interesting to find out There is no extra in a John Waters movie.  He incorporates the same cast members into every one of his movies.My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"This movie is a 10...but,","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's not for the average movie fan. Cecil B. Demented is full of hidden clichés and retro-references that appeals to the warped viewer. The viewer who only sees movies with their 'significant other' will not appreciate this artistic production. The characters are almost toonish, but yet they are real. They are people you may have known, or at least viewed on the internet..eh. The colors are vivid as is the imagination. Waters leaves you wondering what he can think of next! Honey Whitlock is seductive, mature and yet willing and submissive to the abductor's plot. This does bring up memories of the Patricia Hearst kidnapping which appropriately she is in the movie. Hearst plays the role of Fidget's mother. And most of us guys can relate to Fidget. If you are a fan of underground movies, you will love this one!! Be careful who you refer this movie to, or they may put you in their prayers! It could polarize your next family get-together! "},{"Title":"I'm ready for my close-up, Mr. DeMented","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After the bloody awful Pecker, John Waters made this hilarious satire about a radical independent director, Cecil B. DeMented (Stephen Dorff) and his wild crew (Maggie Gyllenhaal, Adrian Grenier and Alicia Witt, among others) who kidnap a spoiled Hollywood starlet (Melanie Griffith, self-parodying her career of once successful turned B-list name) and force her to star in an underground film. In a world where the spoofs are made for the teenage audience and with the only purpose of recreating blockbusters' popular scenes (the Scary Movie series and its lame imitators - even the work of cult names like Kevin Smith - Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - jumped on the same bandwagon), it's refreshing to watch a satire that's really funny and kitsch, but also very witty. DeMented's crew worships directors like Sam Peckinpah, Kenneth Anger, Pedro Almodóvar, Samuel Fuller, David Lynch and Rainer Werner Fassbinder, and not everybody will realize the irony in the end, but for film buffs who like these tidbits, Cecil B. DeMented is an absolute riot. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Hmm...","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It would be to easy to say that the film is simply rubbish, which it is. It is however the reasons it is terrible that bored the audiance most of all. The film can't make up it's mind on weather it for or against mainstream cinema. If the film is against, then how come I managed to see the film in my local Multiplex, an aspect in the film which is slandered. The obvious answer is that it's against mainstream, but yet why has Waters made the characters annoying, pretentious idiots if he wants us to side with them? As far as I'm concearned this is for people who want to brag that they like a film that they know no one has heard of. Waste of time. "}{"Title":"what a load of rubbish!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was like the worst kind of student film but ten times as long. It  opened reasonably promisingly and Melanie Griffiths was quite funny but, right at the point where the box office would probably refuse to refund your ticket price on the grounds of crapness, it took a horrible turn for the worse and stayed there. I have to say that I don't think you can blame the actors - the script and direction were both pathetic and infantile. Sad to see a film which knocks Hollywood blockbusters turn out to be so very much inferior to them. Waters is hoist with his own petard! "},{"Title":"Give it props for trying, but tries too hard","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I stumbled onto this film on Showtime and since it had just started I watched it through. Knowing very little about it at the time the first impression was that it was a goofy 'B' grade comedy. It got a little darker than that but not much. I almost quit watching after the completely contrived situations got a little old, but I did like some of the characterizations even if they were mostly overdone, and some of those contrived situations were funny in any case. The film ended with much the same kind of goofiness that it began with. I give it a 7 for being different but the sort of movie I'd only watch one time. "},{"Title":"Amateur night at the movies...Griffith deserved her Razzie award...","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" At the start of CECIL B. DeMENTED, we see a cluster of close-ups showing teens posing as ushers, doormen and whatever, getting ready to celebrate the premiere of a new film starring Honey Whitlock (MELANIE GRIFFITH), an overage Hollywood diva making a personal appearance to promote her new flick. All of them are treating the premiere as a countdown to some sort of disastrous event because they're all in on the kidnapping plan.Well, the disastrous event does happen--but it's this John Waters film that scores big in that department! Just awful. All the dialog, all the sight gags, all the performances are just short of amateurish, so painfully bad that I forced myself to pay attention until the final out of control ending, by which time director Waters seemed to have lost all control of his project, his cast and his story.Ironically, the theme of this comedy is supposed to be down with mainstream film-making as the insane Cecil B. DeMented intends to kidnap movie star Griffith so that he can use her as the drawing card on his own underground film where only the first take is ever used because he's a seeker of the truth and pure vision. But Water's film, while making fun of mainstream trash (and sometimes rightfully so), is itself an example of less than mediocre craftsmanship, crude, tasteless, and full of puerile humor, the kind that grosses some people out, as well as an unhealthy dose of vulgarity.It's when director DeMented (played by STEPHEN DORFF) takes his film-making crew on the road into the real world that all hell breaks loose. None of the cast has anything more than paper thin characterizations to worry about so they appear to be having a good time as they wreak havoc everywhere. The laughs are scant and the film itself just keeps getting worse as it wobbles on and on toward what is supposed to be an exciting finale.Summing up Lots of R-rated stuff. Keep the kiddies home for this one.Strictly amateur night material which had me wondering whether MELANIE GRIFFITH was so hard up that she had to take part in such an enormous mess. She fully deserved her Razzie Award for Worst Actress of the Year. Too bad someone didn't do her a favor and really kidnap her to prevent her from showing up at the studio!I felt like I was watching an Ed Wood film, except it wasn't in glorious B&W! "},{"Title":"John Waters... What the Heck?","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" An insane independent film director (Stephen Dorff) and his renegade group of teenage filmmakers kidnap an A-list Hollywood actress (Melanie Griffith) and force her to star in their underground film.This film has a very Troma feel (and it is interesting that Herschell Gordon Lewis was given a special shout-out but Lloyd Kaufman was not). The punk atmosphere, the strange approach to sexuality. We have an excellent early role for Maggie Gyllenhaal (who is strong here despite the film being quite weak), and a very, very early role for the vastly under-rated Michael Shannon.Although the movie as a whole is not great, Kevin Nealon and Gump Again may be the best part. Between that and the terrorizing of the studio execs eating oysters, there are a few choice scenes that really make the movie memorable. Unfortunately, they are not enough to make the picture actually good.For her role as Honey Whitlock, Griffith was rightly nominated for Worst Actress at the 2000 Golden Raspberry Awards. Despite the lukewarm response from critics, the film has attained something of a cult status since its release. This should come as no shock, since anything John Waters does at this point is likely to gain some level of cult status. "},{"Title":"Flip and jaundiced and cynical, but not demented...Waters is far too ensconced in his cozy netherworld","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Writer-director John Waters is back in Baltimore! Unfortunately, this cheeky spin on the Patty Hearst saga--wherein a Hollywood actress, kidnapped by a radical filmmaking group of punks, is forced at gunpoint to star in their underground movie--is all quick one-liners and no plot...and no pay-off (the third act being a sloppy free-for-all, a typical John Waters failing point). Melanie Griffith (dryly and amusingly resolved) acquits herself well with Waters' predictably gross sense of humor, but Waters himself never cuts loose. There's no sting in the comedy because the points he makes on the current state of cinema aren't points at all--just cute jabs in the ribs. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A criticism and a homage to the movies","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Cult director John Waters has always been a favourite amongst those familiar with the 'Midnight Movie' circuit. The Midnight Movies were a bunch of films that included David Lynch's Eraserhead (1977), Alejandro Jodorowsky's El Topo (1970), and Waters' own Pink Flamingos (1972), that were screened in New York in the 1970's to an audience looking for an artistic vision that tended to push the boundaries of taste and subject matter, and led to re-discoveries of films now considered classics such as Freaks (1932) and Night of the Living Dead (1968). Waters, as well as championing the great auteurs such as Pasolini and Fassbinder, was always an outspoken fan of zero-budget schlock like Criminally Insane (1975) and the work of Herschell Gordon Lewis. And this is the focus of Cecil B. Demented, a movie essentially for cinephiles, and one that has the movie business as a whole fixed in its sights.Hollywood starlet Honey Whitlock (Melanie Griffith) is on the verge of another smash hit when she attends the premiere in Baltimore. In front of a shocked audience and many cameras, she is kidnapped by psychopathic film director Cecil B. Demented (Stephen Dorff). Demented takes Honey back to his studio, where his loyal crew, calling themselves the Sprocket Holes, have a vision to take cinema back for the auteurs, and crush the studio system (who are in production of Forrest Gump 2). Honey is to be the star in the first of a new movement - Outlaw Cinema - a process that strips back all production values in favour of achieving ultimate reality. They have also taken a vow of chaste, and will not have sex until the movie is done. Seeing opinion of her drastically slide on television, Honey starts to sympathise with Demented's movement, and eventually she wilfully comes over to the cause.It can be said that true satire cuts both ways, and that is certainly what Waters achieves with this. As an obsessive movie fan myself, there's many a time when I've been eager to tear down the poster of a new Zac Efron movie or punch someone in the face when they've describe how much they love Marley & Me (2008). I sometimes want to scream about how much they're missing through ignorance and that it's their fault so much s**t gets made. But there's times when I've looked back at my own pretentiousness and felt embarrassed at criticising someone who ultimately wants something entirely different out of cinema than I do. Demented's bunch of misfits are nothing more than dysfunctional psychopaths; cartoon cut-outs that are too extreme to not laugh at. Waters seems to be amused more by these scarf-wearing chin-strokers than by those who inadvertently fund the studio system.Although a lot doesn't really work in Cecil B. Demented, I still got a lot out of it. This is mainly due to the fact that I share a lot of Waters' opinions, and can get as much enjoyment out of a tacky old Larry Cohen or Herschell Gordon Lewis horror as I could with something from Godard or Bunuel. Occasionally the bad taste humour doesn't go down so well, such as the sloppy penetration sounds when the gang can finally get down to it, or the rather silly 'Demented Forever' sing-a-long, but Stephen Dorff's wide-eyed, energetic performance managed to be a nice distraction. Demented could be seen as an answer to many of Waters' fans objections to his occasional dabbling with the mainstream, with his colourful efforts Hairspray (1988) and (the very enjoyable) Serial Mom (1994) playing in direct contrast to Pink Flamingos, which infamously contains a scene of dog-s**t eating. But this is a criticism and a homage to the movies, something that all cinephiles can understand.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Funny, Rude, Demented - totally awesome!","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you like films that are not to be taken too seriously, this is it!Cecil B Demented is a really funny, low budgetly cult film that boasts a fantastic cast who provide plenty of memorable moments as Cecil's rebellious cinematic misfits 'The Sprocket Holes'. Stephen Dorff does a fantastic job playing Cecil - the crazy independent film maker who kidnaps Hollywood's most loved actress, Honey Whitlock (Melanie Griffith), in order to make his film a success in the world of underground cinema.If you are a serial, hardcore movie goer, this is the film for you. Full of ridiculous, crude humor and masses of action and excitement - this is a classic. And remember starring as the crazy Cecil B Demented is Stephen Dorff so you'll also have plenty of eye candy !!!  "},{"Title":"pulls you in","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this film for the first time after having wanted to see it forever. I must say, I got exactly what I'd hope for out of 'Cecil' a fabulously fun time. The quirkiness of the plot (and the characters) pulls you in, makes you absolutely have to see the whole thing at once (none of that stopping-in-the-middle-to-get-another-Coke crap). On top of that, the actors are fabulous. I'd only ever seen Stephen Dorff in 'Blade' before, and he caught my attention even back then. And of course there are two other brilliant actors, Maggie Gyllenhall and Adrian Grenier. The whole cast was great, even though I honestly don't know who all the performers are off the top of my head. All around, a very groovy flick-- I would recommend it to my friends. 8/10, 4.3 stars and 1.5 thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Original and Funny as Hell!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Cecil B. Demented is an original movie about kids in the underground movie business that is against all other movies and theaters.  This comidic movie starring Stephan Dorff as Cecil B. Demented and Melanie Griffith as Honey Whitlock, is a fresh new movie with a wild sense of non-stop laughter and fun.  7.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Two worlds collide","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie manages to make fun of both inane Hollywood cinema and insane independent cinema at the same time.  The movie itself is quite obviously intended to be awful in the sense that every character is based on a stereotype with no character development whatsoever.  If you like tacky, crazy movies, you should give this one a chance.  Otherwise, it's probably not for you.I feel that this movie could have been a bit faster paced at times, but overall managed to capture the spirit of some of the wacky elements of filmmaking and rebellion.  "}{"Title":"waters does it again","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Just as campy as his other films, Cecil B DeMented was just what I've come to expect from a John waters film!  Fun, silly, and sometimes just down right inane (what kind of mind thinks up this stuff?) The soundtrack rocked, I laughed a few times, shook my head a few times, and sighed a few times. Baltimore and John Waters has one more to be proud of.  "},{"Title":"A J.Waters indeed... Great, funny. I tribute to us-all Hollywood-haters & trash fans","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen only two more John Waters films (fortunately the old ones MULTIPLE MANIACS & DESPERATE LIVING) - this surely has a fresher approach (as far as colours & budget are concerned - nothing too fancy of course!). And YES, trying to intellectualise a J.Waters film IS stupid!This is a tribute to all these people around the world (like me) who are FED UP with the hollywood CRAP we are spoon-fed from news, media & local cinemas & critics. Still we get the feeling straight in our face (yeah!), in the J.W. bad taste way, an almost 'naive'/stupid comment, but true in context and spirit. Deliberately non-intellectual but radical!I have not deen any Hershel Gordon Lewis film (shame!!!) but having a weird taste & nose for the strange I can understand the statement PRO trash art / cinema - having also a pervert sense of humour, I regard this film a hillarious monument in my list of specially beloved films.Despite being light-weight and funny it delivers the message and is sure to please much more people than just the fans of trash cinema.John Waters is surely a winner to me.  "},{"Title":"Missed Mark and Failed Satire","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The recently released movie Cecil B. Demented, tries to pay homage to underground cinema, while taking up direct fire on the modern studio system of Hollywood.  However, despite a promising concept and vision, the film falls victim to it's own agenda, as the horribly executed movie's script inadvertently portrays a renegade, independent film group as a Hollywood studio itself.Demented starts off with two intertwined scenes.  One being that of famous screen-star Honey Witlock (played by Melanie Griffith).  She, in front of the press and public, is a genuinely caring person, who even donated money from her latest feature (exclaiming which she loved filming in Baltimore), to help kids with heart problems.  However, as soon as the cameras leave, she exclaims her absolute hatred of the city, and her absolute love with herself.The other scene is that of a theater crew, who is planning to kidnap Ms. Whitlock at her movie's premier (which we find out by shots of each crew member whispering unconvincing catch-phrases into walkie-talkies).  Just as we suspect, this team starts shooting up the place in order to create enough chaos so they can capture Honey.  The mayor is also there, and one would think he would have some decent protection to hold back the forces of a small group of renegade film-makers.  But one must not get distracted by such things...Once Whitlock is captured, each member of the underground film group introduces themselves and their markings (each have their favorite director tattooed on themselves).  The leader of the group is Cecil B. Demented (Stephan Dorf), who proclaims that he loves the prospect of renegade film so much, that he's willing to die for the cause.  He also explains they each took a vow of celibacy, and that one could not engage in sexual activity until the film is complete.  This causes Cecil to utter the best line in the whole movie We're horny, but our film comes first!After the blatant introduction of the characters, Cecil explains to Honey that they shall force her to act in their movie -- where only one take is allowed, and most of the participants in the film, do not know they are such participants.  Demented and his group strike such places as a local theater, a Baltimore Film Board conference, and the set of Forrest Two (the sequel to Forrest Gump).*    *    *Cecil B. Demented has been nominated for one award.  And that deservingly has gone to Melanie Griffith.  This was a Razzie Award for worst performance by an actress in a motion picture.  And bad her performance was. Writer/director John Waters  presumably intended on presenting the figure of Ms. Whitlock as the studio system, and how it can come to terms with underground, renegade cinema; joining and adopting it's practices. However, Melanie Griffith displays the character with such an air-head aura; to which the audience can't take a guess at what she's actually trying to convey.Let us get past the acting for one moment (take my word when I say all the performances are fairly bad).  The actual execution of this movie is very sloppy; just from a technical stand-point.  The direction is plain cookie-cutter stuff, as Waters presents his characters' actions in a very soap opera-ish type atmosphere.  The editing, cinematography, and other aspects of the film do not need to be fully explained; as the same thing can be stated for them that was said for the direction.  All was just mediocre, or sub-par.However, the script itself is another problem.  For although Cecil B. Demented does have some very promising concepts, they fail in the way they are presented.  The script presents the holes that are present in every modern comedy ferociously annoying secondary characters, a predictable story line, pointless jokes and scenes, and a message that tries to be conveyed through the medium of humor (that is often blurred by the former subject of pointless jokes and scenes).The message that was trying to be conveyed is the most dismal failure of all.  For, when Waters was trying to go against the corruption of the studio system, he presented his renegade filmmakers as just the same (although apparently not purposely).  Cecil, the director of the underground film, is most definitely the leader, and refuses for his crew and cast to engage in any sexual or materialistic activity.  Doesn't this totalitarian attitude describe one accepted aspect of Hollywood studios?  Also, the underground filmmakers'  harsh view on mainstream, is equaled by mainstream's harsh view on underground.  They are essentially the same system A dictatorship, each with they're own distinct vision, which presents acrimonious views towards film mediums other than they're own.  It is simply Water's playing favorites which one of the same things does he like better?  For in a sense, doesn't even renegade film provide a sense of corruption?Just as this film misses the mark of it's message, it misses the mark of just about all the other factors that could of made this into a biting satire.  John Waters does try to re-affirm his underground roots in this film, although he truly does not execute this concept clear enough. "},{"Title":"Ok, we get the point","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, we know Hollywood produces trash, but do we need an entire movie to shove the point down our throats in such a crude, one-joke, albeit trashy manner? The dialogue is tired and self-conscious, the plot exhausting, boring and the characters unlikable and annoying. People that want to think they are original and independent latch onto to this stuff, but it's really just satire-for-the-sake-of-satire utter crap. There are other films with a similar theme -- off the top of my head, Woody Allen's Celebrity is light years ahead of this.   "},{"Title":"The Anti-hero of film","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love films without a clear-cut villain or hero. Never have I seen an ensemble of  amazing character personifying the term anti-hero since the two catholic brothers in The Boondock Saints. Being a film student and an outspoken advocate against the Hollywood System, Cecil B. Demented was the film for me. The way Hollywood is verbally obliterated suggests it was written by an angry teenager who just learned how to use more colorful expletives rather than words in a sentence, but John Waters will make you laugh hysterically.This film clearly shows that film making is no longer Art. It is just another form of artistic expression tainted by capitalism and commercialism. The good actors and actresses are pushed to the side paving the way to the next man or woman with a pretty face. Melanie Griffith is a true embodiment of this in her role as Honey Whitlock. She portrayed a mindless, brainless, big-breasted Hollywood drone flawlessly. Whether or not she was trying to act bad, or that was her acting ability will forever be a mystery to me. The more or less immortalizing of some forgotten directors was classic. Names like Kenneth Anger, Sam Peckinpah, Otto Preminger, and my personal favorite David Lynch are the basis of these outlaws of cinema.Nobody in film making was immune to the cynical, satirical sense of humor of John Waters in this film. Hollywood had this coming and John Waters finallytook on the role as commander and chief of Film satire at its best. "},{"Title":"Not so demented","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of John Waters' weaker films is this somewhat lifeless attack on Hollywood banality.  The cast gamely go through their paces as they commit themselves to the egomaniacal Cecil B. Demented, but, there are few laughs to be had. Waters direction is defiantly flat and there is none of the joy that made his earlier films so wonderful. Still; even sub standard Waters is better than no Waters at all!  "},{"Title":"Entertainment for those being spoofed only.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The key to John Waters' humour has always seemed to be a certain flippancy and distance from the people and subject matter involved, but in Cecil B. DeMented I think Waters is hitting too close to what he really cares about.  As a result the humour is nearsighted and his gags not nearly as odd as usual, as he seems too busy reinforcing his points to sit back and wonder whether what he's doing is really funny or interesting.And other problem is the fact that his 'points' -- the ridiculousness of both Hollywood AND desperately independent filmmakers -- leave no room for anybody else.  All of the characters are under fire...a constant BARRAGE of fire that is 95% vitriol and 5% joke.  This makes for an uncomfortable situation.  In a usual John Waters film you can find something fascinating about every character, but here the characters are reduced to mere mouthpieces for the movie's 'points.'  The trademark quirky John Waters characterizations are nowhere to be found (even Cherish's tragic backstory seems anemic in comparison).There are some very, very funny moments in this film (the Rear Entry porno spoof, the nasty kid laughing at Mink Stole's heart attack, and the Patch Adams Director's cut) but otherwise the entertainment has been left behind in favour of getting as many digs at cinema in as possible.  The result is a messy satire (even by the usual Waters standards) MINUS the entertainment.  I wonder if the only people who will REALLY enjoy this film will be the very people Waters is spoofing? "},{"Title":"One man's look at a twisted, modern day genius.","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sweet Mercyful Lord!  Not very often do I see a movie that not only leaves me speechless but begging for more.  Enter John Waters newest look into the heart of modern society and you might just draw back a knub.... Cecil B. Demented!  Visionary, heartthrob, modern day Movie Messiah!  I have a vision and his name is Cecil B. Demented. Melanie Griffith shines as Honey Whitlock, an average, ho-hum screen queen who, one day, is dragged kicking and screaming (literally)into the world of the quite insane underground director, Cecil B. Demented, played like a psychotic roller coaster into Hell, by Stephen Dorff.  Demented's goal (along with his motley crew of deranged misfits)is to make the ultimate low-budget movie to send his message of Anti-Capitalism in the modern world of the Motion Picture Industry.....by any means necessary.  After all, what's murder, mayhem, and explosions when you have a movie to make?  This is an EXTREMELY funny black comedy that will have you screaming with laughter and raising your arm as you scream DEMENTED FOREVER!  "},{"Title":"Like the blind men and the elephant...","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What I love about this film isn't so much the film itself, but the reactions it has elicitedFilm snobs view Cecil B. Demented as a validation of their appreciation and the superiority of independent film, and a stinging indictment of Hollywood's mass-market, manufactured appeal.Others (including me) see it as a hilarious parody and caricature of the often pompous, insufferable holier-than-thou attitudes of film snobs. Are the film snobs right? Am I right? Are we both right? That the answer cannot be determined should stand as a testament to the film-making skills of Mr. Waters. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this movie last night and I thought it was a great film.I thought it was very funny and the whole idea of the movie was perfect!!! Stephen Dorff was the perfect guy for the crazy role of Cecil. Everybody else rocked as well. This is a great, funny movie for film lovers.DEMENTED FOREVER!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Definite return-to-form for John Waters, after the disappointment of 'Pecker'.  If you liked 'Serial Mom', you'll like this.  I've never heard Melanie Griffiths talk so filthy, and it's hilarious!  See it! "},{"Title":"Fun, funny, enjoyable--don't take it too seriously.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I hear again and again that people are disappointed by this John Waters film, that it's unfunny and doesn't live up to his old material.Well, I think Waters has taken a different course too, but it's one that's worth watching. Cecil B. DeMented is an underappreciated gem.It's certainly not a movie to take seriously at all, that's for sure. The dialogue that sounds more like the ravings of a madman sometimes than actual interaction between people is classic Waters fare. I find some of the lines so very over-the-top (typical Waters shock schlock) that they are completely delightful.Stephen Dorff is magnificent as Cecil, the megalomaniac who's sold his soul to save cinema, and Melanie Griffith plays the stereotypical-romantic-comedy-bimbo-turned-gun-toting-renegade quite well. Cecil's film crew is enjoyable as well, and Alicia Witt was perfectly cast as the porn ingenue.Guest appearances by common Waters film actors like Mink Stole, Patty Hearst, Ricki Lake, etc. are fun to watch for, and other stars I never expected to see in this movie like Kevin Nealon are truly great.I've seen this movie a couple of times, with several different groups of people, and I've decided that you just have to be a little crazy yourself to like Cecil. But if you are that kind of person, this is worth a rent.Even my boyfriend, who consistently only likes super-hyped Hollywood fare with guns and car chases and John Travolta (or other star-of-the-month), said he enjoyed Cecil, if for nothing else than to laugh at the insane things the cast does and says.My advice? Take this movie with a grain of salt, and enjoy it for its goofy face value. Don't try to read too much into Waters' subversive film renegades. Just have fun with it.The soundtrack is great too, by the way. "},{"Title":"you know, whatever","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've been watching John Waters movies for about 20 years now, and have made a few awful versions of my own, and while I understand that he can amateurish, that his scripts are filled more with proclamations than dialogue, and his work has tamed a bit (as well as the fact that his alignment to the counter culture seems mildly dated, or at least from the point of view of an old man), I also make note that he and his movies have their charm, even Cry Baby.  That said, this was the silliest movie I have ever sat through, but it made me laugh quite a bit.  And the final moment with Melanie Griffith walking to the paddy wagon with the Liberace song playing was the most downright artful thing Mr. Waters has ever filmed.  As  his latterday work goes, this is no Pecker nor Hairspray, but, you know, it does have Kevin Nealon as Forrest Gump . . . "},{"Title":"John Waters movies are a genre to themselves","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The older I get, I have come to realize that there are two kinds of people in the world, the kind who get John Waters movies and ... well, those who don't. I don't say that in any sort of elitist way, there are many movies and genres that I don't get either and I watch a lot of movies.this is  another in the series of movies by auteur director John Waters, truly a one-man genre. You know his films as John Waters Movies, no matter what the plot is or who he has starring in it. I enjoyed this movie tremendously, as a person who has all but given up on seeing first run movies in the theaters anymore due to being burned by an almost consistant lack of fresh ideas or quality, it's nice to see a director who also pokes fun at the Hollywood studio system. The story this movie tells has been quite ably explained here, I will offer the following observations. Isn't it ironic that that film seems to parallel Patty Hearst's life and she has a small part in it? She too was kidnapped and forced to act outside her class and character to serve the needs of a revolutionary group. John Waters is the master of the bon mot, a clever little phrase thrown in for humourous effect during interviews. This movie is full of one line classic quotes, another trait that all his movies have. You don't watch a John Waters movie, you give yourself over to it and go along on a strange and weird ride. Those not willing (or able) to make that leap, simply do not get John Waters movies. Recommended for fans and for those who watch good, obscure videos late into the night. "},{"Title":"Obviously allegorical","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film to be an allegory based on Patricia Hearst(who appears in the film). The kidnapping of a high profile female by a radical underground group. Her subsequent torture and brainwashing and ultimate acts of sedition by joining her captors. Some interesting parallel here.  "},{"Title":"What a hoot!","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After reading some of the earlier posts, I wondered what movie y'all watched...not the same one I did.  John Waters took this opportunity to artistically flip off everything he thinks is silly about film making, and that includes auteurs  This film was an equal opportunity offender, everyone got a little poke in the eye.  Watch it again, and don't take things so seriously.  Demented forever! "},{"Title":"To DeMented for me!","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   Now this movie has great actors in this but it's very much garbage! Now the cast in different movies are up and comming! Dorff and Griffith are great actors but the real standouts are Alicia Witt and Adrian Grenier. They will be stars soon! John Waters is a great director but what the hell is he trying to make here! Stong sexual content. Now I love sex and violence in films but this was to crude and rude to even be called a movie! Movie making should be for the people to enjoy, but not this one! It's so bad that I only give it a 1/2 star out of 4 stars! It's that bad! Now if I had a chance to be in a John Waters film I would but be in a good one like Cry Baby and Hair Spray. Those are Classics! The only reason I saw this movie is because of Eric Roberts but he was in it for 1 minute! Oh well. Try again John. Maybe next time!  "},{"Title":"Well.....not so good","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What the hell was the point of this horrible movie? I'm a pretty big John Waters fan, but I must say, after watching this crap, I enjoy reading his books more than watching his last two movies. I think it all ended after Serial Mom, which was his last great film. Anyways, un-recommended by all means. Everyone's acting sucked as well. "},{"Title":"Great premise, disappointing by design (spoilers)","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I always anticipate the release of a new John Waters film. As a teen I was mesmerized the first time I saw Female Trouble, and I can say that it really helped to define my sense of humor. For the first time in my life I was seeing something that really made me laugh. The sheer audacity of his early films really appealed to some dark and twisted side of me, a side that exists in all of us but for some is never let out.I've followed every film since then. I've matured along with Waters and I've enjoyed almost every film he's ever made. Of the newer crop, Hairspray and Serial Mom are probably my favorites. And I was SO pleased with Pecker. It showed a side of him that was sweet and subtle, and I really liked the change and maturity his writing and directing had taken.Along comes Cecil B. Demented, a film that by premise promises to be one of the best but by design falls flat on its face. I never went to see it in the theater. I rented it on DVD and had friends over for dinner and cocktails. We made it an event and I'd hoped we'd all be rolling on the floor laughing 10 minutes into the film. Well I must say the evening ended with a few asleep and others rubbing their eyes. We were all so excited beforehand and so let down in the end. I've never been one to jump on the John Waters new films suck bandwagon but this film really left a lot to be desired. Melanie Griffith's character had all of the ingredients for a prime Waters diva. How she screwed that up I fail to understand. Patty Hearst could have done the role more justice. Stephen Dorff's character, unlike most of Waters leading characters, was extremely hard to like. He wasn't sassy, he wasn't particularly smart, and he really didn't make me believe in his cause. The thing that has been so brilliant about Waters past work is the fact that he really made you cheer for the most despicable individuals. There is absolutely nothing that I liked about Dorff or Griffith's  characters and no reason for me to root for their salvation. I think that by killing Dorff in the end, Waters has indicated to us that he didn't care for him so much either?Where has Waters writing gone? Where are the quick, brilliant flashes of dialogue that we've come to love. There were many scenes in which I anticipated something hilarious only to be let down with something really stupid. The group chanting Demented Forever really made me cringe. It was worlds away from something like Who wants to die for art!.Credits? Van Smith's set design was fabulous. The tattoos were a nice touch, especially for film buffs. The idea was out of this world.Yeah, the idea was out of this world but it could have been SO SO much more. "},{"Title":"Back to the demented future","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Waters pulls together historical themes from both the news headlines and his own filmography to create a twisted (what else?) and oddly familiar new work. Rather than a continuation of his post-Divine, post-Edith Massey respectability (Hairspray, Cry Baby, Serial Mom, and Pecker), he blatantly and deftly steals his own material from earlier edgy classics such as Pink Flamingoes, Female Trouble, and Polyester. Renegade fringe folk committing guerilla art. Crime as beauty. Baltimore's arthouse drive-in's and decaying porno theaters. Violent suburban moms agitating against all that is unwholesome. Straight men cursing the fates who made them heterosexual. Dying for art. Strict celibacy for the sake of the aesthetic. It's all back!Cecil B. Demented updates these themes with a fictional redux of the abduction and conversion of Patty Hearst (catch her cameo!), exquisitely casting Melanie Griffith as a petulant, aging film starlet who bears more than a passing resemblance to Nora Desmond. Waters spoofs his own low budget origins and the more recent Dogma movement. (Dogma is the European independent film crusade that eschews Hollywood movies, opting instead for cheap, fast schedule filmmaking with handheld cameras, no props, location shooting using only available lighting and sound, no special effects, and natural staging with real-life action.)The film drags a bit during Cecil's professions of faith, and the Ricki Lake scenes are typically pointless, but watch how far Mink stole has come since Mondo Trasho. And Kevin Nealon in Forrest Gump 2 is not to be missed. "}{"Title":"Muddy Waters","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A big disappointment to the hardcore Waters fan, who misses the days when his own little movie serfdom provided an alternative to Hollywood in lieu of trying to assimilate. Divorced from his usual coterie of colorful eccentrics, his deficiencies as a director begin to stand out. He can't direct action scenes, he can't get his actors to perform in concert, pacing is all off, jokes fall flat -- I waited in vain for Troma's Toxic Avenger to appear. "},{"Title":"i've got mixed feelings","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  as a film, this movie shines above the rest of the films made in the last few years as being the most outrageous.  As a john waters film though.....i'm not sure where to place it.This film had a strange feel to it, almost as if a trendy indie director such as tarentino, or spike lee had directed a movie in the style of john waters.  The beginning scenes really show this, the outrageous quality of the ushers concealing weapons was true waters, the glossy, modern feel gave a disturbing and decidedly not john waters feel to the movie.  The soundtrack was also upsetting, a john waters movie with a techno-rap-death metal soundtrack????? i dont think so, where are the sleazy cheezey b sides???Apart from a strange modernist feel, this movie was pretty good, much truer to his roots than say, pecker, or cry baby.  I won't say you'll come out of this film disgusted, the way you would with pink flamingos or female trouble, but you would be disturbed, the gerbil scene was rather gross, although if we saw what was going on it would have been true waters, but i feel that we've reached a point in society where this would have utterly ruined the film, it probably would have been rated x, and more than likely nobody (especially a real actress like alicia witt, i'll discuss why i say real later) would actually let him put a gerbil in her bum.Otherwise the only other problem i had was the acting.  Dorf (as Demented) had the insane, unbelievable waters character down, but it was hard to sympathize with him.  Unlike characters such as Divine, or Beverly Sutphin (who were evil but ultimately the heroes because of the sympathy they created), dorf was unable to be likeable, he was domineering, obsessive, and outlandish, but with no charm.  Griffith played Honey perfectly, or should i say poorly.  Old school waters films featured people with no acting ability, who were simply crazy, insane, wonderful people having no character other than who they really were.  Griffith (who has absolutely no talent) portrayed the character of a naive, bitchy, money driven, power driven ... perfectly well, maybe thats because she is???  The other people especially the real actors (ie, they work for the money not because john waters found them on a street corner and thought they would look great in a baby crib covered in eggs), were believable water's cast.9 out of 10 for a film 7 out of 10 for a waters film   "},{"Title":"Demented forever- or at least for ninety minutes.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  minor spoilersAfter the sweet and entertaining but ultimately unremarkable Pecker, John Waters picks up where Desperate Living  left off and delivers a movie chock full of disgusting characters spewing forth pages of crazed, dogmatic dialog and engaging in wild acts of perversion (it's kind of sad, though, when a woman engaging in anal sex with a gerbil is only implied off-screen in a John Waters movie).Cecil B. Demented (Stephen Dorff) is an obsessed guerilla film-maker who gives a new meaning to the phrase cult film as he and his rabid followers go about making the ultimate anti-Hollywood movie. They kidnap Honey Whitlock (Melanie Griffith), a major star (who is in Baltimore to premier her latest movie, Some Kind of Happiness), and force her to star in their masterpiece, Raving Beauty.I liked Cecil B. Demented, although I thought it was very flawed. The main problem is that Cecil's gang is just too large. There are just too many bizarre characters each with their own perversion and duty (producer, driver, sound, etc) and they should have been whittled down. Suggestions Since all but one scene in Cecil's movie is shot in real life settings, was it necessary for there to be a set designer character? And why not combine the hair, make-up, and wardrobe personnel into one guy, and make the funny, cheerful Satanist girl the director of photography, instead of the useless,colorless one that was there? This way there'd be a few quirky characters each with their own subplot, instead of a dozen interchangeable ones. The movie suffers from having to cram each character into every scene, and even after they start dying there's still too many of them.Focusing on the positive, there are a ton of hilarious scenes including Cecil and his gang disrupting the filming of Gump Again (the sequel to Forrest Gump) and getting into a war with teamsters. Another plus is that Mink Stole has a larger part than her cameo in Pecker, although she's still not in the movie enough. Why doesn't Waters give her a bigger part? She's a much better actress than the despicable Melanie Griffith, who's Honey Whitlock is pretty grating. Stephen Dorff's performance is also flawed He nails the demented obsession of a John Waters character, but doesn't have the underlying likability of one (unlike Kathleen Turner's perfect performance in 'Serial Mom').Oops, I'm focusing on the negative again. Really, I enjoyed most of Cecil B. Demented and am willing to forgive it's flaws for the simple fact that Waters is still one of the most original and fun film-makers working today. I'll be first in line for one of his movies any day, although I'll be standing behind the legions of zombies waiting to see Patch Adams The Director's Cut "},{"Title":"Should have rented Pecker -- for the fourth time.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Waters probably doesn't care that I didn't like this movie. He might dismiss my disappointed and shrug it off with a Well, you just didn't get it. But I did get it. It just wasn't all that funny or entertaining. It had its moments. Ironically, in its attempt to bash Hollywood factory films, it wound up being one. Alicia Witt was pretty cool, as she usually is, but the rest of the cast wasn't even that good at playing amateurs. I guess this would have been worth a rental but only if you are some serious devotee to Waters. The inside jokes were not obscure enough to be interesting, and, except for two or three scenes, not much of this was remotely interesting, let alone tasteless and freakish. Basically, if you paid full price to see this movie, you got teabagged. "},{"Title":"JUST HORRIBLE","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am a die hard fan of all of john waters' work i own everything that has been released to the public by him (i am only missing Eat Your Make Up and Roman Candles). I compare most situations in life to most of the goings on in his movies. Cecil B Demented was just stupid. It was Glitzy, it was family Friendly. Christ i bet the MPAA actually enjoyed this movie. I almost cried after this movie was over. i can't believe how horrible this film was. The gerbil scene gave one slight chuckle but alas, he's working with these HOllywood people so we would never get the full humour of actually seeing something as shocking as gerbil sex on screen (ala the chicken screwing in pink flamingos) If John waters really wants to Make his fans happy. He should definately do something with that flamingos Forever script He needs a new Divine, And Mink stole deserves more than 5 minutes on screen. To get your Mink Fix see but im a cheerleader forget this crap "},{"Title":"It doesn't have to be gross to be good","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely one of Waters' best films, ranking along with Hairspray and even Pink Flamingos.  I have no idea why people say that this film isn't gross enough.  In fact, the mild violence is an homage to such movies as El Mariachi, where grievous gunshot wounds, due to a low budget, end up being little specks of painted-on blood.The movie send-ups were great, and Melanie Griffith played her best role ever.  There is just so much packed into this film that to dismiss it as Waters selling out means that the viewer just didn't pay too much attention.Also, I have seen many critics panning this movie.  However, it sounds like times other great movies have been panned the director is starting to become TOO successful, and therefore the leftist media feels they have to move in for the kill.  No one is allowed to be successful AND good.  It is too bad that Waters, in some ways, is becoming a target for the very people he stands up for in this movie. "},{"Title":"it was a good run...","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  first of all, i have to say...i hate to say this but this movie really disapointed me.  i am a huge fan who was actually speechless when i got to meet him following one of his wonderful lectures.  the film was simply not interesting or funny.  i liked the idea, and very much liked Melanie Griffith.  i hated Stephen Dorff, who seems to think the essence of being demented is shouting his lines.  there is some great one liners (mostly from Melanie), some very cute boys; great opening title sequence.  John, i love you, but i have to file this one with Cry-Baby under uninteresting.look again at the mirthful joy of the underrated Pecker for better luck next time. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love John Waters. I consider everything he's done to be great with two exceptions Serial Mom and Cecil B. Demented. I was so excited to see this therefore ready and willing to laugh and have a good time, but I did NOT. I sat there the whole time feeling rather bad for Mr. Waters. How could the creator of Pink Flamingos, Desperate Living, even Pecker, actually think he was making a good movie? There is very little to laugh at in this movie, no characters that you care about for even a second or two, and an extremely thin plot. For a man whose film is a call to awaken the taste of the public, and bring more art, and sex, and violence into mainstream movies and smack us all around a little bit, he has made his least offensive or shocking movie to date. Nothing happens in this movie except a bunch of self-righteous anarchist brats with guns running around acting like idiots while totally lacking the style and perverted dignity of Waters' other characters. If you are a Waters fan, save your money. Everyone else should go see it for charitable purposes. "},{"Title":"Not up to Waters's usual standards","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is OK, but for a big Waters fan like myself, it's a disappointment. I liked the concept--satirizing the overimportance movies are given as art by many these days. In that sense, it's a great subject for Waters since his style has always been to obliterate cinematic conventions. However, the execution isn't comparable to Waters's best movies (Desperate Living, Pink Flamingos, Polyester, Hairspray, and Serial Mom). For me, the movie has a clustrophobic feel--way too many scenes set in Demented's Warholian movie factory. The supporting characters aren't as sharp as they usually are in a Waters movie--nothing to compare to The Egg Lady, Queen Carlotta, Cuddles, or even Little Chrissy from Pecker. I suppose the funniest character in this movie is Pam, the militant-lesbian cinematographer, but few (e.g., a satanist filmmaker) are original or funny. Griffith is OK parodying herself, but I never found Dorff to be engaging or funny in this role (he takes himself way too seriously and never shows any hint of vulnerability or humor). One good gag, though, seen in the trailer, has Dorff lustily licking the Panorama camera--obsessive love for cinema, indeed! This movie is OK for a video rental for Waters fans or those who think cinema is taken WAY too seriously these days, but I have to admit this is really below par from what I've come to expect from John Waters in the humor department. "},{"Title":"Starts out with promise...","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  but doesnt follow through. I loved the movie started out making fun of Hollywood with its jabs at sequels and multi-plexes but then it deteriorated in to a trashy not so fun movie any more. I'm used to John Waters being wicked but it wasnt even funny the last 45 minutes. Sorry, cant recommend this one. "}{"Title":"If You're Going to Bash Hollywood Make a Film Better Than They Would","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Cecil B. DeMented (2000)* 1/2 (out of 4) John Waters has a very clear message here but it's the perfect example of a director having something to say but not a good way of saying it. In the film, the twisted, underground director Cecil B. DeMented (Stephen Dorff) and he teenage filmmakers kidnap A-list actress Honey Whitlock (Melanie Griffith) and force her to appear in their film. What's the subject of their film? That Hollywood is pure evil and the only good cinema is the independent movie. If Waters' wanted to give people a message that independent cinema is better than Hollywood then he really should have came up with a better screenplay because as it stands there really aren't too many Hollywood comedies that are worse than this low-budget movie. Again, I understand what Waters was going for but the film is a complete disaster that doesn't have a single laugh in it. There are a couple good things with one of them being Griffith who gives it her all even when the screenplay isn't giving her much to do. The second thing the film has going for it is the fact that it never really gets boring no matter how unfunny it is. With that said, for the most part the film is a complete misfire with one unfunny sequence after another. This terrorist group basically go out and film themselves mistreating those things they most object to. This includes malls that show movies, family friendly groups and of course the evil big-budget sequels. Again, the message is clear but the way it's presented is just so poorly done that you can't help but roll your eyes at everything being done. Even worse is the fact that I never could understand why these anti-Hollywood people would want an A-list actress in their film. Waters clearly has a talent but it's certainly not on display here. "},{"Title":"Remember the Comic Strip?","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is utterly hilarious - satire fun big time. I laughed my ass off so many times... Adequate actors, great acting within reason - it feels like the Comic Strip doing a Fassbinder parody. Well done. All of the fun poked at the film industry and its surroundings, circumstances, people, ways of doing things etc. is just so over the top you just got to love it. Of course, it's some kind of statement or else it wouldn't be John Waters (remember Pink Flamingos?). I leave it to you to figure out all the innuendos and discuss them from an intellectual point of view - have fun! As of me, I enjoyed the film (at least, we had a giggle) and recommend it as such to everyone with some sort of substantiated background, an appreciation for the bizarre, and a general sense of off-color humour. "},{"Title":"Wreck And Film","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If it wasn't for Johnny Depp, I'd have to say that Stephen Dorff was the actor inclined towards the most quirky roles. The fact he's not a major star in the same league as Depp is, probably means he's got more freedom to choose his projects. Or maybe he gets the stuff that Depp turns down.I think only Johnny Depp could have done the part of rogue film director Cecil B. Demented for John Waters other than Dorff. In this dark comedy, Waters makes quite a statement about the conformity of the major league film industry. It's driven Dorff quite insane in fact.Dorff as Cecil B. Demented has collected quite a crew of misfits around him in their scheme to make the ultimate cinema verite. In a bow to tradition though they need a name star, so Dorff and his crew capture a visiting Hollywood celebrity to Baltimore in Melanie Griffith to star in their production. The good city fathers of Baltimore have gone to great lengths to convince film people that Baltimore and the state of Maryland in general is a hospitable climate for location shooting. That is something Dorff is determined to wreck and film.Anyone who is expecting the rollicking and unconventional, but essentially good natured product that Waters turns out like CryBaby, Hairspray, or Pecker. Cecil B. DeMented has quite the edge to it. Still it provides Stephen Dorff with one meaty role and a large diet of good tasting furniture to chew. But it's that kind of part. "},{"Title":"Cecil B Demented","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Hollywood's aging star Honey Whitlock(Melanie Griffith, who seems like she was born to star in a John Waters flick)is kidnapped by cinema terrorists with director Cecil B Demented(Stephen Dorff)head honcho behind the whole ordeal. Honey is to star in his underground film which is shot on the streets completely devoid of the studio system. The whole point behind the anarchy of Demented and his group is to pointedly bitch-slap the establishment in the face, by any means necessary. Unfortunately Baltimore will be the target of their crusade and Honey becomes a cult hero as a media circus develops. The police make it their mission to bring down Demented. The crew of this film range from a porn star(who claims she was molested by her entire family underneath the Christmas tree)to a Satanist(who gulps down goat urine), but they are extreme fans of cinema and believe the system Hollywood is backing needs a revolution. Demented's film is aimed as the start of the evolution of a new artform. Soon violence erupts as a result of his raw film-making style(they attack a theater showing the director's cut of PATCH ADAMS;and a stand-off with police during a riot of a Maryland Film Commission luncheon). As the film continues, Honey has a change of heart regarding her captors once she realizes that Cecil is behind her new rise in popularity.Grows more and more absurd as the Waters' film continues(Honey leaps off a building landing on her feet below;Honey sets her hair on fire for Cecil)such as Demented and company raiding the set of a FORREST GUMP sequel starring Kevin Nealon(!)resulting in a gunfight with teamsters! There's an inspired chase into a porno theater where Cherish(Alicia Witt)gets seats for her group in a film starring her as the remaining teamsters find themselves against an army of pervs! There's even a chase into an action flick where Demented calls on the fans of the theater to assist them against a pack of spiteful mothers from a grocery store(!) who hate what the cinema terrorists are doing to their youth. The film is as demented as the title character who is willing to burn himself alive in a wheelchair for his film! "},{"Title":"Was there meant to be a point?","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" As Cecil B. Demented begins, the cast of characters begin repeating slogans that express disgust with the MPAA-led studio system and what it stands for. What's ironic is that as the film goes its other eighty minutes, one cannot help but get the feeling the MPAA censored it in order to turn it into an in-cohesive mess. This would make a perfectly satisfactory in-joke, given that many a film has been cut to the point of not making sense by a studio system that, for all of its expenditure, just cannot make a decent film more than once in a blue moon. Indeed, those of us who sat through the monumental disappointment of the recent Lord Of The Rings, Resident Evil, or Alien/Predators films and counted the euphemisms for acts designed to preserve a PG-13 rating, will find much to agree with here.The problem is that when Cecil B. Demented is not delivering the most unsubtle criticisms of a studio system more concerned with playing it safe than making art, the film falls into the trap of stereotyping. All the stereotypes of people the MPAA system wishes didn't exist are accounted for here. The porn star who was abused as a child? Check. The Satanist who cannot blend into the rest of the world? Check. The spotty teen who discovers with a rude shock what he has actually got himself into? Check. About the only stereotype Cecil B. Demented manages to effectively avoid is the black man who uses slang to make his daily speech indecipherable. Perhaps that one ended up on the cutting room floor.Another big problem is a lack of cohesion. The jokes are given plenty of punchline, and the titular character's name is a good riff on how a biblical theme is basically a free pass with the MPAA. The problem is that the jokes spin by so fast, and with so little setup, that oftentimes one doesn't know what to laugh at, leave alone when. About the only consistently funny character is that portrayed by Alicia Witt, who isn't exactly unpleasant to look at, either. Stephen Dorff makes a decent fist of the titular character, but since his motivations are never explored, and his character never given a second dimension, he is literally swimming upstream here. Melanie Griffith's character shows a little development in the form of a one-eighty-degree change of heart in the midst of shooting, but it comes across as so unmotivated that it seems more a matter of convenience than storytelling.The main reason I took a look at this film in the first place was because Zoë and Basil Poledouris feature in the music it contains. Some of the contemporary numbers performed and written by Zoë are quite refreshing to listen to, but like a lot of the rest of the film, the music is buried under the director's confusing intentions. If you watch the end credits and take a look at the listings for the music, you'll barely be able to remember one of the numbers given a name and writer here.About the only moment in the film that truly hits the mark is when the renegade filmmakers manage to crash their truck outside a theater with a marquee that says No R, X, or NC-17 films shown here ever. The mentality of the passers-by they encounter here is so ugly that it shows quite boldly what sort of monster would sanitise all entertainment until it is only suitable for four-year-olds. Attempts are made to satirise sequilitis. The joke about a sequel to Forrest Gump is obvious, and unfortunately doesn't work. Worse yet, the joke about Hollywood consumer types basically watching this stuff because they are told to watch it does not work either. Partly because Dorff is reduced to shouting it at a theater, but also because last I checked, the studio that financed one of the most subversive films of the past couple of years was a division of Disney (another division thereof also released the Paul Verhoeven classic StarShip Troopers). Go figure.In closing, I gave Cecil B. Demented a three out of ten. With a little more refinement and effort, it could have been a subversive classic along the lines of Bad Santa. Instead, it is little more than a tax write-off. If you have a chance to see it on the cheap, do so, but don't expect anything from it. "},{"Title":"Very Very Sweet","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  He was making fun of everyone, as the second review pointed out so well. Don't take it too seriously! I have loved Mr. Waters for a long long time, loved his book about bad taste, love his take on life, how his characters abhor the straight life, which I do too. He got a little too p.c., a little too nice there for a while, which disappointed me. But this just perked me right up.It was nice to see Patty and Mink Stole again - I fear the day I don't see their faces any longer - it will mean that my point of reference is ancient history. Mr. Waters was in town a few years ago and I missed him BECAUSE OF MY CRUMMY JOB. Hoping I can see him one more time before the world blows up.  "},{"Title":"Just damn hilarious !","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a must-see for true movie fans ! You have to like this guy, who does everything to make his movie and to stop the movie industry from producing mainstream stuff, that isn't good. Cecil, played by Stephen Dorff (in appearance and behaviour a true Cecil)and his group fight for their ideas in a hilarious way. And the characters are absolutely funny and unique.Melanie Griffith plays the movie diva, who starts to likeworking for Cecil, so great, that i consider it as her best role !So, there´s just one thing to add Demented forever !!  "},{"Title":"Real Terror, Real Comedy","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I heard lots of good things about this movie from a bunch of my friends, so I was expecting realy big things from it. It might not have fully lived up to my expectations, but still this is one of the best real comedy movies I've seen in a long time. The acting is excelent, and the satire is perfect. Even though it may lag at times, the pacing is superb. Everything is right where it should be. Definately a must see for anybody who's remotely connected to movie making, and there are a few inside jokes that only movie people or cinema buffs would get.Definately not a family film, and that's a very good thing.  "},{"Title":"Good Points","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is about time for this movie.  How long is Hollywood going to pump out crap?  It is now on some superhero binge.  No more.  Indie films are what it is all about.  New ideas not old ones.  This film made great points about these things.  It was done in very overly crazy things and in a perverted way but it was great.  It was definitely fun to watch.  I don't know what to say about the acting.  Lets just say it was good for this movie.  True Indie film fans check this out soon. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh your socks off.","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As usual, John Waters take weirdos and make them the heroes. This time however, there is nothing disgusting or tragic about them, they are all simply and honestly insane. Which makes this John Waters movie a straight humour movie. It's slightly unusual for John Waters to make something without making it two-faced, but it works wonderfully. "}{"Title":"Demented lets you crave for more","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  No, I'm not a Waters fan, because I haven't seen any of his other movies. I'm a huge film fan, but don't know much about indi-cinema. Many of the inside jokes were probably lost on me, and still Cecil B. DeMented makes me want more.With the risk of angering the film fan community of IMDB, as a newcomer to indi-film, I want to comment on one aspect. I had a blast watching it, especially the scenes in which Stephen Dorff speaks to his followers inspiring them to continue - I have a vision. To see the impact that film can have on people is funny and sad at the same time. It perfectly portrays a generation of people who take film too seriously as if it were a type of religion. Having had the escape of film around for more than a 100 years now, it was nice to see a film that does not take itself too seriously, but comments on the religious mentality on film at the same time. Like Cecil's parents say repeat after me - it's just a movie, it's just a movie, it's just a movie.And now, because I haven't seen many comments on his acting - Stephen DorffI've only seen Stephen Dorff one time in a film, namely in Blade (1998). In that movie, I thought his performance was excellent, but I never really considered watching any other movies that had Dorff in them. Then a friend of mine recommended Cecil B. DeMented, and I saw Stephen Dorff pop up in the opening credits. He surprised me, he really did. I never thought of Dorff as a good actor, just as Deacon Frost (having written a dissertation on vampires, you can imagine how many times I watched Blade). But in this film, he shows that he can act. His performance of the deranged Cecil hits its mark, and Waters couldn't have cast a better actor, at least not one that I know of on the top of my head. I'm still not a real fan yet, but I'm tempted to rent some Dorff movies to find out, whether he can act in other types of films as well.To round things off - one minor pointThey shouldn't have cast Melanie Griffith...really, they shouldn't have. She was perfect in her role as bored and cursing Hollywood-actress, but from her kidnapping on it went downhill...no it went downmountain. She has no expression on her face, as if her face is glued together from plastic surgery or something (don't know if she ever did those things), which is why she's not a convincing convert to indi-cinema. Also, her voice is too timid for lines such as Death to mainstream cinema!. Even at the top of her lungs, her squeaky voice couldn't convince me that she was a real follower of Cecil. But then again, in parts she wasn't a true follower. She hesitated and was the professional actress, as she claims herself - I'm a professional -,  and only in the end does she see the impact that it all has on her popularity. So, maybe, just maybe she was cast for just that the timid actress acting a raving lunatic with an expressionless face and a squeaky voice...Cecil B. DeMented was truly inspiring to me, not for the references to the bad Hollywood scene, not for the inside jokes - I'm still working on that -, but because it was funny, entertaining and totally different from what I've seen in the last couple of weeks. Maybe it wasn't the best movie that I've ever seen, but it was certainly an excellent piece of laughing matter that was worth my while every minute of it.IngridRating 8/10 "},{"Title":"an edgy, insane treat","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  every so often a film comes out that I enjoy so much I could watch a hundred times and not get sick of.  this is one of those films, for i will always get a kick out of watching it. I love the story, the humour, the insanity and the soundtrack. It's movies like this that make John Waters my favourite writer and director "},{"Title":"Waters' double edged satire has weak knees","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Big budget film exploits its stars and manages to satyrize hollywood family films and underground cinema at the same time.  Some nice photography but some very poor songs (especially the annoying Demented Forever, surely one of the worst movie songs since Elvis crooned Personality in Clambake). Griffith is a star kidnapped and forced to act in low-budget director Cecil B. Demented's debut feature, to which his cinema terrorist production team is dedicated.  She rises to the occasion well and Dorff also delivers the goods.  Still, despite the fact that Waters is clearly also spoofing himself (through his own history as an underground, actually just regional, filmmaker) it comes off as slightly pretentious.  There just seems to be a tenor to the film that is taking itself too seriously -- I noticed that other comments on this board were taking it very seriously too.In fact, it's a kind of tepid comedy, constantly vindictive towards films that are not like itself, and yet afraid to actually BE the kind of shocking, underground film it claims to be.  Though it pokes fun at some deserving targets like Patch Adams the Director's Cut (which I thought must be a joke when I saw this film, but has since popped up on video shelves), it is only through some shallowness in the characters' viewpoints that the film's own weaknesses are made fun of.  The filmmakers who are canonized in the sequence where each member of the crew demonstrate their tattooed loyalty to some classic progenitor reads as if Waters was trying to write a textbook for kids on what kind of films they SHOULD be seeing -- presumably because all the hollywood stuff is crap.  It kind of bothered me that Dorff's DeMented character had a tatoo of Otto Preminger on his arm and at one point a character shot a hole through a book about David Lean.  Was there some kind of message, and if so, I don't see it, because Preminger's films are every bit as long and self-important as Lean's.  And he doesn't get Lean's kind of realism from actors.  Anyway, it just seemed like Waters was trying to have his cate and eat it too, and that doesn't add up to satire, just parody, or maybe farce. "},{"Title":"Waters attacks on Disney and family films. I'll join him!!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a blast! The more you know about movies, the better kicks you'll get from it. Then again, this is so unique, that i really don't know how to describe it. I'm sure, some will hate it with passion, but some might find it to be so out of control, that they'll get the laughs of their life. I very much enjoyed it. The film's about cinema terrorists, who while making a cheep film of their own attack on major Hollywood productions. The cast is great and especially Stephen Dorff and Alicia Witt stand out. Director John Waters himself is in best form, preaching how he hates naive family films and big budget pieces of s**t. Truly one to watch and dry over!**** / ***** "},{"Title":"Wow!  I just don't get it...","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, I LIKE B movies, and I LIKE John Waters...  But this one is so over the top that it simply sucks.  Perhaps I just dont get it, but at some level bad becomes sooooooooooo bad it's simply bad, not funny. 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Partial credit...","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ...is what I give this film. John Waters scores points for trying to skewer Hollywood and toss it on the grill. But, he loses points for sometimes choosing outrageous over clever. Some scenes called for an Exacto knife, but Waters used a paint cannon.Two more thoughts here1) Either I owe Melanie Griffith an apology or she owes me one. I've long regarded the woman as anti-matter in the acting universe. After watching some of her other gems -- Cherry 2000, anyone? -- I figured she's too bad of an actress to pull off her role as a bad actress. But seeing her in this film, I realized she's either (A) such a bad actress that she wasn't even trying to be a bad actress, or (B) a hell of a site more talented and ironic than I thought. My hunch is A, but I'll acknowledge that it could be B.2) If you are the kind of person John Waters takes aim at in this film, you'll probably never see it. On the other hand, most Waters devotees already believe Hollywood is evil, and already pat themselves on the back for not being part of the problem, like the film's targets. So, ultimately, what's the point?And that, I guess, is a good way to look at this film. Not really necessary, but fun enough that it's worth your time if you find it on cable. Besides, you won't see too many like this. Hmmm. Maybe THAT was point. "},{"Title":"More from this please! Mister Waters.....Yum!","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this film was great! John waters created some fabulous characters who ridicule the everyday Hollywood, and not just the movies, also the talentless bitch actors and actresses who's only talent it is to smile and look pretty.Cecile B. Demented is our anti-hero, he ridicules what we know is ridiculous but accept anyway. We all know that the average family movie is overtly romantic, or overtly sweet beyond the point of realism. We know this but we love them anyway. Not to Cecile..this is s*** and it should be treated as s***! With his army of slightly deranged people, They attack good old family values, by kidnapping glitzy Hollywood brunette actress Honey Whitlock, who not only becomes a blond, but a willing accomplice to Cecile. Because being bad feels just so good!!John Water loves to do things completely different from Hollywood, so in his movie he especially goes after to destroying those last bastions of family value (a.k.a. old people, children, invalids).Great acting, and some great comedy moments make this a wickedly funny movie, although not for everyones taste. I loved it and give it a ten! "},{"Title":"the funniest movie ever!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, you have to think stupid is funny to see this movie for what it is really worth.  You can tell that from it's brilliant use of subliminal dialog, Waters is Demented on the inside.  Although he may have sold out... he made up for it.  I mean come on, who else would make a movie about the fact that movies suck?  Melanie Griffith is a surprising twist, but one that this movie needed to get the viewers. Although she pulled off a terrific performance, I wouldn't have cast her. "},{"Title":"Crazyily Amazingly Awesomely Cool","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  FINALLY.For film makers, and film lovers... A masterpiece, finally, that depicts what we've all been waiting to see... what we've all been craving... and what we've all wanted as badly as our instinct to reproduce!This movie was simply CRAZY, well made, and very cool.  The whole concept of the picture is some classic, original ideas, come to life.  It is so wonderfully enjoyable to watch, especially for people interested or inside the underground film industry.  Being an underground filmmaker myself, I easily would ally myself with Cecil B. Demented!  Let us show Hollywood cinema who the true film-makers are, and make underground movies OUR way!!!!I very much so reccommend this movie with a little marijuana and Atari Teenage Riot to get you in the mood.  It goes down nicely and has good rythm, beat, and feel, stuff normally found in music, but nicely transmogrified unto film.Rather enjoyable.  Watch it. "},{"Title":"brilliant if cynical satire against factory film","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In this film, John Waters lashes out against the Hollywood film system with the lead character, maverick terrorist filmmaker Cecil B. Demented. He and his band of sinema terrorists kidnap a Hollywood starlet and force her to lead in their indie film, consisting of live acts of terrorism against mediocre movies. Waters takes every opportunity to lodge discontent in this highly humorous fantastic story which surely went straight to video. A sleeper and definitely a must see for people who crave film as art and eschew the subtle censorship of today's bland commercial cinema. "}{"Title":"I hate mainstream cinema too!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry, this is not as bad as everyone on the planet makes it out to be.  I think it's worth it all to see Kevin Nealon playing Forrest Gump in Gump Again, the mythical sequel to the sugary-sweet Zemeckis popcorn flick.  It's worth it for every insider joke, and wow, wonders of wonders, Melanie Griffith is ACTUALLY GOOD.   "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Personally, I found this movie to be absolutely fantastic! Probably one of the better John Waters films of recent times.  I really liked how they poked fun at BOTH sides of the movie industry - mainstream Hollywood films that are just made for a profit and underground crap that is overly pretentious and snobby. Melanie Griffith's over the top acting works really well, and I loved all the cameos from the regular Waters crew. I do agree that Mink Stole should get some larger parts again. Patty Hearst's cameo works well considering the storyline. This was a film that just poked fun at films of all types and all sorts of movie fans, which is fine by me. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Cecil B. DeMented is my hero","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What a wonderful movie.  John Waters has echoed exactly what I feel about Hollywood and the movies that they produce.  I smiled through the whole movie.  I rarely get so much enjoyment from any movie.Every new John Waters movie seems to leap past the last one.  I love his work. "},{"Title":"I can't believe it's not butter","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched it with a couple of friends and we're having so much fun right now...It's definitely a hilarious and feel-good flick. What's even funnier are the people who think that it's a bad and silly movie 'cause I mean come on...that's the point of it all, if you know what I mean. Yes, Hollywood is an easy target but it still deserves to be punished. Power to the people who punish bad cinema!!!I've never seen a John Waters' before, but watching this one makes me wanna watch many more....Demented Forever!!!TWO VERY BIG JINGLE BALLS UP "},{"Title":"Flat and cheesy","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While the concept for this movie was interesting, the execution left much to be desired.  In a movie requiring all the characters to have over the top performances only two of the actors were capable of pulling it off.  Stephen Dorff and Melanie Griffith did a good job playing there roles as a demented director and hollywood actress being a cinematic badgirl.  And even their characters were mere caricatures.Of course that was probably the intent of the movie, to be misunderstood, but really, art cinema is all fine and dandy _if_ it is good.  Instead this movie ended up shooting itself in the foot.  The very hamhandedness the movie tries to spoof is how it ends up coming across.  After all a good spoof/satire should be strong enough on its own without the object of the ridicule. "},{"Title":"genius","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this film was absolutely amazing. 'patch adams - the director's cut' i think we all should live in fear. and as for 'gump again' ... this is a very good film. i laughed my arse off. stephen dorff was excellent, melanie griffith sent herself up to perfection. it even had ricki in it, for crying out loud. what more do you want? "},{"Title":"The opening credits were hilarious, but it really went downhill from there.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really wanted to love this movie, and there were things here and there that I really enjoyed (the tattoos on the Sprockets - Cecil's henchpeople - of their favorite directors, the aforementioned credits if you see the movie, you MUST pay attention to the opening credits, the insults directed at mainstream cinema, etc...), but as a whole, I was disappointed. The worst thing about this movie is that it almost made me wanna see some cheesy mainstream flick to get the really bad movie stink off...I mean, I guess to some extent the movie was supposed to be bad... But it wasn't a good bad, it was just BAD. And the few good scenes made the rest of the movie seem even worse.If you wanna see a non-mainstream movie, go see one of the movies by the directors that are tattooed on the henchpeople - the one name that sticks with me is Pedro Almodovar.  Can't go wrong with any of his stuff. "},{"Title":"One-joke premise, painfully bad.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoy John Waters movies. They're trash, but usually very good trash - he seems to wink at the audience and has made a career on going against the norm and using the ugliest, vilest people as the stars of each of his films. Cecil B Demented was really really lousy. I don't think I got more than half a laugh out of this movie. It was trying to satirize and show how bad Hollywood has been to independent cinema but it was just ridiculous. Dorff was ok but Melanie Griffith is just a terrible actress. I was surprised; it seems even John Waters can go so far as to coast through a movie. To me, all that he ended up making was a Hollywood movie for a quick buck, the same thing he seemed to be complaining about all thru the film. Go rent any other Waters movie. Polyester, Hairspray, Pink Flamingos, Cry Baby, Desparate Living. At least you will see Waters at his best worst. Not his worst worst. 3 out of 10 - an F.     "},{"Title":"Cecil B. DeHysterical","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Waters is the most unique filmmaker in the world. His films are intelligent, trashy, stupid, artsy, campy, brilliant, corny and outrageous all combined together. The best part of all though is that he makes his films knowing this, and he purposefully does it. It is also my opinion that John Waters is the most brilliant PERSON (not just filmmaker) in the United States. He is an intelligent human being with a keen wit, a sharp sense of humor. He is one of the few celebrities (if you can call him one) who actually has something to say and is able to say it!All of this is showcased in his most recent film Cecil B. DeMented. (WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD) While it is not nearly as good as his crowning achievement, SERIAL MOM (a film I consider to be the second greatest satire of all time, right behind Brazil), it definitely gets back to the basics of WatersFilmmaking.Don't believe me? There's a character named Fidget who masturbates all day long. Cecil B. DeMented won't let his cast/crew have any sex before the filming is complete. Drugs are necessary he rants. They kidnap a hollywood film star who turns against the people who made her famous. It's beautifully twisted.While it's not as deliriously funny as SERIAL MOM or POLYESTER, not as trashy and shocking/outrageous as PINK FLAMINGOS or DESPERATE LIVING, it's a welcome return to the world of shock after PECKER, HAIRPSRAY and CRY-BABY (all films I liked, but still...they're just not the same).The film is peppered with great one-liners that bring back memories of FEMALE TROUBLE with lines like I'm ashamed of my heterosexuality!!. Waters' second best Post-Polyester films. "},{"Title":"Death to mainstream cinema!","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. Though, it won't make it to my top ten. John Waters obviously hates the same movies as I do. I had a great time watching the characters bashing on Hollywood movies. Patch Adams does not deserve a Director's Cut!  But it was disappointing for me to find out that this movie was obviously no low budget movie. Waters is a part of the industry he critizes. Family is just a nice word for censorship!  "}{"Title":"I recommend one film. This one.","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When should you stop taking comedy seriously? This film is proof that doing so may eventually become dangerous.I'm not a John Waters fan. I do not advocate the use of violence to achieve terrorist objectives. I'm one of the six people in north america that refuse to retire their black dusters. Respective of it's dead-on sense of style, history and tradition, Cecil B. Demented also makes some very potent statements about art that should not be overlooked simply because it isn't about a couple of failed playwrights bitching about the woeful state of the arts over an expensive dinner.We believe that technique is a substitute for failed style.If you find yourself laughing at the DVD release of series one of the Sopranos but can't explain why 'A Fish Called Wanda' isn't as funny as it was when you rented it your freshman year of college, chances are your values have changed without your actually gaining anything that would be mistaken for maturity. If 'American Pie' made you gag and you're burned out on the 'Clerks' franchise, this may well be the rental for you. "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was such a great movie. If you like the indie-rock musical Hair, or the musical Rent, you will surely like this movie. I had never seen a John Waters movie before, but i am a big follower of Steven Dorff. After seeing this movie, i went out and rented more John Waters films, and let me tell you, this is one of the best. Not to mention the great cast (Steven Dorff, Melanie Griffith, Adrian Grenier, etc)See this movie. if you think that it's a guy's movie, you're wrong. I am a girl and i thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Email me if you have any comments or questions. Ta.  "},{"Title":"really funny knock about film","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  a film for film fans this one, whilst there is an awful lot happening in front of you at times there is even more happening in the background. some great touches on the billboards and an overall nice attack on inconsiderate movie goers as well as the arch demon themselves - 'hollywood'. its not quite the savage attack on the system that 'the player' or 'swimming with sharks' is, but any film that manages to attack both 'patch adams' and (one of the most deserving targets of all time) 'forrest gump' gets my vote.A no-brainer in many regards but it is funny in a twisted manner. possibly a good use of this film is to see how much your friends like films. if they feel that attacks on the gump atrocity are not necessary then at least you know never to take them to see a good film!!! good fun. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Funny, and Its John Waters'!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Being a huge John Waters fan, I loved this movie!  But even if I wasn't I still would have enjoyed it.  Melanie Griffith has GOT TO BE GIVEN A LOT OF CREDIT for her work in this movie!  If her performance didn't convince you that she is hysterically funny, you have something the matter with you.  She took a big risk on this movie and it paid off!  Kudos.This is one of those movies where you just have to laugh along with it.  Don't take it seriously, don't expect it to be drivel like Gladiator, just watch and enjoy the ride, its a great one!10/10 "},{"Title":"A perfect dementia from a favorite demented director for a demented movie maniac!!!","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not without fault, but it is SOOO (!) what every movie maniac must have been thinking about for such a long time...If you're demented, then it must be for forever!It seems that Waters had alot of fun making this movie...  "},{"Title":"Here's the catch","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What bothered me most about the pretentious parrot dropping from the usually fertile mind of John Waters was what Steven Dorff's beef essentially boils down to.In the first shot of the movie within a movie, Adrian Grenier's movie owner is very sad about no one showing up at the film festival for Passolini. Instead, all the people have opted for the cineplex instead.So Adrian, with wife and daughter in tow, conduct a guerilla warfare campaign again popular movies, targetting schlock like a sequel to Forest Gump and a director's cut for Patch Adams.The argument therefore becomes My favorite film director isn't popular. I hate what's popular. Therefore I should destroy and force my taste down everyone else's throat.I have no problem with the legitate argument against mainstream movies that most are shallow, have no depth, are made by committee or by cookie-cutter with only financial incentives motivating the producers. High quality, intelligent independent movies still get made; some get squashed. But instead of Waters focusing on these types of movies, he essentially gives us the cinematic version of George Bush Sr's presidential campaign (The other guy is really evil and horrible, so vote for me.)That's why this movie didn't ring true the struggle between mainstream media and independent movies isn't a popularity contest, and shouldn't be depicted as one. "},{"Title":"Waters' Not so Finest","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  &#133;quite disappointing for a John Waters film. I consider myself a Waters fan, however this film is not very enjoyable. I'm not sure whether Waters is trying to parody the underground/independent film industry or joggle Hollywood, either way it's hard to get the point if your movie lacks life. I never thought I would say a Waters film would be boring &#150; but I guess I am. Save yourself the $4, and re-rent `Pecker', `Pink Flamingos', `Polyester' or even `Serial Mom'. The little laughs and ironies in `Cecil B. DeMented' simply don't add up to the usual Waters comedy. "},{"Title":"I'm confused as to why this film was made...","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not big on John Waters, and I absolutely detest Melanie Griffith, but I figured that any movie that stands up against mainstream Hollywood cinema has gotta be good...right? Uh...no. To the power of ten.I viewed this movie and thought to myself, Geez, the story is about the overthrowing of mainstream cinema by the underground...yet this movie is exactly the same as any other teen angst film from the past twenty years!But then I thought, Are they doing THAT on purpose? Is there irony in the fact that a film preaching the coolness of the underground cinema is following all of the standard Hollywood ideals and benchmarks needed to put together a movie such as this?Either way, the movie, in my opinion, comes off horribly. Demented sticks to the guns of past teen angst films by having a large central teen cast, each with specific quirks (there's the leader, the bad girl with black hair, the hussy, the nerd, and so forth) getting fed up with the system and revolting against stuffy grown-ups. However, Waters adds a new senseless twist...killing! That's right Teenage America! If there is something you don't like, grab a bunch of your stereotypical buddies and shoot up as many as you can!Melanie Griffith is horrible, as usual, and Rikki Lake proves once again why she has a trash talk show and NOT a career in low-budget films. The only redeeming factor of the film is the potshots it takes at Hollywood features, like Lake Placid and The Flintstones. But it's got a lot to make up for. For example, the group orgy at the drive-in where half the characters are offed while performing their sexual duties within the last five minutes (what was that all about ANYWAY??). Or how about the character of Cecil himself climbing into a wheelchair, lighting himself on fire, and saving the day. Just complete and utter stupidity. If you feel the need to stand up against Hollywood (like I did), and look to Cecil B. Demented for salvation, you'll be very disappointed. The film you thought would make up for the sins of Hollywood in the past year (see Gone In 60 Seconds, Hollow Man, The Art Of War, etc.) only proves that you've once again been duped. This anti-Hollywood picture is just another bad Hollywood picture in disguise. Your money would be better wasted on Empire Records or any other film made in the last ten years that promotes teen unity and revolution. "},{"Title":"A big middle finger to the MPAA and the critics.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This one begins really slowly and distastefully, you'll think it's just another of Waters' shock-shlock fests.  But about a half-hour through, it changes for the better.Waters' wickedly sardonic wit shifts to overdrive, throwing every satirical bit he can muster into the fray; taking at aim first and foremost at the dastardly MPAA, whose ratings process have been responsible for the box office damnation of so many of Waters' films (especially the early ones).  Next, he shoots at the critics (including religious freaks) who have targeted his films over the years in their cry against Hollywood decadence.  And finally, he sets the Academy Awards ceremonies within his cross-arrows; the same pretigious honors that have eluded him all these years, even after he crossed over into mainstream.*** out of ****.  Brilliant, John, brilliant. "},{"Title":"Dorff's Amazing","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen Dorff alone is worth the purchase price on this flick. He's hysterically believable as the lunatic director, playing it comic and straight at the same time. He's a riot. He has a certain manic charm that makes him both frightening and appealing all at the same time that he's ranting on with Waters' priceless dialogue. "}{"Title":"Wow !!  Waters' best film since Serial Mom!","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie and all I have to say is wow, what a movie. It was incredibly funny. It is supposed to be a crazy action flick, but it is hilarious, and it has a great plot. All movie fans should get a kick out of it. Action and Porno flicks are celebrated, while family films are made out to be the worst ever created. The spoof on Forrest Gump two was hilarious. Overall, a great movie. "},{"Title":"Laughed till I fell over in the Cinema","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ouch it really hurt!Anyway this film is brilliant with it's lampooning of everything that is wrong with cinema today.  What was disappointing was that I was one of only two people in the whole theatre when I watched it.Everyone should watch this film to understand how Hollywood is shortchanging them with no-brain guff.DEMENTED FOREVER!!!!When it comes to REALLY funny bad taste gags the Farrelly's should take note of Mr. Waters genius.  Well done to Mr. Dorff and Ms Griffiths too.  They deserve credit for part of this hilarious film. "},{"Title":"You have a movie premiere in Baltimore, Maryland yet it turns out to be a kidnapping of the star actress a Hollywood beauty (Melanie Griffith).","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Though I haven't seen Cecil B. DeMented I did watch the Canned Ham special on Comedy Central this past summer, and I did enjoy it mostly because of the appearance of Melanie Griffith. Typical of John Waters he features the usual crazy, mockery, parody and skits that make fun of the Hollywood industry. If you know anything about John Waters he always goes against the norm and creates a different look opposites fill the air with everything he does. The story to best be summed up is filmed in Baltimore, Maryland and a star actress Honey Whitlock (Melanie Griffith) is kidnapped at one of her movie premieres, by a group of young crazy film students who force Melanie to make movies that don't fit her genre. And Melanie suffers through a distress scene, she is handcuffed to a chair and has mouth taped with a piece of black tape. And I must say Melanie is one of the most beautiful women of all-time, she is the only reason to watch this offbeat parody film intended to mock other Hollywood genres. Your not missing much, but since Melanie Griffith doesn't act as much as she did this is a good and recent chance to watch her and once again admire her beauty no matter how offbeat this appears. "},{"Title":"If your sick of the shhhhhhhhh. . .","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great film!!!! I want to go see it again! I am sick of Hollywood and this was the perfect film to see for me!! I love Waters' films! Like must of the people that probably reading this right NOW!! I loved Pecker, b/c I am a photographer. If you haven't seen it please go rent it!!! And if you have seen Cecil B. DeMented it is another MUST MUST see!!! Demented forever!!!  "},{"Title":"Being Melanie Griffith","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have not seen as refreshing and daring of a performance of an A-list actor since John Malkovich in Being John Malkovich. The performance I refer to in John Waters' Cecil B. DeMented is that of Melanie Griffith. Alicia Witt is also in this, who gave one of the best performances of the 90s in the film FUN. Shall I be so bold as to call it the Fight Club of 2000? I shall, with only the highest respect meant toward Mr. Waters. I walked out of Fight Club ready for action and I walked out of this one ready to make a movie. Let's storm the Academy Awards if this one's not nominated. DEMENTED FOREVER! "},{"Title":"Laugh or Act?  The choice is yours","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Waters once again delivers a social commentary that makes you laugh but doesn't inspire you to act upon after seeing it.  Sure, it's fun to lampoon the Hollywood product, but we still go see it.Melanie Griffith is fine in her role, and Stephen Dorff continues to coast in his bad guy roles.  And Alicia Witt must be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Satire of the genre, as well as self-imposed pot-shots","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie.  I thought that it had some of the most obscenely pointless, and funny, movie since, at minimum, Polyester.  It had many great moments that do not have to do with the Hollywood scene, as well as pot-shots as his own self, as well as pot-shots at the audience.  It has an all-out offense, but it seems a little tame (perhaps it is old age) for what he should be doing.The movie is about a group of terrorist filmmakers who kidnap a Hollywood star and attack mainstream movies.  As mentioned before, the movie has a weak plot, but so did Pink Flamingos, which the same writer praises.  Stephen Dorff, playing the other side of his role in S.F.W, turns in a classic Waters acting.  The rest do as well.  It has the worst acting since Polyester.  But, its fitting.  Nobody acts, and everything seems bad.  But the best part is that everybody acts so seriously that makes this the jewel that it is.The movie is funniest when it takes pot-shots at anything.  **SPOILERs******SPOILERs**  The funniest scene, in my opinion, is when the hairdresser condemns his heterosexuality (he hates that he is straight).  This is followed closely by the gerbil porno, and family audience vs action audience.  However, I think (maybe I am wrong) that the movie would have benefitted by the orgy in the finale being real (they are all naked and having sex) a la Pink Flamingos especially since he claims to be a lover of porno.  Also, FYI Mink Stole was asked to light her hair on fire for Pink Flamingos but did not do it.So, with a laugh to time ratio higher than any of the other movies I have seen this summer, it is with high regard that I recommend this movie to everybody.  I think that all can enjoy this movie.  And if you don't, think a little on what was supposed to be funny.  Look closely for Vertigo the remake.9/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as Pecker, but not good","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Silly satire about a seriously demented Cecil (Stephen Dorff) and his ragtag group kidnapping a popular actress (Melanie Griffith) and forcing her to star in their indie film. The acting is good (especially Dorff and Alicia Witt) and it has funny moments, but it doesn't hang together--it seems to be a series of skits instead of one cohesive story. Also, Waters is no longer the cutting edge filmmaker he thinks he is. He's distressingly mainstream (OK, weird mainstream). The film is very forgettable and doesn't even come close to his early work. Too bad. Like I said, it's better than Pecker, but that's faint praise. Still this is a bit more gayer than his other works and Dorff is easy on the eyes. "},{"Title":"John Waters, great job","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fantastic satire on the hollywood movie making machine.  It's fast paced and I was laughing the whole way through.  This movie picked up on many of the little details that are silly or stupid about hollywood and just blew them up.  Lots of great movie sequel jokes and movie production jokes. even the acting styles and sets that are used are funny.  go into this movie not trusting anything or anyone and just let yourself laugh.  John Waters, great job! "},{"Title":"the reveloution continues! bad cinema must die! viva john waters!","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is genius but i wish there was more nudity and food. the casting is dead on. patty hearst has redeemed herself. so has meg ryan.i love the line family is just a dirty word for censorship! that's the john waters' signature.  the way the movie pokes fun at patch adams and forrest gump will cause long lasting laughs.  ah haa haa haa! the depiction of baltimore trying to be the hollywood of the east is classic. seattle would be exactly like that too.this is one of waters best movies. definately the most symbolic. not quite as shocking as some divine movies, but more action packed. dig the soundtrack! this movie  is a very inspiring agent for a  social and cinemaitc revolution. i think i will shave my head today and bomb the planet hollywood.  then again, i think i will continue the revolution by going see the eyes of tammy faye or the five sences. "}{"Title":"Awesome Dude","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Cecil B. Demented was an awesome movie.  I haven't seen too many John Waters movies in the past, only ones that I was told were not his best work Cry Baby, and Psycho Mom.  This film was different in that it made no sense and you still understood everything that was going on.  A great artist should be able to show you his reality, and while admitting that it is completely insane, explain how it works nonetheless.  Or something.  Any way, this was an awesome movie.   "},{"Title":"Griffith Shines in a Perfectly Demented Role","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Waters' most recent oddball cinematic offering, Cecil B. Demented, serves a generous helping of bizarre characters, grotesque plot twists, and inside jokes not found in mainstream Hollywood.  As Waters has gained greater visibility (and near acceptance) as creator of commercially viable films, die-hard fans worry that he might lose his edge.    Fear not, Demented has something to offend almost everyone.Cast as self-centered, demanding, yet wildly-popular actress Honey Whitlock, Melanie Griffith has given perhaps her most creative and indispensable performance since Working Girl.  Griffith's character, after being abducted by a group of anti-Hollywood cinematic terrorist/filmmakers, subtly and believably makes the transition from horrified captive to willing accomplice.  Whenever she appears on the screen, all eyes are on her, no matter what carnage or lunacy surrounds her.Not generally a major Griffith fan, I was very impressed with her willingness to accept such a role, and, further to play it so convincingly.  Do not be surprised if The performance is recognized by major awards next year.The balance of Demented's cast are, in typical Waters style, flamboyant, outrageous and memorable. Stephen Dorff's portrayal of the gang-leader and title character is on target, though often upstaged by the glory of Honey Whitlock.Mainstream cinema fans, accustomed to ordinary characters, typical plots, and acceptable social behavior may actually walk out of this film.  Pity, they would miss so much!Hopefully Demented will be released at more theaters, nationwide.  America deserves this level of originality, and Hollywood deserves the biting humor Waters delivers at its expense.  "},{"Title":"Waters is back on form","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the movie was funny, twisted and sarcastic, with a good edgy feel that was reminiscent of JW's earlier work (Polyester being my favorite). Of all the movies about film-making, Living in Oblivion is the most hilarious, but Cecil B Demented has a unique take on the theme. Melanie Griffith was surprisingly good, and Steven Dorff was great. The elderly folks in the row in front of me (who I think had wanted to see Saving Grace but it was sold out) managed to stay until the scene where David Lean's book gets a bullet through the cover! The music was good too, I especially liked the opening Moby track. "},{"Title":"Brilliant & Hysterical Satire","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is John Waters' best movie, and one of the best of its kind by anyone in a long time.  It is an incisive and intelligent indictment of the drivel Hollywood puts out and the cynical marketing and distribution systems in place, while at the same time getting good comic mileage from its over-the-top celibate art terrorists.  There are so many funny lines and great moments, talking about it is almost in a league with Spinal Tap. The Forrest Gump slam is pure joy for anyone who hated that piece of crap as much as I did, as are the scenes in the porno theatre and the all action theatre, as well as that impossible jump from the roof and the savaging of the multiplex cinema.  Lines like You call this a medium?, Come here, little gerbil, and I had nothing to do with that movie, I´m only a senior VP in charge of Development are hysterical when you hear them in context. I laughed my butt off almost the entire time, and was in awe of the fineness of the satire.  That movies like this even get made any more is a wonder. See it before it is banished to obscurity by the very forces it so deftly criticizes. "},{"Title":"Not Waters best, but still Waters.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Waters greatest strength has been his ability to put bizarre characters and circumstances in fantasy worlds where they can believably exist while still reflecting back a twisted mirror image of ourselves. Unfortunately, he mostly fails to do this in DeMented. Maybe it's because Cecil's crew of misfits contains so many over-the-top deviant stereotypes that it just becomes monotonous. Maybe it's because Honey Whitlock only actually has character for the first 10 minutes of the film before becoming yet another insipid follower of Cecil. Or it could be simply because Waters' normally excellent use of music is never quite able to generate any coherent mood.Still, this is a Waters film, and that means that at times it will be weird, wonderful, and hilarious. One gag may be shoved in your face as blatantly as possible while the next one will be in the details which you will miss completely if not paying close attention. Cecil B. is almost certainly an alter ego for John Waters, but one which is seen with a healthy dose of humorous self-abasement. John Waters, like Cecil B., is a true auteur who makes films the way he wants to. This one is definitely worth seeing for any John Waters fan, but will probably be little more than a novelty for everyone else.  "},{"Title":"Origianal and hillarious hollywood satire","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Cecil B. Demented, the latest from John Waters, is a very funny and original hollywood satire. Melanie Griffith plays Honey Whitlock, a hollywood star who is captured by cinema terrorists led by Stephen Dorff as the title character. Their mission is to punish bad cinema, as they fight against the crap that hollywood is pushing on audiences today. They force Honey to act in their movie, where they invade movie theatres playing bad films (when they got to a theatre playing Patch Adams The Dircetor's Cut Cecil yells Patch Adams does not deserve a director's cut! The first one was long enough!)and, in the most inspired scene in the movie, even sabotage the set of Forrest Gump 2 Gumped Again, starring Kevin Nealon. The movie is very funny with a great script by Waters (sample line when Honey asks one of the terrorists why he uses so many drigs, he responds, before I took drugs I had many problems. Now I just have one.) The performances are great, with Griffith giving her best performance since...well ever. I actually liked her in this movie! Dorff was good too, and the rest of the cast is fantastic. There is one very lame scene where the whole cast sings Demented Forever but the rest of the movie is strong. Hollywood gets a good scering, but Waters does not let his cinema terrorists off the hook without getting some good laughs at their expence too. Very funny. "},{"Title":"I saw the Cecil... at the opening in Baltimore and I think it is John Waters' most powerful filmic statement. John makes a virtue of the unironic, making the film a study in ironic structures.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Waters' use of our cinematic wasteland is a sight to behold. The film captures the emptiness of what film in America has become a place to drink soda and eat popcorn--certainly not to be used as an expression of ideas or to provide an insight into character. I think that Cecil B. Demented is truly the cutting edge of cinema, and it is one of the most original films that I have ever seen.Cecil B. Demented gives the 'bird' to most recent American films.  "},{"Title":"Waters is still twisted","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Cecil B. DeMented has everything you could want in a Waters movie. It's demented, off the wall, and well... I would guess unique is the word I'd like to use, but it doesn't do much justice for Waters.Stephen Dorff once again does a great job acting, as does Griffith and Witt. Look for Ricki Lake in this once, who hasn't been in a Waters film since 1994 with Serial Mom (another John Waters classic)I've been a Waters fan ever since I found out he was my friends uncle, and I have to say this is one of the better Waters film. True, there is no Devine to complete it, but nothings perfect.I won't say that this film could hold water against something like The Shawshank Redemption or The Godfather but it is something worth seeing in the theaters if you get a chance.Oh, and bring someone with you, that way you won't be that loser who watches a movie by themselves. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie was recommended to me by a usually-reliable indie-film fan, so I went into this picture expecting a fun departure from the formulaic Hollywood film. I was quickly disappointed by the creeping realization that the movie, purportedly a farce satirizing Hollywood, falls into the same conventions it is desperately trying to make fun of. Tired jokes, a predictable script and gratuitous violence/ rock music made me fell stupider after having seen it. I know you posers are saying, but that's what Waters was going for, man but I prefer films you can walk away from having gained something, however insignificant. This painful satire left me with nothing but unrelieved boredom. Watch a David Lynch flick, leave Waters for safely rebellious teenagers. "},{"Title":"A Funny, Anarchaic Film from Waters","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think it's one of John Waters' funnier films.  Not groundbreaking as his older work but still funny.  Stephen Dorff and Melanie Griffith are great in their roles as well as Adrien Grenier and Alicia Witt.  There's also some great one liners like the one Jack Noseworthy did, I'm straight and I hate it.  I try to love Petey.  He loves me and I can't love him back.  Every time I kiss him, I feel whiskers.  I can't take that certain thickness in his pants.  I'm ashamed of my heterosexuality!.  The real standout for me personally is Maggie Gyllenhaal as the Satanic-obsessed Raven.  She alone has great moments and the best lines.  Hi, I'm Raven and I'm your makeup artist.  God, you're pale.  (punches Honey Whitlock).  Sorry but Satan says you need more color.  Pain comes from 10,000 Shrines of Hell.  Alistair Crowley said that.  I loved the scene where she flaps her arms like a bird during a Satanic ritual also where she tells Melanie Griffith, It's goat urine, want some?.  Pain is pleasure.  Slavery is justice.  Suicide for Satan!.  Who cares what anyone thinks of our movie, except for Satan!  Satan loves you Honey and so do I.  My father, Zozo is the three-headed dog that guards the gates of Hell.  Hail Satan!.  If you loved Maggie in Secretary, you have got to see her in this.  Never in my life have I found a Satanist so likeable and cute.  Hell, I'll convert to Satanism for her.   "}{"Title":"Oh well...","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't take this too seriously, and I looked forward to it. It was occasionally inspired and had hilarious moments - brief, brief moments - but mostly was plodding. I add my 'aye' to all who questioned Melanie Griffiths ability in this film - I found her painful and less than useless. There are obviously some roles she can carry off with some sort of style (I'm not a big fan of hers in general), but this isn't one of them. I guess she could have MEANT to look like a brain damaged alien dropped down in the middle of (relatively) real people but for me it didn't work. That said, if you love totally, consciously, trashy films, completely anarchic plot lines and very, very, very few production values, if any (I like plenty of cheap films, but most have an ounce of some sort of style) maybe you'll be one of the DeMented lovers. Otherwise, you might want to give it a miss. "},{"Title":"this is bad.....","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Just been to the local Film Festival Viennale to see this movie and it was the most boring and uninteresting film I have seen on this festival so far. The idea of a group of some wanna´- be film makers doing some kind of independent - attack seemed quite nice at first. John Waters makes fun of big blockbuster films throughout the whole movie which would be fun if he´d be able to at least reach these movies´s levels. But no, the humor is absolutely flat and even more levelless than films like scary movie. His characters use names like Almodóvar, Warhol, Tarantino, Lee,... which they are not worthy of. And why does Melanie Griffith start to sympathize with these people so fast ? There is no explanation. The Helsinki Syndrome ? Characters are weak and too many. All we get to know of these people are one-liners to explain their characters. One of them thinks satan is cool, the next one takes drugs and thinks it´s super and another one has worried parents. There´s not much more to them. Even the plot is boring because we get to see the same scene of mad people taking over cinemas and film productions over and over again. This is absolutely a shame for the wonderful genre of independent movies and I truly hope it won´t run under this category.  "},{"Title":"One could spend a unprofitable life being an apologist for John Waters' movies.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  However-- there are many other activities that engage me driving in mid-town traffic at rush hour; watching flies mate; and, of course, sitting through another screening of The English Patient. Perhaps if Mr. Waters had seen Burn, Hollywood, Burn or any other spoof of the Hollywood film, he might have provided Cecil... with a plot line a little thicker than the veneer he chose to hide the rather insipid goings on in his most recent 'celebration' of studio film-making.( I am particularly struck by the way Steve Martin pulled it off in his parody of guerilla film-making.)It would have been a good idea if Mr. Waters' film had more of a back story. How, for instance, these fanatics became so strongly attached to Cecil. His efforts to provide any sense of the characters' dementia is at best superficial and unconvincing. Well, Baltimore is an ugly city, and it got an ugly film to help boost its tourism. So be it. Cecil B. Demented is one more thing you can blame on the French. But the blame for poor Cecil you can lay at the feet of John Waters. --Trago M. "},{"Title":"A film that certainly lives up to its name","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Who thought anarchy would be so cool. Fed  up with the system, Cecil B. Demented, wonderfully  played by Stephen Dorff, leads his rag-tag gang  of miscreants to make the ultimate  underground film. Melanie Griffith is great as  the washed up movie star, considering the  parallels between her character and real life.  John Waters created a film worthy of his  early career, something that is both shocking  and enlightening. I remember the time he  went on Politically Incorrect, speaking of  the ills of modern cinema and how film in  general has become blasé and dull. A good  film for film buffs, this is one of those movies  that wants to destroy the very foundation it  was built upon in the most crude and  visceral way possible. "},{"Title":"Film School Kids","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I love self-referential stuff, especially when it is self-aware self criticism. But that's because it is usually clever. It usually speaks to some interesting question. But this is sophomoric. Just because it knows and says it it is dumb is not enough.This is anti auteur auteur; ironic non-irony; bad film about bad film; a simpleminded, superficial commentary on simpleminded superficiality. Melanie Griffith as an over the hill second rate actress. Ho Hum.Anal sex with gerbils? Well, that could have been interesting. In fact, I waded into this John Waters experience knowing what to expect because I was curious about Alicia Witt. She has become an icon of sorts and so used as Libby in `Vanilla Sky.' That's because of her roles in `Dune' and `Leibestraum,' the latter of which is the source for the Libby name.I watched her in `Urban Legend' and here. I don't think I will pursue it further. She was once something and now is not. "},{"Title":"Fun and furious","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For all those who have felt cheated by a Hollywood blockbuster, or suffered sitting through Patch Adams, Cecil B. DeMented is the movie for you. Warped and twisted in a typical John Waters fashion, Cecil B. DeMented is about a gang of underground filmmakers lead by Cecil B. DeMented (Stephen Dorff), who kidnap A-list star Honey Whitlock (Melanie Griffith, in a pretty patchy performance) and force her to star in their no budget film. Along the way, they terrorise the set of such films as Gump Again, and Patch Adams The Directors Cut. Not Waters' best, but certainly a lot of fun. Don't miss the opening credits. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"demented=Hilarious","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  as in title this movie is demented, but also 100% hilarious. The plot is simple; a wannabe filmaker named Cecil B. DeMented and his weird crew kidnap popular actress so she can star in their movie. The plot isn't important in a John Water flick. There could be no plot and it would still be hilarious. Most of the laughs come from a drug addict on Cecil's crew, but there is plenty more laughs to be found including the destruction of the unecessary Forrest Gump sequel. Though there should be no Gump sequel, there should defintley be a sequel to B. Demented. "},{"Title":"Out with the grotesque, in with the satires","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If Cecil B. Demented had been in another director's hands, besides the filth elder John Waters', it probably be an underdeveloped, dry exercise. The fact that Waters has surpassed his phase of grotesque shock films and has moved onto smarter, witty satires set in Baltimore shows that he is diverse and willing to jump into any pool even if it's a bit murky.The film is one big kiss to the world of underground cinema, and one big diss on mainstream cinema. I can't say that I disagree with a lot of the film's views. It expresses an extreme hatred for the modern schlock we've been served every week at the movies, and how the independent films will prevail. We're introduced to Honey Whitlock (Griffith), a Hollywood A-lister who is attending her big movie premiere. She is snobby, pretentious, and very condescending to her peers. When Honey enters her premiere, seconds before the movie goes on, independent director Cecil B. Demented (played fantastically by Stephen Dorff) and his band of kamikaze filmmakers kidnap her and force her to star in their low budget works of art.The first few minutes, set mostly around the premiere, feature many people involved with Demented's working as attendants and ushers at the event, when really, they are behind a very, very dangerous plot. In John Waters This Filthy World, a movie that documents his tour across the world, Waters states that if Cecil B. Demented would've been proposed after 9/11 it would've never gotten made. I can see why. The film is a work of film terrorism and there are many secretly plotted acts involving violence and the deaths of innocent civilians.Do they work? Most of the time they do. The film is honestly funny, deliciously dark, and a clever commentary on the world of low budget filmmaking. The character of Cecil B. Demented is very funny, and the role of Honey Whitlock is portrayed equally as interesting by Melanie Griffith.Compared to other Water's feature, Cecil might be the weakest one. Pink Flamingos was unexpectedly hilarious in its ugly roots. Serial Mom was overacting at its finest, portraying suburbia like this shiny slice of heaven even when the craziness was unfolding. Cry-Baby captured the fifties era of rebellion perfectly, and I can say that Polyester was a weaker Serial Mom, yet occupying moments of its own. Cecil has the script and the direction of classic Waters, but not the admirable characters of his other pictures. It's a fun exercise, dancing to its own beat, but it isn't on par with his other works of art.Starring Melanie Griffith, Stephen Dorff, Alicia Witt, Adrian Grenier, Mink Stole, and Ricki Lake. Directed by John Waters. "},{"Title":"Hating on Hollywood - with Love","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Waters continues his slow and steady seduction of the mainstream with the first half of the movie, only to reward its arousal by slamming a giant butt plug thru the finale. How many ways can one director demonstrate how much they hate the Hollywood machine, by mimicking it with all the jaded devotion of porn parody? The closing sequence at a particularly demented and violent drive-in theater screening rocks in a way not seen since Boris Karloff used his senior Citizen Cane to knock out a drive-in sniper in Targets. Yes, Mr. Waters, we know you love to hate us - you have since you made us sit thru a giant drag queen eating dog poo.But, jeez, won't you ever make a movie that doesn't glorify suicidal sociopaths to the point of murder junkie fetishism? "},{"Title":"Odd comedy","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Recap It's time for the premiere of diva Honey Whitlock's latest movie. But the cinema has been infiltrated by an underground film crew with the aim to kidnap her for the lead in their new film. Cecil B Demented is the director and leader of the group, and his hate for mainstream cinema is extreme. His movie is also a terrorist movement that strikes the film industry and Honey suddenly finds her in the middle of it.Comments A very odd idea that has been converted to a rather funny movie. The characters are well written, but there are almost too many of them. The story is a bit absurd and quite extreme but rather harmless and mostly funny. It is an simply a very odd comedy. Unfortunately the idea that feels fresh and new in the beginning of the movie wears thin pretty quickly. Halfway in the odd and absurd has become so familiar and the story feels almost pointless. The ambition and focus that were there in the beginning is lost somewhere and the movie loses its edge.Good cast though. Both Maggie Gyllenhaal, as a cute and sweet Satanist, and Adran Grenier, as a drug addicted actor, appears in early roles but the movie's best performance is from Stephen Dorff as the extreme and violent director Cecil B Demented. Never really liked Melanie Griffith much but her appearance is good too.A fresh wind, this movie seemed to be. But it didn't really carry through. Too bad.6/10 "}{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Waters has a wonderful way of poking fun at just about everyone with equal love and ferocity in his films. This hilarious movie is often labeled as a darkly comedic arrow through the cold heart of the Hollywood system, but that's only half of the story. With typical accuracy and aplomb, Baltimore's favorite son here deftly skewers underground and indie filmmakers as well. As always, though we are meant to root for Cecil and his Sprocket Holes, we are also meant to find them absurd, irrational, ridiculous, somewhat hypocritical, and just a bit scary - just like the tens of thousands of would-be cinematic revolutionaries out there shooting pointless nonsense and proclaiming Hollywood the Devil's backyard while secretly waiting for that call from their agent saying they've finally sold their Sci-Fi Channel original series spec script. Just as A DIRTY SHAME would later take on both the sexually repressed and the criminally uninhibited, CECIL B. DEMENTED delights in reminding us of just how crazy we all are.The cast here has an absolute ball with the razor-sharp material. Of particular note are Maggie Gyllenhaal as a Satan-worshiping make-up artist and Adrian Grenier as an actor who has solved all of his other problems by exchanging them for just one, a world-class drug addiction. Melanie Griffith and Stephen Dorff are fun in the lead roles, but it's Alicia Witt who steals the show as pornstar-turned-perpetually horny film terrorist Cherish. In a film full of show-stopping moments (from a projectile vomiting patron at a screening of the director's cut of PATCH ADAMS to a candy fight in front of a theater showing all family films), none is more hilarious or memorable than when our idealistic heroes duck into a porno theater having an all night Cherish anal marathon. The group struggles to blend into a crowd of increasingly aroused raincoaters as they watch the on-screen Cherish become intimately familiar with a very adventurous gerbil. Though nothing explicit is shown, this is about as close to classic Waters as a contemporary studio movie could ever hope to get. Not even the water bottle scene in A DIRTY SHAME can touch it for its sheer absurdity and faux-erotic silliness. To her credit, Miss Witt plays this over-the-top scene with the same relish she brings to the role throughout the entire feature.CECIL B. DEMENTED is a hoot. Snooty as this may sound, if you don't like it, it's because you don't get it. And if you don't get it, maybe John Waters is a name you should avoid when perusing Netflix. "},{"Title":"Where's the satire??","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" CECIL B. DEMENTED (2000) *1/2 Melanie Griffith, Stephen Dorff, Alica Witt, Magie Gyllenhaal, Adrian Grenier, Larry Gilliard Jr., Mink Stole, Ricki Lake, Patricia Hearst (cameos Roseanne, Eric Roberts, Kevin Nealon) (Dir John Waters) I have to admit I don't really care for John Waters. I deliberately missed his last opus 'Pecker' and hated the film before it, 'Serial Mom'. I realize he has had the reputation as being a filmmaker who revels in sticking it to the establishment and with questionable taste in doing so , which isn't the problem. The problem is that he makes Ed Wood look like Orson Welles (and I'm certain he'd take that as a compliment which I suppose is in some twisted fashion).Baring that in mind, I really didn't care for this film either, with Waters waving his middle finger at Hollywood picture making (which it certainly does deserve) in his third-rate dialogue and amateur filmmaking as a whole does add a certain surreality to the aesthetic but after half an hour you can't wait for the film to end.Griffith (a real game player here) stars as a self-obsessed movie star, Honey Whitlock, whose popularity is on the wane with her latest film opening in Baltimore only to have its gala spoiled when the theater's employees abduct her and proclaim themselves to be The Sprocket Holes, a cult-like guerilla indie film crew with their maniacal leader using the alias of Cecil B. De Mented (Dorff, who always seems to me the poor man's Kiefer Sutherland, hamming it up to the hilt) as the writer/director who wants to use Honey as a symbolic thumbing to big picture mentality by shooting on the quick and improvised direction given with sprinkles of real violence.At first Honey is mortified and reluctant but after prodding (and several electric shocks from a stun gun) she becomes another ally in the group, going gung-ho in the process of dismantling her own polished image.All of this quite deservedly does need a parodying of and a finger pointing to the likes of old school mentality of censorship (their rally cry of 'Hey Hey MPAA! How many films did you censor today?') but it is all too apparent how desperately tacky and how toothless the attacks come lacking true bite say like 'South Park' or the gross out tactics with heart of gold films of The Farrelly Brothers.John Waters may be an institution of the indie set but maybe it's time to put him in one. "},{"Title":"A Film Students Shield","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I can understand why some people didn't like this movie. You have to get the inside jokes that are placed throughout the movie to really understand it. You have to be awed at obscure references and without that humor in you, you'll probably think the movie is a half-assed Waters film.Truth be told, I didn't like Waters much before this movie. After watching it, I went back and discovered his genius. The truth is, John Waters is a clever, clever man. In order for him to create this movie, he knew it wasn't going to be for everyone, but I truly believe he made this movie to inspire film students.As a Film Student, I walked away from watching this DVD ashamed that I hadn't seen it before. It inspired me (not in a crazy 'i'll kill you yet Hollywood way') but the movie itself is very inspiring to cinema.The plotline of this movie isn't made to be judged the way people are judging it really. This is a film that was created for certain people, so maybe not everyone will like this. But if you rexamine the movie, and watch it from a film student's perspective...or just let alone watch for the obscure references and background jokes...you'll get it. And you'll love it.I was obssessed with it after seeing it, and still am. "},{"Title":"Waters Misfire","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love John Waters' vision of suburbia. It's campy, kitschy, loving, edgy, colorful, nostalgic, yet timeless...And it captures it in a great and unique way. Unfortunately, this movie does not concentrate on this. Instead Waters attempts to make a statement on the commercialism of the cinema multiplex playing the same set of blockbuster movies in every town in America. Unfortunately, movies like this one won't very likely persuade people from their blockbusters, or even the art crowd from claiming this movie as their manifesto. It is loud and crass and violent, but with more gung-ho shrillness than actual wit. It is trying too hard to be edgy. Waters does not have the type of Robert Altman The Player satire in him, his strength lies elsewhere. It's his unironic love of the American culture that he also finds lovably bizarre. The light touch, style and design that is a Waters trademark is missing. It doesn't have a sense of fun, just dismay. It seems Waters is trying to cater to the obnoxious young independent Hollywood crowd that he feels he relates to. I still feel that John Waters has another great BIG (perish the thought) defining movie still ahead of him. But this isn't it.  "},{"Title":"Eruptive","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I probably shouldn't think about this too much and not take it too serious, but this movie does not progress very much beyond a mere eruption of violence against mainstream cinema, but I guess it wasn't supposed to. There's no real storyline or character development, just a couple of brief outbursts of destructive energy; well, I guess they had their fun.Melanie Griffith is brilliant as Honey, the kidnapped mainstream cinema actor, employed by demented film director Cecil B. Demented (Stephen Dorff) to star in his anti-establishment movie. Dorff also plays his manic, over-the-top character remarkably well; Alicia Witt as his aide and former porn star Cherish was, however, a slight disappointment. I guess she simply has too much class to play a white trash slut.Enjoyable? Well yes, kind of. Not 100% my idea of fun, though. A bit too eruptive, a couple of lost opportunities for good satire, not much of a script. Even though some of the characters were fun, I lost interest after about half an hour. 6/10. "},{"Title":"off the freakin wallwaters style","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i watched this on dvd with no extra features, what a rip off. on the other hand, dorff proves hes a versatile actor, griffith is typical dumbo acting with typical effect. witt is excellent. plot is screwball, with andy warhol themes galore. only watch this if u are a fan of the mentioned actors, ricki lake or john waters weirdo film style obviously influenced by andy warhol. waters scale 6/10 "},{"Title":"sorry, John, not this time","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Waters most likely could make a film that looks as professional as any director.  For some reason he persists in not doing so.  Perhaps that was his point with this specific film (about guerilla filmmaking), but the overall effect is amateurishness.Most of the acting is poor (and not just by the obvious locals used as extras).  The plot has a kernel of an interesting concept, but that kernel is buried in sequences which go on too long (the countdown to the kidnapping, and the introduction of the gang members and their tattoos, for instance).  The effects are typical of a video made in someone's back yard.  I have no ideas whether the hip hop soundtrack was well done or not, but I certainly didn't like it.If Waters want to make films for the amusement of his friends and the city of Baltimore, that's great.  It doesn't mean, however, that they need to receive a national release.  "},{"Title":"You Stink, Honey Whitlock!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not only is the above line the funniest moment in a mostly dull outing (shouted at a bleached blonde Melanie Griffith by Waters regular Mary Vivian Pearce just a few short days after her real-life stroke) it is also the best summary of this dreary effort.  A definite low-Waters mark for the director. "},{"Title":"Absolute Crap","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who saw some depth to this movie, was looking for a needle in the haystack, there was no purpose to this movie, but to bore you for 2 hours.I would have preferred to watch Battlefield Earth - and lets not go there.I would have liked to see something come out of this movie, since from the box I thought I would agree with the point. I think it would have been a great improvement if the movie in the movie - had a point.But since it didnt - I give this movie a 0 out of 100 "},{"Title":"just awful","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i am sorry but this picture was awful. i am not at all oldfashioned but i found this one to be very vulgar and the music was just horrible rapp music is a society's critic but nevertheless the singers make a lot of money on this society they are burning. i don't understand at all how melanie griffith could work in this. the dialogues and the images are incredibly vulgar and many people in the movie shared this impression. the idea is very very good but may be summarized in 5 minutes at the most. "}{"Title":"Lame, tame fame-game shame","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It had to happen eventually John Waters made a bad movie. (I will defend SERIAL MOM.) Ironically, this is his satire of bad moviemaking, represented, toothlessly, by such easy potshots as PATCH ADAMS and FORREST GUMP. I guess this is Waters' attempt to get back to the gnarly gutter-rat aesthetic of DESPERATE LIVING and FEMALE TROUBLE, but the laughs are sparse and the ideas sparser. (Remember Tab Hunter taking Divine to an Alain Robbe-Grillet film festival in a Baltimore drive-in?) Stephen Dorff tries hard to be charismatic, in a Christian Slater-like way, as the guerrilla auteur Cecil B. Demented, and Melanie Griffith is the Melanie Griffith-like aging demi-star kidnapped by the Demented posse. Pleasure comes in the form of Alicia Witt, known to me for giving one of the worst performances of modern times in the teenybopper horror movie URBAN LEGENDS, who is so full of fizz as an adult-film actress (who's a bit of an urban legend herself in the all-anal community) that for a few moments this seems to be, if not an actual John Waters movie, an outtake from a Farrelly Brothers one. "},{"Title":"Like most of Waters' films, this one is NOT for everyone!!!","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Okay, right upfront I must point out that this is not a film for kids, the easily offended, people who like the current state of Hollywood films or people with good taste. The audience for this weird film is definitely a minority--all others beware!! John Waters is back in form after several films that were awfully conventional and normal by his twisted standards. Here, finally, is a film as offensive and bizarre as POLYESTER or FEMALE TROUBLE--but with better production values.Cecil B. Demented is a self-proclaimed film director and leader of a cult who have sold their souls to him and his twisted vision of film. Instead of the tried and true Hollywood style of film making, he advocates a fusion of terrorism with film that is done live and at the expense of the audience who is thrust into the action! This all begins after he and his group kidnap a famous movie star (played by Melanie Griffith) and force her to star in their movie. Ironically, as Griffith begins to bond with and eventually agree with Demented's philosophy, you see a Waters stock character actress, Patty Hearst, in a normal role--as a mother who wants her son to abandon the group and come home!The film is filled with obscenities, crude sexual humor and pretty much every sort of taboo you can think of...and yet at the same time, it's tough to stop watching. It's because the film is sort of like a fusion of a train wreck and a good kooky comedy. When my wife suggested turning it off early into the film, some hilarious scenes occurred and she changed her mind. Like her, I advise you to hold on to your seat and try to bear with it--the final result is excellent and fun--and has many parallels to Waters' more conventional picture about cult-adulation, SERIAL MOM.Once again, don't watch this with the kids, those with weak hearts or the easily offended!!! Don't say I didn't warn you! "},{"Title":"Thank you John Waters","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Set in the film capitol of America - Baltimore, Maryland - Cecil B. Demented is a brilliant reminder that the art of film once was - and ought to be - a craft for those who make love to and through a camera, not industry management types who sit on their rosy behinds muttering platitudes about what the audience expects.Although Hairspray was Waters' most accessible film for the general public, it was not quite a John Waters film. This is.As actors, I have hated Melanie Griffith, and hated Stephen Dorf. But in this film, they both have their respective characters down pat, they give excellent performances here, I'll have to rethink my judgments on their talents; perhaps it was all just bad scripts in the past.the rest of the cast is kinky and earnest and funny.In fact this is one of the funniest films I've ever seen.Of course it is about the love of film - specifically about the passion needed to make film just as film.I keep seeing all these interviews and documentaries about contemporary film-makers - they blather on and on so self-confidently about their love of video, of CGI, the way they use such technology to stay as far away from the camera, the actors, the editing deck as possible; heck why even show up pretending to be the director, why not just phone it in - better yet, hire someone else to do it - with three hundred million bucks, even after the cocaine's gone you should have enough to hire someone else to do the job; all Hollywood directors are whores - god, they make me sick.I've made films myself; there's no replacement for the feel of celluloid between your fingers, it is an enjoyment preferable to a good lay. After a good lay, you fall asleep; but a good film lasts forever.the era of cinema is probably over; eventually a generation will come along convinced film is nothing more than bad advertisement for computer games. Perhaps that generation has arrived.So this is certainly a pleasing celebration/ faretheewell for one of the great forms of entertainment modern humanity invented - a gorgeous reminder that it was all about passion, not money, about getting it down as quickly as possible, not about getting it to look good.Cinema is - or was, or ought to be - an act of desperation, as much for the audience as for the film-maker.This film captures that superbly.A brilliant film by one of America's true eccentrics - and when all the CGI has bored its audiences into an early grave, their children may yet rediscover this, and with it the possibilities that were cinema.Thank you John Waters. "},{"Title":"awesome movie (baaaad movie)","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" the movie itself was pretty excellent. i was laughing almost non-stop through the whole thing. the only thing was - the movie cecil was making was kinda dumb. think about it. when you don't take into account the shenanigans of the cast and crew, the movie they were making just wasn't worth it.the movie itself was great though. i watched it with my sister and we both loved it, but take care of who you watch it with as it is not the kind of movie you want to watch with your grandma.overall i give it a ten because it was one of the few movies i actually went out and bought. it is a favorite. "},{"Title":"How many movies has the MPAA censored today?","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Waters continues his trashing of traditional Americanism with the raucous Cecil B. DeMented, in which an indie filmmaker (Stephen Dorff) kidnaps an air-head actress (Melanie Griffith) and makes her star in his anti-Hollywood flick in which they go around attacking anything associated with Tinseltown - especially family-oriented stuff. And the best part he's working with a budget of zero! It's like the Patty Hearst story taken one step further (Ms. Hearst even appears in the movie).This seems like the sort of movie that had probably been in the works for years. Regardless of anyone's opinion of Forrest Gump and Patch Adams, we can likely agree that they don't need to get extended. A really funny, great movie. Also starring Mink Stole and Kevin Nealon.Choosing the Flintstones sequel over a Pasolini movie. I bet that some people would do that. "},{"Title":"This film Sucks!!!!","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This has been the worst film that I have seen in a long time!!!! John Water's has no talent. He's just disgusting and stupid for making such a tasteless film. Yes, he has many wannabe filmaker fans but that's about it!!!! There is nothing to appreciate in his films. They are trying to make some deep point but fail because his movies lack realism and sincerity. He's just trying to shock people in order to get a reaction from pre-pubescent boys or men who never grow up!!! "},{"Title":"I wish I could give this film a -10","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  He can't write.  He can't direct.  He can't do anything interesting.  Just a horrible film career he has had.  And I like shock films, but his films are not shocking they are morbid and done in NO taste.  That being said, I do not know why he keeps getting money to make films.  All of his films have bombed and lack anything interesting.I did however SORT OF enjoy Serial Mom.  Other than that I wish he would go away forever. "},{"Title":"It's okay - you have cinematic immunity!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  You may be telling yourself that after watching this garbage.I love John Waters. I love Mink Stole. I kinda like Melanie Griffiths. But this movie was dreadful! Fortunately, it was never shown at any theater around my town so I had to wait for the video/DVD release. I really should have seen this coming. Ever since John Waters' masterpiece, Serial Mom, his movies have gone from mediocre to simply godawful.When this movie was being filmed, I read that Ricki Lake had joined the project to be reunited with her first director. When Melanie Griffith signed on, I thought that this would be similar to Serial Mom. Washed-up actress + John Waters film = Hilarious success! Unfortunately, the format didn't work twice.The premise of the film is something Melanie Griffith probably wishes really did happen. She portrays a successful movie starlet, Honey Whitlock, who is kidnapped by a group of underground film groupies (headed by Stephen Dorff) and is forced and brainwashed to star in their independent feature which basically gives Hollywood the middle finger.It's no coincidence that Patty Hearst also stars in this film. John Waters blatantly plants hidden seeds into the plot that similarly traces the kidnapping and brainwashing of Patty Hearst.Honey Whitlock is coerced into acting out scenes of the underground film in public, very much against her will. But before long, she joins her fellow comrades and sees Hollywood for the whore industry that it really is and voluntarily participates in the film project. The film crew are outlawed by the local media and law enforcement as they continue their filming by disrupting the peace and committing several acts of indecent exposure.In the end, I didn't really care what happened to Honey Whitlock. I actually cared more about the dust that needed to be cleaned off the ceiling fans at that point.John Waters needs to sit down and have a good long think about what exactly has been missing from his last few movies. Humor perhaps? More on-screen time by Mink Stole? A bigger budget? If John Waters' next movie is as bad as this one was, then I think I'll skip the video rental altogether.2/10 "},{"Title":"An unfortunate first a really bad John Waters film","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Waters's movies have been many things tasteless, grotesque, ridiculous, and outrageous. They have also consistently been well-written, well-acted, clever, highly original, and almost always hilarious. Despite their reputation, they have never been bad cheap maybe, sloppy at times, but always of the highest quality within their own loopy parameters.Unfortunately, Cecil B. Demented is simply terrible. The premise could only have worked as a clever aside in a much better film; as the whole film, it wears out within the first 10 minutes. The script is ragged, unfunny, and unmemorable. The film looks, well, ordinary despite the fussy set and costume designs. The story is repetitive and dull.And the acting... it really takes a certain style of acting to make this stuff work. The only example of that style here is Mink Stole's turn at the beginning of the movie, and her hilarious bare minute of time on the screen probably kept me from turning the video off. Ricki Lake manages well in her also-brief cameo. However, Melanie Griffith, Stephen Dorff, and the rest of the cast are unbearable. You can tell that they don't believe a word of the script (which is pretty bad to begin with), and that sinks any chance the film has of succeeding. I suspect that Waters realized how wrong Cecil B. Demented was going from the very beginning, but stuck with it none the less. Maybe that's one of the dangers of success - you lose the freedom to cut your losses and move on. Let's hope the next one is much better. "},{"Title":"incredibly bad","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  one of the worst movies i have seen. full of bad acting, horrible cinematography and insulting dialogue. (people with child like intelligence; however, may find it complicated) two reasons to like this movie 1) you love john waters and feel obliged. 2) you thought shawshank contraption was amazing, and find this movie to be 'wayyy out there and different'. otherwise, you have seen alternative movies before, and rate it 1 outta 10 "}{"Title":"Well...","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever, DearLordJesus, seen. If you can acquire it free of charge, have no other movies on hand, and absolutely no activities you could possibly attend to (i.e. full body cast), I would recommend this movie. If not... I would avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"It sucked!  One of the top 20 WORST movies I've ever seen.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It started out funny, but about 10 minutes into the show it turned dull and dark and pointless - and stayed that way for the remainder of the show.  It did have a few laughs, but NOT NEARLY enough to redeem it.My wife and I agree that this is one of the worst movies we have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Physically painful","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I felt physical pain as a friend made me sit through this movie.  (He is no longer allowed to select movies.)  All I could think about was how much longer it could go on before I could sort my sock drawer.  Maybe I'm no fun, but it takes a lot more than the name John Waters to make me enjoy a film. It needs a coherent script and at least decent acting.  This had the antithesis of both.Just my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"This film is funny","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is fast paced and quite hilarious.  A lot of unique characters and witty dialogue.  John Waters best work.  Kevin Nealon appears in this movie.  I saw this film at the Baltimore premiere.  The crowd was going crazy.  Don't miss the boat, this is a must-see.  oh yeah. "},{"Title":"What drivel!","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This was such an awful film.Awful acting! What an earth was Melanie Griffith trying to achieve? She managed to make herself look old, decrepit and desperate...yes desperate for a part in a movie! Any movie! Awful script! Awful characters! My boyfriend (who has very warped taste) loved this but I found it boring, trashy and without any style or comment. I don't always like to watch heavy duty films but I do like to come away having felt something...sadness, side splitting hilarity or shock maybe...but not aching muscles from yawning.Don't waste your time on this. "},{"Title":"Has Waters finally succeeded? What a question.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Has Waters succeeded in his quest to finally make a good movie? The answer is a predictable and resounding no.And don't you fall into the trap that he doesn't want to make a conventional high-quality movie. Like all outcasts and misfits (I'm not referring to his homosexuality, all you Homophobia PC Police spies) he only PRETENDS to revel in making garbage. (Garbage is all he CAN do, so what choice does he have?) Secretly, deep inside him, there is a lonely, ambitious, and quite normal boy who wants to be just as good as Kubrick, Fincher or the Coens. Alas, when you lack even the minimum amount of talent required...So, knowing that he can't match any of the masters - not even enough to get one of his fingers on the Hollywood Walk Of Infamy - he indulges in being the rebel. Many misfits go the rebel route whether it be punk music, hippy crap, or maverick cinema. Anything to get attention.(Maverick cinema the area of movie la-la land often inhabited by lesser talents who scream for attention by being outrageous because no-one would notice them if they placed their unskilled hands at something worthwhile.) A largely crap cast in a badly written and even more badly directed crap film. It's John Waters, that untalented (and pretending to be proud of it) indie director, so it's no shock.ONCE AGAIN Waters tries his clumsy hand at satire, a genre which he neither understands nor is capable of doing in his wildest dreams. Satire is at its best when it's subtle, not to mention clever - and not to mention funny, but Waters once again takes a stab at it with the subtlety of a sledgehammer.His attack on mainstream Hollywood is to an extent in order - but look where it's coming from from the gay/transvestite/indie/porn/trash-for-the-sake-of-it scene which totally overestimates itself while ignoring the obvious fact that while Hollywood does turn out big amounts of filmic garbage every year, it also produces a couple of gems now and then.Waters ridiculing Hollywood is a bit like Ted Bundy complaining that Hitler was a genocidal psychopath.What about the indie scene? (And I mean the very low-budget type.) While a lot of its movies are watchable, very rarely do they come up with a great film, and in spite of the fact that hundreds, even 1000s, are being dumped into the internet and seedy cinemas every year. Most of these movies delve in clichés, trite PC characters, and most of them are about meaningless relationships between very boring people and their uneventful environments.Don't get me wrong I'm not anti-gay, and I even find Waters likable as a person, i.e. the way he presents himself in interviews, but affability is a very long way away from making him a great director.To see just how pathetic Waters's taste in movies is, he shows us by the way of tattoos of various directors on the arms of the cinema terrorists who kidnap Griffith (all supposedly representing the true independent directors through the ages) Spike Lee, Sam Fuller, Otto Preminger, Passolini, and a few others. What a sad bunch. Not a single one of these dolts belongs on the directorial Olymp, and - obviously/predictably - some of them have to be gay. Kubrick's greatest mistake was not being gay, otherwise he too wouild have had the honour/privilege of being featured as a tattoo on one of Waters's retarded terrorists.You wouldn't expect Waters to worship Kubrick, Scorsese, or Fincher, now would you. Waters makes fun of Patch Adams and Forrest Gump, which is to be encouraged, but these are easy targets to ridicule, and he does so in an inept, dull manner. Besides, the alternative he offers us - though quite different - isn't any better just look at his movies! Waters hasn't made a single mediocre movie yet, and I mean that in the reverse sense, of course he has yet to RISE to the elusive heights of mediocrity, for even that seems like an unattainable goal for him. His films are plain AWFUL.The gags are dumb, the humour is beyond America Pie-level. The acting is manic, amateurish, and well... wateresque. Another water constant is that all his flicks start off bad, and then get progressively worse. The script seems to melt away as the time passes in a Waters movie; things get even unfunnier, even dumber, and even more manic. If you enjoy French banana-peel comedy, you might disagree...The cast is blah Griffith, Dorff, Witt. I can understand why unknown actors would snatch a chance to appear in a Waters film (i.e. any film), but there is no excuse for any of the more or less established faces to appear here every single actor who says yes to starring in a Waters movie is a complete and utter moron - no ifs and buts about it. Did they actually think they were improving their CVs by working with yet another master? How clueless can you get... "},{"Title":"Celebate for Celluloid!","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Waters, the master of bad taste and a big proponent of underground cinema himself, has brought to screen probably one of the greatest tongue-in-cheek renditions of the struggle between the Mainstream and the Art House--Cecil B. Demented, a film about a renegade crew of film lovers who kidnap an A-list actress from her impending swan dive and attempt to forever change the face of independent film-making. They have a vision, they have a drive, and they have their actress. Let them lose and see where these cinema anarchists lead you! This film is outrageous, and outrageously glorious. Waters douses the screen with characters, references, and action that any film lover can enjoy (though maybe there might still be a few film snobs out there who just can't take a joke), and pretty much let's his imagination run wild as usual while the motley crew makes one of the best cinematic creations never created.The movie itself is full of irony, a seemingly lost art in contemporary film. Full of big name actors and generally having a pretty accessible storyline, Cecil B. Demented is far from the audacity of Pink Flamingoes. A highly quotable cult picture itself (Hey MPAA, how many films have you censored today? and Hi I'm Raven, I'll be your hairdresser. I'm a Satanist! are my favorites), it's message is also underlined by the very mainstream critic quotes that pepper the DVD cover, bringing to mind the movie's own line, Death to all critics who say everything is good! But that doesn't change it's lovable and eccentric attitude, and helps underline a point itself this film is a dreamland that every aspiring director hopes for but can never attain. It's filled with the kitsch of success and the nirvana of artistic freedom, and yet it still stars Melanie Griffith (but hey, she does a great job)! A must for any fan of independent cinema, and a good time for anybody with a sense of humor, Cecil B. Demented is one of the most pleasing John Waters films of all time.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Waste of Celluloid, time, electricity, etc","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sucks bigtime.  I just wanted to see the terrorist's killed as soon as possible.  They were all a waste of oxygen.  I don't care if they were insane, they needed to be offed ASAP.  There was nothing funny, satirical or the slightest bit entertaining about this movie.  We turned it off half way through and returned it.  I'm glad we only wasted a rental on it versus paying to see it in a theater.  It was worse than LOTR3.  At least it was shorter.  This movie stinks, stinks. "},{"Title":"Demented, just not good","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe I'm one of those people who don't get Waters movies. The only other one I have seen was Serial Mom which I did like. This film sucks. It bored me. I guess I can give it credit for not being Hollywood formulaic, and Melanie Griffith did a darn good job with the material. But even so, it just did nothing for me. My rating (4) would have been even lower, but for Griffith. Grade F "},{"Title":"DeMented movie","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Cecil B.Demented was an OK film. It could have gone without some of the gross stuff. The first scene takes place at a hotel that over looks the inner harbor or Baltimore, Maryland.I live in Baltimore and it's not a clean place. There are no hotels that overlook it and, there are Factories lining the harbor. You also see, people looking for crabs. so already, I think the film maker is a total liar. who Ironically is from Baltimore.Cecil(Stephen Dorff) and a crew of people all get jobs at the senator theater in Baltimore. They kidnap a Hollywood star, Honey Witlock and force her to fight against all of the CRAP that is out there and make a low budget film. Cecil (Dorff) is basically a cult leader. He forces Honey and his crew to live in a small, empty theater. They all get Tattoos, and they are not allowed to have sex.(Which was the weirdest part of the film). Cecil says you are not allowed to have sexual relief until the film is done. Use your energy toward the film. So, the movie goes on with the cast and crew running from place to place in empty bakery trucks to break up other films that are being made with their own message of Anti-films. some of the cast and crew, die in this process, when Cecil just says they died for their art. While running from place to place, Cecil and his crew hide in a Adult film Theater(which actually does exist in Baltimore) Where Cecil's sex- crazed girlfriend used to act in adult films. So you see all these middle aged losers jacking off in the theater, while watching some thing with her and a gerbil. and she runs in. Of coarse the Losers recognize her and protect her from the people trying to get her.The climax of the movie is at the end. when, the cast and crew take over a drive in. Honey witlock lights her hair on fire. At the end, they finish their movie,and Cecil says that's it's OK to have sex. the horny group of teenagers then break into a mass orgie. this gruesome scene is broken up with the cops shooting the cast and crew. at the end, predictably, Cecil (Stephen Dorff) dies.... He always dies.Overall, I liked the theme of the movie. I do think that Hollywood puts a lot of CRAP on tape, however, I could have gone without all the sexual scenes. If It wasn't for those scenes, I would have liked the film a lot more.  "}]