[{"Title":"The right movie for the wrong audience","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"177 out of 201 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's a pity this movie failed at the box office, because in my opinion, it's really good. It combines combines the classic dystopic sci-fi future with a scorched Earth, a few heroes struggling against enigmatic aliens and a corrupt military force, action style sequences that are at times quite intense, and the typical slow-paced Asian movie storytelling. Add to this a rich amount of influences from the FF games, including eight mysterious spirits that must be found in time or the heroine will succumb, as well as a lot of mythological references that must be taken for granted rather than analysed to bits if the viewer is to find any pleasure in this film.The trouble is that the FF video game fans wanted a story based on the games, or on their particular favourite in the series, and were disappointed with both the story, the setting and the characters. The average sci-fi movie fan, though, who ought to have loved the wicked general (excellently voice-cast by James Woods) and his huge space cannon, as well as the 'Aliens' styled surroundings and technology, was put off by all the talk about spirits and world souls. Leaving for a few of us who went to see the film with no real expectations, to enjoy it.Because it is a good film. The animation is, for the most part, excellent, even if some scenes have a too blatant 'look what we can do' boast to them. Particularly all the scenes of Aki's hair waving in the wind. Personally, I didn't think the story was either too slow-paced, nor too weird. It works well, especially if you like Asian movies. For the European and American market, though, there's probably not enough action and too much talking.If this movie had been released this year, it would probably have been given a better reception. The thought of fully computer animated films isn't as new and strange anymore, and with films like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, The Ring and Hero, the west is opening up for the Asian way of telling stories. I hope to see more films like this, at least if they are this well made. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"131 out of 169 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I don't know why nearly all the critics bashed this film. I thought it was great! The main reasons people have dogged it is because they don't follow the plot and they don't think the animation looks real enough.I did not have any problem following the plot. The second word in Final Fantasy is a description of the type of movie this is. It deals with the supernatural. The spirits, or essences of earth are gathered to fight the alien gaia, as the arms and weapons used against the alien spirits are ineffective and in fact destructive.This movie introduced me to the concept of the gaia, which I believe is a great metaphor for understanding how all life on earth shares a common spirit. I don't truly believe there is a gaia, and you don't need to either to enjoy this film. But perhaps some found that this conflicted too much with their beliefs.Now as far as the animation, this is the most realistic portrayal of human characters to date generated by a computer. If you watch some anime films, where there is a lot of action, they will show a frame for a long time with only the mouths moving. People enjoy these animations. Then why is this movie criticized so heavily for not looking real enough? It's rather ironic. You should watch this movie expecting an animation, not a full-feature film with real actors.One explanation for this reaction is that, like figures in a wax museum, characters that look too real but are not creep us out because they remind us of dead people. But perhaps this is fitting for this movie, because the soul of the earth is sick and life on the planet is reaching its end.In any case, I enjoyed this movie, and I liked the message. If you like animation and enjoy a good fantasy story, you will like this movie. "},{"Title":"Superb - watch, listen and immerse yourself","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"120 out of 160 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A superb film - I'm so very glad that I ignored those who condemned this. I bought it on the recently released 2 DVD set (which in itself is worthy of purchase even if you didn't like the film - simply loads of extras, commentary tracks, etc).I loved the overall 'feel' of this movie - it invokes a sense of wonder in me that few films have managed to achieve. It goes without saying that visually (and aurally) the movie is a feast, but more than that it is a movie for the soul.Ignore those that don't like it - inevitably they simply didn't understand it. It IS a convoluted (but ultimately simple) plot and you need to pay attention, but if you do so you will be well rewarded.Definitely a movie to be savored. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all....","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"70 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Wow, I guess there is SOME hope for video game adaptations. While not a direct translation of the Final Fantasy video game franchise, it is written by the series creator, whose name I cannot remember. On top of that, his video game company branched off into a film company (Square Pictures) just to go and make this movie. At least one can't complain about the handling of the material.But the big question here is Do these guys know anything about film-making? Maybe. Maybe not. Truth be told, they don't need to. The beauty of this movie is that it does something new. It blends the world of video game technology and storytelling with the art of film-making. It cuts corners on film-making, but its uniqueness makes up for it. I will admit that I'm a gamer, so I appreciate what was attempted here. What we get out of this movie is an impressive display of what animators and video game technology can do together. I know there are other CGI movies out there, but, unless I am mistaken, they have all followed the over-the-top cartoony path. This is where Final Fantasy stands out. The animation is swelling with reality. From a technical standpoint, this is a gem, and a reason at the least to give it a rent.The storyline is subject to much scrutiny though. It's not for everybody. This IS a film of Japanese origin, so anime fans will be right at home with it. For the mainstream audience, however, that remains to be decided. Although the script was revised to suit North American localization (and done very well might I add), it still is very Japanese in style, albeit with a bit less surrealism. It's fast-paced and a bit abstract at times, but it is coherent.In the end, I would say that one should rent this just to see the technological achievement at the least. It's safe to say that all would agree with that point. Depending on the person, you may get into the storyline as well. Either way, you'll walk away with at least part of you satisfied. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"63 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is a dream come true for any science fiction fan. Unfortunately, this film was not as popular as it truly deserved to be. It shows how powerful the media can be when it comes to squelching a foreign (in this case Japanese) film. It is by far the best computer animation ever to be shown. If only the American computer animators could be this good! I was really sorry they took the film out of the theaters so soon... before the general public had a chance to really enjoy this film on the wide screen. "},{"Title":"Improbably good","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I never played the computer game, and knew nothing about it. I was drawn to this film because of the bold animations, but didn't expect the film to do anything for me beyond simple entertainment. I was pleasantly surprised. The excellent voice talent and stunning animation allow Final Fantasy to drawn you in just as well as a live-action version would have. It is very easy to forget that the characters you are watching are animations, and the action is CGI.A meteor has struck the earth, carrying with it phantoms who strip away the life energy of whomever they contact. Dr. Aki Ross and her mentor Dr. Ced are locked in a stand-off against the earth's military forces, whose solution to this invasion may be worse than the invasion itself, and the mysterious phantoms who seem to have no specific purpose and can not be fought using conventional means. Following up on a quasi-mystical theory of Dr. Ced, they set out to collect 8 living spirits which must be used to harness the life force of earth itself in defense of the planet.This film is dark and beautiful, with each scene a masterpiece of animated art. It feels less like a computer game than an immersive experience in an alternative universe.A fast-paced action film, Final Fantasy blends elements of folklore, science and animated battle sequences into a satisfying, well balanced and well paced film. It is probably the most thoughtful computer game -inspired film I have seen. "},{"Title":"Criminally Underrated","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"68 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Just to clear up a couple of points-a) This is a FILM, not a computer game. b) CGI people don't look or move exactly like real people. That stated, Aki Ross is still a more convincing character than ANYONE played by Keanu Reeves.Final Fantasy is misnamed; there's little about the story that is final, nor is it especially fantastic, but what it IS is a pretty decent mystical-science fiction (no, NOT sci-fi space opera) yarn. Possibly owing to the real inability to successfully portray facial expressions in the CGI characters, the mood throughout is sombre and hard... so rather more like real life than your average Hollywood space-opera swashbuckler. Frankly, because this story actually tries to make a POINT, it probably disappoints the type of viewer who would like a film like Aliens. The overriding message is simply that brute force is no use without understanding, and that's a timeless message that many cultures would do well to think about.And, of course, this film is just BEAUTIFUL. Probably best watched while tripping on acid, if the truth be told.7/10 and a future classic, as far as I'm concerned. This film will be remembered long after things like Starship Troopers have been forgotten.  "},{"Title":"Most will be impressed, some disappointed, but it's worth the price of a ticket for all...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've waited for this one for quite a while, as have most of Square's fans. There is a lot riding on this film, including the future direction of CG in movies, the proud heritage of a name brand, and the chance to release a worthwhile movie during a string of bad summer flicks.  So, does Final Fantasy live up to it's hype?Mostly.First, the bad.  No, it has nothing to do with the games other than name, but then the majority of the storylines of the games had nothing to do with each other, either.  The plot is not necessarily original, with marauding aliens nearly vanquishing humanity while a desperate band of outsiders hold the key to winning (tired sci-fi, to be sure) and even the animation has it's faults, mostly with the mouth movements and a few emotions lacking, as the eyes and lips, and even hair had detail but no-one's cheeks or throats moved, giving the characters a bit of a puppetry feel at times.  The movement of humans in CG is still not quite fluid, but getting much better. Also, the movie slows down considerably during the last twenty or thirty minutes, which is perhaps necessary for the plot, but the change in pace was notable, even with the awe that the movie's end was aspiring too.But enough nit-picking.The Good.  The imagery in this movie is startling, imaginative, complex, even awesome at times.  It's amazing that while the machines, vehicles, and mechanics in the movie are so realistic and detailed, so too are the organic forms such as the alien presence (sometimes seemingly more fluidly animated than the humans!) and the incredible landscapes.  It is obvious how much imagination went in to so many aspects of this movie.  The soundtrack, while not exceptional, is very complimentary and captures the dark feel with the fast action and triumphant climaxes.  The characters were distinct, like-able, and voiced very well (even if the digital mouths don't quite match up most of the time).  The emotional scenes, while certainly not perfect and a bit awkward, should be given grand credit for achieving the level they do convey.  If you let yourself go, it's not impossible to be entranced by all that this movie actually manages to pull off.  If nothing else, then the effects alone are worth seeing, if the somewhat hokey spiritual elements of the plot turn you off.  (If you consider the Force to be hokey, don't bother.)The Surprising.  Well, I was a bit put off by the simplistic way the characters would look at each situation and then spell it out to the audience, though there is more to the plot than casual sci-fi fare. Because of this, the dialogue was a bit goofy at times, but at least it usually fit the characters.  But every good thing you've heard about the quality of the CG work in this movie is true- it really is a site to behold, if nothing else than for the effects.  As I mentioned earlier, if you consider how much this movie is trying to do, it's amazing that it pulled off everything nearly as well as it does.So, I think that most will be pleased, some will critique it heavily on the negatives and not be as impressed, but the bottom line is that it is definitely worth seeing.  Quality work in most areas, even story and screenplay in my opinion (though that's certainly the most debatable point.) I left the theater without being disappointed, something I cannot say for the majority of cinema fare. "},{"Title":"good if not all I expected of it","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie isn't a paramount to the 7th art but it certainly broke some new ground. I expected a lot in the animation department and I was pleased with what I saw. Being based on a video game prepped me for a rather unconventional and perhaps lame plot.Firstly, the animation the use of realistic CG characters by this movie is good, most of the movement of the animated people was very good except for a bit of problems with speaking and expressions, you can also tell that the animators learned how to make the characters walk as they made the movie, the walk during the first 20 minutes (especially at the beginning) is noticeably stiff. It gets better as the movie wears on though. The detail level of vehicles and scenery is superb, you can even see dust falling as the light streams in a window, this gives you an idea of how detailed it can be. Second story line, not too original, while not the best sci fi out there by a long shot, it still has a decent if somewhat complex story line which is hard to follow at times. It borrows heavily from typical anime plots (with the biblical and mythological references, the mystic stuff and so on) however what else can you expect. The ending is typical of anime so it seems that the animators and writers themselves still regarded this as animation and weren't trying to make it a true movie. It also borrows from well tried elements like the military commander bent of the use of force over logic, but as an animation it sure eats up disney's childish plots.Summing up, this movie is worth watching for the animation, a second watching will also probably clear up some things in the plot, it gives a good idea as to what to expect from future animation and sets a new standard. I came out of the theater with a sensation of money well spent and I'll probably watch it again, not my favorite of all time but certainly decent. "},{"Title":"Eye Candy But Nothing More","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"57 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For a movie based on a video game, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within was very good.  Next to such atrocities as Tomb Raider and Street Fighter, it positively shines, and when compared to the complete gibberish known as the Super Mario Bros. Movie...Having said that, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within could have been A Lot Better.If you paid attention to the Final Fantasy games, to any of the hype surrounding the movie, or to the CGI industry in general, you already know the computer animation for this movie is far-and-away the best ever done. Back when Square first started producing the movie in 1998, they were progressing at a rate of about one second of film PER DAY, because of the immense quality of the graphics, and none of that quality was lost as technology caught up and time passed.  The backdops are jaw-dropping and the CGI actors look more real than some actual actors.  Really simply, Square declared itself the current king of CGI animation.  Pixar, Dreamworks, move over--the studio that cut its teeth on PlayStation games is in the house.Unfortunately, having been a fan of the Final Fantasy games since it first sprouted on the original Nintendo, I'm a little jaded towards visual grandeur.  And when you take that away, there isn't much left.The plot is pretty standard--Earth is a wasteland; most of Terra's population has been wiped out by the unexpected invasion of mostly-invisible aliens called Phantoms.  The remaining Earthlings struggle to survive. Aki Ross (the main character) and Dr. Cid (there's been a character named Cid in EVERY Final Fantasy production since 1991) have isolated eight Earthborn Spirits--not ghosts, but tangible lifeforms; one of them is a plant, and don't ask me how the plant has a spirit--that, if combined, can wipe the Phantoms off the planet entirely.  With the help of Captain Grey Edwards and his crack band of soldiers, the Deep Eyes (Final Fantasy also has a knack for weird names--I mean, who came up with 'Premium Heart'?), Aki sets off to find, capture and use those eight Spirits.  And then finally there's General Hein, a megalomaniac fellow who's just trying to blow everything up using a a very large gun.No problem there.  Anyone who plays Final Fantasy is used to Fetch Quests (in which the main characters perform a service to a ruler, generally retrieving a stolen object of enormous power, in return for help from that ruler).  What I want to complain about are the characters themselves.They are FLAT.A lot of them die, and we don't miss them except that they don't speak any more lines.  Grey and Aki (male and female lead) don't really evolve over the course of the story--and Cid is just there to provide technobabble. Oh, and by the way, there's almost no 'fantasy' elements in this movie, with the sole exception of the Spirits.My two favorite games in the Final Fantasy series are numbers Eight and Ten. They are my favorites because they have unique, interesting, convincing characters.  True, most Final Fantasy games take 40 hours or more to play, giving the writers a lot of time to flesh the characters out, but generally within the first five minutes of being introduced to a character (sometimes within the first few SECONDS, as with Zell and Kimahri) you know most or all there is to know about them--they are already convincing, already realized in the player's mind.  Square's GOOD at doing that sort of thing.If Square had bothered to invent real characters for Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, the movie would have SOARED.  As it is, it just barely limps along under the power of a few snappy lines of dialogue and a lot of pretty vistas.It's worth seeing once, for the same reason any museum is worth visiting once--you'll get to see things you've never seen before and may not see again.  But if you're like me and prefer your movies to have interesting characters and plotlines, be prepared for a disappointment. "}{"Title":"Outstanding Animation But Unappealing Story & Characters","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is outstanding animation and - when it was released on DVD - some of the best 5.1surround sound I had heard on a DVD. The problems were that (1) the characters were not ones you could care about and (2) the film is too long. Anything over 100 minutes generally is too long for an animated film, in my opinion. They are better around 80 minutes in length.It's not boring; the visuals and sound alone are state-of-the-art but it was just an uninvolving, unlikeable story for me. After awhile it was hard to care for anyone and I mainly watched to admire the art work.It's an adult (some swearing, but mild) sci-fi film with a lot of occult nonsense (spirits, ghosts and the like) thrown in the mix. As usual, the military man is the villain.This animation was made to look life-like and it mostly succeeded. It almost was eerie at first, hearing the voices of Donald Sutherland, James Woods, Steve Buscemi and Alec Baldwin but see other human-like faces. It didn't seem to fit. "},{"Title":"Great graphics, been-done-before generic wannabe storyline and poor dialog.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Must watch since this is the future of movies but very bad in terms of storyline, dialog, character development. This story is too predictable, the morality tale being developed is overdone and the poor dialog really sunk this film.  It's so close to being a cheesy sci-fi flick. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Despite The Novelty And Standard Script","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The thing that struck me about FINAL FANTASY is how unoriginal the script is  A female scientist is saved from an alien menace by a mixed sex multi ethnic military team . There's a couple of close scrapes followed by some techno babble and obvious exposition about saving Planet Earth with a blatant baddie on the human side a closed mind military type and all the good humans open minded scientists . There's some flirting with lines like Get yourself a girlfriend   I'm working on that  before the heroes take part in a very spectacular climax .It sounds like every Sci-Fi block buster ever made in the last 20 years and to be honest I was reminded of both ALIENS and STARSHIP TROOPERS more than a few times But FINAL FANTASY wasn't produced or marketed as a groundbreaking plot - It was marketed as a groundbreaking CGI movie , and I thought as entertainment it succeeded in pleasing this viewer . Of course movies with vast amounts of CGI like the LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy only work when you don't realize you're watching CGI and in this respect FINAL FANTASY is a failure and it's not helped by the characters voiced by James Woods and Donald Sutherland looking nothing like the two actors ( Did anyone else think Sutherland's scientist looked exactly like Robert Englund ? ) though to be fair at least the dialog was synchronised with the animated mouths and the sound editing and sound effects are superb and despite everything it is entertainingSeven out of ten  "},{"Title":"So much Potential, So little realised.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Positives Beautiful 'cinematography', good visual effects, life-like character animation in Most characters (except their hands, anatomically hard to replicate through any artistic medium).  In short, visually appealing.The Negatives Lack of Plot, the extensive use of jargon for the semblance of plot-forethought which I am sure loses a good half or more of any audience (including me!).  The result being the loss of interest despite the good visuals. "},{"Title":"No heart whatsoever.","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film has so little going for it, it's a wonder I'm even rating it. With each subsequent viewing, I am becoming more and more disillusioned with Final Fantasy The Spirits Within. It is an affront to nature.The film is supposedly based on the video game series of the same title, but in truth I can see nothing which connects the two. A common thread throughout the game series (I think there are 11 games now) is that each one takes place in a completely different world with new characters, and I can therefore see no reason, apart from marketing purposes, to even call this film Final Fantasy.I'm left cold be this movie. It has no heart whatsoever. Everything is formulaic and lifeless. To be honest, I'm actually left wondering why it was even made. Actually, no I'm not; I know exactly why it was made it's a technology demo. Well then, way to go, Square Pictures! You managed to prove that you can create semi-convincing computer animation via motion capture that looks realistic. Remind me what the point of this was when you could just have shot it in live action anyway. Seriously, why animate something when you can get the same effect, and cheaper, by doing it in live action? I'll tell you why because, if this were a live action film, it would be condemned as complete rubbish. Sadly, because it is completely CGI, many critics have been wowed by its impressive visuals... including Roger Ebert and Richard Roeper, who felt compelled to give it their thumbs up.When I first reviewed Final Fantasy, I gave it 6 out of 10. In retrospect, I most certainly regret that decision. As it is, I do feel that even 4 out of 10 may be a little over-generous, but there are a few moments within the film that rescue it from the depths of having no merit whatsoever. Despite the overall pedestrian nature of the film, I will admit that Sakaguchi and his cohorts managed to create some pretty atmospheric dream sequences. A nice effect is the way that, as Aki comes more and more under the control of the virus she is infected with, her dreams become more desaturated.In many respects, Final Fantasy tries very hard to be a computer-generated Akira. Shame on them for even trying. This film doesn't even come close to Katsuhiro Ôtomo's 1987 masterpiece. Many of the same themes are present (well, you can't get much broader than end of the world), but none of the imagination or heart. Final Fantasy is cold and sterile, and for me it is adequate proof that if you use machines to make your movie, you'll end up with a very mechanical movie. Especially after listening to the commentaries and watching the documentary, I have become aware that this is obviously an assembly-line product, not a creative endeavor. To reiterate Pixar can do it. They are able to use their computers as tools to project heart and emotion. In my opinion, Square Pictures cannot do it. They use their computers to hide their own incompetence.The main character, Dr. Aki Ross, is voiced by the irritating Ming-Na. She gives the most bland, lifeless reading you could possibly imagine. The other voice actors are equally disappointing, projecting their lifeless voices on to lifeless CG models. Special mention must be given to Alec Baldwin, who gives a laughably poor and clichéd performance as Captain Gray (although, admittedly, he's reading a laughably poor and clichéd script).If proving that they could do lifelike CG animation was the production team's only goal, then they have succeeded. However, that means that Final Fantasy was nothing more than an experiment a test that was most certainly not ready to be released to the public. They should have spent more time on developing a story, finding better voice actors and actually animating something rather than motion-capturing it all. It's hardly surprising that Square Pictures folded shortly after the film was released. "},{"Title":"Watch out for this one, Final Fantasy fans.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within was a very disappointing movie.  The animation was top notch but the story just wasn't there.  They never fully explain what the spirits of the earth are, and the characters could use some more development.  I am a huge fan of the Final Fantasy video games, with the exception of parts 5 and 7.  Final Fantasy the movie fell into the categories of 5 and 7; just entertaining enough to watch but not groundbreaking, like FF 4,6,9, or 10.  I give this movie an average 5 for being a mediocre Final Fantasy theme. "},{"Title":"Lacked Story line.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  The special effects were great, the animation was amazing, the diologue I found was quite humorous.  But, the only thing this film lacked was a story.  If this film would've had a story line to it, then it might've even been better than Shrek, but guess what, there was no story line.My Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Very impressive but fails to deliver at end","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  During the first 20 minutes, I was riveted by the plot.  The animation was spectacular.  The score and sound effects were booming, especially as played on DVD.  The dialogue was not as bad as some say.  Actually it was quite believable.  Buscemi stole the show with his wisecracks.  I don't think this film was predictable.  If it was, then why are there so many unanswered questions at the end.  If anything it was too unpredictable. Somehow along the way, the characters failed to explain how the eight spirits would get rid of the aliens.  Second, I have a problem with the general.  OK, his family was killed by the aliens and he is consumed with killing them.  But you don't get to that position without having some common sense.  He already had proof of her dreams to wake the council up, why did he have to let the aliens in the city.  Third, how come the Zeus cannon is so powerful that it can destroy the Earth's Gaiia but fail to kill Captain and Aki when they are down in the crater.  I guess I was expecting a nuclear blast or something.  Fourth, how do the phantoms feed off the Zeus cannon? Fifth, how does Aki manage to project the spirits to kill off the aliens and Sixth, why does Captain have to die to save everyone?Overall a 7 for animation, compelling characters, and score.  I deduct points for plot holes and some unbelievable characters (the general) "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy?","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I don't even know why the people who made this film bothered to call it Final Fantasy, when it didn't have anything to do with that franchise of video-games They could have name it only The Spirits Within and it still will be the same thing, since this is something completely different (But not in a good way) I just don't know why the director of this movie Hironobu Sakaguchi (Which is the creator of the games) decided to remove all the elements that make Final Fantasy so popular in first place (Such as the combination of magic and steam-punk technology, the mythological characters) turning what could have been a great epic film into a boring, dull and clichéd story about an alien invasion on earth.For me, that was the main reason why this movie flopped, rather than the Uncanny Valley effect that the hyper-realistic animation from this movie had With a good story and interesting characters, this would have been a much more enjoyable experience.And while I don't hate this movie,the truth is that I found it to be terribly disappointing Most of the time, this film feels flat and uninspiring. There are some good scenes and the voice acting is pretty good. And the animation...Despite the fact that most of the time the movements of the characters feel robotic and lifeless, with awkward expressions on their faces...It is still quite impressive to look at, even more considering that this was one of the first animated movies that could achieve that level of realism.Sadly, the most important thing, the story, was completely neglected in order to focus in the visual aspect from this movie. It is true that not all the movies need to have a very complex story in order to be good, but I think, that at least it could have been something more entertaining This movie is way too boring, too predictable and too predictable to be enjoyable. While the incredible CGI made it a (somewhat) worth-watching experience, the story is a complete mess, filled with the most annoying stereotypes from Hollywood films, and the worst part of it is that is not even funny. All the intense and emotional scenes from this movie feel demotivated. The characters are one-dimensional, being most of them are just cardboard clichés from many other movies and television shows.It is true that there are some movies that could make a good use of clichés...Unfortunately, this isn't one of them. The Spirits Within is merely an exercise of style over substance, where the story only follows the same pattern that appears in every other story about alien invasions on earth, expecting it to work well only because the CGI used on it was good. At the end, this only serves to proof how the lack of a good (Or at least entertaining story) are enough to destroy what could have been great film.Anyway, I think that this movie was doomed to be a flop from the very first moment in which it decided to be anything like the video-games. that was guaranteed to disappoint the fans from the Final Fantasy franchise, but also, it failed to attract to all the people who never played the games.Even with the best CGI, if the story doesn't appeal to anyone, the failure is something unavoidable. "},{"Title":"If this was live action, I'd want my $7 back.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a typical Japanese sci-fi film long on imagination, short on story.  There's no excitement anywhere in this film.  The plot only makes sense if...okay there's no contingency under which this plot would make sense.  They're looking for some spirits that'll somehow end the alien invasion.  That's all I could figure out.  The Phantom Menace was Gone With the Wind by comparison. Despite the considerable voice talents in the cast (Donald Sutherland, Alec Baldwin, Steve Buscemi, Ving Rhames, and James Woods), this movie has flat, uninteresting characters.  All of the characters are stock action movie/sci-fi characters that we're better represented in movies like Aliens.  (saying this movie was a rip off of Aliens wouldn't be fair...to Aliens.)   Buscemi gets the best lines (both of them).  Between this movie and Pearl Harbor, Alec Baldwin is proving to be Hollywood's biggest whore.   And yet, this movie had some of the most stunning visuals I've ever seen.  The design work for this movie is incredible!  If it wasn't for that I demand a refund and an apology. "}{"Title":"A beautiful tale of love and death","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" All life is born of Gaia and each life has a spirit. When the physical body dies, each spirit, enriched by its life on earth, returns to Gaia, bringing with it the experiences, enabling Gaia to live and grow.Are you still with me so far? If your stomach has just turned inside out, you're simply not ready for this movie. Don't come back until you're reborn and young again. For the others - watch this, it's like nothing you've ever seen before - unless you're a fan of Japanese animation, like Mamoru Oshii's Ghost in the Shell or Appleseed. It's among the best there is, and The Spirits Within's philosophy has a decidedly Japanese touch, though with a special kind of magic that none of the others can really match.Mankind has almost been entirely wiped out by an invasion of phantoms, deadly ghost-like, translucent creatures in all shapes and sizes that feast on human spiritual energy. But man has also learned to harness this energy himself, thanks to Dr. Cid (Donald Sutherland) and his young assistant Aki Ross (Ming-Na), who endeavor to fight the phantoms not with conventional weapons but brains and research. Aki puts herself in danger too readily and has to be rescued by Capt. Gray Edwards and his loyal team of marines (not entirely for duty reasons), while staying out of the clutches of the evil General Hein who prefers quick and drastic actions to an army of touchy-feely plants and animals, regardless of their cost. When she finally learns what the phantoms really are, it is almost too late...This film has awesome CGI, great voice performances and is ideally suited for youngsters and those SF/Fantasy fans out there who can still dream. It has no graphic violence, but lots of thrilling action and some parts may scare young kids. It is not a children's movie. Much of its magic is Aki's work - she comes across as incredibly strong and yet very fragile and feminine, and she's worth every hour it took to render her haircut. Her presence is so strong, it almost seems to jump off the screen.The characters and everything else are computer-generated to look realistic, but with a larger-than-life, mythical touch. The facial character animation may occasionally look a bit next-to-perfect, compared to the amazing realism of the rest, which is a little unfair - giving true realism to a young, unwrinkled face is the ultimate challenge in animation and video-games are still far from it. But the unique romance, morality and poetry of this story is what makes it for me a definite watch-again. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I know opinions will vary greatly when it comes to movies, but I'm surprised at the amount folks that didn't like this film. I thought it was superb, one of my favorites.The visual effects are phenomenal, but aside from that I found the characters and plot line very coherent, sort of like how the original Star Trek series was done. The film draws you into the various characters, especially Aki Ross, which brings me to her.The Aki Ross character is what I envision a near-perfect female to be. Intelligent, capable yet feminine and vulnerable, and of course attractive. This is an amazing feat in of itself for the film creators to pull off successfully in an animated, though life-like character. Excellent science-fiction. "},{"Title":"I'd like to give this a higher rating.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The only thing keeping me back from giving this higher than a 5 is the fact that, although the animation is superb, the animators should have spent a little bit more time on the mechanics of the human face (for expressions and speaking) and some of the other human body parts were noticeably off (look at Aki's hair when she's bent over or hunched, it never loses its form.)  Had the animators given a bit more of the trifles the extra polish then this movie would have been more believable, and therefore, better.As it stands, based on video games, the plot is a little lacking, but there are movies with flesh and blood actors that have the same problem.  I'm not counting off more for that slight than I would any other movie.With all that said, this is still a tour de force in computer animation, and it will be a long time before it is matched or beaten in the quality of the human representations that are depicted. I liked this so much, I bought the DVD. 'Nuff said.But still, nothing more than average fare, thus the reasoning behind the rating of 5 that I give.But is average bad? No. Not in the least. Average, as I see it, is average amongst all like movies (genre.) This puts it squarely in good company.Now, had the animators spent the extra week or two on the small things that I didn't like, I would have given this probably a 6, which, although not seemingly so much better, actually is. To me, a 6 is a superior or above average film, will withstand multiple viewings.In the end, I wish I could give half-point increments, because then I'd give this closer to a 6 than this is given, but as it is if push comes to shove I always round down.   "},{"Title":"The title was misleading, and so was its hype.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I worshipped the Final Fantasy installments for video games for a very long time. When I caught word that they were developing a movie, I made frequent visits to the site and marked my calendar about a year and a half in advance. I had to to go the first night needless to say, I did, and I was disappointed. The animation was terrific, I have to admit, but that alone cannot carry a movie. Also, the Final Fantasy series is known for complex plots and amazing character relationships, and I couldn't find either one. If you were ever into the games, then shy away from it. If not, I wouldn't tell you not to see it, but don't expect much out of it. (3 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Be ready for a hour and half commercial","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy is like many summer popcorn flicks, digital animated stuff along with a whole lot of nothing.It follows the string of recent stinkers which relied heavily on its CGI and technical details to cover up bad acting or lack of an interesting plot like Star Wars prequels, Godzilla, and Armageddon. This travesty of film-making is no exception. First, CGI and digital animation does not impress an audience. This isn't new. George Lucas has done it. James Cameron has done it. Game players have seen it. So what are we expecting when we come to a movie like this? The plot and the fun factor. Final Fantasy has neither.The movie is so boring it nearly rendered the five people that saw it at the theaters with me to borderline comatose. The characters are stereotypes, cliched, and wooden. The animation does absolutely no justice to the great actors behind this farcity. All in all, it's probably worth a rental if you're stuck at home under, like a Tornado watch, but be prepared to fall asleep.3/10 "},{"Title":"Oh look, it's an amalgamation of James Cameron films...only animated.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  May contain spoilers.I realize that my friend Mason will probably not be too thrilled to lionized in infamy like this, but I have to include him in this review of Final Fantasy.  About a month and a half before this film came out, we were being bombarded with commercials for it.  I took one look at the trailer for the movie and said to myself, and then my wife, that this was going to fail and fail miserably.  To me it looked like a cross between Aliens and T-2.  The commercial and the trailer even went so far as to rip off some direct shots from Aliens and plot devices from T-2.  If that was what the film was going to be about then there is no way it was going to succeed.  People are stupid sometimes but not all of the time and anyone could see that this film was priding itself on the fact that it was the first film to be filmed completely on a computer.  Great, but what they forgot was that the story was nothing that we haven't seen before.  Here is the premise, a bunch of renegade soldiers are sent to a planet to stop a bunch of aliens or creatures from ruining what is left of Earth.  You have a Linda Hamilton clone from T-2.  You have every one of the important characters from Aliens basically cloned right down to Alec Baldwin playing Hicks, Buscemi playing Hudson and Terri Gilpin playing Vasquez.  There was not one original idea in here so all they had to go on was the fact that they were computer animated and that they were one of the biggest video games around.  So back to Mason.  He was so confident that this was going to do well, he bet me that this film would make about 120 million dollars at the N.A. box office.  I thought it would do something similar to last years box disaster, A.E.  I guessed less than 35 million.  Guess who was right?There are many reasons why Final Fantasy failed.  One of them is that the film just plain sucked.  I finally took my 8 year old step son to see the film and he is big fan of the video game.  I myself am a pretty big fan of video games but have never really heard of Final Fantasy.  So I sucked it up and antied up the $20.00 and went. To sum it up, we were both confused by what was happening, unamused at the humour and generally had no interest in the story or what was going on in this fictional world.  When we left, Jonathin turned to me and asked me if I liked it?  I replied no.  He then began asking me questions hoping I could explain the plot to him.  This happens in certain films that we see together.  Questions were plentiful when we saw Mission Impossible 2 together.  But this time, it was me asking him questions as well, hoping that his knowledge of the video game could help me comprehend what we just spent my twenty bucks on.  But to no avail.Final Fantasy was destined to fail when they made it look like Aliens, T2 and the Abyss.  James Cameron should actually sue them for whatever money they are going to make off this film because there is not a single line in this film that doesn't seem to come from James' vernacular.  When films try to sell you on a gimmick, and not the actual film itself, then they are, in my opinion, destined for failure.  When Toy Story was launched, it included box office heavyweights like Tom Hanks and Tim Allen.  And they were not telling us to see this movie because it was stop computer animation.  They were selling us on the story and the actors.  Final Fantasy did the complete opposite.  The tag line wasn't even about the movie itself, it was about their break-through in computer graphics.UNLEASH A NEW REALITY.This should be a tag line for the new Microsoft 1.21 gigawats time machine or something, but not a tag line for a film.  This 120 million dollar effort deserved to fail and Square pictures should now go back to the drawing board and try to fix (in a hurry ) what they did wrong here. 0.5 out of 10--That being for Buscemi and Rhames supplying the voices of the soldiers.  I hope they made a lot of money doing this abomination. One good thing did come out of this--and that was that Mason had to eat crow and admit that he was wrong.  He also owes me a movie, and I'll be sure to collect. "},{"Title":"For shame...","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The trailer and the associated buzz made us think this was, in animation terms, the Second Coming or something. Ouch. Where did they go wrong? Hmm...let's see. I don't think the actual plot itself is the real problem, rather, a poorly written script and awful acting. Yes, all the headlines were talking about Hollywood's fear of CGI replacing human actors. But give me a break. Toy Story (1995) did a much better job of bringing something to life, or recreating some kind of reality. I think the question I would ask anyone who's seen this film would be, If this movie was a real life film, with real actors, would you think it was any good? Probably not. A lot of animated films bring something special to the screen that otherwise would not work or would be impossible in real life (e.g. Toy Story, Chicken Run, etc.). But FF's goal was to basically have CGI versions of real actors. What's the point? Sure, they've got great textures, but are you going to pay $8 to look at nice textures? I hope not. If so, please, let me direct you to a wallpaper store. For all the money that went into this movie, I don't think it's any kind of evolutionary step at all. It's just a poorly written piece of not-so-original eye candy. We've seen visuals like these before in any SF flic. We've seen aliens and military types and all that. It's nothing new. They were trying too hard to make this film into something that it wasn't i.e. reality. This is Fantasy&#133;just go with it! Don't fight it! And anyone who says, `Yeah, but the images were so amazing!' Go check out movies like The English Patient, or Saving Private Ryan or Gladiator&#133;now that's what you call `nice images.' (No one seemed to complain about CGI extras in Gladiator&#133;but CGI actors, now that's something to be afraid of?). I mean, to value the nice visuals and apparent technological advancements of CGI textures and transparency and all that&#133;it's like talking about the artistic merits of make-up in `The Godfather.' Yeah, make-up served a purpose, but that film isn't good because of the make-up, it's good because it has great acting and a great story, among other things. There have been plenty of other films that have had worse textures, but better animation, and better voice acting (not to downplay the abilities of the actors), a better story, and better visuals, altogether. Pick up Toy Story or Prince of Egypt. Look at the hieroglyph sequence in Prince of Egypt&#133;now that's unique, you simply do not see something like that in a mainstream animated film. That's what I call stretching the medium. Not Final Fantasy. If anything, it's a two-hour commercial for texture artists and their rendering computers. This is to be avoided. It's a shame all that work and effort resulted in such a mediocre film. "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I came to watch this movie with fairly high expectations, i mean, the budget on this film was fairly large, considering there is no live acting. The visuals are impressive, but thats all the film is really, visuals with a poor plot, bad lines and flat characters (personality) with a Clichéd ending.The plot feels rushed, if not in the writing, in the implementation. No sooner has the main character found one of the things she needs to, than shes off again doing exactly the same thing, fighting invisible enemies, there just wasn't enough time between, it felt like watching a long scavenger hunt. Now, heres the bit that reeeally bugged me about this film, the ENORMOUS continuity error, we're talking a fairly large chunk of the film is affected by this. In the beginning of the film, the ghosts cannot be seen. Later they can be seen, and the excuse is given that its because they've collected energy from passing through the weakened energy barrier around the city...fair enough...but then...if thats the only reason they are visible without using the electronic gizmos they used at the beginning....why are they visible from that point onwards...no matter where they happen to see them, surely not every creature on the planet passed through this shield, of course not. Come on, its animated....you'd think continuity would be high, its not like make up or clothing will have randomly changed, or a prop would have broken between takes.To make matters worse, you just cannot connect with any character, this isolates the viewer from the film, they are no more real in this film as they would be as match stick men drawn on a piece of paper. (don't get me wrong, I've seen some good animated films)Not only do i dislike this film, but the figures prove it, the general public hates it, this film made an incredible loss at the box office and even through DVD and VHS sales, it has not yet come close to making a profit "},{"Title":"Excellent animation, but openly new age and a stupid plot","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched this film to see the computer animation, but even thought the animation is excellent, the plot totally turned me off.  I have seen some films that have a thin covering on their new age beliefs, but this was kind of in your face with it.  Gia? give me a break, that name has been around for ages.  I have heard it quite often in context with the new age religion.  I would rather watch a movie that at least pretends to be non partial.  1 out of 10 stars (do they have a zero;) "},{"Title":"A Nitpicker's Delight!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Good news The computer graphics in this movie are about the best that the industry has been able to produce to date. While not perfect, they are a far cry above what was being made a few years ago.  Bad news the storyline of this movie is just plain DUMB.  Forget gaping plot holes, this entire movie is one vast void of unintelligibility.  Ghosts that can be shot and killed with conventional weaponry? A meteor in the Eastern hemisphere is the continuing source of an alien infestation, but a battle in the US Southwest is supposed to end the war? There are two ways to make it through this movie 1. Do not try to make sense of a single thing--just sit back and watch the great graphics; or 2. Spend the entire time tearing the movie's lame plot apart--plenty to keep you busy.  "}{"Title":"stay home and watch cartoons instead","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy had the expectation of being a ground-breaking achievement in photo-realistic 3D animation, and in this sense the film doesn't disappoint.  The problem, I'm guessing, is that the animators were allowed to create the film without the benefit of a script, and simply played gee-whiz writing new shaders and experimenting with motion capture, expecting that special fx would substitute for story, plot, and even drama. The film is utterly self-absorbed, dark, void of humor, and takes itself way too seriously.  I expect the eventual DVD release will be a 2-disc set, complete with the obligatory The Making of ... and a plethora of Behind the Scenes chapters to distract us from the fact that this is one awful movie and a waste of talent (not to mention rendering farms).  Save yourself the price of admission, get comfy in front of the TV, and watch Space Ghost re-runs instead. "},{"Title":"An OK sci-fi despite not being able to really deliver the potentially complex plot it could have had but it looks good and is passable entertainment for sci-fi fans","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is the year 2065 and Earth has been invaded by a race of phantom-like aliens that kill with a single touch. Under the tutelage of Dr Sid, young Dr Aki Ross is searching for spirits that can combine to counteract the life force of the aliens &#150; a situation made even more urgent by the fact that she is infected by the aliens herself and experiencing strange dreams as a result. Ross joins the elite military unit Deep Eyes to finish her quest, but General Hein is determined to convince the ruling council that the best solution is the use of a weapon that will destroy the aliens despite Sid's protests that it could destroy the Earth in the process.This film got a lot of publicity about the fact that it was billed as the film that would trigger a whole new type of movie &#150; those with no human stars (well, apart from their voices). Sadly this seemed to be all the discussion about the film amounted to and I think it put people off that nobody talked about the plot or whether it was any good or not &#150; I know it put me off from bothering to go and see it. Another thing that put me off was that most people just assumed it was a kid's film because it was animated and was quickly dumped in matinee slots &#150; even when I saw it on TV it was in the slot on Sunday afternoon used for mostly kiddie fare. Anyway, let me just say that I have no knowledge of the games, never played the games and will likely never play the games but I had no problem picking up the rough story (even though I'm sure the wider FF universe has so much more story in it that this film does). I would have quite liked a greater understanding of the story, the characters and the aliens but it did enough to support the film's plot as was.As a sci-fi film it works reasonably well but is not as intelligent as it clearly needed to be to support the story &#150; if it had only aspired to be a good guys/bad guys story then fine but it wanted more and it isn't well enough developed to do it. I still enjoyed it to a certain degree but it is evident from the film that the script writing and plotting took a backseat to the development of the computer graphics. Of course these look great for the most part and the film has delivered a visually impressive series of spaceships, desolate cityscapes and blobby aliens. The only things that don't work (ironically enough considering the film's boasts) are the human characters. CGI has yet to manage to make characters that look and move as naturally as humans &#150; we have seen it in Matrix Reloaded, Blade 2 and also here. Admittedly it matters less here because we can get used to the characters looking like effects (unlike, say, Matrix 2 where we are not meant to notice the difference between real and effect). Suffice to say though, that this is an animated movie rather than the movie that triggers the onslaught of computer generated characters in films.The voice cast are pretty good and they do well to add a bit of a human touch to characters that, for all the money spent on them, still look and movie like computer game characters in an expensive cut-scene between levels. Ming-Na hardly has that distinctive a voice and she is rather bland at times but she does OK. Baldwin is a strong voice and suits his character well. Sutherland is always welcome despite his small role and typical roles are filled by the likes of Steve Buscemi, Ving Rhames, Keith David and a typically untrustworthy performance from James Woods.Overall this is an OK sci-fi film but not any more than that. The plot is OK but it isn't as good as it thinks it is and certainly isn't good enough to support the slightly complex themes/ideas that it wants to deliver. It is good for older children and teenagers (who will happily ignore the plot details) but outside of that sci-fi fans may find it a bit lacking in bite and generally to be more about the graphics than anything else.  "},{"Title":"Technical marvel but confusing story","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" While it's a technical triumph, it's not a compelling story. It is head and shoulders literally beyond what Robert Zemeckis gave us in The Polar Express (2004). The faces and hair look very realistic. It'll be some time before it's surpassed by the likes of Avatar. It all boils down to the faces. My biggest compliment is that they look human.The story is that in the future, the Earth is invaded by a strange race of ghost like phantoms. The only way to survive is to live in cities surrounded by shielding. The phantoms are a mystery that is never quite explained satisfactorily. It's a mystery that nobody really cares about except maybe the people who play the video game. While the action is pretty good, the story always gets into the way. Sometimes it left me scratching my head. "},{"Title":"A fine tribute to the wonderful cinematics of the Final Fantasy series, but  should have just been another Sci-fi called The Spirits Within.","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's not very usual that a movie based on a game turns out to be a stunning movie. But Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, however, is just that. The incredibly realistic characters and beautifully rendered backdrops in this movie make it a fascinating work of CGI. Unfortunately, its story falls short of anything but a rather boring Sci-Fi plot, which I'm sure is what caused it to be such a failure in the box-office.The Spirits Within follows a young scientist named Aki Ross, who shares a belief with her colleague Dr. Sid that with the collection of 7 spirits they can stop an invading alien race and save the earth. Being a fan of the video game series of the same name, I remember getting pretty excited for this movie when it first came out. After seeing it for the first time, I could not figure out why in the world they would call this movie Final Fantasy. Aside from a few subtle references to characters and themes from the video game series, it does not contain enough blatant similarities to possess the Final Fantasy title, and I feel like this should have been a more important goal in directing this movie. It was a great choice to have done this movie in CGI rather than in live-action, as one of the most captivating things about the Final Fantasy series are its fantastic cinematic scenes. To have a whole movie based on the quality of an epic Final Fantasy cinematic really shows the hard work that goes into creating all of these scenes. Every model in the movie displays a high level of detail from the main characters to the ships that they fly in. The freckles on Ross's face allow for intense close-ups. The subtle movements of their facial structures make them more interesting to look at. It's an art form that was very well presented in this film. In fact, this was the first full CGI film to feature fully realistic characters, modeled to look like real actors. The fact that it is a computer generated movie allows more freedom to conduct scenes and also set camera angles in places that would be impossible to get if it were shot in real life.Final Fantasy The Spirits Within portrays a mastery of computer generated imagery for its time. It's a fine tribute to the wonderful cinematics of the Final Fantasy series. But it doesn't possess a very original plot line, which doesn't even portray enough references to be called Final Fantasy, and should have just been another Sci-fi called The Spirits Within. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" First of all,I would like to point out,that I haven't played any of the Final Fantasy games,so I don't know how much this movie follows them.On it's own however the movie is very well made and it's much,much better than a lot of other video game based films like Street Fighter or Super Mario Brothers.A lot of people complain that the characters are less-then-riveting.In my opinion,that is not the case.I mean,Captain Edwards' squad members were kinda flat,but the other characters were alright.Our protagonist- Aki was very well developed.At first glance General Hein seemed like a stereotypical bad guy,but we get an explanation as to why he is taking such radical measures.Again,I don't know if the plot has anything to do with the video games,but it was,in opinion,very original and well thought-out.Some may think it's your cliché aliens have taken over the world and the survivors must fight back with what little they have plot,but that is not the case.The movie has both fantasy elements(the spirits)and sci- fi elements(the technology).Sure,you have seen that in other movies,like the force in Star Wars and so on,but the idea they went with here is completely different.Final FantasyThe Spirits Within is most famous for it's animation-and I can see why.This is the first movie to actually use CGI to create genuine looking human beings.It's still good,even by today's standards.The visuals and music work together to create some very amazing and powerful scenes,especially in the ending.Final FantasyThe Spirits Within is a truly amazing movie.I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Definitely Not Final Fantasy","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Final Fantasy, as many know, is a series of video games that has spanned over two decades and is arguably the most successful video game franchise of all time. Final Fantasy (the original) was released in 1987 and since then 13 games have been released, including one sequel as well as countless spin-offs and two in-development projects. Growing up with Final Fantasy I grew to love everything about the series. The stories, the game play, everything little thing. When Squaresoft (now Square Enix) released Final Fantasy VIII I was given a copy for Christmas '99. It was the first FF game that I played through entirely and since has been my favorite of the FF games. I've played em all, beat em all and loved em all.When I first saw the trailer for this film my first thought was (I was only ten) OMG! MOM! WE HAVE TO GO AND SEE THIS! On the day of its release, July 11th, 2001 I believe my mother took me to see this at the beautiful Cinemark in Moosic. Even at that age I wasn't deceived by Hollywood in that they merely took the name Final Fantasy in order to market a product that had no relation to its source whatsoever.The movie follows Aki Ross, a scientist in a future Earth inhabited by Phantoms. Phantoms are alien like creatures. Remaining survivors live in barrier cities as they struggle to save humanity and the planet. In certain Final Fantasy games, especially FF VII, saving a dying planet is the main problem you face. Oddly enough this is the only relation The Spirits Within has to the Final Fantasy gaming series. Also there is a power hungry military man named Hein who is dead set on using a space cannon to destroy the Phantoms. Problem with this is the cannon would cause extreme harm to the planet and probably kill it but he's from the military so we can excuse him for lacking intelligence or humanity.Like I said before, the creators of this film only took the name Final Fantasy to help sell this movie to fans of the series. As a stand alone film it is exceptional in its class of CGI/sci-fi blend. Unfortunately I have to give this film a low rating because of its failure to rely on source material or follow any story in the FF galaxy. Even the story to FFX (which IMO was the weakest of the games) would have served this film much better. I always think about Stephen King's novels when I watch this movie. King has written very, very great novels in his time but the majority that are made into films are just crap. Why, because they don't follow the story of the original and they try to make it Hollywood-style and it just doesn't work. If a book is a national bestseller, why change it for a movie? If a game is an international bestseller like FF, why make a movie called Final Fantasy The Spirits Within if the film is devoid of any spirit that was within the games? A five for a film that is great on its own but with a name of something entirely different. "},{"Title":"More is needed I'm afraid","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" To start off, I'd like to give a brief summary of the history of cgi. 2-D raster graphics in Westworld, wire frame graphics in Star Wars, the light cycle sequence in Tron, the stained glass knight in Young Sherlock Holmes, the first CG liquid effects in The Abyss and T2, Jurassic Park, Titanic, and now Final Fantasy. It is unfortunate for the movie that this form of animation has been vastly improved since, as can be seen in Robert Zemekis' latest films, The Polar Express and Beowulf. Final Fantasy remains competent in CG, but an equally accomplished plot is needed to make it a competent sci-fi, and although there are a couple of nifty ideas, the screenplay does not stretch things out enough. As a result, Final Fantasy feels too small in both scale and running length to shock and awe. Perhaps it is the kind of thing that would work better in theaters, but that doesn't feel like a good excuse for mediocrity. The best filmaking can engage a viewer even if watched on an iPod screen.Set in the distant future, man lives in space and Earth is an abandoned wasteland (thats new... ha ha). We follow a young ambitious doctor in her journey to find the answer to a crisis. Man is at war with a race of strange alien spirits, 'phantoms'. Who are they and what do they want? In her quest she is joined by others including an old lover (sort of).I think I may have simplified the plot a bit, but this gives you a general idea of what to expect. If done well, the story of Final Fantasy could be adventurous, intelligent and perhaps even emotional, and it is not. Though there is plenty of action, a lot of it feels dull and intertwining these scenes is a large amount of silly dialog, in which the subject matter is too much of science and not enough story. Last time I saw that happen was in Battlefield Earth with John Travolta's lines. The ending feels anti-climactic and with a somewhat silly plot twist. Final Fantasy is not a terrible film but to recommend it is a stretch. Whether or not the animation will be enough to captivate you or not is hard to say. Whether or not you'll find the story weak and unengaging, or adventurous and inventive is also hard to say. What I can say is that there are far better entries in both sci-fi and animation, If you really want a good film, try the Ghost in the Shell, not this. "},{"Title":"Why I think the movie didn't do better","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was a devout fan of the video game series when I jumped off after Final Fantasy IX was released due to other things - not for anything to do with the FF Universe. I had high hopes for the film because of its ambition and what I was open-mindful anticipating of the plot. The only aspect that I felt disappointed about was that the plot centered around ghosts of aliens. Admittedly, that was a letdown for me that wasn't any fault of the producers. That was something that I set myself up for. I understood that it had much to do with the world of Final Fantasy, and I wasn't lost in that respect, but I feel that was basically why the movie wasn't received well by the larger middle of the road moviegoer who isn't as well versed in the excellent game series.Four years is quite an investment, one that I am sure played a major part in the decision by Square to retire from films. The only thing they are guilty of was failing to assess how the American and perhaps the European markets would respond to a plot line that only a video gaming fan was knowledgeable of.I'm certain that many things influenced others to not see it or even put the movie down, but for me I guess it was high expectations. At least I saw it and was moderately entertained and slightly satisfied. I can see how others didn't like it at all. "},{"Title":"Stunning effects (at the time) and that's all","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film just goes to show that great 3D animation doesn't make great film. Final Fantasy is little more than a showcase for an early, and then very good, dynamic treatment of hair -- a particularly difficult effect in 3D animation. We're treated to long shots of the main character -- Dr. Aki Ross -- with her hair swaying, blowing in the wind, etc. Now, just a few years after the film's release and compared with Golum in The Lord of the Rings, the animation looks dated. In particular, the facial animation is lifeless (and looked so at the time).Final Fantasy may remind some of some of the Tarzan and similar movies of the 30s -- a time before wildlife documentaries and before most people had ever seen footage of lions or elephants. Whole films were effectively travelogues. But unlike those 30s serials, Final Fantasy lacks acting, and ultimately realism, despite the extraordinary animation efforts.The film reported cost $137 million to make. It bombed -- for good reason. "},{"Title":"Great production design...bad screenplay","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ***SPOILER WARNING***Well, I am a fan of the Final Fantasy video game, and I went to the cinema to enjoy this incredible ride through a devastated earth full of ghosts and human beings. I am also a fan of the movie Alien 3 (I think I am the only fan of that movie around this places) that is like a how-to for this Final Fantasy movie. We have the devastated earth, we have the aliens, and we have the gorgeous looking heroine with an alien inside her body. OK, I look enthusiastic with the movie, but here comes the reason why I am so angry about it. Is the spoiler part, so stop reading if you didn't see this movie. Why the heroine doesn't die? Why she is not brave enough to do like Ripley and jump to the void? Why does the male leader kills himself that way? Well, another question Is Ben Affleck being paid for acting in this movie? If you see it or saw it, you may know why I ask this. The plot is also not like a Final Fantasy game, but it could work perfectly for one of them. Collect eight spirits, save the earth, be a hero. But it doesn't work for a one-hundred-something minutes movie. Final verdict The production design and the atmosphere is better than many Hollywood movies, but the character design (maybe big-eyed Japanese models worked better, the plot and the ending absolutely damage this movie. It's a shame because it was promising. "}{"Title":"Technical  Merit = 10 Artistic Impression = 2","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was bally-hooed as more than the next step in animation. It was to be the next generation of movie making! It was supposed to usher in the era of 'digital actors' so lifelike that they would be licensed out to be in other movies, made to do incredible stunts and maybe even receive Oscar consideration. (This last debate would be shelved until Andy Serkis performed Gollum of the Lord of the Rings trilogy)But, this was not to be. And not because they had over-stated the advances to the animation! No, this IS the most lifelike and impressive animation ever! The problem was that for the impressive visuals, there isn't much else to this movie. The story is plodding and non- sensical (even for Science Fiction) to the point that nobody in the group I went to see this film with could explain to me what we had just seen.The characters were OK, but we never get much of chance to meet them because they're rushing around to complete the incomprehensible quest set before them. Having a quest is not a terrible convention in adventure movies, it gives the characters a motivation for doing whatever it is they do in the course of entertaining us. But, if neither the audience nor the characters understand the quest, it becomes a huge distraction. So, you end up spending your time trying to figure out the story instead of enjoying it.In ice skating, the judges award two scores, one for technical merit and one for artistic impression. For this movie, I believe the technical merit is incredible, unfortunately the artist vision ends at the visuals. "},{"Title":"Fantisize a better movie","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A scientist must protect the fragile planet while finding a way to destroy aliens after being infected. The plot doesn't matter and is paper thin anyway. The character's one-dimensional and boring. Even the combined talent of James Woods, Steve Buscemi, and Donald Sutherland are unable to save this colossal bore fest. Just look at the computer animation. ooh and aah if you must. Then forget the film ever existed.My Grade D DVD Extras Disc 1) commentary with Moto Sakakbara, Hiroyuki Hayashida,Tatsuro Maruyama and Takoo Noguchi; Second commentary with Andy Jones, Chris S. Capp and Tani Kunitake; Isolated score commentary by Elliot Goldenthal; Playblast and storyboard selects with optional commentary by Andy Jones, Chris S. Capp and Tani Kunitake; Teaser & Theatrical trailers; Trailers for Final Fantasy X (the game), Men In Black, Metropolis and Starship Troopers Disk 2) The Making Of Final Fantasy 30-minute interactive documentary with optional commentary; 4 featurettes (Trailer explorations, The Gray Project, Matte Explorations, and Composting Builds); 7 in-depth character profiles; Original Opening; Aki's Dream sequence; Joke Outtakes blooper reel; 3 vehicle scale comparisons; and Scene re-editor DVD-Rom Screenplay; printable drawstring; tour of square; and screen-saver 7 Easter Eggs On disc one go to the DVD-Rom content menu and find a hidden Chinese symbol to see Aki in bikinis, leather outfits and nude; Now onto the second disc, At the menu menu there's 2 eggs to be found, find the for a storyboard of an romantic dinner and one of AKI's 3D head model; From the second page of the Highlights menu, go to the video in the corner from a Final Fantasy version of Thriller; find the hidden star in the Vehicle Scales comparison menu for a slide show of vehicle renderings; In the Character Files menu there's another egg; and one more in the DVD-ROM content menu "},{"Title":"all style, no substance","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  **SPOILER**I'm a fairly forgiving film watcher - I can usually find a redeeming feature in almost anything.  And in Final Fantasy, it was the animation.  Just beautiful.  Every little detail rendering lovingly, down to the hairs on the back of the characters necks.  However, it didn't cover up the lack of story.  The actual plot premise itself could have been promising - but somehow, it just didn't deliver for me.  The characters were 2 dimensional, and boring - particularly Gray's team of interchangeable back up commandos; and things just never really got moving properly.  It's a real shame, because this film could have been a belter.  Unfortunately, it will remain memorable only because of how it was made, rather than what is was about. "},{"Title":"Plot???There was a plot???","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ooooh...it amazing what they can can do with a computer these days...they can take a bunch of talented actors...the most amazing special effects ever conceived by man...and produce a movie that really blows...and sucks...and blows some more...and oooh...didn't it just push the envelope. Somebody(probably an awful lot brighter than my good self),once mumbled-just because it can be done...should it? The lad and ladies who made this,want to sit down and have a bit of think before their next effort.  "},{"Title":"Cold & clinical","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sure the animation is very detailed & crisp & as good as it is, I find this one the films many downfalls.The animation feels too cold & clinical, really lacking in the mysterious X factor that makes great animation.Another area that computer graphics, including this film, struggle in is human movement.  Computer animators just can't get movement such as walking or moving of arms looking natural.  CG is great for backgrounds though.The plot is wafer thin & completely forgettable, while many of the voice acting is a bit wooden, also adding to that cold feeling i mentioned earlier.Not up the standard of CG animation of Pixar's efforts. "},{"Title":"It deserved to fail. watch mario brothers instead!","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There was no excuses. Judging by the amount of time , money and talent that was pumped into this  film ,  you'd seriously  think that it would be a viewing experience  unlike any other sci fi film. Unfortunately , that is not the case . At all .  I could go on writing  for ages about how much of a disappointing waste this is , but you'd probably loose interest at page 129 , so I'll just  give you few reasons for the films high level of badness.1 The film has the blessing of being  based on  game that has a weak continuity  , so if your not a final fantasy fan , you could still watch the film  safe in the knowledge that you could   understand the plot with out having  to know all of the games back story . But even with an advantage as huge as this , the writers still ended up writing an incredibly bland script that's populated by bland characters  and  doesn't even include a big exciting action set piece to justify the all of the blandness thats going on. .2. The films producers , were VERY  keen to shake off the films video game roots and give uninitiated viewers some familiar visual sci fi elements to look at so as not to feel alienated from what's going on . As a result  of this , the expensive computer animation was used to create the sort of world weve seen before  in  starship troopers ,  space  above and beyond and a countless number of other sci fi properties.3.The cast were totally wasted . Why assemble such a big name cast  to bring the animated characters  when they end up doing it so half heartedly ?The only nice thing I can say about the film is that at times (but not always) the animation can be stunning - just  look at doctor cids face , its so realistic , that  its scary. If the writers and director worked as hard and well as the animators did on this film then this would have been great entertainment  to final fantasy fans and casual observers alike. Unfortunately , its not. So go and watch Super Mario bros instead. That's right, I said it  SUPER MARIO BROS ! HA! TAKE THAT SQUARE !! "},{"Title":"Just couldn't get into it.","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I admit, I was one of those people who walked into the theater expecting to see something like the games and then walking out after the movie disappointed by what I saw. Now while I was disappointed the movie didn't hold any aspects to the games, I was more unhappy with the story. This movie seemed like a test.  The only reason they made it was to see what they could do with the new technology. Granted, what they did do was beautiful but you can't base a movie on looks alone.  Shrek also had new graphical advances, and while more cartoony, it still managed to have good story. Final Fantasy is very isolated, cold and distant. It contained a good message of how you can't solve violence with violence, and had some good suspense and action scenes but it didn't win me over. *POSSIBLE SPOILERS* The Final Fantasy games are primarily revered for their characters and stories but here I didn't feel any connections.  I also didn't like the way the alien ghosts would pass through people and just steal their souls. It just seemed so cheap and watered down the level of conflict. I liked the whole idea of how the phantoms got there, but Dr. Aki's search for the alien secrets was a little dull.  I was hoping to see more aspects of the game carried over.  They did have a character named Sid (not even spelled right) but that's about it.  No Odin, no spells, no Chocobos, no moogles, nothing. Supposedly they based making the Shinra perspective on Final Fantasy VII by the success on this movie which in my opinion was very foolish.  Perhaps if the story wasn't so heavy and more appealing to a general audience, it would have done better. I'm not saying that every movie needs to directed to a general audience but I think in this case, that is what they were looking for. It just confuses me that in the games they've been so clever with their stories and with this movie it went out the window.  Yes, the new advancement of graphics are great but the rest of the movie definitely suffered. It also has little re-view desirability as it has a tendency to drag.  I love Final Fantasy, just not the movie. "},{"Title":"Trite and boring","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My roommate rented this the other night and I decided to check it out. I should state at the outset I've never played any of the games, but he said it really didn't have anything to do with the games anyway. We were both so bored and appalled by the awfulness of this movie we shut it off with 30 minutes left. The animation was flawless, but a pretty look can't distract you from horrible acting, a ridiculous plot and the movie's complete lack of interesting characters. Most of the time, I couldn't figure out what was going on onscreen, and when I did, I didn't care. May I suggest Resident Evil for a more faithful video game adaptation than this self-indulgent swill? (Looks great though.) "},{"Title":"Without a plot, a film fails","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well done animation will not make up for a lack of a good story.  Professionals in the animation industry will tell you that, and Final Fantasy is living proof of that.There are plenty of animae films that are the poorest quiality of animation available, but the stories are so well written that it makes up the difference!  Then Disney Feature Animation, which is always very high quality, pulls an Atlantis, which has huge problems with the story.Final Fantasy falls in the same category, which is why it was a horrible show, and why it is quickly forgotten... just like Titan AE, Heavy Metal, and a slew of others! "},{"Title":"This is why they won't ever replace live actors","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie technically was terrific with great imagination, however it would have been nice if I cared at all about the characters.  I didn't and that is my major flaw with the movie.  It just came across as cold with no emotion. "}{"Title":"but... but... why?","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Why did you make such a bad movie? I don't care about how good it looks, it didn't look that great anyway, i want... an entertaining movie... a good story... with all that money, cold they at least get a good script together? I liked the games... i did not like this movie...  "},{"Title":"The graphics blew me away,but I was really disappointed with the story.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is not all i hoped for.I have been a fan of the final fantasy games for a long time and have completed all the recent games. The things i liked about the game is that it has such a great story and you really get to feel for the characters and of course the cgi sequences are great.So when the movie came out I hoped for a similar story about a group of people who goes on a journey to fight monsters and evil forces in a distant world and how they put their friendship on a test etc,just like the game. But instead they had made up a bad story about some scientists and a future enviorment on earth.I dont say that the movie is bad,but it is just not what I had hoped for.I think the stories in final fantasy 7 and 8 are really good,why couldn't it be like that?I have to give the movie credit for great graphic,it was visually wonderful to watch.Sometimes I couldn't tell if there were real humans or computer generated humans. A bonus was that you get a bonus disc if you buy the dvd,so that you can learn more about the story and find out how they made the movie. I guess a lot of final fantasy game fans will be a little disappointed,but we got to remember that it is the same company that made the movie and games.So no one could have done it better. I just have to be glad that there are new final fantasy games coming out on playstation 2. "},{"Title":"and the point is.....?","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay I admit that I did not really see a lot of previews on this movie, and I had no emotional attachment to seeing it, which is good, because if I had, I think that I would have been disappointed.  This was the dullest animated movie next to Bambi that I ever seen.  The entire movie I kept asking myself what the point was, as the plot moved very slowly.  I was tempted to take it out of the DVD player at halfway, but struggled through to the very end.  The animation is noteworthy, but still crude and ineffective to the story, and overall, overrated.  Avoid this movie unless you have trouble sleeping. "},{"Title":"neat graphics, bad story","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this film without knowing what is was about. After seeing it, I'm still not sure what is was about.  The plot made no sense to me. While watching, I kept thinking what about this, what about that, what is gya(sp?).(Spoilers)  And the monsters, phantoms, made no sense. So they were saying that they didn't want to take over the earth, it was just the pain that was left in their ghosts that went around killing people. And if they could kill people just by touching them, how could anyone survive. They could come up out of the floor, why didn't they just pounce on everyone. And the humans kept firing bullets at these huge phantoms. I mean, it didn't do any good, so why bother.(END OF Spoilers).Now for the good part, the computer graphics were realistic looking. Some of the humans looked almost real. And Aki's hair is amazing. I wish I had hair like that, that looked flawless as I ran around. Maybe next time they will put more time in the story before giving some film over a $100 million budget.   Final Verdict If you are in to cool computer graphics films, you may want to rent this. "},{"Title":"Hugely disappointed","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As the film started I was blown away by the visual effects, this is REALLY good stuff, but then the characters started walking and all that good work was shot to hell - stiff?, reminded me of marionettes (however it did get better as the movie progressed). I found myself concentrating on the animation rather than the plot, with the result that I lost the thread and was overcome by boredom in the last half-hour.What I really find appalling is that film companies can pour so much talent and money into such a lame plot! You could pick almost any one of the thousands of Fantasy/Sci-fi books in print and have a far better script than this rubbish. Producers should realise by now that you can't just hype-up a movie and force the public to like it - many of the best films of recent years were made on a shoe-string, but with the best plots in the business (excluding Blair Witch). "},{"Title":"The biggest disappointment of the year","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being a huge fan of the game series, this was bar none the biggest let down of the year.Well, there isn't much that needs to be said about this film that hasn't been, except perhaps for please, please, those of you who aren't into video games, do *not* judge the series by this movie. This movie gives the entire series a bad name.Maybe the most useful way to stress this point is by giving a few, hopefully non-spoiling examples of how this movies fails to live up to the standards set by the video games. I had honestly thought this was the movie that was going to change the way people looked at video games movies (has there been a good one), but the wait continues. Anyway1) Characters -- Some of the most memorable characters I've ever encountered have been from Final Fantasy games. Vivi (FFIX) was a classic black mage, one of the most memory characters I've ever seen. Barret and Aries . . . how could I forget them? And not to mention the main characters, Squall, Zidane, Cloude, Cecil . . . all very deep, intricate characters, with mystery and compassion. I grew to relate to these characters a great deal.In the movie, apart from Aki, perhaps, there are nothing but cliched characters, who only fit a general description of a character rather than a true character. We have the wisecracker, the big black guy who likes guns (reminded me of Barret actually), the woman who's more like a man, and a villain who was just there for the sake of having a villain.2) Story -- The games are classic fantasy. They take you into another world and let you look around. Gaia (the life-force of the planet) is a common theme. Most of the stories revolve around somehow saving the life of the planet, although you don't usually realize that until a ways into the story. The stories build slowly and gradually the impact of the main character becomes more drastic.In the film, it felt like it was trying to prove that this fantasy was actually *our* reality (i.e. setting it on Earth, preaching about Gaia, etc.). Fantasy doesn't work that way -- you need to allow the viewer, reader, or player, to suspend their disbelief. I mean, who didn't cringe when they tried to explain away the force in The Phantom Menace? I just doesn't work if you try to explain it.The pacing wasn't too bad in this film -- it started slow and mysterious and worked towards something more important -- but it gets bogged down by some ridiculous explanation and debate scenes.3) Villain -- The games have, bar none, the best villains ever. I don't care what any of you say, with the exception of FVIII, those are the best villains ever. Mysterious, evil, powerful, manipulative. Kafka, Sephiroth, Kuja -- all very, very memorable.Um . . . in the movie there was a sort-of villain, one who was so obviously there only for the sake of having a villain that we can only shake our heads. He had no motivation, no personality, no intrigue or apparent history. . . he was just there. I've forgotten his name already.Anyway, please, don't just the games on the movie.Matty J "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy falls short of expectations","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The special effects were wonderful.  The sound needed  work....and I really didn't enjoy the script.  I'm hoping that this will be a lesson learned to studios everywhere about licensing video game titles.  They can be good movies,  but you can't depend on the name to carry it through.  I would have taken some of the special effects budget and spent it on some decent writing.  But that's my beef. "},{"Title":"Stunning visuals, but a weak, cliched story.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  FF, The Spirits Within, is an impressive demonstration of what can be accomplished today with computer animation. I found myself completely immersed in the movie's gorgeous action scenes. At times, completely forgetting I was watching computer animation. The highlights for me were the opening in New York, and the getaway later on in the futuristic humvee.Unfortunately, the movie is also a demonstration of how great visuals can't make up for a really weak, unoriginal screenplay. The cliches just didn't stopBeautiful heroine, unexpectedly reunited with past love interest during the middle of crisis.Race against the clock (with countdown timer!) by heroine to save hero from death.Good, white uniformed government research team vs. bad, black uniformed military team.Government research team and military team arguing their positions in front of an esteemed council.The heroine recounting the death of a young child, all while sappy piano music plays in the background.Bad military general who intentionally allows the enemy to penetrate defenses, loses control of the situation, and utters the cheesy line, What have I done?Prerequisite love scene between hero and heroine, just minutes after each has witnessed the horrifying death of several friends.In the end, what could have been an impressive sci-fi movie is just reduced to a long demonstration of what the very talented people at SquareSoft are capable of. Maybe next time they'll spend less time worrying about making the CGI countdown timer look realistic, and more time questioning the existence of the countdown timer in the first place. "},{"Title":"Two points for beautiful visions","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although the summary says everything, here is some more Technically FF-The Spirits Within is a masterpiece. There is much to see in this film, but unfortunately not so much to think. Story and characters are so thin that sometimes its hard to remember/understand the motives of the main characters, why they are doing what they do.Animation is realistic, but misses all the emotions, which makes characters look even more pathetic. This movie also has forgotten somewhere all the fantasy and mystic elements of FF games. Unfortunately we have here a dull and boring science fiction-action, which is a waste of these beautiful visions from animators. "},{"Title":"Some people don't know what they want","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I actually saw the movie a few weeks ago. I'm usually not a reviewer of movies but seeing all the negative comments, I just have to put in my opinion. *very slight spoilers*I have to admit. The CGI is, at times, a bit stiff, and the lip synch isn't always right. But, this is the first time something like this has been done. Nothing done for the first time is perfect. I'm guessing that if there is a sequel, the animation would be a lot better.The storyline was great. People who talk negatively of the plot obviously doesn't know what they want. Some people are saying how it's too Americanized, and some are saying how it's too shallow. Even though I've never heard of the theory of the Gaia until now, I've been told it's something the Japanese believe. So there we have it, how is that too Americanized? And the talk about the spirits, if you truly understand it, it's not a bit shallow.The story itself isn't complicated. It's actually quite simple. Phantoms from another planet land on and attack earth. Group of people must find a way to defend it and restore peace. People who find this hard to understand probably weren't paying attention. No, it's not at all far-fetched. If you think about Star Wars, all the creatures they had.(the teddy bear thingies and that chewbacca. How about the force?) Isn't that a bit silly? I've seen this movie twice and even though I understood it well the first time, I also saw a lot of information I missed. It would have been nice for them to tell us how the 8 spirits came to be.*spoilers*Ending was bitter sweet. No matter how much I wanted Grey and Aki to be together, I knew that having a perfect happy ending would have just ruined the movie. I think they should have left in the part where Aki was suppose to tell Grey she was pregnant with his child. It would have left room for a sequel.(maybe something like a twenty years later and their child would be in his/her twenties and the main character would be him/her)I doubt there will be a sequel though, considering how poorly it's doing at the box office. I hope there will be one. Go see it people. I want to see how CGI would be in a few more years when Square produces another movie. And we all know it would be a lot better. "}{"Title":"What's With All The Hate?","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Honestly! Most people hate this movie because it doesn't go along with the video games! Lots of Final Fantasy video game fans hate this movie and some other fans of the game series love this movie, me included. One of the greatest things about this movie, actually, is how DIFFERENT it is from the games. It actually tries to make its own story and in my opinion succeeds. The animation is awesome, I thought I was watching a live action movie at some scenes, the story is great with a non- clichéd twist near the end, and it does pick up quite a bit of momentum towards the end. Hell, it even goes with the games by having a party of five people! What more can you want?Now, for the degrading to begin. Some scenes did look a bit puppet-like or a little cartoony for the animation used. The movie wouldn't be for kids who can't sit still for half an hour since they would feel a little bit bored when it *gasp!* actually takes the time to explain things, but those scenes are important! Also, some stuff might scare the smaller kiddies with a bit of the imagery.Overall, 8 outta 10. It's an awesome, underrated movie that must be watched and is worth a lot more than 5 bucks at Zellers. "},{"Title":"cliched, yet enjoying","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw The Spirits Within on the day it opened with my little cousin, with me being a big fan of the series i thought i'd give it a try.The series is known for it's engaging storyline and wonderful characters along with some riveting action, so i thought the movie shouldn't be that bad.Though i'm a fan of the video games, i'm giving this movie an UN-biased review, i've seen many a movie, and know when to spot a good one, and i'll say this was a good one.  The animation was outstanding, the action good, and the plot was pretty decent, if not cliched.  The animation in The Spirits Within blows everything Disney and Pixar have to offer out of the water...it's amazing.  If you don't want to give this movie a chance, just rent it for the animation...it'll leave you stunned at how lifelike the characters are. ****1/2--***** "},{"Title":"Entertaining. Just don't expect too much","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  And if you're a fan of the Final Fantasy video games, you certainly will be expecting too much. I, like many, have been really excited about this movie for four or five years now, drooling at every little pic or clip we were given by the film's web site. The finished product is, unfortunately, little more than a popcorn movie. Still, as far as popcorn movies are concerned, it is a very good one. Ealier this summer, I had a lot of fun at The Mummy Returns. Final Fantasy was more fun and, by the end, it was somewhat emotionally involving. SPOILERS (also for the games Final Fantasy 6 & 7)Story the script is probably the film's weakest point. It's not bad, but it is disappointing. The reason for this comes mainly from the comparison between the film and the video games, specifically Final Fantasy VI and VII, easily the two best role playing games ever made. Those who haven't played the video game might scoff, but both of those games were enormously powerful in their emotions. The characters of both of those games were as complex as any in a good sci-fi/fantasy novel. I know plenty of people who cried their eyes out when Aeris was killed. Ditto when Shadow dies in FFVI. I have always thought that those two games could make awesome television series. They're too long for feature films. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within should not have been written by American writers. The film is too imbued with action/sci-fi cliches, and it borrows heavily from Aliens. The antagonist is particularly weak. They give him a reason for his actions, but I never felt it. That explanation felt more like an excuse that the writers gave him. The main character, Aki, is decently well developed, as well as Dr. Sid and Grey. I wish they all had a little more background, but what they have gives them some dramatic weight. Of the three supporting soldiers, only Neil, voiced by Steve Buscemi, has a character (which has a lot to do with who is voicing him!). The other two, Jane and Ryan, are far too much like cognate characters in Aliens to be worth much. The Phantoms are an interesting invention. Their motives are pretty original. It's not cliche, anyways.Animation well, it takes the cake as far as computer animation goes. It exposes Shrek's animation for the mediocrity it is and should be recognized as. The humans look a lot like humans. You can even see the veins on the back of Aki's hand. Unfortunately, the human characters' expressions are nil. They almost don't exist. Only one character ever smiles, and the animators' inability to make the character do this convincingly provides the screenwriters a good excuse to make all the characters dire and depressed. These computer animated characters just cannot express emotion in their faces. I am not sure that they ever will. Anyhow, that has to be the next big step in computer animation. Gestures also have a penchant for being choppy and stiff and, much like the realistic video game computer animation that has been produced in the last couple of years, heads bob unnaturally while speaking. Still, go see the film, especially if you have a great theater showing it. It's exciting and fun. Just buy a big bucket of popcorn and enjoy the show. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Breathtaking...","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched this film last week and thoroughly enjoyed every moment. I came out of the cinema sad that it was over and then treated myself to a copy of the soundtrack and a magazine with information about the film.A lot has been said about characterisation, lip-synching, the story and the CGI. To go through those things.Firstly, I liked the characterisation and acting. The various characters played the roles more subtly and subdued than in many over-blown Hollywood blockbusters. There may have been none of the sharp one-liners borne from the Friends stable of writing, but there was plenty of emotion if you knew where to look for it. When Aki is on the ship and slowly starts to cry, she comes across as very human and I remember feeling moved and saddened. It brought across all the destruction much more clearly than just a bunch of explosions. Expressions might be difficult to animate, but this film managed well.As to the story, it was much closer to anime than normal Western SF. The examination of spirituality, the unorthodox threat, even the odd chase sequence at the beginning to rescue a plant(!) speaks of originality.Lip-synching is part of life and it will never be perfect. But, I've seen enough cartoons and foreign films to simply not mind this. I didn't really notice any problems with the synching at all.Finally, the CGI. Well, it was brilliant. Dr Aki Ross, was beautiful without being over-stated and I'm just sorry that she isn't real. The technology looked well designed and executed and the backgrounds were gorgeous.On the whole, I'd say this is my favourite movie of the year and I firmly intend to get the DVD as soon as it comes out.I really, really hope that they'll do more. "},{"Title":"So underrated","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I feel that this movie is very underrated. Maybe it's just because not a lot of people are used to the Japanese way of story telling. I am a fan of the game, and a video-game fanatic. The story line in this movie is very familiar to me. Though this movie is targeted for the mainstream audience, I think that this movie deserves better, than the scores most critics gave it (thinking as a normal person, who doesn't play video-games much). Of course most people see the beauty in this movie in the CGI (computer generated imagery, to those who don't know). But some people don't notice the heavy story-line, which is quite hidden, due to the fact that the script is not very top-notch. The story line is mainly focused on the saving the earth thing. But a hidden story (or maybe a moral, of some sort), is in here. It's the story of love, death, friendship... A lot of Japanese games and sometimes even movies have these side stories in them.To tell the person reading this comment, I feel that this movie is excellent, not only because of the graphics, but also the well-done story in here (it could be heavy to some people). The script isn't very good. Sometimes animation seems awkward, and the lips sometimes don't sync with the words. But another than these minor grips, I would give this movie a well deserved 9.0 over 10 (my opinion, OK guys?) Thank You "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy .....Reviews","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok i been on vacation when the movie came out so i recently read a bunch or reviews of this movie and i can clearly say that i am dissapointed at those dam movie critics. why u ask? well they are comparing this CG movie to real actor movies. of course if u compare this movie to the actual actors and actresses then u would give this movie a fail. but its a CG movie!!!! yeah the director wanted to make it look real but that was the best u can do right now. i like to see those fat assed critics make a better movie than this. People say that there is a missing liveliness of the characters.....of course....cuz dammit they r not alive. they also say they walk around like robots or like walking peices of wood....well hell ya they would look like that compared to an actual living breathing person!!!!! "},{"Title":"Pretty colors but watching paint dry was more fun","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  How they ever thought that spending all those millions on graphics and not put at least a hair-line worth of effort into the story and expect success is beyond me. They took a script that, quite frankly, sucked. The plot here is typical sci-fi, but these characters have the WORST lines! Mix that with the flaws of not having real actors acting them. E-gads! Pure comedy. I suppose some people think paying 7 bucks to watch graphics purely is fun in the theaters. Not in this lifetime. I'm content that they won't try to pull this type of stunt again soon.  "},{"Title":"Had potential to be amazing","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" For a movie based on a video game franchise, it wasn't atrocious. But it still was a wasted opportunity of what could have been a really good film. Before this movie, the Final Fantasy CGI cutscenes were really cool to sit through have reaching certain points in the video game. However it doesn't really work in movie form. As a matter of fact, this would have worked fine as a video game. With more development with the background, more in-depth with the with the story and the characters and such. But it doesn't really work when if feels like your watching a really slow video game with characters trying to collect items to achieve something. I really liked the stylish and cool futuristic design of the world created in this. It's actually one of the coolest sci-fi design I have seen in a movie. The CGI was topnotch when it came to a animated movie and the effects still even hold up today. A lot of effort was put into this film, with top of the line technology to achieve the visuals. I mean just look at the facial animation. Although the dialogue is flat, it didn't get super corny either. But that is basically the only positive things I can say about this movie. It's a shame that this movie cost as much as a Pixar movie to make, but far from it being a box office hit like Pixar films. And there are reasons for that, because although it's a CGI animated movie it will not appeal to little kids. Mainly because they won't be able to understand what is exactly going on, even some adults might get confused with this. Despite it having a really straightforward and simple story, which isn't a good thing. This is just my opinion, but this movie was taken too seriously. A bit of good humor then and there amongst the characters and situation would have made it at least more gratifying to sit through. Despite the serious situation the characters are in, but I think it would have worked. Overall this movie is a wasted potential. However if you are a fan of the Final Fantasy or anime this might be worth a watch. I think Hironobu Sakaguchi is a good game director, but his efforts to make a full length movie faltered. I could tell what direction he was trying to go with this. And it might have worked if it went in a full Japanese direction or an anime with 12 episodes or so to flesh things out. Nice effort though.6.4/10 "},{"Title":"The Spirit Within Just Shat When It Saw This.","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Final Fantasy The Spirit Within (2001) Dir Hironobu Sakaguchi / Voices Ming Na Wen, Alec Baldwin, Donald Sutherland, Ving Rhames, James Woods Breaking new ground with computer generated images yet retreads old story clichés. It presents such promising animated detailed yet by its ending it is certain to be a great object for target practice. Title makes no reference to anything important. It begins with soldiers entering a planet inhabited by phantoms. They encounter a woman named Dr. Ross who apparently has a phantom inhabiting her body. This is perhaps something that no prescription drug can take care of. Director Hironobu Sakaguchi must have been infected for all the good he did the film. The characters have all the personality of an oil rag. Dr. Ross seeks a plant in futuristic New York and what follows is countless action violent scenes to pointless avail. This is one of those over hyped bags of crap that Hollywood insists that people waste their money on because it has production values. The cast might as well have stayed home for all the good this movie will do for their careers. Wasted voice talents by Ming Na Wen, Alec Baldwin, Donald Sutherland, James Woods, and Ving Rhames. This is hardly the height of any of their careers and they should feel lucky not to be seen. It is a pointless and dreary film that has all the excitement of a jar of fireflies. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"It seems that it is not for some spirits within us","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was amazed when I saw this magnificent work of art and I could not understand it as it was in Japanese.At that time I really didn't know English either.I got into this movie because of my past experiences with final fantasy games and I must say that I loved it.It is Final Fantasy.It is still mesmerizing.It was a way ahead of it is time when it was released.This movie is so underrated that I could not resist but to write my frustration.The core of movie is Greek mythology and philosophical approach to mother earth and it successfully achieves its perfection as story develops.I will definitely watch once again and I will write extended analysis of this chefd'oeuvre. "}{"Title":"HORRIBLLLLLEE!!","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I heard as much as everyone else about the ground breaking use of computer animation, i knew it was a Japanese-American cooperation and that it had nothing to do with the games, and really tried to see it on it's own merits.I expected at least the typical dumbed down, FX-laden space opera in the sense of the newer Star Wars, Stargate or even Battlefield Earth. After all, a CG animated space opera just couldn't be THAT bad. Well after i gazed through the first, uninspired 20 minutes of the film and came to the council scene revealing more of the plot, i just had to say it really is THAT BAD!!First off, the animation. No other movies have yet been made with this super-realistic 3D animation style, and that's no wonder considering how this one turned out. Not that the animation isn't a great accomplishment, because there are quite a few moments that the animation really shines, although the character designs in general are plain and hackneyed, some of the enviroments and other visual touches are really amazing feats on their own. But the real fault is in how the characters were written-even the world's best live actors couldn't have saved this movie as a whole.And as amazingly well-done and complex the graphics work is, it's hard not to wonder where the Fantasy is? With all the potential that the CG technology had, they put most of the work on recreating what looks exactly like poorly lit spaceship and city ruin sets of low-budget Sci-Fi like the Stargate series. The only really fantastic thing in the movie is the alien creatures, which are used too much, too repetively and gets plain boring to watch in the end. After the first attack scene, they just appear the same way again and again, morphing and blasting their undefinable flourescent gas.Second, the plot. The whole movie is basically about a few members of a troop that end up saving the unrecognisable-as-Earth, plus a few faces in the Council, and that's all they have to interact with.While every SF/space opera, no matter how epic and long-spanning in its dimensions, need a few strong and recurring characters to anchor the story, the lack of a definitive Alien or enemy character among the main cast reduces most of the dialogue to plain, casual discussionWe have to get rid of these invaders now! / Yes, i know and i think so too.Add to this that the directors (whoever did the actual job for this movie-it's a wonder they didn't Smithee it out) have absolutely ZERO talent for visual narrative, leaving most of the scenes either bombardments of explosions, flourescent CGI beings morphing and being shot, OR the unlively characters glancing at each other and discussing their plans, soap opera style. Several times do we find characters plainly TELLING the reason behind things, aimed at the viewers, that could have been told in many more and better ways, by a more suitable director.So let aside the computer graphics, let aside that it has nothing to do with Final Fantasy, viewed entirely on it's own merits... it's still a piece of crap.  "},{"Title":"Something different in the world of animation","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The year is 2065.  Earth has been ravaged for the past thirty years by an invasion of aliens known as 'phantoms', and the human race is relegated to living in isolated strongholds known as border cities,looking for some way to win back their world. The last, best hope lies within Dr. Aki Ross, and her unique insights into the nature of the phantoms through her dreams.Final Fantasy is a breathtaking ride through a convincing alternate universe, fascinating in its design and style, and gripping in its action and drama.  And the best part about it all - it's one-hundred percent computer-generated.There simply is no way this story could have been adequately conceived utilizing conventional film-making techniques.  The vistas of a battle-scarred world, the incredible nuances of an ethereal threat and the technology used to combat it - these are things that are best left unhindered by the limits of reality and left to the drawing board ofunbridled imagination.The striking thing about Final Fantasy is it's hyper-real character design. Aki, the heroine, has hairs that flutter with her slightest movements, and freckles and blemishes that dot her facial features.  Other characters have stubble for beards, age spots, and they sweat and cry.  The strides that have been made in CG animation are remarkable here, but not the sort of thing that will replace flesh-and-blood actors any time soon.  There's still a missing element in the grace of movement or the nuance of expression that a computer has yet to master in its renderings.  It's a long way from being perfected, but as a glimpse into what can be done, this is rather impressive.The story itself can be convoluted at times, borrowing from other science fiction plots to carry itself along.  It's very much on the metaphysical side of things, and incorporates several static stereotype characters into the mix.  However, that said, such a complex plot is not usually ever found in American animation, and is usually reserved for Japanese anime or live-action - and the fact that this derives from a video game (usually the thinnest of source material) is a bit more impressive.It's not the greatest film ever made, but it's definitely groundbreaking in a way that Toy Story and Shrek just aren't.  Well worth your time to see, and now that Squaresoft has scrapped any future movie productions, this just might remain one of a kind.  "},{"Title":"Would have been just as fun -- in reverse.","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What can I say?  FF got the the over-the-top, slightly pompous plot side of the Anime equation together fine.  But, what they missed out completely was the humor side of Anime.  So many scenes of characters being so serious, and so self-important.  But all the attempts at character-based humor consistenly came over like a lead balloon.  So, there's no moment where you get a breath of fresh air in this film.  It is just exhausting to watch.If this film had just had a few characters as stupid and cliche'd as Mole or that Father Guido Sarduchi guy in Atlantis, it'd have been way easier to swallow, but as it is, I'm afraid this movie falls in that  special category of films which would be just as entertaining if ran in reverse.  Lots of pretty pictures, but like, okay, so?Also gets the 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' honorary acting award for a performance by a benevelent, but mis-understood, amorphous blob. "},{"Title":"Opens a new realm of film making possibilities","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I consider Final Fantasy to be a film ahead of its time.  Up until this film's release last summer, full-length computer animated feature films had been thought of as strictly kids fare; they were marketed for them and their slant toward light entertainment was apparent in the films' bright colors and jokey characters (let it be known that films such as Toy Story and Shrek were great films regardless).  But the producers of Final Fantasy clearly had the forethought to use modern-day technology to tell a ponderous, more mature tale that had not been done previously in computer animation.  In this sense, Final Fantasy represents a new breed among its kind.  I envision that eventually we will see more and more computer animated films aimed at an older age demographic than they are currently.  However, with the poor box office this film received (which resulted in the complete shut down of Columbia and Square Pictures' computer animation department), it seems as if people such as myself who anxiously await to see what lies ahead in the ever-evolving computer animation feature film market will have to wait longer than previously hoped for.  Therefore, Final Fantasy will be one-of-a-kind for a while, even though, disappointingly, when one compares it to live-action films of its type, it is definitely not in a league by itself.  It does not contain an original idea in its entire 106 minute running time.  From the aliens impregnating one's body, to a devastatingly demolished future New York City, to the sacrificial token black character, it has all been done before.  Incoherent and cliched story-telling is the film's achilles heel.  Yet, unlike, say, The Fifth Element, at least the film attempts to be dramatic with its characters - their emotion is genuine.  And the film at least tries to distill a moral.  No matter, as the animation is truly on another level.  While lip-synching and body movement still needs to be improved, when the characters are still, they are a work of art.  Besides, after the initial shock that, yes, I am actually watching a complex combination of ones and zeros do THAT (even though occasionally it seems slightly off), that effect wears off and the film itself takes precedence.  It is just a shame that we will not see for some time how the film makers would have or will take the groundwork laid in this picture and attempt to further it.   Final Grade - B+ "},{"Title":"One word eye candy","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You know those cheesy but endearing video scenes that you get as payoff after wading through a section of a computer game? Well, imagine that they were really long, and you didn't actually have to do anything to get them to play. That, in a nutshell, is The Spirits Within. As a film, it's lacking in a number of important aspects, but as a computer game it has the best graphics ever! And without the annoyance of getting stuck and having to lookup cheats on Google. I don't know why this had a cinema release, but it was born for DVD. It's cheaper than most games on the shelves, and it won't make you lose sleep.On the negative side, I was disappointed with the lack of nudity. I > was hoping it would have a more Japanese aesthetic. "},{"Title":"Over all, I would say it was a chick flick. It appeals to both sexes, but the plot is for the sci-fi girls.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was a bit skeptical at first, hearing both good and bad of the movie, thus I waited until it came out onto video at my local blockbuster.I felt that it was far from the disappointment some have made it out to be. It was preceded by little hype, as compared to other movies that have recently hit the box office, and lived up to it's standard well.The animation was fantastic, definitely something we have come to expect from graphics toting the prodigious title of Final Fantasy.  Many times I had to tell myself that it wasn't real people or objects. The spirits, as well, were done nicely. It was fresh and different, lifelike yet plastic. Quite the step up from graphics seen even in Pixar movies.The plot was also something I have come to expect from Final Fantasy. It pulled a lot, in my opinion, from the anime Akira. It was far less confusing, but touched basis with the same ideas. Many were very upset to find that it was indeed a love story, but if anyone has ever played one of the more recent games (say 8 or 9) you can see where it comes from. Not to mention, the deepest meanings impact much more harder when softened by love. The cast, also, was well chosen, laced with many familiar voices.There is a balance between both the plot and the special effects. When one tips the scale on one side, the other looses effect. The animation, as I have already illustrated, was spectacular, which makes it understandable that the plot was weak. They were relying on the graphics to reel the viewers in anyway.Over all, I would say it was a chick flick. Not so much fluff as something like Kate & Leopold, but definitely a chick flick. There were some nice action scenes and some really cool death scenes, but men might find it a little hard not to get bored with the romantic plot line.  "},{"Title":"Four Years. A ton of money. Some star caliber. NO STORY.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I rarely watch movies from Japan, I am not a rascist, I just don't see many. Trust me. I've seen a lot of American stinkbombs as well. WARNING SPOILERS. Set a couple of decades in the future, all the people in the world have to live in special cities, or in space, becuase a chunk of rock from another world that came with these aliens called phantoms. This one person who is a gut less pitying scientist who seems to feel sorry for all the alien spirits wants to find several little objects called spirits that are supposed to kill all the aliens, while all the brute force cool high-tech guns can't do s*uat. Well, I'll fast forward it a little bit. The army is know placed in two forces. The evil guys, who want to use a giant laser cannon built in space to kill all the aliens, which are really only Spirits (a la souls) and in the other team, are a couple soilders, and they want to find the mystical spiritst that can kill the aliens. In the end, of course the big cool space laser shooting gun didn't do s*uat and the mystical spirits kill all the aliens. Predicitble. AVOID THIS MOVIE LIKE THE PLAGUE. SPOILERS END "},{"Title":"not quite ready for prime time","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The technology is impressive, but not yet to the level necessary to express the emotions a good actor can.  Simplistic plot with little character development make this a movie best watched on an afternoon one would like to waste in a little escapism. "},{"Title":"Somewhat dissapointing","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  With the earth in shambles, a scientist tries to find the key to saving earth.Although featuring awesome animation,the movie has more drama than I expected, and only a few action scenes.Features the voices of Alec Baldwin,Donald Sutherland,James Woods,Ving Rhames, and Steve Buscemi.Rating*** (out of five) "},{"Title":"FF--a fantastically grim film","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within may be a deeply flawed movie--its central plot is bogged down in convoluted, videogame serialisation and the awe of it as a CGI spectacle erodes as it goes on.  But it is also deeply affecting. As a war film, it may be bleaker than anime classic Grave of the Fireflies and is certainly more damning than Hollywood's pride Saving Private Ryan. Despite the ending--which is sweet but also pyrrhic and, given only a minute or two, entirely perfunctory--the film is a dark two hours.  Final Fantasy is more of a nightmare.The enemy--phantasms, spirits, aliens--are removed and distant and the battles against them are futile. The soldiers are only buying time to get the hell out of there.   The battle sequences have the inevitability of my childhood nightmares, where the monster is after you until you wake up. Passing through walls, barely visible, the phantasms steal soles through touch.  Consequently, there is no hand-to-hand combat or heroism.  No contact, nothing human at all.  The viewer never really confronts them and can't really win.The closest as we come to actually SEEING them is a close-up of one soldier's eye as he's torn to bits in a AKi's dream.  When she discovers their motivations, we may feel pity, but empathy?  No.  Victory?  Not at all.  We don't have that gratification.  This war is less a proving ground than something to be woken up from.Final Fantasy should be seen for only how it constructs with such insightful, damning cynicism a world at war and how it uses CGI to populate that nightmare.  "}{"Title":"Prepare to be dazzled...and bored","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  And confused...maybe even annoyed.  No question, this film looks amazing.  There were a few sequences where, if I didn't know better, I might not have figured out the the characters are not real.  Pretty impressive stuff.  But if you watch it, try not to follow the story; it's just not that interesting and you might not even figure out what's going on, especially towards the end.  All I got was that the lead character, Dr. whatever-her-name-was and her mentor want to save the earth and humanity from the predation of alien spirits with 8 Gaia spirits or something and the annoying James Woods guy wants to blow the aliens away with the Zeus cannon, which would do the job but might destroy the planet, as well.  So Dr. Main-Character-Scientist-Lady and her pals fly around and do some things and most of her friends get killed except hunky boyfriend-BenAffleck-lookalike-guy, and the Zeus cannon is fired at least twice into the Earth, and the Scientist and the Affleck-alike say some things to each other and kiss and say some more stuff and blah blah blah... but in the end the good guys win and the bad guy blows destroys himself and the Earth is saved...or something. "},{"Title":"Better title...Final Fantasy Misunderstood from Minute One","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Everybody knows it by now, its a proven fact...video games-turned-into-movies  have a bad track record. To date, out of the approximate 10 games turned into movies, 2 have seen success...Mortal Kombat(which deserved it), and Tomb Raider(which certainly did not). Where did the others go wrong?? Simple...they underestimated their audience, eschewing the best parts of the source material, in favor of piling on the kiddie crap. Mortal Kombat remained stagnantly true to the game, and found widespread success. Tomb Raider, while it didn't exactly impress me much, did remain true to the image of Lara Croft, and at least managed to keep the action interesting while the storyline crashed and burned into an ugly gelatinous mess all around it. So, enter Final Fantasy. Despite absolutely GORGEOUS visuals(anybody for a Cinematography Oscar? Does it even apply to animated movies??), this movie was destined for world-wide failure, especially in America. Why, you say? Glad you asked... Square Pictures made goof number one by calling the film Final Fantasy in the first place. One could guess that they thought that respected name would help sell the movie, even when the story has precisely squat to do with the games, when it actually worked the other way around. Rule One of making a video game movie Don't stray too far from the source material, or don't bother using the name at all. You just end up scaring fans away.Goof two is, actually, the story. In the aesthetic sense, this movie is a CGI anime. It has every aspect of Eastern Philosophy you'd come to expect from sci-fi anime, right down to the nature vs man vs the atomic age argument we've seen before in Akira, Ghost In The Shell, and Princess Mononoke. As far as quality's concerned, that counts for brownie points in the film's favor. As far as appealing to a mainstream American audience goes, though, I'd be lying if I said that this wasn't one of the reasons the movie bombed here. Part two to that issue is the execution of said story, which is where the most of the movie's detractors took aim. Personally, I do happen to like the film, because I do happen to be a fan of anime, so I'm used to a slightly scattered, enigmatic, fill in the blanks type of story and script. But in this country, ambiguity, as far as blockbusters go, kills(A.I. had the same problem, box office-wise.). Why are plants and animals chosen as the spirits?? Why is General Hein going about it so viciously? Where do the souls stolen by the Phantoms go? These are the holes that anime fans are already able to fill in. But its a bit too much work for the moviegoer who still has trouble figuring out if The Matrix is reality or not. Not helping in that department, though, is that shreds of dialogue in the movie are very high in cheese value. A rather haunting monologue at the start of the movie is cheapened by an archetypical will I be in time to save the world line. Some of them are saved by professional delivery, particularly James Woods' General Hein. A speech about what happened to his family might have been very forced in the wrong hands. Woods saved it. On the other end of the spectrum, though, is a certain line by Donald Sutherland near the end, which is my nominee for the 2001 Halle Berry Toads Struck By Lightning Award. To quote a reviewIi saw for the film, it sounds like he's taking a bath in some warm boulliabaise. Trust me, you'll know it when you hear it. Discriminating ears will rip this film a new one 30 minutes in based solely on that. So what's the verdict here? Well, anime fans will be in for a wonderful ride. Never before has a project like this been attempted, and with the team assembled to make the film(series creator/producer Hironobu Sakaguchi directed, Eliot Goldenthal was assisted by the series' score composer Nobuo Uematsu), there aren't many ways the movie will do you wrong. You just have to keep in mind, this movie has NOTHING to do with the games. If you want that, there's a nice 5-part actual anime based on FFIV out right now. The rest of you, though, won't be disappointed... Casual moviegoers, however, will have some troubles. To them, I compare the film to a hot supermodel with a 220 IQ who just found New Age religion. Extremely nice to look at, and study intensely in wide-wonder...but chances are, you're gonna get lost the second she opens her mouth. If you're open-minded enough, there's a lot to discuss with her. But, I doubt all that many have that much patience. But, hey, she's pretty, right? And the sad part is, this is where most moviegoers fall under....there's lots of great things if you're willing to listen. Whichever side you fall on, though, I have one final recommendation....stick around through the credits. The Lara Fabian-performed/Eliot Goldenthal-penned end theme The Dream Within is well worth a listen, and, I daresay, may very well land her a Best Original Song Oscar nomination if she doesn't wind up running against herself for the equally beautiful For Always from the A.I. soundtrack...now I'm curious if the rest of her material is this great. Or if shes as underestimated as this movie. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good movie for a video game","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A bleak world drawn with stunning attention to detail.   It's one thing to photograph a model of a ruined New York city with all the detritus lying around.  It's another thing to draw each and every cast about rock and rusted out car and make it look real.  All the intricate machines look like they could really work.As others have mentioned, the plot is a little thin, but it has a lot more to it that just a video game theme.  Many SF efforts don't go as far, such as Pitch Black and Aliens.It could have been sexier, but perhaps the writers felt that they should err on the side of not looking cheap.  The heroine is a nice looking gal and the men are clean-cut without the hysterically overemphasized body parts that we have come to expect in action-animation.  The result has a natural feel to it, even though the animation isn't perfect.Four stars. "},{"Title":"Mostly Eye-Candy, ending was terrible. Oh, and it WASNT BASED ON A VIDEO GAME","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was very disappointed with this movie.  For starters, the plot was hard to follow.  Also the characters were not as lifelike as I expected.  Plus the plot could use some work.  And Lets not forget the classic supporting character team strong girl, geek guy, black dude, and lover/captain/hero male co-protagonist.  Oh..and did I mention the plot was lacking?However, I am a fan of the Final Fantasy video games and had some high expectations for this movie.  The eye candy is great, but it didn't justify the $23 I spent to see it. (2 tickets for me and my girlfriend, and another so I can go back and actually watch the movie P)One more thing I'd like to point out is that this movie isnt based on any video game or vice versa.  Please dont compare the games I love to this visually stunning flop. "},{"Title":"A great movie for Sci Fi fans","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OK, I know that a lot of people didn't like the movie and the show didn't do very well at the box office. I didn't watch it on the big screen but just bought the DVD.I think the story is typical Japanese anime with some seriously mixed up spiritual philisophy that holds no water.Having put that aside, I think Final Fantasy was a great movie solely for its ground breaking effects and excellent design. The CGI looks more life-like than Star Wars Last Episode.From an industrial design point of view, it was amazing to see all the details that went into this film. I would like to highlight Dr Aki Ross's headset, the weapons, the all-terrain vehicle, the body armour! Check out the high calibre laser weapon mounted on top of the all terrain vehicle and how it recoils every time a shot is fired. Even Aki Ross's plant holder looked real and workable.That's it!!I liked the movie and felt it was worth the time. "},{"Title":"not as good as the games, but good anyway","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  considering it was the first time square had done a movie i thought it was pretty good. you have to remember that FF is far too deep and complex to be made into a 90 minute film. beats the hell out of tomb raider even if it did suck as much as people said it did.I was really hoping to see more movies made by square, perhaps an actual adaptation of one of the games (take notes square, that would be a guaranteed success)but that doesn't seem to be near. C'mon people, encourage the game designer to make more movies. If they tried again they'd dazzle u.(remember if u ever want to make an adaptation of ff6 and u need someone to play kefka i'm your guy.)  "},{"Title":"Rent Shrek","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater while under the influence of marijuana. I expected beautiful animation. What I got were plastic mannequins with mouths that moved like puppets. The acting was horrifying and was not synced well. The mannequins would move their mouths then the voices would slowly follow. I'm not sure if I am correct, but I think all the mannequins had one line at a time. That's all. "},{"Title":"Not half bad... but not half good either.","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, so the controversy has died down (more on that in a bit), the state of the art animation baloney has been buried, and the studio is dead meat.  What then, exactly, IS Final Fantasy?Well, I really haven't decided.  Part of me wants to call it the best-looking boring animated film since La Planet Sauvage.  Another part of me wants to call it the worst video game that you're only allowed to watch, not play yourself.The controversy, in case you were curious, was felt by me and my two or three friends who are also animation fans.  The whole selling point of this film was it's photo-realistic human characters.  Our response Why the hell bother?Basically, this is reasonably good eye-candy.  I give it a four for that and for the parody value (this is a movie that tends to take itself WAY too seriously). "},{"Title":"fantastic graphics","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  when I started to watch this movie I was blown away by the graphics. they looked like real people the movie was good to it was a bit hard to understand what was happening at sometimes but it all fall in to place when you watch more off it the voices of James Wood and Alec Baldwin were really good. there is nothing bad to say about this movie. the movie is about this girl with an alien Spirit in her she well die if she doesn't find 7 other spirits and in the movie she has already found 5 off them and in the movie she is looking for the 6th the 7th and the 8th a great movie with great special effects "},{"Title":"to much of a hype!!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It started out good, but ended poorly...I was stunned that it could go from so good to so yawny!I thought it would be more fight scenes and more power, but it turned out weak, very weak. I shouldn't have bought the movie unseen, that's for sure! "}{"Title":"A glorious piece of new-age entertainment","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's easy to be cynical these days, and I'd resisted seeing Final Fantasy for quite some time simply because I feared I might not enjoy it as much as I'd hoped. I needn't have worried. This is a glorious piece of new-age entertainment, and possibly the first truly unique cinema experience of the new century.Forget the video game, as this project only shares its name. A good thing too, as otherwise we might have been in for a very dull time. Instead, site back and watch the most realistic CG actors yet seen. The story is heavy sci-fi, but on reflection it suits the computer-generated medium perfectly. To have made this film with conventional actors might have been impossible, and the end result would certainly have been nowhere near as engaging. The plot borders on being baffling in places, but is deeply spiritual in tone, and even quite moving in places. The makers have not shied away from a melancholy ending. Mention must be made of Elliot Goldenthal's score, a fantastic piece of music that embodies the mood of the film perfectly.  "},{"Title":"Astonishing Sci/Fi Eye Candy","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't think that any of us have seen a film like Final Fantasy The Spirits Within before. Sure, the basic storyline is recycled from countless other sci/fi films (plus a little anime), but no one has actually SEEN a movie like this one.Hailed as the first film ever to come from a completely digital domain (meaning the first film to try and simulate actual human movements, unlike other all digital films such as Toy Story and Shrek), Final Fantasy breaks new ground without any argument. The movements, the reactions, and the scenery are all right on. This is possibly one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen, transporting us to another world that could not have possibly been created using conventional filmmaking techniques. Brilliant visual work.If there's any downfall to the film, it's the somewhat stale story. While I enjoyed the vast majority of the movie, there were scenes where I think the pacing dragged a bit. I think the Phantoms were used to excess in some scenes, and were not all that interesting to begin with.The voicings were well done. You'll notice many recognizable voices, such as Alec Baldwin (who I think phoned this one in), Steve Buscemi, and Donald Sutherland. Things were a bit out of sync during some dialogue scenes, but these are petty complaints.On the whole, this is a breathtaking, if not a bit creepy, launch into the possible future of animated movies. This is eye candy at its finest on the silver screen.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Are we sure this is Final Fantasy?","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Here's a warning Don't read this unless you've seen the movie. I'm going to use spoilers to make a few points.I've recently thrown myself into the world of Final Fantasy VIII thanks to my friend. I've learned a lot about the Final Fantasy Series. For instance, none of the games take place on Earth. Second, every one has different characters and different storylines (so far as I can tell).What makes the movie so special? All of a sudden it takes place on Earth. Nothing in this movie really makes sense. So what if everyone's spirits go into the Earth and join Gaia? What does that have to do with the spirits they are trying to find? I'm sure it says all this stuff SOMEWHERE in the movie, but they could've made it to where I could catch it. Final Fantasy VIII would make a good movie. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within obviously couldn't. Everything happens so fast that you're just left behind... wondering where everyone else went. It starts with the dream, then suddenly she's looking for some organism, then they're back at base... and so on. Soon we find out that our main character, Aki, has been inflicted with these aliens. I think that was supposed to surprise us. Uh... no, it didn't. And what's with this soul-eating business? These aliens are beings that consume souls of organisms, and we soon learn that they are only souls, lost because their home was destroyed. Aki explains that they never attacked Earth, never invaded. If so, why do they consume the souls? What even happens to that person once their soul is consumed? Another thing How does releasing Gaia (or whatever these spirits did) get rid of the aliens? So much stuff was left unexplained in this movie. In the end, Aki is holding the guy's dead body in her hands as the elevator takes her up to the ship. So what happened after that? Once again, left behind. I turned off my TV wishing I had just stuck with the games. One good thing about this movie is the CGI. Wow. Amazing. Half the time I had a hard time telling if these people were real or CGI. I can tell they really put some effort into the appearance of the characters. "},{"Title":"Impressive Effects.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy was very impressive for a computer generated movie.  I enjoyed the movie for the effects and was entertained through most of it.  The interplay between the characters was painfully naive.  The love story must have been copied from an afterschool drama.  The movie is worth watching for the impressive effects but the character interplay is best left to fast forwarding. "},{"Title":"Has its moments but...","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I gave it a 7. Why? Because, although the movie's purpose is showing how we can already make movies without actors (and from a few years from now the result of this will be even more chilling, probably in this movie's sequel), it was made by people who just want to prove that very concept. And they succeed in doing so, at least. It is incredible and even a little bit frightening what they accomplish here sometimes the people look real (a scene where doctor sid's assistant is in the background typing something is the most incredible example). This opens new horizons on filmmaking, and combining this with the advent of 24p moviemaking, science-fiction and fantasy movies will probably start being done like this, since it gives them a world of advantages... I clap my hands, but I remain seated. This movie was no masterpiece in the narrative section, I even saw it as a montage and juxtaposition of moments from Aliens and Starship Troopers for the action and 2001 for the contemplations. This keeps me from scoring it higher. Even though that happens, this movie is a landmark it opened new frontiers. And they will never be closed again. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story of this movie is really good. I think there are so many information in the whole movie. Although a lot of people around me tell me they don't like this movie and they say the movie is kind of boring, I still like it.I actually didn't want to watch this movie, as I don't like this kind of animation. It make me feel uncomfortable. But I was so impressed after I watch it, because the story is really meaningful and unique. "},{"Title":"Kinda Starship Troopers meets Ghostbusters...","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think we've seen this plotine a gazillion times before, in Asimov or on screen or in comix. You know, post apoloyptic scenario, ruined Earth, gotta beat the baddies, etc. But as has been said-this time the baddies aren't really THAT bad, in fact it's one of our own(?!), while there is something new of course-the great animation.Some Spoilers below!I liked it. I liked how close to Jennifer Connelly the 'lead' was 'drawn', always a plus, the voicers-James Woods(thought it was Malkovich), Buscemi, etc-worthwhile, though their charcters were quite one dimensional. I also thought that the macho gal(well, if you saw this, you know who I meant)was rather 'Lilith on Cheers'-like, turned out it was Peri Gilpin of Frasier, basically Lilith Jr-for what it's worth.The whole business with the 'Zeus Gun' only making the whole situation worse by Strengthening and enlargening the Aliens is right outta Godzilla being helped out by lightning or tankfire. Not terribly original. And the Earth being Gaia mixing with the Ghost Aliens' own Gaia...uhhhhh, okay. New Age time.I will give it an A for effort and C for the actual movie stuff-plot, loopholes, etc.**1/2 or so. Worth a shot. "},{"Title":"Unless you're in it just for the animation, not worth your time","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation in this movie was great but just about everything else was terrible. Unless you're a die hard to see this movie just for the animation I wouldn't bother, I barely made it through the movie without turning it off. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Not as good as I had hoped, however...","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was impressed with the CG animation... It actually was incredible (thus the 137 mil budget)I was disappointed with the sound though... I didnt think it had the best sound... The story was neat... I'm not familiar with the game, but still was cool. I really liked the voices. James Woods as the bad guy (perfect), Donald Sutherland, Alec Baldwin, Ving Rhames and Steve Buscemi who didnt curse!! Overall, the graphics where incredible, the story was neat (a little dull at times) and the sound was a little on the lame side. I gave it a 3.5 out of 5...   "},{"Title":"Near-Real Animation shows plot holes.","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is no question that this film features the most amazing animatedgraphics to this date.  Credit is due for that but the makers of thefilm still have to be held responsible for a plot that at points seemsto work but then plummets down the drain.  Much of the scriptingfeatures uninspired sci-fi shallowness and that leads to the viewernot being engaged in watching.  Only people who cared about thismovie enough to have watched it already should probably watch itso if you haven't yet, don't bother. "}{"Title":"Not a bad Movie!","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The first time I went to see the movie I got confused and watched the pritty pictures instead, going Oooooh, Aaaaaah! Then left the theater and forgot about it. Then when I got on DVD as a gift I was, Oh cool, the pritty picture movie and popped it in. Then as I watched, I somehow started to understand the plot and movie. Yeah ok, the script might not be in the godfather class but it suits the movie really well. The themes in the movie are nice and warm and unfortunately seen in many post war or apocalyptic movies, however this movie somehow manages to pull it off and make it sound honest and not so corny as in many other movies. The film score was spectacular and the animation was just mind blowing! I think it takes a couple of viewings to really catch all the things that are going on in the movie and to really appreciate the detail of the charachters. I suggest you really give it a chance and not pass it as childrens movie because its animation, trust me, kids won't understand half of the movie and might even get scared in some parts. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Here is a surprise","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Curious one this. And not exactly what I had expected. Though saying this, it does show all the classic Square characteristics. Massive attention to detail, huge sets , gods, monsters, a living, breathing earth etc. Everything in fact, that we have come to expect from a Squaresoft product. Thankful for its PC and Console counterparts previous successes, it takes the Final Fantasy licence and expands into moving pictures quite painlessly. Excellent special effects without a real person in sight throughout the two hours. Alec Baldwin, Donald Sutherland and James Woods all make a vocal appearance. Despite the doubtlessly infantile subject matter (that of ghosts attacking the living) it handles the prospect of a first cinema release very well. Although I found it difficult to follow (there appeared to be no baddies, as it were, by the end, but that could be me) I also found it immensely enjoyable and had to gasp at some of the effects used. A great picture for fans of the licence especially (like myself) but even a passing interest in science fiction, or cutting edge technology would make this title worth an airing. Much better than I had hoped for.( "},{"Title":"Simply Overrated (3/10)","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is a waste of time. But you really need to see this movie twice to get the bad story-line.The enemy is actually no enemy (at least that's what you get when you listen closely). The effects are nice in places, but it's still nothing as big as for example toy story. The efforts that had to be taken (voice over, lip synching, motion capturing, etc) was way to much. Hollywood can rest assured that they want be replaced to soon. The problem with most movies that try to showcase new technology is, that the story - more often than not - gets lost on the way.I don't want to spoil anyone's fun, but this is definitely not a movie for the big screen. If you rent it, it might be worth your money. But be warned, the story - as simple as it actually is - is hard to follow. The concept (unrolling the background, as the movie continues) makes sense in e.g. Usual Suspects, but not with this one.If this is Popcorn-Cinema than give us real villains with real motivation. I give this one 3/10 for some nice Effect-Shots. "},{"Title":"Forget this, watch The Storm Riders","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The makers of this film seemed to think that the success of the Final Fantasy game series was thanks to the visual spectacle - but they couldn't have been more wrong. As a result, the twisting and exotic storylines from the games - which were what made them so interesting and compelling - have been ditched in favour of standard Hollywood man against alien action crap. Also gone are the amazing special powers and the presence of traditional fantasy elements, which made the games so distinct. My advice is to watch this for a visual treat - forgetting what little storyline there is - and checking out The Storm Riders (Director's Cut) for the closest thing, so far, to a Final Fantasy film. "},{"Title":"very good movie, almost a 10","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie was pretty good but not enough action.  If it had more, it would of been a perfect 10.  I thought that the movie would of been better, but it was worth the money.  The selection of characters was good and the story line was perfect. "},{"Title":"A Non sensical mess","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  We all know already that this was the biggest money loser of the year and the company that made it has gone bankrupt.  The question now is whether in 20 years this film will be seen as Tron (sci-fi movie with groundbreaking computer effects that bombed in the theater but found new life & hit status on video developing a large cult following) or The Last Starfighter (sci-fi movie with groundbreaking computer effects that bombed in the theater and remained a bomb on video).My vote is for Last Starfighter.  This movie is a mess and will only look messier over time.  The effects will look more like effects in time, as photo realistic animation improves, and watching Final Fantasy, you are even now very aware that you are watching badly lip-synched computer animation. Never for a moment does it look real.  Impressive?  Yes.  But do you really expect any less?The story is where this marketing ploy of a movie falls apart.  I describe it for you if it made any sense.  Something about this group of scientist/army types finding 8 wavelength from living things (a dramatic conceit that anyone who ever took high school physics will realize makes less sense than most Star Trek episodes).  Some evil spirits are loose on a ravaged Earth.  When a spirit touches you, you die.  Well, unless you are a main character and the plot dictates you are only infected (in just one of many head scratchers).Basically, the story winds up being a long diatribe for the Earth being a living being itself which I suppose makes sense to people who already believe but to the more logically minded, it's just pschobabble non sense.I suppose the DVD is worth renting though, where the flaws in animation aren't 50 feet across and the bonus material is more fun than the movie. "},{"Title":"James Cameron meets Akira...","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like an expensive vacation, a movie is largely a matter of expectations being fulfilled.  These expectations are directly cultivated by misleading TV commercials and movie trailers, and all too often, we viewers are disappointed.Gratefully, I didn't see too many movie trailers before I rented Final Fantasy, and I picked up the video with the only expectation of getting 90 minutes of good animation.  No expectations of compelling storytelling, no expectations of plausible plot development, no expectations of oscar-winning voice-overs.Accordingly, I was very pleased with what this movie delivered. The Squaresoft animators from Hawai'i did a terrific job assembling this animation marvel.Firstly, this movie is absolutely BEAUTIFUL looking!  The animation is groundbreaking, and the attention to detail goes down to the degree of pores in the characters' skin.  Outside of some rigidity in the characters' mouth motions, the motion and texture of Final Fantasy is better even than the formidable Reboot and Beast Wars animation.Secondly, the epic shoot-em-up action is on the scale of a James Cameron science fiction film... plenty of gunfire and creepy-crawlies to please all the action fans out there. Plenty of high-tech gadgets and ships to please the SF fans, too.Thirdly, I was delighted to have a female protagonist do some a**-kicking as a bright and educated character.  We could certainly use more powerful female role models in modern moviemaking.I was disappointed with the hoakey science of this movie, however.  It had a flaky Akira nonsense about it.  Scientists and educated viewers might shake their heads and tune out at the pseudo-science explanation of the ethereal phantom antagonists.BUT, if you can get past the implausible part of the plot, then this is truly an eye-candy experience for action and animation fans.I highly recommend Final Fantasy as a rental.Now... if we could only get Spielberg to partner with the F.F. Squaresoft animators... "},{"Title":"great stuff, but lousy story","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  we sit there for at least 10 minutes amazing about the pictures, but the story and the acting was very bad. The technical experience is great - I'm looking forward, what will happen in the next years. In this case, the film is a must for all people interesting in new media. It is a complete new thing.  "},{"Title":"Watch it for the visuals","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is all visual.  It has a pretty good story, but it's all for the animation.  Some of the lip syncs are off, and like any other sci-fi, it has it's share of bad lines, but visually, it's one of the most groundbreaking features ever.  Definitely eye candy, which was it's goal ahead of time.  Worth seeing for sure. "},{"Title":"Great art; Great technology - it put me to sleep!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a remarkable film. Animated  people act, move and look like people. They even have skin imperfections like real people. Human characters have hair that blows in the breeze -- you can even see individual strands of hair. Wow! But once one is finished appreciating the art and technology, boredom sets in rather quickly. This is probably a great flick for kids, but grownups beware! "}{"Title":"Experience it for yourself","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you hate the movie, which most seem to, that's your choice and I respect it. But to make a slight departure from those lines for a moment, if you will...did everyone across America who saw this just have a brain fart? )Easy part first. Animation Whether the movie bombed or not, Square made bigger leaps for animation than Toy Story did, and that's saying quite a bit. Of course there's still limits that need to be pushed, areas that need to be tweaked, but this is pure technology at work, folks. There were times the character's movements seemed a little wooden, sure, and overall they didn't have as full a range of facial movements (emotion and expression) that a live actor would, but c'mon! What they *were* able to do was impressive, and that's an understatement. I was prepared to be impressed after all I had seen and heard about the movie, but how little I was truly prepared for where this level of animation would take me. There were times I almost forgot I was watching an animated movie.*spoilers ahead*The first noticeable impression was from Aki's hair. A small and insignificant part when compared to the movie as a whole, but Wow. You could see every individual strand. The way it moved and flowed depending on position and environment was dead-on. The detail to the faces can't be denied. You could see every spot of stubble on a character's face, every mole and freckle, wrinkles, eyelashes, even moisture in the eyes if you look closely enough. Seeing how clothing stretched and contorted as the people moved, twisted and sat down.Even the most subtle additions The gun Grey hurriedly sets on its side against a console, and then seeing the weapon twist and settle into position on its own since it wasn't put down firmly on its base. Aki's shrug and look that says, I have no idea what the Doctor's talking about, but we should hear him out to Grey as the Doctor explains some techno-babble that Aki doesn't get. You could see the sheen of light sweat across certain areas of the soldiers' bodies. My jaw dropped repeatedly, especially during the opening scene. Seeing the USAF ship (Boa?) come down on the barren NYC, with the wind effects and dust covering everything, watching the exaust from the ship shake everything around it and knock over a couple of vehicles.We are so used to taking for granted the thousands of visual movements (and physics involved) that take place in the real world that we no longer notice. If you pay attention, there's another world of detail to appreciate here, you just have to be watching for it. Of course it helps if you have a big screen and a discerning eye (I just bought a 55 widescreen, so I didn't have to look too hard) ) On a 10-point scale-SCORE 9.5The missing half accounting for the occasional stiff movements and lack of expressiveness on the character's faces when appropriate.Voice acting I agree that some of the voice acting was too even throughout the movie, without the punch that's needed for much of the drama unfolding onscreen. I'm not sure if this was intentional so that the difference between lip movements and the emotion behind the dialogue wouldn't be too jarring, or if it just happened this way. I will say that it didn't bother me too much, if only because I was so taken in by the dialogue and the story itself that it wasn't much of a distraction. I can see, though, how people could be bothered.SCORE 6.5Story This is where I depart from the majority. I hear words describing parts of the plot, like convoluted, cliched, confusing, and boring. With respect, I must have seen a different movie. Ok, some of the elements have been borrowed from classics. I saw more than a couple of passing similarities to other action movies, Aliens being a particular standout for me. Barring that, I thought it was original, thought-provoking, and definitely different. No, it doesn't spell everything out for you. Yes, there's quite a lot going on and there are a couple of times where the transitions from one plot point to another aren't exactly smooth. And yes, it makes you figure a lot out for yourself.To help out, here's my interpretation of the story. ***WARNING***MAJOR SPOILERS*** This is only my take on it (on certain parts), and shouldn't be looked at as definitive. As I explained, it leaves some of it up to you.An alien planet is destroyed and a chunk of it, with part of its population, is hurtled to Earth. Everyone has a spirit, and that spirit comes from a higher, collective spirit or being. This spirit enters the mortal plane of existence through the shells of our bodies. We go through life and gain knowledge and experiences, and when our bodies die our spirit returns to Gaia, or the collective spirit of Mother Earth. Hell, you could call it Heaven if you wanted to give it a religious slant. In turn, that collective is that much richer for the experiences gained. This is a continual process.Problem Our spirits are indigenous to our native planet, Mother Earth. So, too, are the aliens to their respective planet. Their planet has been destroyed, as well as their mother spirit, which basically means the spirits trapped on Earth are alone. It's never revealed why they are alone. It could be implied they are simply too far from home for their spirits to return back to the nest, but in the spirit of sci-fi and our own world, I don't follow this particular theory. This would mean races of beings could not travel to the stars, because if they died, their souls would be damned for not being able to return home. Not exactly an optimistic view of the future and its possibilities. Perhaps because their Mother Spirit must have been destroyed along with their planet, which now means they are not only away from home, but they now have no home, in the physical or the spiritual sense. They are doomed to wander an alien civization (our planet) for eternity without rest, which would probably drive any sentient creature insane.And so havoc ensues as they attack any and every living thing with a spirit...people, animals, plants, etc...or are they attacking? It certainly looks that way, but remember they are looking to connect with anything that might get them out of their purgatory. They are able to home in to Earth's own spirit and its creatures, and nest themselves above it. They feel the belonging, but it is not their own, and as the Doctor points out in the beginning of the movie, the two are totally opposite in nature, and a mergence of any kind at that scale would mean annihilation of both. This is the reason why the aliens feel such a pull since this is home (just not theirs), but they know they can't merge or make contact at that level. This only further enrages them (beyond the point of sanity I think, it would me) which makes them lash out with more vengeance. Think back to the movie Poltergeist, as it's a similar theme.This creates a race against time and the conflict that arises as a result, though never directly stated. How long before the phantoms are driven beyond the point of self-reason, and attempt their merging with Gaia, resulting in the destruction of their spirits as well as Earth itself and all her children (every living thing)? Enter the military and science branches of government, each with their own idea of what should be done. Military-quick, decisive use of the Zeus will destroy the phantoms. They view the phantoms as simply invaders who must be stopped.Scientific-Everything explained above in regards to Gaia and the spirits is realized by the Doctor. He realizes the cannon can only hurt Gaia in the process since the cannon is designed to destroy spirits (though uniquely alien..no one said there weren't any plotholes, unless I missed something..I've only seen it once so far), so we would be destroying ourselves along with the aliens. Broad consensus is that Gaia is nonsense, so then we have the main thrust of the picture. Who will win, and at what cost? There are many other details, such as Aki being infected then impregnated, the dreams/communication with the phantoms, the hawk, etc.. but I would spend an hour typing and this is only my interpretation of certain events. Someone else's may be different, and that certainly doesn't make it wrong.This is a thinking-man's sci-fi movie. Those who only want to see ray guns and explosions should steer clear. There's definitely action and quite a bit of it, but it's only the surface. When you peel away the layers and look underneath, you'll begin to see how deep it really goes. The DVDFile review that tells you not to look under the hood couldn't be further from the truth. Unless you don't like the complex gears and levers that create the main story and the drama, in which case the review is correct. Close the hood and just admire the shiny paint job (the animation).I enjoy the brainless Schwarzenneger flick like any other guy, but I also appreciate thoughtful movies that don't spoon-feed everything to you. This is one of those movies, and to me it's a shame it received such a luke-warm response. Though I hear it wasn't well-received in Japan, it was far worse here, and I think a good indication that America still isn't ready for something so....different.SCORE 9.0Bottom line Don't ever let broad consensus sway you before you dive in headfirst and experience it for yourself. The majority of the population, the council and General Hein didn't believe in Gaia, and nearly destroyed themselves as a result. Make your own mind.OVERALL 8.75Of course that's just my opinion, I could be wrong. - Dennis Miller  "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great CGI, interesting story line, and interesting characters. If you are a sci-fi fan, rent this movie! The voice overs were a little off at times, but it give you a good idea of what computer artists are capable of today! The movie was fun and interesting. It didn't really have much to do with the game line, but after playing some of them I would say that isn't such a bad thing. "},{"Title":"GOOD just GOOD","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie has a very special way to touch you, I mean, all trough the characters don't seem to be very expressive, their relations make feel that they are alive!I loved Aki Ross since the beginning, she was cute, smart, and...digital, but any way she's a great actress.I highly recommend this movie, it has a great plot, you have to be very stupid to say that this movie is bad just because is a bit complex "},{"Title":"Beautiful cinematography, but a sadly predictable plot...","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The scenes and many of the characters (especially the hawk) were amazingly done, and some of the scenes (like the sunset when Aki is ascending from the crater) show that CGI can transcend the limitations of filming in the real world; however, all the eye candy is mostly for naught when the plot was as hackneyed as this one was.  I did enjoy the references to the gaming series (including the pool of souls/living world concept espoused in the later installments), and the action scenes were enjoyable, but I knew what was going to happen all along.  I did, however, give the film an 8, as I hope this will encourage future filmmakers to test the boundaries of machinema and CGI, like Square did. "},{"Title":"Where's the magic?","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I walked out of this film unfulfilled.  At the time I could not understand why.  I understood the plot and marveled along with everyone else at the animation.  However, I left the theater feeling disappointed.  It didn't hit me the way most good films had, and it took me a couple of days to realize exactly what went wrong; there was no magic. Now, when I say that, I don't mean fireball and lightning bolt kinds of magic.  After all, in a video game series that has so little continuity from one title to the next, how can one expect this movie to follow anything from those games?  When I say magic I mean chemistry and warmth between the characters.  It was absent.  I felt nothing.  To me it was a very distant and unmoving film.  And that's tragic, because it does represent a landmark in filmmaking.  To dismiss computer animation as inferior to live action is to not give the spirit of technological advancement its due.  I have no doubt in my mind that someday we will not be able to tell the difference between computer-generated people and real people without serious evaluation.  (The Coen Brothers will surely claim that a live action film they made is computer generated before their careers come to an end.)  But in order to reach those places, we will have to endure the test runs. Final Fantasy is not unwatchable.  I didn't squirm in my chair counting the minutes until it was done.  However, this film, in the end, will be remembered only for its place in history, not for the actual quality of the story or any interest in its characters. "},{"Title":"Not half as fascinating as the videogames","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First of all I´m a HUGE fan of the Final Fantasy-videogames. The best game-series ever, in my opinion. That´s why I expected really good things from this movie. Was I satisfied? Both yes and no, actually.The story takes places in the future (name a science fiction-movie that doesn´t), when the whole world´s been deserted, after a huge meteorite crashed in the Kaspian area and made killer-phantoms appear. Doctor Aki Ross is determined to find out the reason to why these creatures emerged, and if there is a way to stop them. She´s assisted by a colleague of hers, Doctor Sid and a platoon of modern soldiers, called Deep Eyes. Working against them is crazy General Hein, who believes that nuclear weapons is the right way to end the problems. Science fiction movies often have confusing storylines, and this is certainly not an exception. I was able to follow the plot almost through the entire movie, but in the end it became way to much unbelievable mumbo-jumbo for me to handle. Final Fantasy Spirits Within has been much discussed whether it could make real actors out of work, since this is the first entirely CGI-made movie with real humans. Yes, the characters look fantastic and very realistic (especially Aki, wow!), but no, the actors do not have to worry a bit about losing their jobs. It´s a rather stupid discussion to start with, I don´t believe any cinema-goer would prefer computer-made humans instead of real ones. Bad things about the film, besides the rather unfocused story, is the dialogue. Steve Buscemi´s character tried to joke all the time, but none of his efforts hit the spot. And his character Neil´s constant quarrel with Peri Gilpin´s character Jane, was tiresome from the very beginning. The voices were overall okay, but the only really good one belonged the heroine Aki. Very nice vocal work by Ming-Na, she made the character more interesting. Another thing I disliked was that Hironobu Sakaguchi used too few references to the games in his script. It mostly didn´t feel like Final Fantasy at all, more like Aliens or something. Some people have suggested that the ending feels like Final Fantasy, but I disagree. It feels more like Sakaguchi ran out of ideas. The music, by Elliot Goldenthal, fits the movie perfectly (his best musical score since the unbeatable score to Alien 3), although it´s not even close to the music from the games, written by genius Nobuo Uematsu. It would have been nice to hear some of his work here, perhaps Prelude during the end credits? Oh well, you can´t have everything, sadly.The movie had it´s exciting moments, with great environments. And the characters are, as mentioned above, fantastic to look at. I do belive you have to be a fan of the videogames to be able to forgive the movie´s flaws. A sequel would be very interesting.* * *  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a very cool movie. The animations are wonderful, the absolute best ever made! Sure, the story ain´t the greatest in the history of making films, but it ain´t bad. I´d say that this is a must see! For the animation alone. Its a shame that rare did such a splendid movie but lost so much money in the project. Now they will never do a sequel.. "},{"Title":"CGI is as good as everyone says","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The special effects are amazing enough to keep most entertained for this movie, even if the plot is unmoving. Final Fantasy is worth watching once, and I could see having this movie on in the background at a party just for the visual entertainment it provides, but I don't think that this is a movie that I would go to see again. In fact, aside from the CGI I will probably not think much about this movie at all. It's definitely entertainment, just don't expect to be moved by the plot. 6/7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fantastic 'Fantasy'","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Visually mind-blowing animated/sci-fi extravaganza based somewhat on the ever-popular RPG.  Beautifully-detailed visual effects and superlative sound far make up for the mostly lackluster voice talenting and muddled story. Overall, definitely worthwhile for animation fans!  Grade B+  "},{"Title":"This is first....","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is a mile-stone. No doubt about it. Only one thing bugs me, and naturally, me being hung over and all, it's gonna be what I focus on in this review. A word to directors, producers and film-folks alikeDon't ever make a movie about real people, if you can't portray real people. The mimic of the Actors varies too much. Most of them look like Louise Fletcher on a good day, and Keanu Reeves on a really bad. It just doesn't work. Instead it makes you think that maybe, this film should have been delayed a couple of years.The story is japanese, so forget about it. It's about the earth having a spirit, and some spirits not having an earth, and some people killing the spirits as they kill them, on the earth because they don't know they don't have an earth, or actually, we can't really call their planet earth now can we?The story is confusing, like a straigthened AKIRA. And that loses alot of regular folks. The Manga-fans, however are gonna love it.I give it an 8/10, which sucks, because the animation itself is astounding. I just wasn't moved. "}{"Title":"Excelent and not so excelent.","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a movie that i've been expecting for a long time. I personally did not like the computer game with the same title. My reason for it is because i hate Manga and everything connected to it. However, when i saw pictures from the movie i was absolutely amazed. The CG animation in this movie is absolutely amazing! People who made it must have spent millions of dolars on it. The 3d models that can be seen on the screen are lifelike and the environment is also superb. I admit that there were times in the movie where you wouldn't be able to tell if it's CG or real. However, it's not perfect. Although the animation and sounds are excelent the story line is not so excelent. The main character - dr. Oki - does not look like a Manga character but she sure acts like one. Also, when you look closer you can see that there's something wrong with the story line. What i mean is that on one side it's spiritual and on the other it's scientific. Why the spiritual part is OK, the other one is sometimes a pack of nonsense. I don't want to write any spoilers but when you hear it, you'll know it. So, it's great but not absolutely great. If you are a sci-fi and CG fanatic the you have to see it, if not... well, you may but you might not like it. "},{"Title":"Very very nice CG - and the story actually works","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Much better movie than I anticipated. The CG is .... fantastic. Stunning. Go see it if you have even the remotest interest in 3D modeling.The plot is like that of a Japanese cartoon Extremely romantic and superficial - but nevertheless quite effective. Let's hope that Square the next time will use the incredible possibilities of their CG talents for a deeper and more interesting story line. "},{"Title":"Pretty, but not fantastic...","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a technical marvel, it is outstanding. This movie is truly a tribute to state of the art rendering. However, the storyline is lacking and some of the 'leaps' are a bit far-fetched for someone not really 'in to' the fantasy/science-fiction genre.  "},{"Title":"Animation Revolution","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The most breathtaking piece of animation I have ever seen. To see each hair on her head moving with the wind was remarkable. The story line was unlike the game series but overall interesting. A must see for the quality of the work alone. "},{"Title":"Can't believe Square released this...","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was nothing like Square usually does. It did have some common denominators with the FF games (as the Gaia theory) but when it comes to drama, action or storyline, there was little of what one has come to expect from playing the games. The dialog is completely without pace, there is not one scene where I actually feel concerned about the characters and the end frankly left me glad that I could leave the theatre. If you haven't done this already, invest in a Squaresoft game instead. Personally, I'm gonna whip up my copy of FF7 and reestablish my faith in Square, silently praying that they'll never do anything like this again. Oh, just one more thing they left out chocobo from the story... unforgivable. "},{"Title":"Messed up movie providing a glimpse into he future","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being in some way the first of its kind, Final Fantasy might take a peculiar place in film history. The only domain in which it can score is, however, its technical merit. Although the digital actors in Final Fantasy are by no means a convincing replacement for real life actors and the whole movie in fact looks like a computer game, it is the state of the art and makes it clear that, as technique will progress, the complete digital illusion will soon be feasible and provide directors with complete freedom to realize even their wildest ideas - provided they have some.Unfortunately, as was to be feared, the creators of Final Fantasy are intellectual low riders with not the slightest idea of what a credible, well-narrated story should be. Apart from the technical perfection, there isn't anything in the movie you haven't seen thousands of times in other movies or computer games. The story is extremely meager and just plain silly (shooting at ghosts, he?). It might have been sufficient to get a computer action game going, but as the basis of a full length feature film it is simply a bad joke.The movie starts out as an interesting albeit routine adventure story with captivating visuals but step by step degenerates into a complete mess, until at the end there remains nothing but awful kitsch and just noise - both acoustic and optical. If this movie makes any impression on you, it will be a headache.Well, the new techniques are there, awaiting somebody to make proper use of them. Final Fantasy definitely provided them with the worst possible start. "},{"Title":"A milestone on graphics. Other aspects, unconvincing.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Excellent graphic stuff, indeed 100 points on 100. I consider this movie a milestone on the fields of video and graphics. The plot, on the other side, wasn't outrageous. It reminded me about two Isaac Asimov's  stories 'Foundation's Edge' and 'Foundation and Earth', where he introduces a concept of Gaia very similar to that of the movie.  The Gaia concept is very interesting, but also too complex, and the storyline treated it in a quite shallow manner Instead of some philosophical discussion, in the Kubrick's Space Odyssey way, we got these huge strange and aggressive creatures jumping out of the screen every ten minutes... disgusting. Another detail few people to confront this cosmic odyssey; where were the others, military men, politics and other human beings? Hard to find more than twenty people during the whole movie. This, of course, is due to the trouble of creating more human-being graphics.Also, the treatment of the movie's main ideas was quite childish, following this extremely-simple-solutions scheme. The story was for children and the complexity level for adult minds An unfortunate combination.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is a great movie. The FX are great! Also the story flows smoothly. I would like to see more movies like this and it is a must have for DVD. I am not going to tell you about the story, I just suggest you to watch it. "},{"Title":"Complex and boring.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  FINAL FANTASY THE SPIRITS WITHIN (2001) Rating 5/10I was unsure of this film since I had never played the game on Playstation. However, when viewing Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, it doesn't matter whether you've played the game or never heard of it, the film is a big heap of mumbo-jumbo and it has nothing to do with the game. I never thought I would have to say this about a movie, but the plot is in desperate need of been simpler. Sure, I like a good complex plot that makes you think after viewing. With Final Fantasy the plot is just so hard to understand that you'll need to force a scientist to come with you. It doesn't leave you thinking after viewing, and if it did, your head would probably burst thinking about all the options the plot had. I didn't care about the characters, the romance was cheese on a huge stick and I was frankly bored through most of the movie. Okay, I'll admit like everyone else that I thought the computer generated people and sets were pretty amazing, most of the action scenes were entertaining (except the final reel &#150; sheesh, what when on there?) and the character Aki was very believable, determined and voiced well by Ming-Na. This movie just didn't please me in the rest of the areas in filmmaking unfortunately. In this review, I'll go out on saying a similar thing to what I said at the start. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a big disappointment not only for people who've never played the game, but also for people who have. When I came out of the cinema, I heard loud and clear `That movie was ****ing horrible. The game was so much better.' There goes proof fans and non-fans of the game are most likely to be upset by the films utter silliness.   "},{"Title":"just to clarify an earlier comment,","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  just to clarify my overly negative comment; about the animation, I wasn't saying the animation was bad, on the contrary, the animation WAS incredible. I was just saying why go to so much effort to make such a realistic show. why not just make a regular movie? I like animated movies because they AREN'T realistic.  that's the whole point! (for me anyway)at any rate I don't usually let animation, or special effects determine my opinion of a show. Just because a movie has really good animation and special effects doesnt mean its a great movie. The same way crappy effects or animation don't make a movie (or game) bad.It was the cheesy dialogue and cliches that made this movie a disapointment for me. At the time I was annoyed to have to switch from serious movie mode to humourous cheezy movie mode. hence my negative comment earlier.Looking back I think the movie is worth a look especially for those of us with twisted senses of humour who can appreciate good camp. P "}{"Title":"What is Final Fantasy?","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's a game series. A never ending (ironically) game series. Plot outline -> An outsider fulfills his/hers destiny somehow. And on their way experiences love, loss, new fiends and a new sense of purpose. All games are like this because you should feel like you are playing life. Now they have made a movie out of it. . . Hmmmm. I think if I could decide where and what the characters did, it would be fun.... Hey I can,,, when Final Fantasy X comes to the PS2....  . . . .  This movie is probably best for us FF gamers. I don't think any non gamers liked it(with exception of the never tiring sci-fi fans).  "},{"Title":"The future genre of adult animated entertainment...","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Neither the star-list of 'voices' for the characters in FINAL FANTASY nor the degree of animation and technological perfection motivated me to view this product. What brought me out to see the film was the question of whether or not a palpable story could be constructed, such that I would (at least momentarily) have lapses as to what kind of characters I was watching. The film succeeds I forgot more than once that I was not looking at anything but 100% pure animation.Nor is the film properly tagged by pundits as a 'replacement' for actual characters, despite the convenience of being able to blend characters and animation more effectively. What we may have, however, for the first time in 40 years, since the advent of THE FLINTSTONES is a form of adult entertainment (also suitable for those under age) in animated form. The evolution from 1960s cartoon has been long overdue and the garbage-grade material shown on certain networks dedicated to same has reminded me on many occasions of just how sorely we've been missing a true advancement in this area.One fault, and it's a BIG one. Not everyone in our futuristic world is going to be young, physically perfect and beautiful. Only the Doctor is above cerca age 25. This is a bit absurd. What we needed was an intermixing of the real and the surreal with respect to the human-replacement element not everyone is going to be shaped like Brad Pitt and Sharon Stone (just to pull two examples; no offence intended to either actor) in the future. Unless of course genetic engineering wins out and then the rest of us will, by then, hopefully find ourselves elsewhere.Given such a frighteningly 'real' world created on-screen for the viewers of this film, living elsewhere does NOT appear to be a bad idea, of course until the dramatics build towards a clearly defined climax.This cannot be graded as any other film; we didn't have acting per se, although we did have portrayals, and rather good ones. Overall the film constitutes high entertainment value and I'd award it 4 stars (on 5). Treat yourself to the next generation of adult animated entertainment! "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  At the end of the movie I thought about The Matrix. Probably because it resembles so much to Final Fantasy.In fact Final Fantasy is an experiment, the employment of new technologies for a movie and not for a short cartoon.The Matrix didn't have (it's just my opinion, of course) a breathtaking plot, but is still considered the movie which renewed the technology of special effects. What I'm trying to say is that for a movie like Final Fantasy there's no need to look for an extraordinary story, just enjoy the visual effects Final Fantasy is just a step towards the ideal movie created entirely with the computer.     "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have seen this movie and in my opinion it is the best movie made only by computer at the moment. The whole movie looks just awesome. There are better scenes and worse scenes. But in general it just looks great. Coming to the story If you have played the game you'll get closer to the story than if you haven't played it. So, I have played the games, I love them and I like the stories. But I think the story of the movie isn't as great as in the games. It is a good story, not more, not less. Just a good movie. "},{"Title":"110% Style Over Substance","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There is nothing to this movie BESIDES the amazing graphics. And I will not deny how AMAZING and BEAUTIFUL these graphics are and how theyre the best I have ever seen without a doubt, but thats all this movie is good for.   Everything else about it is TERRIBLE.  I could not recommend this movie to anybody who wants to see a well made picture, but I would recommend it to anybody into graphics.    I give this movie an uneasy 5 for ONLY the visual portion, the rest does not get anything.   a big fat zero.   Voice Overs suck more than anything, the characters have NO emotion, and the script is TERRIBLE!  when this movie opens i was astounded at the visuals (even after seeing many trailers and TV spots) and that caried to the end, but i found myself rolling my eyes and getting furious at everything else.    Everything.   This is NOT a good movie!    "},{"Title":"The plot and dialog aren't so great, but it was wonderful to look at.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First, I have to admit that the plot was a bit hard to follow, and the dialog was either really corny or ripped-off from 'Aliens'.  Yet, despite these major flaws, watching the movie was such an incredible experience. The use of CGA exclusively allowed the creation of some of the most incredible locations ever seen on film.  Aki's recurring dream sequences and the deserted streets of New York City wouldn't have been possible without CGA, and a blue screen with an actual human actor would have looked unconvincing.  I am anxiously awaiting the October DVD release of Final Fantasy the Spirits Within; I want to see all of the detail that I missed at the theatre.   "},{"Title":"Bad hair day?","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I read that animating Aki Ross's 60.000 strands of hair gobbled up one fifth of the entire budget for FF I was just amazed. How can they spend so much money on what is really nothing more than an irrelevant detail, and in comparison give so little thought to things like dialogue or storyline??? Furthermore why hasn't anyone bothered to give the CG actors some facial expressions to work with. Aki's countenance runs the entire gamut of emotions, from A to B... even during the biggest tragedies she barely even frowns or lifts an eyebrow. It is really not the hair that makes these barbie dolls look human, it's their expressions! I cannot believe nobody realized this. So, when it comes to comparing Final Fantasy to that other CG movie, Shrek, it works out like this STORYLINE  Shrek 9/10, FF 6/10 DIALOGUE   Shrek 9/10, FF 5/10 REALISM    Shrek 7/10, FF 6/10 WOW-FACTOR Shrek 8/10, FF 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I heard Square was going to make a FF movie, I got skeptical. I thought they were going to follow Dungeon & Dragon's line and set the movie in a fantasy world. I would've hated that. But when I discovered it was going to be a Sci-Fi, I got interested. Since the best FF (games) are those set in a futuristic world (at least in my opinion), I was hoping for Square's success. Then all reviews came, and people destroyed the movie. I wanted to see it, but I was sure it was going to be the worst script ever. I was wrong. FFTSW is visually astonishing... unbelievable and a breaktrough. I don't care if it is not perfect... you actually forget you're watching CGI art. The special effects are much more believable than those CGI mixed with actors thing. When everything is CGI, it seems more natural. The highest point of the movie, indeed.But the story is not bad at all. Founded on the Gaia hypothesis ( that Earth is also a living being ), the movie comes well during the ecologic reality we're living in. Although there was no time to develop the characters well enough, they succeed in being deeper than most Sci-Fi movies around. The movie is fast-paced, not boring at all, and although slipping on the usual expressions used in action movies, you actually care about what is going on. The plot is interesting, and the futuristic setting (although overmature for 2060) is very interesting.To sum up, it's an entertaining movie, very beautiful to watch, and that shows Square Picture's potential. I believe some great movies will come from them, if we let them develop. "},{"Title":"Modern Godzilla","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is funny how CGI inverses the politics of movie - making  in a conventional movie the special effects are difficult and costly, in an entirely CG - ed movie explosions, weapons and spaceships are easy to do whereas naturally - moving hair is the big challenge.Final Fantasy -- The Spirits Within (FF) certainly breaks new technological ground, and it is fascinating to watch for this reason alone  having witnessed other technological milestones such as Terminator and Toy Story one can marvel at the technological advances and speculate on the impacts it will have on the future of cinema   will it break Hollywood's fixation on stars, will a virtual star ever achieve the stardom of a Julia Roberts or a Clint Eastwood?Unfortunately, everything but the CGI in this movie is mediocre or tripe.  No story line that I could care for -- the whole movie just didn't make sense -- lots of techno - and New Age babble for dialogue (should we save earth through Gaia or by blasting away on the super Zeus cannon, Commander Evil?), comic book characters, the lot.  It was unnerving to see how some elements that may work in a video game (such as blasting at spirit meanies with ammunition) just don't translate to the silver screen.Conclusion  if you have an interest in CGI then FF is a must, and you should see it on the big screen.  Anyone else should give this movie a complete miss -- waiting for it on video doesn't really work since the effects really need to be seen in high resolution in order to be appreciated. "},{"Title":"Wonderful computer animation, but...","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...in my opinion, you could have topped 100 pizzas with the amount of cheese in this movie.  I'm pretty sure whoever wrote the screen play must have just finished watching ALIENS, because you had pretty much the same characters, only much worse.  ALIENS was a good movie, this was not.  The only thing it had going for it was that the animation really was quite good.  The people and action look quite realistic.  But for the most part, all I can say is that I'm glad I saw this in the cheap theater. "}{"Title":"The most gay story in the history of cinema","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...but the story was never the important issue here. The rendered characters and locations are absolutely stunning, and I'd imagine this will be one of the best looking films ever when it comes to DVD.The story is ridiculous, cringeworthy, and extremely new age.Just about every stereotypical character ever appears here, and despite the highly talented actors behind the rendered faces, the dialogue and general emotions on display are unconvincing.One thing I will say is that the action is GOOD. The gunfights and explosions are decent, which, in this day and age of action films with terrible action (Tomb Raider, Swordfish, Charlie's Angels, Planet of the Apes etc...) is quite resfreshing. "},{"Title":"Perfecting Imperfections","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  From the first shot of the main character Aki's eye blinking, you know that there is no other animated movie like this film.FINAL FANTASY is based on the Square Game's Final Fantasy video game series...each one unique and tells it's own story. The movie is no different in this respect. This Final Fantasy story is set on Earth in the some-what near future when most of what is left of humanity shell themselves up in protected areas set up to keep out the alien Phantoms who has practically taken over the world. Aki is a scientist who has been infected by the aliens and lived and seeks out life outside of the protected areas that have managed to find a way to protect themselves against the Phantoms. On one of her missions, she and a band of military personnel are forced to work together in order to save the world from the Phantoms and possibly save the world from mankind itself.It sounds like a typical cheesey sci-fi plot and in a way it is very reminiscent of the old 50s sci-fi movies crossed with some of the alien horror films of the 70s and early eighties. It's how it is brought to the screen which makes it very special and interesting to watch.All throughout the film I kept wanting to say to my fiancee Holly, those were some great special effects, stopping myself since the WHOLE movie is one great special effect. The only thing I found myself picking at was the movement (or lack of at times) in character's foreheads. While the film was in production before Shrek using a slightly older technology, it does manage to surpass Shrek's graphics with the eerie realistic skin tones. Even tiny realistic facial imperfections can be seen on the big screen.While I definitely recommend this film to Sci-fi fans, I do not recommend it to families with young kids as there are some VERY HEAVY themes in the film that go beyond mere typical shoot'em ups. While there is very little blood, the emotional impact of death looms over many of the characters which tends to be missed in most American films.The character designs were great especially Aki, Dr. Cid, and the Aliens that look like giant microscopic creatures (that'll make sense once you see them on screen). If you're a fan of the original Nintendo and Playstation games, there are a lot common themes that many of the games share... A planet on the verge of death, A character named Cid, a giant weapon, airships, spirituality being stronger than technology, and main characters with a troubled past.Another plus this film has is the lack of a lame super-happy ending. It was definitely a very japanese film-like ending. (After all, it was produced in Japan)See this movie for the computer graphics, but stay for the story.Chris Beyond editor, no-fi magazine  "},{"Title":"another great comedy to join the ranks of campy SF","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Me and my friend went to see this. Being fans of the FF games we were hoping to see a worthwhile show. The animation was good but as it was rather too realistic for me because when i go to see an animated film I want to see animation.  not pseudo reality. If the story had been good then it wouldn't have mattered. But it is painfully obvious where they spent most of their money. Like with Titan AE I got the impression that there was a whole bunch of cut scenes. You know, the kind of scenes that do useless things like develope characters. It was a lousy script and story full of melodrama, and utterly stupid lines.  When we weren't laughing we were groaning.  My friend compared it to another great comedy, dungeons and dragons.  Both have remarkable similarities  Bad plot, Bad writing, Bad Acting (with the superb animation of FF, such a thing is possible.), cheesy melodrama, and you walk out of the theatre laughing but feeling vaguely insulted.  While I usually enjoy a good campy movie that is more funny then a so called comedy, this is starting to get a bit old.  how much campyness can one person take?  Is there any seriousness left in the genre?  I just hope for the sake of my sanity that the LOTR movie coming in the winter doesnt follow the trend of cheesy SF. "},{"Title":"Still too far from real virtual actors","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film has made me change the way I see the difference between real and virtual actors. So far CGI has been used in cinema mostly for things like spaceships, monsters and the like. It was also used for the main characters in films like Toy Story, Antz, A Bug's Life, Shrek... and now Final Fantasy. But this time, and paradoxically, although the level of perfection has been dramatically increased, it doesn't work. Why? Well, it's quite simple in my opinion. Animation films are entertaining when we know that they are animation films. They are something different from reality, and all the imperfections we find in them don't count. All the holes we could find are filled with our imagination, and we receive every real-like moment willingly. But, when the level of perfection of an animation film crosses the line between animation and reality, then we change our scale of values, and we judge the film by comparing it with non-animation films. Then is when we notice (at least I did) that there is still an abyss between a real and a virtual actor. There are subtle and microscopic elements which are missed in an animation. We don't notice them until we see the result of letting them out of the scene as this film does.As a technical achievement, I raise my thumbs up, but as an entertaining movie, I really can't. The plot seems to be extracted from a B series Sci-Fi flick, the characters are half-dimensional, and the result is (of course in my opinion) something quite boring.We'll still have to wait for some more time, but there's something true they are in the right direction, and that keeps my hope alive.My rating 5-6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Great odyssey into 3-D images","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is a wonderful dream into beautiful synthetic images like i never seen before. The story should be explain better because some ideas were a little difficult to understand. Big Thanks to Hironobu Sakaguchi. It was the first director to make a film too realistic. Next stagedo better in faces expressions. I don't understand why this film didn't a success in USA. In France, it is number one at the box office for the first release week. "},{"Title":"German version is better ... sorry","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  i've just seen the german version of ff. It is synchronized MUCH better than the original version. only steve buscemi is quite good in the OV. so .. not all actors are good for such a job -( "},{"Title":"Technical 9, movie 5","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Visually astounding - albeit not 100% perfect it is for sure the state of the art so far. As a movie, a good idea rather poorly developed (pretty flat characters, some plot jumps). That's more or less all you can say about it. "},{"Title":"And amazing masterpiece(W/ spoiler)","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a really big fan of the video games. And I found that this movie was an excellent addition to the final fantasy saga. The computer imagery was abosultly amazing. The plot of the movie was excellent. Though I still don't know why they had to kill neil and gray off. "},{"Title":"The future starts here.","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being a fan of the Final Fantasy computer games, I could relate to this film more so than most non-gamers.Whereas '...The Spirits Within' has contrived-storyline-yet-stunning-animation computer gamers have come to expect from the FF franchise, it had none of the interaction.  On the other hand, non-gamers who may not appreciate the technical efforts have found the lack of strong story hard to accept.  And this is the problem of trying to bridge the two genres of computer games and cinematic entertainment such as this movie has tried admirably to do.However, lets not judge too harshly.  This film should be embraced by all. For I see this as the start of interactive cinema of the future.One day we may see ourselves up on the big screen, with our faces mapped onto 'synthespians'.  And rather than be a passive audience, soon we may be able to interact with the movie itself.Also, the producers say the character, Aki, may go on to 'star' in other movies and become the first virtual movie star.  It's innovative ideas such as this that establish change in an industry that has become stagnant with photo-realistic dinosaurs and teen screamers.We just have to see the bigger picture.  "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy ?! Are you kidding me ?","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've read many comments about this movie and none of them highlighted the most important thing about this animation. IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH FINAL FANTASY WHATSOEVER.First of all it takes place on the Earth and worse, it takes place in the United States (Guess primary target for Hironobu Sakaguchi was the U.S. market) However they tricked people into going to see it by calling this movie Final Fantasy. When I saw the trailer it seemed to be like a post-apocalyptic cybercrap Si-Fi movie. And this what is it. A scientist and a bunch of dumb marines. This chick come out of the blue with the miracle solution. And Pro-Ecologist background was really annoying to me.Final Fantasy is about a hero that save the world, but the fun of it is the Fantasy side. Monsters, Dragon, Sword fights, Magic, Mythology and the Arch-Enemy. In this movie the villain is pathetic and has no special power whatsoever and a little part.Usually Japanese writers use a lots of occidental mythology to backup their stories, this time there's just a mere reference to Gaïa (the earth spirit) the rest is confusing, you got easily lost if you're not aware.The good points  The visual is stunning they did their homework. It's not perfect but it's damn close. It gives you a freaking taste of what could be brought to you in five or ten years (maybe less)The casting voice is really good. Ming-Na does her job with feelings (at least there's felling in the voices) I'd probably would have cast Vin Diesel for either Grey or Ryan voice because he has something that Alec Baldwin or Ving Rhames don't have. But buscemi is great.The story is not that bad.Finaly they should either have done an Heroic Fantasy story in the line of the Other FFs or call their movie The Spirit Within. Because calling it FF was a rip off. "}{"Title":"Better Than Expected, But Not As Good As It Could Have Been","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had the chance to see this movie at a discount ($2) theatre, the only place it was playing in the area.  I wasn't sure what to expect--the mainstream reviews were decidely mixed, and none of my friends had seen it--but I was intrigued by the notion of a realistic looking all-CGI movie and I'm a big fan of Alec Baldwin (who supplies one of the main voices), so my husband and I tracked the film down, and off we went.After seeing it, I understand the mixed reviews.  Visually, the film is stunning.  Broad, well-imagined landscapes, with great details down to the cracks in the rocks and the texture of the dirt.  Characters with hair that moves, with pores on their skin, with moles and freckles and beard stubble; the humans look reasonably realistic (although they still move like video game characters a lot of the time) and lead characters Aki and Grey especially look fantastic.  Cool aliens, of all shapes and sizes and very alien structures.  The film cost a fortune to make, and all of it is up there on the screen.Too bad a small amount of that money wasn't put into the story.  My main complaint was not that it was unoriginal, though it IS definitely that. If you've seen ALIENS, you know the entire plot, turns and all, of this movie; just change a couple of relatively minor details, and voila, you have FFTSW.  The biggest complaint I had with this film was that I spent most of it thinking I've seen this movie before, haven't I? and You know, *I* could write better dialogue than these characters are spouting.  It's the perfect plot and perfect acting for a video game, but it just doesn't work for this film.Which leads to the voice acting.  There is some big-name vocal talent behind the CGI characters  Ming-Na as heroine Aki, Alec Baldwin as Deep-Eyes commander Grey, Donald Sutherland as Aki's mentor Dr. Sid, James Woods as villainous General Hein.  That's actually part of the problem.  Baldwin, for example, SOUNDS great (he really needs to pursue more voice work at this stage of his career) and I can't think of a better actor they could have picked to provide the voice work, but his character LOOKS just like Ben Affleck, so when Grey opens his mouth and Baldwin's voice comes out, the disconnect between appearance and sound is disconcerting.  Ditto Dr. Sid; although he's the most realistic looking character in the film, we KNOW that's not what Donald Sutherland looks like, and the audio impression doesn't match the visual one.  This problem is especially noticeable with Steve Buscemi as the hunky Deep-Eyes soldier Neil; we know for a fact this actor looks nothing like this character, and it's extremely jarring.  Even a passing facial resemblence would have helped.  Why wouldn't the producers have given a bit more thought to this (i.e. Grey should have been sketched more like a younger-looking Baldwin; Sid should have looked like Sutherland, who would incidentally have been perfect in a live-action version)?  Also, I know lip synch is tough in animation, but would it have been too hard to get a little closer than they got in this movie?  There are several frustrating moments where the actors' words don't match the lip motions at all, and you find yourself knocked out of the strange world created and back to saying, Oh, man, it looks good, but that voice track doesn't match anything on screen.So, while I'm glad I saw the film on the big screen, I'm also glad I didn't pay full price for it.  It was better than I expected it to be, but not nearly as good as it could have been with just a little more work.  "},{"Title":"Amazing graphics and nice story","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is an amazing movie, from a 'technical' viewpoint. I've never seen such realistic computer graphics.However, the story itself is a bit less amazing. Although the movie is quite entertaining and exciting, the story lacks power and good dialogues. "},{"Title":"Somber, but entertaining","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The character, vehicle and monster animation were superb, but I was kind of left flat by what should have been the bigger-than-life effects. It seemed as though so much attention was being paid to the characters, that the background animation was left to the staff artists. The ones who churn out four dozen episodes of Pokemon per day.OK, maybe it's not that bad, but there is a noticeable difference...The mood of the movie is sort of dark; somber, as I mentioned in the summary. That seems to be the tone of just about every Japanese-style animated movie I've seen. Asian in general, actually. See the end of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, and you'll understand the mood I mean.Not that it's a bad thing, mind you...but something a little lighter, please! With anime, it seems like when the hero gets into a situation that he can't possibly get out of...he (or she) doesn't!As far as the story goes...hey! It entertained me. Bottom line. Maybe it's been done before, in many, varied forms...but never like this. One can't help but think that in a few short years, technology will have advanced to the point where Elvis, Jim or Buddy could release new hit single, or John Wayne might saunter into the nearest saloon and sit down to have a drink with Clayton Moore. Not that I ever remember the Lone Ranger partaking of the liquid spirit...So, anyway, while I'm not sure that I would have appreciated paying 6 or 7 bucks to see this movie, it was worth the money we did pay (plus concessions) and really needs to be seen on the big screen.On a 1 to 10...I'd have to say...7.Edit 1/8/2011OK, so it's been more than just a few short years since I wrote this. But have you seen Tron Legacy yet...? Hmm? It's happening... "},{"Title":"Entertaining exercise in new cinema","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There had been a fair amount of media interest in this film and use of the Final Fantasy name had made it appeal to the game playing public. I have completed Final Fantasy 7 on the PSX and with no real expectations about this film, I ended up seeing it more or less on the spur of the moment.The level of detail in the film was amazing. Our brains are fooled into believing that these images are real and yet I sometimes had to pause to remember the huge amount of processing that went into them. Both this film and Shrek have taken computer based animation to new levels. Someone referred to this film as some sort of glorified cartoon - this is grossly unfair. This type of film is obviously going to have it's critics but if it has failed to meet expectations then I say that these peoples expectations were wrong.Obviously it has it's problems - the plot is sometimes a little difficult to get round and does leave some questions. The graphics are excellent but the lip-sync still needs some work - I believe that this will reach near perfection in time - but to bring down the whole film as a result of this would be nuts! I don't know the direction for this style of film but new ideas are always welcome in my book.(SPOILER - START)I found this film entertaining and was particularly impressed by doctor Sid's character in all aspects. The scenes where they descended into the green planet reminded me of when Cloud did so in FF7. In the closing scenes my girlfriend and I, both in our twenties, waited and wanted Grey's eyes to flicker back open, but they didn't.(SPOILER - END)In conclusion, if you take this film at face value and don't have some unfair pre-determined idea of what you are about to watch then your time should be well spent.  "},{"Title":"Flawed but still breathtaking","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went along to this film having heard all the bad reviews expecting to be amazed by the graphics and that was all.  I came away very pleasantly surprised.  It's not a bad film at all.  It's not a great film (and it could have been, which is disappointing), but it's not bad either.Unbreakable last year was a bad film.  Jurassic Park III was a plotless film driven purely by CGI.  FF was neither.  It tried to have a plot, even if it was confused and even if the whole Gaia thing was a turn off for most people (myself included).Minor spoilers below -First for the animation. Stunning.  Aki was amazing... the motion capture mainly flawless, enough to make you weep when she moved.  The pure attention to detail on her hair movements was incredible.  Much much better than I could have expected.Plot.  The first 20mins or so actually had me spellbound trying to guess what would happen next.  Upto the point she revealed she was infected I was entranced with the significance of the plant, why she wouldn't be scanned, etc.  Brilliant storytelling.  I think they then copped out with the spirits/gaia thing... you could have carried all these hints to a more solid conclusion and then the film would have been as near perfect as it could be.Character wise.. I could appreciate where Aki was coming from... its a standard SF plot device that if you are in a long hard war with an enemy people end up being cold and driven... so I could relate to why she was as she was.  Most of deep eyes were a little bit too much of a stereotype for me... but fun too.  The general. Waste of space.  Why do we have to have a villain??  Bad mistake.  Also why did he have to look like Jack Dee?  Maybe just me... but irritating.I was a bit uncomfortable with the attempts at romance, etc, but all credit to them for trying and not just copping out.So disappointing that it could have been so much more, but still wow... imagine what you could do with this technology with a really great SF script?  This does have a great future.  You could never afford to make a film with such detailed backdrops/machinery/etc in real life... but as costs come down in CGI maybe we will see those really great SF stories being done justice. "},{"Title":"Movie or game","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within was indeed an entertaining movie, however, for those who have played any of the games in the Final Fantasy series probably can't help but to wonder if the movie was more like a game. It starts out right in the middle of things, like many of the games do, leaving viewers confused, perhaps, until later in in the movie when they finally figure out what is going. Obviously the most impressive aspect of this film is the cgi. It was so good one could see the tiniest details, such as the strands of hair on someones head. All in all the movie was good(how could it not be with such an allstar, even though it was just their voices...come on, who doesn't like Alec Baldwin). While there were many positive aspects of the movie it still could have been much better. "},{"Title":"pleasantly surprised,especially with creative and poetic story","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really knew nothing about the video game Final Fantasy when I went to see this movie. I was pleasantly surprised. I get tired of seeing movies nowadays that seem to sacrifice the story for action. This movie, while having some enjoyable action sequences, was careful not to over do it, and I never lost a sense of the stories progression. Since then, I've heard many people say, yeah, but what about the animation of human figures. It didn't work. I didn't go to the movie with any preconceived notions, so even the animation of humans was surprisingly good to me. I don't think the directors point was to show what could be done by state of the art computer animationists. Yeah, the movie will probably be known as the movie which dared not to have real actors in it, and because of that, one will nevertheless concentrate on the human animation aspects. But, the plot was so prominent in the film, the character development, the character inter-relations, the it didn't work animation was all but forgotten anyway. I really appreciated the poetic sequences in the movie too. Kudos to the producers of Final Fantasy; they seemed to love this story, and had a vision of how it should be told. I found myself loving it too, and they breathed life and warmth into an all to easily sterile medium.  "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy is the Sonny Liston of the summer 2001 movie season","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, I want to get one fact on the record I saw Final Fantasy only to compare it to Tomb Raider, and because it seemed that a tense, exciting slugfest between these two movies, both spawned from video games (I've played neither) with immense followings, would steal the spotlight in the notoriously drab summer of 2001.However, while I loved Tomb Raider, I wasn't quite as amorous of Final Fantasy. And fellow moviegoers apparently felt the same way, judging by the incredibly lopsided box-office earnings difference. As a result, what was shaping up to be a heated rivalry instead turns out to be the theatrical version of Muhammad Ali versus Sonny Liston circa 1965.While it indeed boasts many stimulating and already-talked-about-to-death visuals (including impressive scenes of Old New York City complete with a decimated, algae-covered Brooklyn Bridge), FF's groundbreaking concept of a realistically animated film is lost in a dense fog of a thin plot, horrible groan-inducing dialogue, and cliched, uninteresting characters. It goes without saying that Spin magazine erroneously labeled FF as the best film from a video game, ever.Delving into the languid storyline here is rather pointless; I'll let you watch instead and be the judge. There are many more things about this film that are available to pick apart.The film's centerpiece, scientist (and, in her spare time, Maxim magazine pinup) Aki Ross, is voiced by Ming-Na, who is stuck in another lousy video-game-to-movie script. Granted, FF (or anything else for that matter) is far better than Street Fighter, but that's damning it with the ever so faintest of praise.For the huge amount of greenbacks allegedly spent on a head of hair that looks as if it stepped out of a Suave commercial (while every other character has short hair or is bald altogether), little, it seemed, was spared for the rest of Dr. Ross, whose personality is as pasty as her skin tone that is as pasty as the gray jumpsuit she is mummified in throughout the picture. If you go into this film expecting a heroine who kicks butt and takes names, such as TR's Lara Croft, you may be sorely disappointed; Aki is more of a passive cipher rather than a go-getter. Most of her onscreen activity involves lying unconscious, snapping awake from nightmares or shielding her eyes from blinding light.But whatever asinine dialogue (some of the worst I've heard since Hollow Man) she is spared is instead passed on to the Deep Eyes, a ragtag military posse that reluctantly aids Aki in her mission of ridding the remnants of Earth of a menacing alien presence.Leading the way is Gray Edwards, who has the face of Ben Affleck and the vocal cords of Alec Baldwin; consider him the Six Dollar Man. You guessed it A dry subplot inevitably develops around his and Aki's (perhaps) romantic past. While not spouting eye-rolling tripe (This country may be lost, but we're not!), he conceives every possible way of incorporating that ever-lovable four-letter word into everything he says, from What the hell's going on? to the classic Let's get the hell outta here!At this point, considering that FF and Pearl Harbor both underperformed at the box office, Baldwin may feel like selling his soul to the devil. He's probably breathing a huge sigh of relief at the success of Cats & Dogs.The supporting cast is just as grating on the ears. Steve Buscemi is simply awful as Neil Fleming, nervous technogeek and obligatory comic relief (and throughout the film, no such relief is ever in sight). His juvenile verbal sparring with his comrade, badass chick Jane Proudfoot (voiced by Frasier's Peri Gilpin) is just bad. There is nothing noteworthy about General Hein (James Woods), the film's stock villain.But the Pepsi-swigging gentle giant Ryan Whittaker (Ving Rhames) takes the cake. His involvement in the story all leads up to his asking to be left behind with a gun when he is injured during battle with the Phantoms, pink transparent monsters who resemble a cross between Jello molds and organisms on a microscope slide (and, while they can pass right through humans to suck out their life force, are simply dispatched by gunfire).It's as if the screenwriters (Al Apollo 13 Reinert and Jeff Vintar) took a Stereotyping 101 class before setting pen to paper. Some say that FF's biggest flaw was combining Eastern style and mysticism &#150; there are many Greek mythological elements present, such as labeling Earth Gaia and Gen. Hein's development of a super weapon called the Zeus Cannon &#150; with Western characters and dialogue. There is not one Asian character with a significant role in this film, considering the birthplace of the bestselling games.While the characters are visualized well, especially the jaw-dropping rendition of the crotchety Dr. Sid (Donald Sutherland), their movements are stiff, as if they're moving underwater. Lips do not move properly at times when talking, and faces are emotionless during tense moments.There is a pretty nifty sequence when what looks like a dune buggy is navigated through city ruins. The opening scene where Aki explores the remains of Old New York City, complete with wrecked police cars and Pepsi and AT&T billboards, earned points. And it was cool to hear the voice of Keith David (as a board member), who is one of my favorite actors.However, once the shock value of the animation wore off, boredom kicked in. I suppressed my cynicism as best as I could, but in the end it hardly mattered. I fidgeted in my seat often, something I hadn't done in a long time, and it didn't help that some guy behind me insisted on clearing his throat every five minutes either. I saw FF in a packed house the day it opened, and everyone freaked out more for the Spiderman trailer than the movie.See FF to bask in the visuals, but ignore the story. Fans of the game and anime will enjoy this film, no doubt about that.But in this theatrical battle of video game heavyweights, Tomb Raider wins in a first round knockout. 5/10  "},{"Title":"Visual-wise, it's surely worth your ticket.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first have seen the trailer, I really want to see that movie. Just because of the visuals. The film was hyped to be the the most realistic computer generated movie in existence. Did it live up to the hype?Story. (may contain spoilers.)Many reviews I've read bashed the story to a pulp. Screaming it was unoriginal and being a cheap rip-off. But as far as sci-fi movies go, it's hard to be original. How much crashing meteor films has been made already? Alien related films also has been redone many times. In those terms, the story doesn't seem so original. I've also seen good influences from the Final Fantasy series itself, mostly from the game Final Fantasy 7. There is a character named Sid (Like in all the FF games.) It also features an extremely powered cannon called the Zeus cannon (Somehow reminds me of the Shin-ra cannon in Final Fantasy 7.) And the Gaia theory in this movie is based on the theory used in Final Fantasy 7. If you think about it, those theories are very much alike.Despite it has it's mayor influences, I find the story quite appealing. The Phantoms as these aliens been called are quite unique on it's own and very diverse in shape and size. The movie features some great action scenes and quite some touching scenes as well. Though that may feel awkward at times knowing it is a 3d flick. The movie doesn't really focus on the characters itself nor their past but they where likable and very well designed. The story mostly concentrate on the dire situation the human survivors are in (as well as the relationship between some characters), and how it can survive. This movie could also have used a bit more humour though. I'd laughed about 2 times. Which is not much for a adventure/action flick.I'd give it a 7/10Visuals. Square throws you in a dark imaginative world which is greatly visualised. The landscapes, vehicles, machinery, space suits and buildings are a sight to behold, and the special effects are great. You can clearly see that Square had put alot of work on it, to make it as realistic as they could. (Though animation wise, it may have a few flaws as some say, but I was quite drawn into the movie, I didn't really notice them.) The amount of detail is fantastic. Big thumbs up.10/10SF effects.It has some great musical scores and sound effects. Some musical scores weren't really fitting in the scene, and some voices didn't really fit the person itself, although they where well cast in terms of the person's character.8/10Overall, you won't be disappointed visual-wise, story may not be original or appealing for most people, but the movie is surely worth the ticket in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Brilliant animation, average plot at best","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see this at the sneak preview last night, and was really impressed by the animation. The vehicles were really well done, the background scenery was amazing, and the characters were breathtaking. They even look like major Hollywood stars (Dr Aki Ross looks like a spitting image of a young Sandra Bullock).The story, on the other hand, is an average Sci-Fi story about aliens 'invading' Earth, and humans trying to find a way to stop them. The story behind the 'invasion' is told throughout the film by the dreams that Aki keeps having. This, however, is the only time the plot is actually explained.The cast was well picked, and all played their roles very well. My only complaint is that the talented Peri Gilpin should have had a bigger part.2.5/5 "}{"Title":"Not a real movie, just eye-candy.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OK, let's start off with a warning. If you don't like films where there is nothing (and I do mean absolutely, positively nothing) beyond the visual, leave this film alone. Don't go into this believing it is a proper film, because it is not. The story is a mess of sci-fi clichés and (very) dumbed down Eastern philosophy. The 'characters' are expensively rendered cardboard figures, complete with some of the worst voice-over work I've heard in years. And the creator of the game the film is loosely based on (which I never played, by the way), Hironobu Sakaguchi is stunningly inept as a director. It's sometimes hard to decide which are worse; the talky scenes or the action scenes.So please don't assume you will see a real film. This film exists for one reason and one reason alone; as a showcase for its CGI. Final Fantasy is literally a 105-minute special effect. And for anyone still interested in seeing this, here's the big question how good is the CGI? Or Is it photorealistic? The second question is easiest to answer. It is not photorealistic. No matter if you're looking at an explosion or one of the main polygon-queen Aki Ross' 60.000 individually rendered hairs, you're never in any doubt that all of this is bits and bytes.A realistic, living, breathing and acting human being, according to some the Holy Grail of CGI-creators (although the result would not be any more interesting than a normal human being visually), is still well beyond reach. Some characters look better than any previous attempt, mainly Aki and doctor Sid, and others don't look quite so good. The movement, however, never gets very realistic and especially the facial expressions seem far too thought through. These 'synthespians' acting ability is also limited, the best example of that being villain General Hein's constant frown (indicating he's evil). Apart from that, most voices don't work. The lip-synch isn't too good and I found most famous actors' voices to be very distracting (Steve Buscemi is a case in point).The environments and non-human characters look spectacular and quite realistic, however. Which leaves this to be a very strange film. It is a traditional Hollywood blockbuster, but not live-action. It is animation, but not a cartoon. This mix can work. The Matrix employed a lot of animation techniques brilliantly. Telling good stories featuring only real beings in animated form has been done in anime often and successfully. Here, the elements that are picked from both worlds aren't always the best. For instance, since the entire film (and thus its cameras) are completely virtual, you would expect some great camerawork, right? Instead, we get predicable angles and moves.Final Fantasy is creating a moderately fantastical world with a technique that is often applied to fantastical stories (even Toy Story and so forth are fantastical) and yet perfects that technique to a level where it's almost realistic visually. Had it been completely realistic, the film, on the other hand, would ironically have been less interesting. This is not really as groundbreaking as it would like to be, but especially since the high-cost-low-return factor practically guarantees this type of film will have little following, it a cinematic oddity, for sure. A unique experiment as well. A great movie, however, it is not.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Come and see possible and impossible","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What to say? In short, it's good action movie, with some problems in script, but with very interesting story - actually if they have made proper then it would be a just a hit movie. But it's just if they have done that... Let's start with negative sides - I know, i know, it's just CGI graphics, not real people, but I think it have asked so little to make character's mimics more lively. But actually it's just crying what could be done and done could be almost everything. Another minus is weak dialogs and unused material what story brings to authors and us. It could be easily one of best antiwar movies if only... another if. So it's enough for crying... Positive sides and surprises - hey, CGI graphics can turn your fanasies in the (virtual) reality. They can make almost everything. Landscapes, settings, cars, machines, all that can't be made or will be very costly with real things, can be done with CGI. Of course, we knew possibilities of computer graphics, but see all that in so perfect quality...It's amazing. And of course, make Another fact that story and everything is so fantastic so it simply could not be another way than make movie with CGI. Authors didn't try to make another B. Willis or another action type movie with real life settings, what is very good in this case. Music - good enough for action movie...In overall, not so bad movie at all, I give it 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good Computer-Generated Action.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, let's just say Hollywood actors definitely won't have to worry about being out of a job by computer-generated actors. A lot was expected here and I think they haven't exactly lived up to peoples expectations but they have still done a good job here and the film sure is 'different' to anything else out there. I liked the special-effects too. Very life-like. I give this film a 6/10. "},{"Title":"I thought the graphics in the movie were amazing!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My first thoughts on the movie was that it was going to be a little boring. But throughout the movie it kept finding ways to grab my attention. So if you want to see a movie that can keep you on the edge of your seat, have spectacular graphics, and a good plot, go see Final Fantasy the Spirits Within "},{"Title":"A mess, but a great watch all the same","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I viewed The Spirits Within having read numerous reviews saying 'great effects, shame about the plot'.  Cleverly linked to The Final Fantasy franchise in name, I didn't see much similarity between the films and the games (although I've only played FF VII), aside from the involvement of Square.My view of the effects was that they were excellent throughout, aside from some glitches with mouth movements - at times it was like watching a dubbed Brazilian soap opera.  In the same way that you felt like you were on a ship watching Titanic, I didn't have a problem believing in the characters as people.The much-maligned plot I found to be quite interesting - there isn't a lot of explanation up front, so you feel your way into the history and present along with the characters.  It's fair to say the characterisation is not particularly strong - even with the main characters, we don't know much about them, but I believe this is fine, as the overriding thing in their lives is the battle against the phantoms.The ending is a little head-scratching and if you're not prepared to take on board the beliefs featured in the film then you might struggle, but I enjoyed the film a great deal and look forward to further developments of CGI. "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy is the Sonny Liston of the summer 2001 movie season","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, I want to get one fact on the record I saw Final Fantasy only to compare it to Tomb Raider, and because it seemed that a tense, exciting slugfest between these two movies, both spawned from video games (I've played neither) with immense followings, would steal the spotlight in the notoriously drab summer of 2001.However, while I loved Tomb Raider, I wasn't quite as amorous of Final Fantasy. And fellow moviegoers apparently felt the same way, judging by the incredibly lopsided box-office earnings difference. As a result, what was shaping up to be a heated rivalry instead turns out to be the theatrical version of Muhammad Ali versus Sonny Liston circa 1965.While it indeed boasts many stimulating and already-talked-about-to-death visuals (including impressive scenes of Old New York City complete with a decimated, algae-covered Brooklyn Bridge), FF's groundbreaking concept of a realistically animated film is lost in a dense fog of a thin plot, horrible groan-inducing dialogue, and cliched, uninteresting characters. It goes without saying that Spin magazine erroneously labeled FF as the best film from a video game, ever.Delving into the languid storyline here is rather pointless; I'll let you watch instead and be the judge. There are many more things about this film that are available to pick apart.The film's centerpiece, scientist (and, in her spare time, Maxim magazine pinup) Aki Ross, is voiced by Ming-Na, who is stuck in another lousy video-game-to-movie script. Granted, FF (or anything else for that matter) is far better than Street Fighter, but that's damning it with the ever so faintest of praise.For the huge amount of greenbacks allegedly spent on a head of hair that looks as if it stepped out of a Suave commercial (while every other character has short hair or is bald altogether), little, it seemed, was spared for the rest of Dr. Ross, whose personality is as pasty as her skin tone that is as pasty as the gray jumpsuit she is mummified in throughout the picture. If you go into this film expecting a heroine who kicks butt and takes names, such as TR's Lara Croft, you may be sorely disappointed; Aki is more of a passive cipher rather than a go-getter. Most of her onscreen activity involves lying unconscious, snapping awake from nightmares or shielding her eyes from blinding light.But whatever asinine dialogue (some of the worst I've heard since Hollow Man) she is spared is instead passed on to the Deep Eyes, a ragtag military posse that reluctantly aids Aki in her mission of ridding the remnants of Earth of a menacing alien presence.Leading the way is Gray Edwards, who has the face of Ben Affleck and the vocal cords of Alec Baldwin; consider him the Six Dollar Man. You guessed it A dry subplot inevitably develops around his and Aki's (perhaps) romantic past. While not spouting eye-rolling tripe (This country may be lost, but we're not!), he conceives every possible way of incorporating that ever-lovable four-letter word into everything he says, from What the hell's going on? to the classic Let's get the hell outta here!At this point, considering that FF and Pearl Harbor both underperformed at the box office, Baldwin may feel like selling his soul to the devil. He's probably breathing a huge sigh of relief at the success of Cats & Dogs.The supporting cast is just as grating on the ears. Steve Buscemi is simply awful as Neil Fleming, nervous technogeek and obligatory comic relief (and throughout the film, no such relief is ever in sight). His juvenile verbal sparring with his comrade, badass chick Jane Proudfoot (voiced by Frasier's Peri Gilpin) is just bad. There is nothing noteworthy about General Hein (James Woods), the film's stock villain.But the Pepsi-swigging gentle giant Ryan Whittaker (Ving Rhames) takes the cake. His involvement in the story all leads up to his asking to be left behind with a gun when he is injured during battle with the Phantoms, pink transparent monsters who resemble a cross between Jello molds and organisms on a microscope slide (and, while they can pass right through humans to suck out their life force, are simply dispatched by gunfire).It's as if the screenwriters (Al Apollo 13 Reinert and Jeff Vintar) took a Stereotyping 101 class before setting pen to paper. Some say that FF's biggest flaw was combining Eastern style and mysticism &#150; there are many Greek mythological elements present, such as labeling Earth Gaia and Gen. Hein's development of a super weapon called the Zeus Cannon &#150; with Western characters and dialogue. There is not one Asian character with a significant role in this film, considering the birthplace of the bestselling games.While the characters are visualized well, especially the jaw-dropping rendition of the crotchety Dr. Sid (Donald Sutherland), their movements are stiff, as if they're moving underwater. Lips do not move properly at times when talking, and faces are emotionless during tense moments.There is a pretty nifty sequence when what looks like a dune buggy is navigated through city ruins. The opening scene where Aki explores the remains of Old New York City, complete with wrecked police cars and Pepsi and AT&T billboards, earned points. And it was cool to hear the voice of Keith David (as a board member), who is one of my favorite actors.However, once the shock value of the animation wore off, boredom kicked in. I suppressed my cynicism as best as I could, but in the end it hardly mattered. I fidgeted in my seat often, something I hadn't done in a long time, and it didn't help that some guy behind me insisted on clearing his throat every five minutes either. I saw FF in a packed house the day it opened, and everyone freaked out more for the Spiderman trailer than the movie.See FF to bask in the visuals, but ignore the story. Fans of the game and anime will enjoy this film, no doubt about that.But in this theatrical battle of video game heavyweights, Tomb Raider wins in a first round knockout. 5/10  "},{"Title":"No doubt, worth watching","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think that this film has in fact the most incredible visual ever portrayed in  a graphic movie and even the smallest flaws, like the look out of focus of some characters from time to time, sometimes the walking were ok, and used to remind us that they are not real !. The plot though was a little awkward, this history of Gaia even though palatable in environmental discussions, seems a little bit out of a context in a sci-fiction movie. Also,  I' d rather see aliens in bone and flesh (or something similar to these) than ghosts (hey, why don´t call - the ghost busters !).  "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, and the story is not bad either","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a playstation nut although I have never played the Final Fantasy games. I went to see this movie with an open mind but not a lot of hope. I was impressed. Visually the effects are stunning, which can at times detract from the dialogue. The story is a little predictable and it is not clear at the start what has happened but it does get clearer later on in the film. I think that the way it has been produced and released has paved the way for a prequel in the Star Wars tradition.What does tend to grate is recognising the voices but not being able to immediately identify them and I hung around long enough for the credits without finding out. Good old IMDB put me straight.I would certainly recommend this film and hope that one day the gameplay on the Playstation will be this good. "},{"Title":"more cheese than Kraft","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In spite of a decent cast and good CG, this movie is not really worth seeing.  The script is cliche and anyone who has played the games will see this is just squaresoft trying to feel important and deep.  Steve Buschemi plays the same character he played in armageddon, the love story also feels somewhat Armageddon-like. (is it just me or did Grey look a little like ben Affleck) The battle scenes are poorly taken from alien/aliens.  The cg, though wonderful at times, is still lacking an element of reality to it. Unless you absolutely have to see the CG don't waste your money on this film. Whatever you're looking for can be found in another movie.  "},{"Title":"A bunch of tree - hugging hippy crap","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sorry about the one line summary! I couldnt resist the Cartman quote! Nah - the film was pretty good. I work in IT and am an avid Playstation fan, so I was bound to go see this film. I had alreay read the reviews so kinda knew what to expect. Now, the plots in the games are usually a bit off the wall (this is an understatement!), in the usual Japanese fashion. Giant robots, love triangles, death, large animated stuffed mogs with cats on top, revenge, betrayal and .. god.. yes, the chuckabo's, which are large racing/riding chicken things (gravely dissapointed the didnt make an appearance in the film!). Well, the plot of this film had nothing to do with any of that. It had obviously been written by some hippy who had got the wrong end of the stick about that Gai buisness. What was the name of the sci-fi author who first started it all? Anyway - like L.Ron Hubbard I think he has been grossly misquoted, and his ideas of an essential uncaring planet, that feels not one iota for humankind has been perverted into a sort of crystals/buddhism/lets all go hug a walrus mish mash. Donald Sutherland, I guy I really like, is obviously buying into it anyway, if the interview he did for PSW is anything to go by. 'Yeah man - this film can really teach us about how we should have respect for our planet' Donald - you shoud know better. Especially as the film deals with it all in such a crass way. Still - graphically it was great! And there were some great action sequences which made it well worth watching. It was like a great long cut scene from a Playstation game. Which was nice. "}{"Title":"good visuals, bad story","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I decided I would go see this movie over the weekend as it was a new arrival at the local dollar theater.  I'd heard nothing but bad reviews from everyone over 12 who saw the movie, but decided I would give it a fair shake as I am a huge fan of most of the video games.  Unfortunately after the movie ended and as I left the theater I realized that as anime movies go Final Fantasy sucked.  The plot was weak, the story wasn't well thought out and the typical plot twists were all very predictable!  Despite all its flaws it was a very entertaining and visually stimulated movie.  But don't let what I or anyone else says about this movie dictate if you go see it or not.   "},{"Title":"Superb spellbinding story","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I admire Columbia for taking the time and effort to produce a non Hollywood style film and pull it off in some style.I feel this film was groundbreaking in its originality from all angles - not just from the quality of its appearance, which will be the subject of much debate on the CG geek newsgroups across the web for some time, but the content, imagery and idea behind it all was refreshing to see.It is always possible to analyse any film to such a point where its constituent parts don't seem to add up to the whole, so I shall just say that I thoroughly enjoyed watching Final Fantasy - thanks to all who made it such a unique film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful animation and likeable charecters don't make up for a slow pace and a horrible plot","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie. No, I wanted to LOVE it. Unfortunately the only thing I did love about it was the animation. That alone is not worth the price of admission or rental though. Also, I never did play the games, but I'm sure they're WAY more fun than this.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!The year is 2065 and soul-stealing aliens have taken over Earth. A girl who has an alien infection teams up with a gang of survivors to discover how to defeat these creatures and to save herself...yawn!Great animation, and likeable charecters, but boring, and a horrible and unoriginal plot. ** out of *****. "},{"Title":"A new page in animation","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Action packed sci-fi fantasy adventure set in a future where humans hold out against deadly phantoms. The narrative seems to be a cross between classic comic book and video game, deriving much from the likes of Starship Troopers and Bladerunner. It's animation however, and yet as we know it the characters look more like airbrushed humans, or humans-that-look-like-animations rather than the other way round. The dialogue is clunky, but there is enough heart-pumping, realistic action to hold the interest and make it enjoyable. "},{"Title":"History in the making...hopefully!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  With no experience of the Final Fantasy games, I went into the cinema expecting a computer generated copy of Aliens. I felt that the trailers for the movie certainly made it seem like that, showing the crashed alien ship and hordes of identical aliens attacking marines.I came out of the cinema having been totally immersed in another world for at least one and a half hours. Although I enjoyed Aliens, I would have felt somewhat cheated if Final Fantasy had been like it. I didn't feel it was. I think that this movie can stand on its own two feet within the science fiction genre and was the best science fiction film I have seen in years.During the opening scenes I experienced the 'woah' factor, marveling at the clever animation and realistic people. Soon enough, I forgot about all that and found myself forgetting that they were animated. To me, they seemed just like real people.In my opinion the plot was a good spin on the tried and tested formula of 'invading' aliens. I was familiar with the concept of Gaia from Greek mythology (although then the personification of Mother Earth was spelt Gaea). It was nice to be distracted from all the technical wizardry with a plot that made me think. Many of the films I have seen recently have had such a simplified plot that I have been able to sit back and criticise the special effects. Not this time.I would encourage anyone to go and see this film, if only to make up their own minds. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I found this to be an excellent film.  The CGI and technology shown in the story were beyond my expectations.  I liked the play of high-tech vs spiritual solutions to the problem presented.  Very poignant.I was disappointed with the ending.  It seemed too Hollywood and reminscent of Titan AE (which I thought was disappointing).Ten out of ten despite the ending. "},{"Title":"Damn fine film","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Waited on the edge of my seat for this film, counted down the days and watched the clock. It was everything I wanted and more in a film. Was very impressed with Titan AE, the storyline, the animation, the music - everything. But this was SUPERB. I've never been in a cinema with patrons that were so glued to screen. I loved every minute of this film. I am going again tomorrow! And the soundtrack was ace.. "},{"Title":"It's really not worth the bother.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay so the visuals are impressive but the storyline stinks. The film tries to be like a Hollywood action film and a Japanese anime film at the same time and in the end falls arkwardly between the two. If it wasn't such a technological breakthrough I really couldn't find anything about this film to compliment it on. "},{"Title":"Should real actors worry? I don't think so!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, I must be the only cinemagoer who'd never even heard of the videogame. I went to see the film because it represents a first, as it is the first completely computer generated photo realistic movie made, but I wasn't particularly impressed.The story was not particularly original, the script not very good and, as far as the photo realism is concerned, well, to me the film was nothing more than a glorified cartoon.  I couldn't really bond with the characters, I couldn't empathise with them, thus eliminating all the suspense.  I couldn't really care who died and who survived, because all the time I was too aware that they were not real people but just animated characters.There was certainly no quality acting from these characters and, honestly, I've seen more imaginative stuff in the Japanese Manga cartoons, often with the same amount of mush too.Should Leonardo DiCaprio, Brad Pitt, Johnny Depp and Tom Hanks, to name but a few, worry about the competition by synthespians?  I don't think so. Apart from the acting, which is what still distinguishes real actors from computer generated characters, we fall in love with actors/actresses for what they project as real people, however fantasy bound, and bond with them for their off screen antics as well as their on screen personas.Would have lovesick pubescent girls the world over gone to see Titanic 5 or 6 times if it had been a computer generated film?  No way, Jose'.  A flesh and blood Leonardo DiCaprio made that possible, as thousands of such girls dream of some day being able to catch a glimpse of the star in person and project all their dreams on him.And the great Humphrey Bogart, then?  It wasn't his looks that made him the huge star he was it was his acting.  Which is also why we all love Steve Buscemi much more as a real actor than when he just lends his voice to a mismatched CG character.As Elvis Presley sang this is what makes the magic of you... "},{"Title":"The writers must have had a few spirits within too...","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was pretty much what I was expecting from the start. Stunning visuals, the obligatory Final Fantasy cameo of Sid/Cid, and good voice acting marred by a typical manga-style story (i.e. a beginning, middle and end without the beginning or end).Whilst watching the film I had to put up with numerous smirks, comments and nasty remarks from the audience as they watched it, which made me realize that even **stunning** CGI is not good enough to fool people into swallowing the half-baked storyline.For a movie supposedly geared for world audiences, it was too flawed in the areas that really count towards a good sci-fi flick an epic tale with as little jargon as possible. The CGI I give a 10 out of 10 for such an amazing milestone in technology. The story and characters I would stretch to a 5 out of 10 'cause the voices (James Woods you rule) were well placed and there were some amusing scenes.Overall 7 "}{"Title":"Flawed; Should have been a masterpiece","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It should have worked. There was a great idea here and it just did not come off.FF had its elements. The animation was amazing and will help push the boundaries of what could be done with computer animation. I thought the animation in 'Shrek' was well advanced but this surpassed it.But it also had its weaknesses.Who were these people? We had a back history of sorts without resorting to a back history database. Not being overfamiliar with the FF oeuvre, I assume they are characters based in the original VG. One suspects you had to have a knowledge of the VG to get to know these people. Of course cynically, the reason why there was some back history was so that we could have a couple more prequels or some spinoffs. Cynical, moi?Just a personal gripe but we could have without the whole pseudo-spiritual crap that seeped throughout the film. As a personal non-believer and sceptic in things spiritual, sometimes the whole thing felt like an propaganda exercise in Gaia theory. Earth as a living entity which can feel pain and hurt. Oh come on!!!Flawed yes and should have been oh so much better. 5/10  "},{"Title":"Questionable technology","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I understand this is the first ever film to have a computer generated plot and script. It works pretty well, but they really should have had a writer go over it.I know a computer programmer who has seen this film three times, but if you're interested in how a film looks rather than how it's made, you're better off getting out Blade Runner. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a landmark achievement in sci fi storytelling. The storyline was great, though unlike the games, using a japanese anime style and  an american sci fi style together excellently. The CGI was in a league of it's own and marks the beginning of a revolution that will sweep across Hollywood films in the future. The Characters were fantastic, with some terrific voice acting. The music which was composed by Elliot Goldenthal and performed by the London Symphony Orchestra is highly impressive. I am really looking forward to a sequel to sci fi classic. Hopefully, it will follow the formula of the games and choose a different storyline "},{"Title":"Well I liked it","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was well and truly worth the wait.I have been following this one closely, down-loading every thing I could in anticipation for it's release and was not disappointed. I'll review this movie on two levels. One for the movie itself and one for the process of producing it.Firstly the movie. As anyone familiar with the FF games would know, they do not carry over any characters or stories from game to game. This would seem to be a very good idea and allowed the release of this movie to be appreciated by all movie goers not just fans of the game.The story line was pretty much what I expected and didn't stray too much from the game formula. That is, Earth is in danger of dying and our hero has to save the day. All of which is a back drop for the mandatory love story, so no real big suprises in the plot.While there were some problems with the plot and all was, I feel, not fully explained, this is Final FANTASY not Final Reality. I felt that all the characters worked well. Again nothing different from the game and the formula works well enough there.Now to the production.This is going to be a landmark motion picture. In fifty years time this movie will be singled out in the same way that the first talkie or the first big colour movies are remembered.Yes they are not yet 100% photo realistic and the movements are still not fluid enough to fool you (most of the time). But this is only new technology and can only get better over time.A lot has been said about the cost of the film   but it must be remembered that this is all new and this style of animation is only going to get better and cheaper each movie. I can certainly see the day where there will be a new movie staring Marylin Monroe, James Dean and a young Elivs Presley in the not too distant future and we will have this movie to thank for that.All in all not a masterpiece and by no means perfect but this movie is a turning point in movie history and is a must see. "},{"Title":"Science Fiction SPOILER","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Before seeing this movie I expected a very cheap action flick using not so believable characters set in a disappointing science fiction universe. (As you might expect I didn't pay to see this movie ;o)I am a very dedicated fan of science fiction, I love to explore the intricacies of a writer's imagination when describing a fictional future for our race and our unique green-blue planet. And in many ways FF really delivers on this for me very crucial point. It is filled with imagination, wondrous technology and great representations of such. The spirit-weave technology concept is so intriguing that you can't help but wonder what other implementations this new field of human science would mean for the everyday life of the common people if they weren't (mistakenly observed) under siege from a powerful alien infestation.Exo-wombs and bioandrogynes used in medical research science was also something I later contemplated long and hard following my leaving of the cinema and the author I would most closely link to the storyline is the excellent 2100+ pages trilogy Night's Dawn (The Reality Dysfunction / The Neutronium Alchemist / The Naked God) by Peter F. Hamilton.In FF the heart of the conflict is not to fight over land, power or money (even though it seems so in the beginning - We want our planet back!) but the very soul of every living entity on our planet. The views from a future Earth devastated by a war we don't really understand are nicely done with a gothic almost Atlantian quality that makes the now barren New York seem more alien than the frozen voids of interstellar space.In many ways the story of FF is inspired from many of the old Samurai legends of the Japanese Edo period and due to this the development of the character Grey from Bushi to Enlightened Man is not only touching to witness but also crucial in the sense of sustained harmony for spiritual superstructure of Earth (in the movie called Gaia). The conflict of the physical character (Grey) vs. the mental character (Aki) is pivotal to the realisation of the scope of the situation and as all Japanese tales the physical character achieves final success by being defeated in a martial situation and thus saves all he holds dear, in the movie both his planet and his beau, Aki Ross. And true to the context, all the warriors that doesn't walk the narrow path of introluscense are all killed off one by one dying like heroes but ultimately in vain.Technically this movie is very breath taking to behold. The CGI work is splendid especially concerning the aliens, backgrounds, and technology which is really extraordinary. The human range of emotional signaling and body language is truly lost on a CGI person so the few scenes of personal closeness and romantic vulnerability seems very cold if not a bit freaky at times. When Grey as his last words tells Aki that he loves her a complex reaction would have been nice and given the moment more of a sentimental punch.But there are also times when CGI is the better solution to using human actors. Zero-G situations most notably and of course some of the truly harrowing fight scenes. I also loved the aliens and the vehicles which would seem a bit distant if real actors were used (just think of the pathetic attempts of acting from Ewan McGregor and Liam Neeson in Star Wars The Infantile Menace) so all in all I applaud the technical accomplishment this movie will be whether the movie is a box office hit or not.COMPLAINT The General. Shouldn't have been included as he is only there to cater the American audience who needs a readily accessible villain. Should have been left out to explore the dream world reality scape engine and future Earth in more detail. More civilians would also seem nice as you sometimes get a feeling that there are no humans apart from those appearing as critical role holders in the movie.* Klaus Green-Andersen  "},{"Title":"part of it was not bad","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok people, Most of you are very keen to express what you think  in such overcomplicated manner, that your essay gets too huge, so I thought I was smart guy, but I don`t anymore. Here is what I think, anyway, graphic is wonderful, I wish there would be more DVDs and movies like that. It reminds me  of miniatures from STARCRAFT computer game, I liked them more then the game itself.First part with the rare exception was boring, but action scenes were fantastic. Space scenes are absolutely brilliant. People look harmonious and well build, but phantoms &#150; those who looked like Chinese dragons, should have been substituted for something  more enigmatic and non-explainable.I think that the action would better take place somewhere else but not on the Earth, it is our home and I don`t like to expect its elimination.Well anyway, for the first cartoon of that kind it was very good!  "},{"Title":"Far Too Exciting","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Warning *Spoilers* ahead The best movie for ages, should really get a good look from anyone who is looking for a classic movie. This different story from the game although it does have a few references from the games isn't original film wise but it finds ways of becoming original e.g The Phantom Aliens. The characters are amazing to look at and the aliens are well created. Even the clothes the characters wear are well created and if Dr Aki Ross was a real person I think she would a girl boys would fancy all around the world not including myself.The film is obviously a classic and deserves a lot of credit and a collectors edition DVD box set. Well done to Square Pictures for keeping us entertained for the whole movie and hopefully they'll make a sequel and other movies using this technology and brilliant story lines. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi that takes itself seriously!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy is the first in a sequence that will eventually eliminate the distinction between real and computer generated images.I foresee many harsh reviews for this film, possible reasons are as follows. What we have here is essentially a cartoon playing at being a &#145;real film'. A serious film at that, which may be hard to swallow. It can be hard to lay pretences aside and simply accept the film for what it is. The film has also received a large amount of media attention due to its revolutionary graphics which are set to replace us loveable humans in films of the future&#133; and as you may imagine, when a film is hyped, one often finds themselves entering the cinema with an overly critical eye, finding faults alone and letting many positive aspects pass by the way side. Inevitably it can only be a disappointment. The story line is also somewhat different to the usual pap we're subjected to each summer, and is also told in a slightly abstract way.Final Fantasy is based on a popular video game. True to the games, we are thrust into a world similar to our own, amidst the plot at a crucial stage in the story. Criticisms may be directed at plot holes, however, it must be understood that Final Fantasy story lines are always epic, and with a time restriction of 105 minutes not everything can be explained fully. The story does not take place in our world or time, it takes place in the earth of a future, thus some things must simply be accepted as given. Our own planet and experiences should not be used a base from which to make judgements as the world of Final Fantasy is a separate reality.We join our heroes in a post apocalyptic future, the population decimated by the apparently invading alien enemy. Seeking victory over the enemy is both our heroine  Dr. Aki and the villain of the piece General Hein. Our villain seeks to destroy the aliens from space using an advanced orbiting laser cannon that will shoot deep into the earth destroying the aliens. Opposing this course of action is Dr. Aki, Dr Cid and the male lead Grey's, motley crew of soldiers. The reason for their opposition of General Hein's plan, they believe that the earth has a spirit, called Gaia  which will be destroyed if the earth is shot with General Hein's cannon. Instead they believe that they can contain the alien menace by uniting the 8 spirits, which manifest themselves as organic things ranging from simple organisms to humans. The spirits are hard to find however because the aliens have destroyed almost all life on the planet. It becomes a race to unite the spirits before General Hein literally kills the earth using his cannon. The script manages to divulge enough information for the viewer to understand the past and present situation at hand. There are few one liners, humour is sparse, which is a good thing. I'm sure that jokes wouldn't be cracked if one was in such a dire situation as our heroes find themselves.I found the plot's deliverance, on the whole, refreshing. This film takes itself seriously. It's been a while since I've seen a sci-fi film which purports to do this. I remember films like Total Recall, Predator and all the Greek mythology films which were around when I was young. Filmmakers had the &#145;balls' to make expensive movies about nonsensical things and make them seriously! Recent years have given us films like Men in Black, Evolution, Jurassic Park 3, and so on. Where science fiction means it has to be taken with a pinch of salt, a splash of slapstick here and there, small scale plots!It's not all rosy however. The characters are mostly cliché. What is nice to see however is a villain with a frailty that belies a seemingly impenetrable evil exterior. A villain who is not as calculating and cool as Darth Vader for example, a villain who underneath it all is as human as the good guys. This mirrors the position of the heroine, whose outer strength masks an extreme inner frailty, as you will see if you watch the film. We see characters buy the farm in the closing stages of the film in tried and tested ways, sacrificing a life for another, loosing control after witnessing a loved ones death and charging head strong into an inevitable death, and so on.  A need for originality is evident there.There is apparently a disparity between the voice-overs and the lip sync, I however didn't notice this as I wasn't looking to find faults in the visuals. Steve Buscemi also seems slightly miscast for this role, his humour working better when you can actually see his own facial expressions.The musical score wasn't memorable I'm afraid, it merely did the job proficiently, building tension in places nicely, and capturing the moment in the romantic scenes and so forth.I've read reviews where the ending of the film is slated. I found it a pretty weighty ending. Main characters die; a conclusion to the romantic story line and the main story line. I'm glad someone for whom we root for dies, it almost leaves a seal of quality on the ending. It's good to see filmmakers not afraid to kill off audience favourites.I found Final Fantasy very enjoyable. Having played the games, I found it easy to submerse myself in the plot from the off.  It's also satisfying to see an almost epic plot delivered so beautifully. Although some may criticise not enough character development and plot holes, one has to remember that the Final Fantasy story line are vast in content, and with a time limit of a meagre one and a half hours, I feel it was delivered in a very polished way. Not a bad effort when you consider this film was conceived and directed by the maker of mere video games.  "},{"Title":"I EXPECTED MORE....","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  But it makes a great kiddy flick.  This is basically just an anime movie using lots of fancy CGI instead of that horrid cheap CGI you see in those half hour after-school shows like Starship Troopers and Beast Wars. Kids will just LOVE the radical way the ships 'morph' from one form to another, and they will LOVE the ghost/phantom/spirit aliens!I've not played the games, so I took this movie at face value. The plot works like your average Playstation game - find stuff, fight stuff, and use your found stuff to kill the bad stuff. And if you are a Playstation gamer, the graphics, although pretty, will have been seen plenty of times before.  (e.g. Abe's Oddysey)The story revolves around mysterious, mystical things like spirits, earth 'Gaia' and life force. Earth has been invaded by these nasty, man-eating translucent aliens. Human-kind have been forced to live in these fancy domed cities (that seem remarkably uninhabited) so the life-force sucking alien ghosts cant get them. It's up to our heroes Aki, her boyfriend Grey and their ragtag team of hot shot soldiers to save earth from the alien threat... (yawn, been there seen that)The CGI 'actors' were exactly as I expected. Real-life actors needn't concern themselves with these 'thespians' taking their jobs. CGI, as a rule, generally looks fake. But CGI humans actually look more fake than the not-so-fake CGI ships, CGI landscapes and CGI aliens. The villain was boring. I've not seen a worse bad guy in a sci fi flick since Battle Field Earth. This CGI-dude was annoying, irritating and his voice didn't suit him, which was the *least* annoying thing about him. His predictable actions are completely dumb. The End Act was so disappointing. *SPOILER* If you've seen the End Act in not-so-great Evolution, you won't be surprised at how utterly, boringly similar they are! *END SPOILER* CONCLUSION? This is the first time I've walked out of a theater feeling 'empty'!  "},{"Title":"Some will love it, some will hate it but the reality is that it's only a film","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have been following the progress of this film for about 2/3 years and I was really looking forward to seeing it at last so I went to London with my sister to see the previews and we where amazed at how realistic the graphics where and there where some points in the film where you thought there where real people others where to cartoony (Toy Story-ish) but all-in-all it was a very good presentation and I would have given it 10 if it had not of had such a poor storyline it was very boring in some places but at others it was very intreiging. They obviously spent more on CG than the story line and one last thing all this talk about replacing actors with computers is stupid because it takes far too long; it is very expencive; its very time consuming and you still need actors because the characters need voices! So I think this film gets 7/10 "}{"Title":"George Lucas, please take note.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What is perhaps most surprising about this computer-generated sci-fi spectacular is that it doesn't rely on technical wizardry alone.  Along with its jaw-dropping visuals and superb sound design, it manages to tell an appealing and moving story that would stand up even if made as a live-action film.  Technically, this may or may not be the future of cinema, but that's not really the point &#150; Final Fantasy demonstrates that good storytelling is and always will be at the heart of good cinema, no matter how it's produced.   "},{"Title":"Great (I mean exceptional) computer graphics, but the story...","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First of all this is a major step in computer generated movies. It's something you've never seen before! Every computer freak will be astonished... guaranteed. But this is not just a computer animation, it is a movie, so it has to be judged as a whole image + story. If the 'image' part gets an A+ without any question in anno Domini 2001, the story could have been a little bit more brushed up. Maybe I didn't click at the time I watched it! Who am I to judge? But I'm afraid that this has been a clear tendency in Hollywood movies during the last 4-5 years putting the special effects on the spot and the story on the second place, the plot being just an excuse to present the latest amazing things computer can do. Anyway, I have to admit that is not just an 'easy' story, but it produces some surprises in contrast with the plain-old-scripts. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm a fan of the Final Fantasy games. Since FF7, I have always looked forward to watching the next CGI sequence in the story, as they are always wonderfully produced. Watching the movie is like watching one giant CGI sequence that tells a whole story (rather that just a small part like the sequences found in the games).The plot and characters fit in nicely with the FF style. As always in a FF story, there is a set of new technologies to learn about, and the film explains them quite well if you are paying attention. No magic this time, but perhaps to make the film more accessible to those who haven't played the FF games before, the film is set on our Earth in the future, rather than an alternate Earth as is usually done in the games. Therefore, the technology is more advanced, but there is no magic. However, the Phantoms and Gaia are kind of like magic, or they are a spiritual element at least (so this fits in with what Final Fantasy usually tries to do - combining science with spirituality).Some people didn't like the General because he was a typical bad guy, but it should be realized that in all the games there has been a bad guy like this in one form or another (Kefka, Rufus, Edea/Ultimecia, etc). This is not a bad thing, in my opinion. It creates a 3 way conflict - the good guys, the bad guys, and the monsters. It also shows that no matter what, humans are still capable of fighting among themselves.(**Spoiler in this paragraph**) The movie kept you wondering what would happen next. Thankfully, it wasn't a typical American movie happy ending. I suppose the ending could have been a bit more informative, but it was comparable to the endings of the games - eventual victory for the good guys, but in a funny sort of way. I swear I thought Grey's eyes would open during the last few minutes of the film. But when they didn't, this made the ending seem a lot better, somehow. It makes us feel sad for him and Aki. (**End spoiler**)Ultimately, you don't have to be a Final Fantasy fan to watch this movie and understand it, but you will probably appreciate it a lot more if you do. I won't bore you by going on about the awesome visuals (other than that the characters are quite believable in that they look exactly what you'd imagine FF characters to look like) or about the few flaws here and there (honestly... the lip sync problems are NOT that noticeable!). But if you are a fan of the games or enjoy sci-fi/fantasy stories and haven't seen the movie yet, you must see it now! "},{"Title":"..they mauled it.","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Despite having some of the most stunning visuals in film history, this movie suffers from one fatal flaw, and that is a stinker of a story...oh, and some bad voice-actors.Being a fan of the Final Fantasy videogames, I went in with above-average expectations.  Having already read a variety of reviews, the majority being of the negative sort, I was thinking that maybe the critics just didn't get it.  Surely, I told myself, with Hironobu Sakaguchi (guy behind the videogames) behind the story, this thing had to be phenomenal.  The FF game storylines are like nothing you have ever experienced, being complex, enchanting and plain old Wow.  The Final Fantasy movie however, calls for a big Yuck.First off, the animation for the most part is excellent, as you would expect.  It's amazing what they can now do in this realm.  However the Hollywood actors shouldn't be worrying about being overtaken by these invading CG actors just yet, because they still have a long way to go.. Don't get me wrong, the animation was excellent like I said, but often the characters had that mannequin look about them.  The faces on the whole are not very expressive, and while you can appreciate the subtle little nuances that the animators managed to convey, I felt they didn't quite manage to nail it with the emotions.  For instance, at times Aki is reduced to tears and you can certainly hear it in Ming-Na Wen's voice (in all its corny, over-the-top glory), but you don't see it on the screen...And then there's the story...  What on earth happened?  The characters babble on with so much fancy-schmancy jargon it is often confusing.  The story starts off at a slow crawl, and it stays like that for the first hour and a half.  It's only when the action all starts happening (for the last half hour..) that you're able to sit back and follow what resembles a movie...As for the voice-acting, it was pretty dirty.  Steve Buscemi's voice just didn't gel with the character, but it probably has more to do with the fact that the animators couldn't transfer the humor that he conveyed, into his onscreen character...  The only person in the cast I think who deserves any sort of mention is Donald Sutherland... The other actors...they were just nasty.I gave this movie a 6 out of 10 and I just wonder what on Earth went wrong. The makers of this film had one of the most imaginative, amazing franchises ever to be invented to play with, and they mauled it.  It doesn't seem to have much mainstream appeal and therefore I'd really only recommend it to the animation buffs or the fans of the videogame series.  Oh, what could have been...         "},{"Title":"Just a note","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've already commented on this but after reading some of the user comments saying how confusing the ending was, I'd like to explain my understanding of it.*major spoilers* read only if you've seen the movie and didn't understand it.I think the reason what most people do not understand is why Grey had to touch the phantom at the end. If you paid attention earlier in the movie(around the Tucson wasteland), it said that the ovalpacks(i think that's what they're called) were made from living tissue(therefore, making it possible to be the 7th spirit). Now, when the wave was first completed, Aki took the pack and stuck it on their ship somewhere. And she said something about using it to project the wave. Assuming that contact with living tissue with the phantoms had to be used in order to project the wave, that is the reason why Grey needed to die. And if you noticed, a blue wave came out of Aki's chestplate to Grey which was transferred to the phantom.I don't think much people had a problem with the fact that the 8th spirit found Aki. It was pretty simple if you really understood the Gaia theory. Anyway, that was just my understanding of the film, if you disagree, feel free to drop me a line.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful but ultimately dull","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Worried as I was about the plot or lack thereof, I was almost pleasantly surprised by Final Fantasy. It had a lot more to it than Lara Croft Tomb Raider, although that's not the greatest guarantee of quality, but in the end, it was the effort expended in making it seem more high brow, which bored the pants off me. Only for one brief second did I forget I was watching computer animation, and the rest of the time I was left pondering the wonders of CGI hair. Apparently something ridiculous like 8 million dollars was spent on Aki's hair alone, and you can tell. Partly because it's bloody good hair, but mainly because half of the film is spent on close-ups of the woman's head as she spins and her hair moves. And then, to add insult to injury every other character either has plastic Ken doll hair, or they're bald. With this and Cats and Dogs, Alec Baldwin seems to be branching out into a less embarrassing career path, which is nice, but someone needs to tell Steve Buscemi not to do this again. He's a brilliant actor, but the brilliant is all in his face, and he completely passed me by in this. Nevertheless, the images in some of the sequences were amazing, and had it been more of a gentle movie, it would have been an example of stand out incredible animation. However, since it was an action, the movements seemed too fluid, too much like watching someone elses Tai Chi class on fast forward. And, why oh why did they do the stereotypical black guy crying 'Go on without me' as he shoots up the enemy with his dying breath?? "},{"Title":"my favourite movie so far this year!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A truly amazing film, I'm saddened to see it doing so poorly at the box office. Chances are slim of ever seeing another animated movie of this type again. Which is really too bad, considering the ability to create such amazing locales. Personally, I find these CG locations much more believable when they contain CG people, as opposed to real people bluescreened into the image. So in conclusion, if you liked any of the games, or just scifi in general, go see this movie! "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The plot wasn't particularly complex or interesting, but combined with the detailed, desolate surroundings, Final Fantasy was very watchable.  The animation was spectacular.  Probably better than anything I've seen before.  Computer animation has yet to duplicate the facial movements during speech accurately, but the facial expressions of Dr. Sid were remarkably life-like, as were the movements of other characters and objects throughout.Overall, great film.  Could snotty, expensive actors be a dying breed? "},{"Title":"Summarize All This Crap","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you've noticed, FF's had several differing opinions, and I think that's mainly because of the type of things we like and the type of movies we each like.  Especially with FF since you need such an open mind and a direct view of thinking.Gaea, by the way, has been in a whole lot of FF games, which could already be influencing a lot of negative opinions.Point is, a lot of people compare FF to Alien.  That's already coming in with a biased view, and that's just wrong.  Being biased right from the start means you will look upon the movie with a critical eye and you won't extract every detail and such from the movie.***SPOILER DONT READ UNTIL THE NEXT ASTERIKS IF YOU DONT WANT*** For example, the aliens thing for FF.  If you actually watch the movie, you'll notice they ARENT an invading army.  They ARENT physical manifestations of the aliens they are SUPPOSED to be.  I agree that this isn't totally original, but they twisted it around into something that IS semi-original.  Which is a lot better than most of the comments given. ****************************************************************Another thing that's come to view is the criticism about the lip syncs.  As far as I know, I, and most other people, completely overlooked that, and the only people I believe noticed it are the people who came into the theaters with the thought of finding every negative aspect of the movie possible, ignore all the good parts (including the fact that there IS a plot), and just say that there isnt a plot since they weren't even looking for one. An influence of coming in biased.  Agreed, maybe there wasn't good lip syncing (maybe even an understatement, since I honestly didn't notice.)  That's understandable since this is one of the first movies made in CG. Hello, this is a pioneering movie.  Even the first audio movies had bad parts in them. Agreed, Toy Story and such didn't have bad lip syncing, but thats because they aren't nearly as in-depth has FF.  If you're going to nitpick about small insignificant things, don't watch.Another argument is the lack of details, and how it doesn't have enough background.  Get over it.  The plot is almost worthy of a Final Fantasy Game due to its flips and flops (despite their small size).  Yes, we all know they could have been bigger.  But making them bigger would have screwed around the entire time span.  Keep in mind this is a MOVIE, not a GAME.  If you want a game length story line, go buy the FF games.  Stories like this would need at least 15 hours to tell, and they only have TWO.  Live with it.Agreed, the script was sort of bland.  That doesn't take too much away from the story though, IMO.  This is a realistic movie (or supposed to be).  In real life, if you're going to die, are you going to make a humorous joke? If you're expecting to crack a joke when there's a 50% chance you're going to die in the next minute, then you need medical help, fast.  So shove it about the bad humor.  There's also about the annoying American Military stuff.  Hello?  This IS the American Military.  Then again, they could have beefed up the script with a bit more and given life to a few more characters, but that would screw up the time.I won't say anything about the visuals.  There's enough said in all reviews (they all, or most of them, agree they were great.)  However, if you are going to nitpick about small things, don't even bother.That's pretty much all the controversy of the movie, it's generally what you like.  Although people say this is sci-fi, it seemed more like a Final Fantasy to me.  And yes, I do remember the old SNES FF games, and I even remember the old NES FFs as well.  Noone ever said this Movie had to be even the slighest like the old FFs.  And if you're saying Magic and Demons, go play FF1 or FF2, and then shove it.If you Do decide to watch it (which I suggest), go with an open mind.  This movie will seem horrible if you come in expecting it to be like Aliens. This is a FF, not Aliens.  There ARE Fantasy stuff inside it, just not obvious if you aren't paying attention. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have to rave about the computer graphics in this film, they are more than outstanding, the attention to detail, faces and hands, but the clothing was not quite as good. But it was incredible anyway, after 4 years of slaving away these guys deserve a medal. The film itself is not so good, the plot is weak and not all that easy to follow, one may say you need to play the game, but it is not necessary. I came out of this not feeling 'Wow what a film' I can only rate this film a 5/10, but the graphics a 10/10, t is the whole reason for the film, but we wait to see what Lord of the Rings has to show. "}{"Title":"Worth the price of a movie ticket, but won't buy it.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie as a sci-fi fan. And The graphics were stunning, save for a few moments when it was obvious these weren't real people.  The animation was great but it still has a long way to go.  Furthermore, there was very little, if any, character development; they could have developed Aki and Gray's relationship - where did that come from anyway (*poof* outta thin air)!?!  But was anyone REALLY expecting a plot or character development? I mean, this movie was spawned from a series of video games; the two do NOT resemble each other in the least.  But who would have wanted to go see a movie that was mostly a bunch of fights.  Had it been made like the games, it would have more closely resembled Mortal Kombat than anything else. With the whole phantoms thing and dreams sequences I don't see how this could have possibly been made into a video game; which begs the question Why is this movie entitled Final Fantasy anyway? "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After reading some not-too-good reviews, I was under the impression that this will be a bad, forgettable movie, so I went to see it without high expectations.I was in for a surprise.So, where do I begin? The visuals are absolutely gorgeous, best I ever seen. The alien world is incredible, the spirits magnificent and there's so much detail that sometime you forget you're watching CG. Sure, it's easy to nitpick, it's not perfect, and nor it should be. The characters are realistic, but not 100%, they're still a bit stilized with just a hint of Anime. Yes, the clothes do not move/sway perfectly accurate, the faces don't have every tiny detail, but it's still great.Despite others' opinions, I liked the plot. It is a bit like Aliens, but I actually found it quite interesting and - I daresay - deep. However the dialogs were a bit cliched and some of the characters were not fully developed.In conclusion, I loved it and I'll get the DVD as soon as it comes out.If you want to see Final Fantasy, go with an open mind. Forget about Aliens, don't look at the minute details and enjoy it for whast it is A Fantasy - hopefully not the Final one... "},{"Title":"Looks Beautiful, Nothing In Terms Of Plot.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within was a movie i chose to watch randomly, im not a fan of the game, but i just decided to watch it for its stunning visuals. If you are looking for a movie that looks good, but makes no way for a decent plot, by all means watch it, but i was expecting alot better from this movie, especially since so much work was put into it, the movie had really dull characters, was re-occuring (to waste time), and wasnt written very well....Its nothing more than average, i think you should check this movie out in the theatres just to get the feel of this animation on the big-screen, dont expect more.Acting-> Theres not much i can say with this topic, but i wasnt impressed with the acting at all, the voices just were wrong for the characters.Actors-> There werent many characters in the film, though Alec Baldwin and Donald Sutherland made way for an otherwise floppy but pretty visual film.Script-> This has to be the biggest flaw in this movie, if they were to work on the script, and make it more solid, it definantley would have been more enjoyable.Graphics-> This is the BEST thing about the movie, you can swear that they are real people at parts, if you watch this movie for a reason, watch it for its visuals its truely stunning.Suspense-> In terms of suspense i would barely say there was anything, i mean the whole concept of those ghosts in the wastelands happened too often, which led to minimal suspense.Music/Sound-> Not too good, in terms of sound, the audio synch was bad, at times they would talk but their lips wouldnt move, music was ok, though they could have used more music to try to build up scenes.Overall-> Well,at times the movie was boring, and the movie was in high demand, though i think people love this movie so much because it looks good, but in order to fairly say this movie was good, there had to be a solid plot, and there was none.** 1/2 - (2 and a half stars)  "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"          As ground-breaking as it may be, there is no escaping the fact that this is a poorly made film that certainly deserves to have done so badly at the box office. Yeah, it's going to revolutionize the entire world of animation with its fancy CGI and its photo-realistic characters but what lies beneath its beautiful outer shell? Nothing but a paltry, uninteresting and unremarkable film. Okay, so they weren't going to go for the best picture oscar. But it can't even fill the role of an average action film. Its characters are lame and very uninteresting. They look deadpan, the voice actors are dreary (which is a surprise as most of the voice actors are pretty renown in themselves) and there is not a single character I can relate to. The lead character is the worst of all. A completely bland chick who has no spark or personality. The script is poorly written with generic and overused lines and the story itself is neither original nor in the least bit inspiring. How sad it is that the first CGI film to have photo-realistic human characters actually has the least human characters of all compared to the technologically inferior CGI films like the Toy Stories and Antz. An impersonal and empty film that ironically boasts the caption 'The Spirits Within'.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!!!!!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One goes to a movie to be entertained by the visuals and the story line. You are expected to leave with a feeling of satisfaction that the product offered  was worth forking out your hard earned cash . I was not disappointed at all in fact I was elated .  The fact that so much talent has come together for this movie should be another factor in people seeing their  brilliant efforts ,  I stand amazed as the depth of talent and imagination that people who work in the entertainment industry have .  We are seeing true genius in the people who design  the scenery , the characters and the most important aspects the little  subtleties that  (like the way the hair moves or the shine on the face from a window) occurs as if natural . All the ARTISTS deserve top creditI give this movie ten out of ten for entertainment .  "},{"Title":"Battle between human survivors of destroyed earth and spirits of dead alien visitors","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although the digital effects are spectacular, the story is so far out to be ridiculous.  Ghosts of past aliens?  The earth with a soul?  Come on!!They don't quite have the computer generated human right yet although each on is better than the last.  Worst is the lips sync. to the spoken dialog. "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy ----- CGI REALITY!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy has been in production for 4 years and the reason is clear as to why it took so long. In terms of CGI, This film is without question, a landmark achievement which has raised the quality bar and will no doubt be the benchmark by which all future full length CG movies are judged. To put it simply, It makes the 3D animation in toy story look like child's play!As phenomenal as it is, The film is not without its graphical flaws.The flaws manifest themselves mostly in the human characters.I found that texturing on certain 3D characters were done better on some than others. And as good as the 3D modeled characters looked, in one or two scenes, you could tell that that they were synthetic, which spoiled the illusion that they were of flesh and bone. Character movement at times was also a bit unnatural and/or artificial, which tended to detract from that sense of reality.Secondly, their performances still cannot match the skill of really good actors. Aki's crying scene was mediocre at best. The 3D model just did not have the range of facial expressions that could convey the emotional turmoil that the character was feeling in that scene.However I did find Dr sid's performance to be very good and in fact the most natural of all the synthetic actors(ie. 3D character models). But then again, it could have been because the Doctor Sid character did not need to have the same emotional range as the two main leads and in that sense it was easier for the modeler/animator to do.Aside from these gripes, the level of quality and detail in the rest of the CGI was simply incredible, especially the 3D rendered backgrounds.Now to the story, many people have commented that the story was weak. These are probably the same people who did not get Princess Mononoke. I did draw parallels between the 2 films and there were certainly similar themes present. I found that it did present an original concept as far as Sci fi movies go, even though it did borrow certain elements from other films such as Aliens, Abyss, Armagedden,the afore mentioned Princess Mononoke and even the Dreamcast game Shenmue. (Any Dreamcast  gamers here noticed that the eagle flying through the cliffs and canyons was ripped straight from the prologue of Shenmue ?)But all in all, Final Fantasy is an astounding technical and artistic achievement by all involved and I look forward to the day where a synthetic actor will perform side by side with a real one without the audience being able to tell that one is artificial and the other isnt.As an example,Imagine a 3D rendered,flawlessly animated virtual Bruce Lee(or any other screen legend of days gone by) acting side by side with today's hottest stars!Now that would be beyond cool! "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy was great except for the dialogue... (Subtle, Possible Spoiler*)","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't have high expectations for this film because of all the complaints about the plot. However, I found the plot interesting and suspenseful enough to last the couple of hours.  Whilst it was not as deep as most films, it was original.The 3D graphics is obvious the main appeal of the movie. I will not ramble on about them since they have being commented on a lot. I thought they were magnificent except for the lip movement on humans.  The phantom aliens were incredible, much better than the usual space alien creatures.The biggest disappointed of the film was the irritating dialogue.  They used that annoying AMERICAN MILITARY style of speech by the majority of characters!  I'm sure your familar with these overused phrases in many movies, Final Fantasy was no different and common phrases shouted wereCAPTAIN, WHAT SHOULD WE DO?, IT'S TOO LATE, WE DON'T HAVE MUCH TIME, PERMISSION TO SPEAK, SIR, WITH ALL DUE RESPECT..., I WON'T LET YOU DOWN .  I can't express how sick I was of the American military language by the end of this film! *Thank god so many of them died for some peace and quiet for the last couple minutes of the film.* The bad guy in the film was also a bit stereotypical for anyone over the age of 12.However, this movie was entertaining. I'm not a major fan of Sci-Fi and Animation. I would recommend it only to people under 25 and older Sci-Fi and Animation fans. "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy The Plot Without","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm being a bit harsh here but I couldn't resist on taking off the title.There's a quote on a screen writing site Critics are film makers who just couldn't cut it so they whine about the people who have. Look, critics are losers. They try to use imagery and metaphors to say a movie is simply good or bad. I'm not a critic. I watch movies because I like movies. All I want to do is tell the public why I liked it.....or not.I've been waiting for Final Fantasy for a few months. I never played the games on the console and maybe this is a prerequisite for loving this movie. The plot is VERY sci-fi (as you expect) and with good sci-fi movies they explain the plot to a large range so more people can enjoy the flim. I didn't see them do this in Final Fantasy. Yes there is a plot, but at times it can get just plain irritating to keep up so instead you may find yourself fidgeting. Some of the lines are really cliche too. I mean REALLY cliche. I guess it tones it down a bit because these are CG characters, still it is noticeable.Of course, some of the characters see their fate and others don't in Final Fantasy- however you may find yourself not caring what happens to some of them because they have been created like ones out of a B grade horror movie. This isn't supported by the fact that their facial movements are VERY limited and a lot of their expression and tone is easy to confuse.The huge publicity that there is the best effects of CGI is true- and it is also not. Some of Aki's dream sequences are jaw dropping and filled with eye candy, while some of the most basic elements are missed or left out (eg. the facial expressions and at times the character's movements look more like something out of Shrek).Elliot Goldenthal's score is strong- but you'll probably forget it within a few days unless you are a real fan of his work (don't get me wrong, it is a very good score but there are also other very VERY good scores).For this review I have dumped on the down things, I know. This is just my leaving impression of the film. Look, the Summer (or Winter here) has been average movies, and this is a JUST above average movie. Go see it because there is worse and it may be one of the best films (besides 'Apes') that will come out this year.   "},{"Title":"Is it just me or is that Ben Affleck?","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yeah, the CGI is impressive, but who cares.  This one is real easy to forget.  Everything here is just so cliched, from the characters right down to the story itself.  I understand that Hironobu Sakaguchi, the director of the actual Final Fantasy game series, wrote the screenplay of the movie. Big mistake!  He should have stuck to making games, because the movie turns out to be a mere showcase of what CGI computer can do nowadays.  It annoys me to no end when I see a movie and think  ... now where have I seen this before ... and the attempt to humor the audience falls flat everytime. How embarrasing that must be.  Interestingly, the movie supposed to attract a big number of video game players, but I see no elements whatsoever from the game, such as casting spells, summoning the demigods, swords and armors, etc.  Where are they????  We don't want to watch another run-of-the-mill Hollywood science fiction!I'm not sure if it's just me, or does the captain bears an uncanny resemblance to a certain actor named Ben Affleck????  After being scarred for life by the godawful Pearl Harbor, the last thing I need to see is Affleck's face.  He reminded me too much of Pearl Harbor.  But who cares anyhow, they're all just a bunch of boring CGI characters to me.  Heck, I even felt more empathy to the CGI characters in, say, Toy Story and Bug's Life, and they don't need ultra-realistic 3D models to be an entertaining movie.  Final Fantasy is very unoriginal and a complete bore, so don't watch this flick if you are looking for a solid storyline. "}{"Title":"Forgot the human element!!!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie looks great but that's about it. So what? the best animation seen on screen this side of Roger Rabbit but it lacks everything cinema-goers crave - the human element.  People go to the movies to escape to put themselves in someone else's shoes for a couple of hours. I couldn't put myself in Aki Ross's shoes because I knew I could never aspire to be a 3D-animation. I knew she wasn't real, no matter how well the producers made her look real (eg the hair). So, after the first half an hour of salivating over the CGI, Final Fantasy's story line leaves you totally bored and unconcerned over the fate of this world of fantasy... Rating 5/10   "},{"Title":"Great story and adaptation; horrible editing","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While I don't know much about the games, I must say that the story was good, taking from several scientific theories and religious beliefs. Casting was good as well. The editing, however, was horrible, for I'd say that over half the dialogue was not in synch with the animation. Never have I seen such off-key lip synching in animation; I've only seen such in dubbed martial arts films. "},{"Title":"The product of Hironobu Sakaguchi's ego","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  People say that this movie fits well into the Final Fantasy series, since no two Final Fantasies share the same world or characters.  That's just wrong. This movie deviates way farther than any Final Fantasy game ever has, and it's a calculated move to pander to American mainstream film audiences.No Final Fantasy has ever taken place on Earth.  But in order to make it easier to tell the story in less than 2 hours and in order to make it more familiar to American audiences, the film takes place in, of all places, good old New York City.  That's the first of many things that distance the movie from the games, and make you wonder why they called it Final Fantasy in the first place.  It's a money-grubbing, ego-satisfying move.The movie, without considering its title, is very run-of-the-mill, a standard American action movie with bits of Japanese anime thrown in. Enough has been said about the effects, I won't dwell on that.  But so much more could have been done.  Animation is a chance to let your imagination run wild, but it seems all of the imagination was used up on the phantoms of the movie, which were amazing to watch.  The main characters were gray, boring, undistinguishable people, who apparently don't have tongues. Without the talent of such people as Yoshitaka Amano, Nobuo Uematsu and even Tetsuya Nomura, The Spirits Within kind of falls flat; although Hironobu Sakuguchi was the driving force behind every Final Fantasy, I hope he realizes now that the magic was not his alone. "},{"Title":"A dynamic effort that suggests the future of film making","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story is ok. The special effects are better than ok. The characters are....well they are computer generated and I didn't expect to identify with them at all.  But you know folks, I found myself pulling for the good guys and relating to their fears and such just like the real thing. Afterwards it dawned on me that I had just seen the beginning of the end for 20 million dollar actors that clearly can't be justified for any reason. Like many struggling artists they still need to work on the hands, but the rest is grand by any scale. Go see this movie for history if for no other reason and I bet you will like it. "},{"Title":"A movie worth paying for. Trust me.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Im gonna give a quick breif description of some of the good and bad things in the film. First the good, the animation was exellent and the coloring was good. The characters voices matched the moving mouths in the movie. Good story line and plot. Cool looking phantoms.And it is nothing like the games which i am glad because i played alot of the final fantasy games over and over and i don't want to see no final fantasy movie that deals with a game i played over and over. Now the Bad things. It needed more action, like gun versus phantom action. Needs to be longer and needs to be more descriptive at telling what the spirits are. And the Pilots voice can get pretty annoying. But overall, i grade this movie at least 7 3/4 over 10. But this movie is a worth paying for. Trust me.   "},{"Title":"Love it or Hate it - it is worth the price of the ticket","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** This movie is a combination of two amazing phenomenon's of todays modern culture. A combination of the amazing surge in Japanese Anime and incredible computer generated images. It is undeniable that the sensation of Japanese cartoon culture is very present in the lives of many all around the world. Television shows like Pokemon, DragonBall Z, Neon-Genisis Evangellion are so popular that not even the thousand or so episodes of a single series of these cartoons is enough to forfill our desire for them. It is also undeniable that the wonderful world of computer imagery is the basis for most of the modern movie marvels!The plot for Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is nothing new belive it or not. Some indirect spoilers here, so for those that want the plot to remain a mystery, skip this paragraph. The whole story is a clone of the Japanes Anime Neon-Genesis Evangelion. Once again the world is under seige by some strange mystical beings from another world. All the cities are destroyed and have the word old attatched to the front of them (old New York). Then we have the New cities protected by some fantastical defence mechanism that is never truly explained (New New York). The bond between the sience world and religious faith are once again melded into the story. The whole story is presented and the detail is left out. Why are they killing everyone? What exactly are the eight spirits? How did Aki become infected?. And of course the resolution to the story is in a combination of science and faith (searching for something intangable and never really explained) in opposition to the military aggresions of our human institution.Now we move onto something that is all brand new... The special effects. This movie is absolutely amazing and certainly some scenes are so hard to swallow as being fake (they look so real) If I did not know any better I would argue they are real! Apparently one fifth of the budget was spent on making the heroines hair look real. Well what do you know it is one of the more brilliant features of this already amazing feet in technology. Skip this next part of the paragraph as it contains a few more indirect spoilers. The opening sequence of about 20 minutes was the highlight for me with everything from the eyes, to goosebumps, cars and skeletons, fireworks and rubble, human movement and action were absolutely 100% top rate animation and so real I forgot I was in essence watching a cartoon!The movie does have it faults, with the apparent lack of story-line detail that is always ever-present in Japanese Anime and the sometimes jerky body movements and unrealistic mouth movement I sometimes writhed in my seat wishing it was done a little better. Having said that, if you miss this movie I can do nothing but say Your missing out on an amazing experience. I do beleive in the next ten years or so we will have a whole line of fully digital movies, getting better and better as they come along. So if this was extraordinary, amazing, detailed animation... Then I wait in anticipation for what will come next.Do yourself a favour and buy a ticket. You may not like the movie but you will still be blown away!!! "},{"Title":"Visually Stimulating, But Lacking In Story","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was amazing to look at and sets a new standard for computer animation for movies.  I had to keep reminding myself that these weren't real people on the screen I was watching.  However, the story was very lacking in my opinion.  I personally was not impressed with the story because it was predictable.  It was worth seeing for the graphics, but that's it.Also, this movie should have just been called The Spirits Within.  Anyone going looking for a Final Fantasy movie (based around one of the games), will be disappointed.  The connections between the games and the movie are slim to none. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great animation does not make a movie. This crap is boring with no story whatsoever. If they had made it a little more hardcore, dumped the glowing ghosts and replaced them with real aliens it could have been something......maybe. The whole thing felt like an intro to a computer game and I for one would have pressed the ESC button after 10 minutes. "},{"Title":"HUGE disappointment","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a guy who likes movies and a guy who likes games, I am repeatedly let down by video-game movies that just don't cut the mustard. Mortal Kombat was god-awful, Street Fighter was a joke and don't even get me started on Tomb Raider. I had such high hopes for Final Fantasy, since it cames from the same people who make the games, and the animation looked so good in the trailers. What I got was animation that, while impressive, didn't quite live up to the hype, a poorly-written, paper-thin storyline, and two-dimensional characters. The movie isn't really even Fantasy per se, it's Sci-Fi (a problem I've been having with some of the recent games, like FF7 and 8) and becomes so tedious to watch after the first half-hour that, after I left the theater, I was raving about the Lord Of The Rings trailer that I saw and not the feature presentation. The idea for the film is nothing original; it breaks very little ground. And the voice actors--what's wrong, here? They all sound like they don't want to be performing their lines. Even James Woods, who gave the strongest of all the sour performances, was a letdown. The actor's lines didn't often match the lip movements either (I would have thought that, with such high-tech computer animation, they could have done away with such a small yet irksome problem), leading to moments that were nothing short of awkward. Maybe I'm being nitpicky. I'm sorry. But this movie was a huge letdown and I want my money back. The music, at the very least, was good... even if nothing else was.  2/10 "},{"Title":"Not made for everyone, but made for me!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Look, if you are reading this, it is surely because you know the video-games sirie so I have one thing to say  GO SEE IT NOW!  It was everything your waiting for but don't expect everyone to like it. I have to admit that the movie is not perfect ; there are some parts where Square pictures seem to be trying to hard to make an standard american movie and this takes a lot away from the final fantasy feel of the movie. For example, the love story is treated in a Hollywood fashion that (most definitly) doesn't please me. An other thing that bothered me about it is that most people don't understand that Squaresoft is used to 20 - 30 hours of storytelling to elaborate caracters and the enviroment and this movie only has 2 hours. So the plot seems low quality but I think there is to much depth to it that can't be told due to the lack of time. Most people don't know this but a true FF fan can see this and not be bothered by this minor problem.  Most of the good points are already known by everyone so I won't get in to them( Graphics, artistic desing, great music, EYE CANDY!) just go see it as soon as possible.  Also keep an eye out for the upcoming DVD for PS2 of the movie witch will include the option to move the camera angle around in different sceens. Overall a GREAT movie! "}{"Title":"The first step in a future that needs some work.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Allow me to indulge a momentEveryone knows that Final Fantasy is the first movie to use very realistic computer-generated characters and scenery. Most likely this scared away many movie purists. And well it should, for imagine the futureWhen computer technology gets so exact so as to eliminate the flaws and problems evident in Final Fantasy (which we'll get to in a moment), and the movies can be made without human actors and still look real, we could see an interesting thing take place.The movie studios would generate a group of actors and actresses A select group, of maybe 100. All computer generated, with computer generated voices. But their faces and voices would be the same for whatever movies they did. So when you go to a movie to watch completely unreal Joe Smith star in The Mummy Returns For the 10th Time he'd be the same Joe Smith that starred in any number of movies before then. Joe Smith, although completely computer-realized, would be a movie star so as to draw viewers the way Tom Hanks or Jack Nicholson draws viewers now.On the flip side, in order to have this name recognition, the studios will have to generate about 500 new actors a year, in order to keep a wide variety of unknowns. This way Joe Smith will be more noticeable. Also the studios will have to purposely create bad actors, so as to keep the realism and further showcase good actors like Joe Smith. The result? A film experience JUST LIKE what we have now, but with no humans or real life scenery - all computerized at less cost to the film companies and less cost to the consumer (theoretically. The chances that the consumer sees a price break are slim). Sound peachy keen? Not to me either. But hey, if it looks and feels just like The Green Mile or Silence of the Lambs feel when we see them, who's to say we won't like it? Who says we'll have a choice?And in this unknown year of the future, where all the actors work not from a set, but on a computer screen, and all the directors yell not Cut! but Enter! when a scene is perfect, everyone will look back at Final Fantasy The Spirits Within much like we look at films like The Birth of a Nation or The Wizard of Oz or even Who Framed Roger Rabbit? -- films that popularized a new and extremely popular idea (long films, color films, cartoons in films).Perhaps, perhaps not. But just like those films had problems with their ideas, so does Final Fantasy have glitches that need to be fixed before this utopic (or sterile, if you are so inclined) cinematic experience can be reality.Final Fantasy has tremendous effects. Unfortunately they get old quickly. After the first half hour, the movie must make its phantoms bigger and badder in order to continue gaining a shock factor. While it is an entertaining movie to watch, Final Fantasy fails to make its entertainment continually fresh - instead it hopes that the viewer will be able to marvel at the realism of its computerization for nearly two hours while giving away all its tricks in the first 30 minutes.Secondly, Final Fantasy has serious plot problems. Although the plot is there, and it is fairly complicated, and it is well-thought out, it is far too cliched. Group of people (one tough woman, one brawny black guy, one wise-cracking white guy, one courageous yet gentle leader) led by a reviled doctor and his assistant try to fight ghostly alien invaders on a ruined earth. But they must also fight the evil defense minister who wants to just blow them all away. Ah, but they can't do that because it will hurt Gaia. Of course the plot has happened in sci-fi movies and disaster movies and even horror movies countless times. With no plot twists or innovations, the movie risks being boring very quickly. (Plot hole - these phantoms can travel through pipes that should kill all living things, yet they can be shot and killed?)And this brings up the third problem Gaia? Movies run a severe risk by making religion into a major plot point, especially one as unfounded, ludicrous and on the fringe as New Age/Mother Earth-ism. Parts of Final Fantasy are reminiscent of Audrey Rose, a 1970s Anthony Hopkins movie that spends too much time banging viewers over the head with the Hindu reincarnation beliefs. Final Fantasy likewise did not need to throw in Gaia Earth arguments (which of course are opposed with ignorant and rude sarcasm just to make sure they get both sides of the story). An environmental or sociological reason would have worked just as well without attempting to convert moviegoers into believing generally-rejected cultish beliefs. Unless it is a movie like Jesus of Nazareth where the religion is essential to the story and its inclusion obvious before the movie begins, please preach somewhere else.Finally the actors... just... aren't... real! Steve Buscemi delivers a barrage of wise-cracking lines, as is his usual nature. But it is not Steve Buscemi's FACE delivering them, and it comes off as a guy trying and failing to be Steve Buscemi. Likewise, the computers just cannot do emotions well. All the faces have the same expression throughout the movie, which does not even happen in cartoon-animated films.Generally speaking from a movie standpoint, Final Fantasy just isn't that good. It has a cliched and boring plot that gets muddled in its own preachiness. The actors are dull and lifeless and the dialogue seems forced and equally devoid of emotion. The special effects are incredible but just as predictable as the plotline.Of course Final Fantasy is worth seeing if the object is to say that when the first of the computer-only movies came out, you were there. On the other hand if the glaring errors and miscues in Final Fantasy do not - or cannot - be resolved, the future of computers in movies may be best seen in Shrek or The Mummy Returns.4/10 "},{"Title":"A Jaguar chassis hiding a Kia drivetrain","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have one three things to say135 million on CG and $5 on a script and actors does not a movie make.BAD VOICE-ACTING IS UNACCAPTABLE for any major motion picture in this day and age.  Good voice actors can make all the difference in the world when faced with a deplorable script and strange storyline.  Lets not forget that we had plenty of starpower behind these voices, and yet the highest emotional state any one character exhibits is a mildly-dazed look.Finally, if you're going to rip off formula plot elements, do it with gusto!Hypothetical situation You just finished ( with a pinch of arrogance, if you look under a microscope...closer, closer, its hard to see ) wiping out hordes of aliens only to watch your friend and squadmate devoured.  What do you do?A. Wake the audience up with a hell-twisted grimace and a shriek of NOOOOOO! that just OOZES with vengance.B. Pop a Ritalin and do your best not to crack so much as a grimace as you dutifully read the line NOOOO! in a conversational tone.I just want to say that the terrible voice acting ruined that entire scene for me, even though it had some great high-explosive action and the biggest dead-alien-ghost-type-thing yet. "},{"Title":"mmmmmm","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I left the theater feeling a little confused. Not because the plot left me behind, but because I really didn't know what to think of the movie. On one hand, the animation was really spectacular, in most cases. Dr. Aki Ross had the best hair I'd ever seen on an actress (if you could call her that), but on the down side, her lips didn't quite go with the dialog. The movement of the lips was really like watching a dubbed Japanese film. It would have been better with sub-titles. However, the plot as a whole, and especially the ending, left me feeling like I was preached at for about 2 hours. Given that I'm not very religious to begin with, I didn't enjoy feeling like I spent my Saturday night in church. But the animation was great.  "},{"Title":"Still drooling over this animation masterpiece","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the movie that since I saw the trailer for, I HAD to see it (and I hate the Final Fantasy video games), well I saw it opening day, first showing, and was far from dissapointed. The movie is spectacular eye candy, the design if the monsters, vehicles, the worlds, they are beautiful and obviously show off the great, creative, design that went into this. My eyes were glued to the screen, wanting to see every gorgeous detail of this movie. I was angered when I started reading reviews for this movie, which said it was awful (which it isn't). OK I will admit the plot is nothing new, and some of the dialouge was corny, but IT WAS ENTERTAINING! If you have to go into every movie expecting a Best Picture Oscar Plot, you shouldn't go into the movies in the first place, and the people who will rag on this because it is nothing like the video game can go get a life. If you are a animation fan, or someone who likes a well designed movie, go see this, it's more than worth it, all those who didn't like it, your loss "},{"Title":"Awesome visuals... ok story","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, first... the visuals were amazing.  Some of the most realisticcomputer generated actors yet.  The level of detail was also veryimpressive.  If you appreciate amazing computer graphics... youwill enjoy it just for the visuals.The story is a little weak.  It wasn't a bad story... it was actuallymuch better than I had heard, it just felt a little thin.  The dialog wasok.  It moved along with an good pace and held my interestthroughout.It was much better than I had anticipated (given reviews I read).  Allin all I thought it held together pretty well and I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"Great CG, voice acting etc.... but seen this movie before.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was excited as hell for this movie... How long did we wait? Like 2+ years? (after everyone first heard about it)I like any other male on the planet, wish Aki was real and mine to... ok, enough of that. Thats not what this review is about, he he. I was amazed by Final Fantasy. The CG and Voice acting was top of it's class and beyond. But this is one of the most Empty, Dark films I have ever seen. A dry SCI-FI film. I have said it once, and Ill say it again. YOU HAVE ALL SEEN THIS MOVIE BEFORE. Don't get me wrong, if a formula works, there is no harm in doing it over and over again. (thats the way it works in movie land right?) but Final Fantasy just was not FUN. Still worth seeing, because of it's CG magic, but I just wish they would have developed a better script. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't see it again for free... ever","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  That should say a lot right there.  The film pushes computer graphics to a new level  which makes the film worth watching... for about two minutes.  Here are the three  most obvious things that are horribly horribly wrong1) Pacing - There are no high points, no low points, no fast scenes, no slow scenes, just  dragging minutes of plodding monotone explanation. 2) Writing - The dialogue is cliched,  the plot is derived, the jokes aren't funny.  The  characters are painfully one dimensional and lack any development whatsoever.  3) Emotion - The scenes of supposed high emotion are hamstrung by limitations in the  effects.  The expressions of sorrow and joy in particular are unconvincing.This is a film that deserves to lose money.  Do not watch it, do not rent it.  Send a  message to the bigwigs that not everyone in the world is a graphics whore.  Amen. "},{"Title":"The Strange Side Effects of Non-Human Actors","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Hey there-- I'm going to let everyone else debate the merits of this movie, but I had one interesting observation that I want to share.The biggest effect I noticed of not having human actors in this film was that... it became just STUPIFYINGLY BORING about halfway through! I have seen, and enjoyed, a lot of bad movies in my time, and I PARTICULARLY enjoy sci-fi trash like this movie, but I found that I just became SO BORED during the second half of this movie, and the honestly found it difficult to keep from walking out. I think that just the small gestures and nuances of a real actor offer human beings (remember them?) something to look at and engage with, whereas the strange effect of watching a bunch of pixels is... incredible, overwhelming boredom.As a contrast, I offer that I throughly enjoyed Wing Commander. So, now we know it MUST be the human actors! I'm glad this movie is flopping, anyhow...--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Oh WHEN are film makers going to start listening?","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, after months of hype and publicity, the film I have been waiting for finally hits. Yes, it looks wonderful, yes, CGI may be a new artform waiting to take on real film, but sadly no, this film, like so many other scifi's and flops because of a dire script.Isn't it about time film makers figured out that visuals are only part of the big picture? Just like most dance music is instantly forgettable because it has no melody, so many Hollywood epics fall over because they have such a lame plot and dialogue, that within ten minutes you are starting to examine the wallpaper of the theatre. Also, stop assuming all your audience needs everything spelling out; They are not as stupid as you might think. Sorry guys, but this is just another turkey. Why not take a leaf out of the great scifi writers books such as Heinlein, Asimov, Pournelle, Niven etc, and give us something we can get our teeth into? 2001 set the scene back 30 years ago, so why now that we are in that very year, do we have to suffer such interminable dross as this? "},{"Title":"The movie looks great, but it doesn't save the film (what film?)","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When the &#145;Square Productions' logo (a rectangle) opened on the screen, I knew I shouldn't be expecting much (Truthfully, I went to see the Black Hawk Down teaser). What I got was an action movie like and unlike no other. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is like eating two boxes of captain crunch cereal, when you first start eating&#133;tasty&#133;yummy&#133;.beautiful&#133;But when you get to the third quarter of the second box, your stomach feels ill. Given, this movie looks fantastic, but the plot is oblique, the dialogue is campy, and the script is stereotypical and predictable.Taken, the graphics are great. Sure&#133;the lips were purposely drawn out of alignment with English to make it easier for the Japanese. That's not what bothered me. What bothered me were the voices. If I were to, God forbid, watch an Anime, I wouldn't be expecting absolute realism in terms of voice acting. Cartoons, no matter how serious or &#145;adult' doesn't have realistic voices. Final Fantasy did, and for half the movie I was left with a rather unsettling experience. Granted&#133;. the graphics are fantastic. But they are not visionary, they are not revolutionary, anyone with $140 million dollars could design those graphics. You can almost always tell it isn't real. But I was even stumped in the few space scenes.Video game crossovers haven't been successful. Mortal Kombat was probably the &#145;best'. And that's not saying much. Final Fantasy follows the obligatory line of bad dialogue and lousy plot-development. The movie has the token &#145;tough-girl' the token &#145;star-crossed lovers', the token &#145;smart-alecky weasel' (who's not funny, I might add), the token &#145;tough black dude', the token &#145;bad guy who they try to make you feel sorry for'&#133;. his family died, so that gives him an excuse to kill the spirits. The token &#145;Nooooooooo!' scene(s)? And the token rip-off from `Aliens', as Gray makes a last stand as the drop ship (that looks right out of `Aliens') disappears&#133;. only for it to make a last second comeback. In fact, the only slightly interesting character was General Hein, and the only decent dialogue was when he explained exactly why he hated the Spirits. The action is clumsy and poor. Instead of fast-paced blaster fights, we have men in clumsy suits waddling around wreckage spraying insecticide (or particle beams, whatever kills invisible ghost bugs) down ruined streets.The plot isn't better. An alien planet destroyed by a civil war has hurtled a chunk at Earth. The asteroid has practically wiped out Earth except for last bastions of humanity residing in large shielded cities. The &#145;Spirits' have come with it&#133;. residual psychic energy or something&#133;. it doesn't matter&#133;. no one else was paying attention either. &#145;Spirits' are alien ghosts (I know! Original name!) that painfully rip human &#145;Spirits' from their bodies, and then get repeatedly shot to pieces by laser guns (think `Ghostbusters'). It's up to a human scientist, a computer animated babe that puts Lara Croft to shame, Aki, to save the world.The Spirits are dumb aliens. They have no intelligence&#133;. they have no culture, nor language. They are pop-up bad guys, think &#145;Bugs' in `Starship Troopers'. They wipe their planet out and, not surprisingly, come here looking for a home (the only common trait with humans). What is their lifestyle like? How do they live? What do they breathe? Eat? Reproduce? Why'd they pick Earth? The film is short.... there is plenty of room for an inside look on the Alien Spirit civilization.Final Fantasy is not exhilarating, innovating, or even exciting. Granted, all my Final Fantasy friends loved the movie. I thought it was a boring action &#133;. no, anime&#133;movie, one without any excitement  with &#145;literally' breathtaking special effects. Did that save the movie? No. "}{"Title":"A very good Sci-Fi film","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This has got to be one of best Sci-Fi films I have seen in a while.  The animation was superior to nearly all other animation films (equal to Shrek) that I have seen.  The plot line was original and the presentation very good.  The only bad part was the ending which was a little strange and unlikely for this story line.  It could have been more believable here if the circumstances had been changed slightly.  If you like Sci-Fi, you will like this one.Over all, very good Sci-Fi film (8 out of 10). "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sitting in this movie, I was shocked by three things 1. The computer graphics are absolutely amazing. 2. The plot and storyline are absolutely terrible. 3. The Spider-Man teaser trailer was more enjoyable than this entire movie.  That pretty much sums it up. Some people give this movie a high review because the CG's were great, which they were, but I care more about what goes on than how they look doing it. The animation is the only factor that saves movie from a grade of 1, but it was just so outstanding that it gets two points by itself. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie That Promises A Lot For The Future","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really wasn't going to see this movie because I happen to be the only person on the planet who truly hates this entire series of video games, but I am so glad I overcame that!Although it's going to be a while before we can expect CG people to replace real actors on the screen convincingly, the design and production of this movie was so good that I forgot about that comparison instantly.The level of detail of the characters was amazing, as was the scenery and everything else. I was really looking forward to seeing how the characters could handle deep emotion, and as expected, that was the telling flaw in their design (if you could call it that). However, the fluidity of most of their movements (Aki at times would dart her head around like some kind of bird as the animators attempted to show off her hair) surpasses even the highest quality gaming experiences and must have taken forever to get working.The story may or may not have been textbook, but it was presented in such a way as to still invoke thought on some level. Let's face it though; everyone's going to see this for the graphics, and this movie has the same effect on the artistically inclined as Top Gun had for wannabe pilots. I wanted to find an animation school open at 230 AM so I could get in and start doing that stuff immediately. I was absolutely compelled.Even if you don't like the game, anime, cartoons, sci-fi, whatever - go see this movie. You'll leave with a wide-open mouth. I promise! I can't wait to see what's coming, because the efforts can only get better from here. "},{"Title":"The Definition of mediocre is...","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Hype can make or break a film, in this case it shattered it to the subatomic level.Final Fantasy could have been so much better, Square Soft spent too much time on the graphics and not enough on the storyline. Great SFX never makes a good film the storyline does.However this film was not a complete disappointment, it had its good moment, but those were brief and were in short supply.The main problem I found with this film was that I only felt I entered the film half way and was stuck in the middle. It never had a real start or decent ending.Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is the definition of mediocre. "},{"Title":"The goods and the bad.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As an avid Final Fantasy guru, I had actually been awaiting this movie since the dawn of Seven--and then got the hype up when you could see the previews. Needless to say, I had made my plans to see the movie six months in advance.  Now, did it live up to what was expected by myself and all Fantasy Fanatics?Yes...and no.I must say that Square did a grand job of putting (for you serious Fantatics) sixty-plus hours of what we go through in one of the Fantasies into about two hours, right?  Wrong.  The spectacular thing about the movie was there was no comparison to the games, whatsoever--a non-gamer could enjoy the movie without having played the game ('cept to be curious as to why people sat through the credits ;P).The storyline was a bit iffy in places, but the characters had their wit, though emotion was mega-lacking in a few places, where characters should have been hysterical, crying, enraged or mushy-mushy.  The bad guys moved better than the humans most of the time, and because they were foreign beings, we couldn't tell if something was wrong--compared to the Barbie Doll feel to the human hands.  Dr. Sid looked -so- realistic it was unbelievable. So did the faces of every main character...save for the lack of emotional response in their faces--except their eyebrows.I found it rather insulting, however, that the composer of the games' music, Nobuo Uematsu, was -not- the composer of the music in the movie.  Good job, Elliot, anyhow, though!  (Superb music...though I think Uematsu would've done better.)All-in-all?  A terrifically wonderful movie--bravo and encore to Square!  "},{"Title":"Bring earplugs plot not worth paying attention to","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The spectacular special effects of this film has been totally wasted on a dumb plot. The trouble with the plot is that it is a metaphor of a WEIRD Japanese fantasy.The fantasy is that the earth is sacred and is a living spirit. The movie further adds that our spirit is part of the earth's spirit. Then the plot gets even more ridiculous by showing alien ghosts who kill humans even though they are not invaders. These alien ghosts consume our spirit and spit it into the spirit of the earth. etc etc. If you think this makes sense, then you need to stay away from LSD.The movie itself is worth watching because of its dazzling special effects. But you might as well bring earplugs because the storyline will annoy you lot more than entertain you. "},{"Title":"Very Impressive, can't get enough of it","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have seen Final Fantasy and I couldn't get enough of it. Ok, I have to admit as you know you are looking at a movie that is purely artificial you can't help yourself looking for all the details and so. Normally you wouldn't pick at little things but in this case you already get frustrated if for example Aki's hair is a little to heavy or something, just because you know it's fake. Another thing might be the fact that yes indeed the persons in the movie are all archetypes and therefor a little to plastic. I think the fact that we have such basic characters in a movie like this is to keep it understandable. My favorite character however is General Hein. James Woods' voice and the arched eyebrowned face truly give a character away that is very likeable and even realistic. One final thing the 3d-computerboys forgot to include in their film is horrified facials. I noticed that when the characters get in real danger they never seem to put on that face that you make when you are truly scared, they only look startled or disappointed.I advice everyone to go and see this movie. I hope more of this stuff will come!!! "},{"Title":"Perhaps I'm Biased","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is going to be difficult.There have been 9 Final Fantasy games released so far.  To those who are unaware, none of these games have anything to do with one another.  They all take place in different worlds with different settings.  What links all nine installments together are the themes and ideas.Everything from the concept of a 'living' planet to that of one's dreams and assumed identity recur.  The characters in every single game draw upon similar intents.  It seems to be three males and two females, each representing a mindset (the main character often seems to be a pessimist, the antagonist often impatient and maniacal). Along with this, similar plot twists and events also occur within all the games.This is perhaps why I was so ecstatic with Final Fantasy The Spirits Within.  It stays entirely true to the original series.  The ideas are there.  The plot is true to the tradition of Final Fantasy.  It contains the intriguing blend of anime sci-fi with Star Wars fantasy.  Similar themes and characters appear (particularly Dr. Sid, on a literal level, who appears older and wiser from FF6, FF7, FF8 and the movie).As a film, it has major flaws.  The lacking music.  The awful dialogue (which some might be able to tolerate, and maybe even reminisce, because of the loosely translated games).  And, of course, average voice performances.Hironobu Sakaguchi, originator of the series, wrote and directed this picture.  This is a direct testament of Final Fantasy The Spirits Within being the most accurate translation from another medium onto the big screen.Oh, and the animation was good too. "},{"Title":"Compare it to Princess Mononoke, then rate it poorly if you can","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy might not be the greatest film, or even animated film, ever. However, I cannot believe that anyone can rate this film less than an 8/10 for several reasons.First and foremost, the CG animation is, without question, the best the world of film has EVER seen.  I think ten seconds of this film would take my PC about three years to render.  In assessing the quality of the animation, one has to ask themselves Has anyone ever done any better?  I don't think anyone can truthfully answer yes.  Thus begins the comparison to the highly acclaimed anime film Princess Mononoke.  While Mononoke possesses very good animation, Final Fantasy's visuals are a true work of the utmost artistry and the pinnacle of animation craftsmanship.  Final Fantasy set out to push the limits of what CG animation can do and did a spectacular job.  When the creators were asked wouldn't it have been easier to make this film live-action? they responded by saying, Yes.  But we're doing this BECAUSE it is challenging!  (not a direct quote so don't get angry).  I cannot begin to imagine the amount of work that went into creating the animation for this film; animation that will set the bar for all CG animated films from here on out.  Please people, this film puts the visuals from some of the greatest sci-fi films of all time to shame!  If you thought that Princess Mononoke was impressive visually, you must have been awestruck by this film.  Yes, there are flaws in the animation.  Again, Has anyone EVER done any better?Second the story.  Ah yes, the balance of nature has been upset and it's up to a lone group of outsiders with special insight into the situation and a unique set of abilities to set everything right.  Along the way, there are an ignorant few who, while perhaps good intentioned, are making things worse while trying to make them better.  In the end, the life of the spirit of the Earth itself hangs in the balance, but after a climactic battle, the balance is restored.  Which film am I talking about?  Princess Mononoke?  Final Fantasy?  If you're a fan of Japanese animated film, you'll find these themes very common, and both Mononoke and Final Fantasy contain these elements.  Really, Princess Mononoke isn't very original, so why expect so much from Final Fantasy?  If Princess Mononoke is hailed as having a great story, how can you say differently of Final Fantasy if they're the same? There weren't many lulls in the story telling in Final Fantasy.  In fact, I found the pacing of Princess Mononoke much more lacking.  However, one film is critically acclaimed and scripted by Neil Gaiman; the other is a film from a company that makes video games.  Why let WHO made the film prejudice your judgement of the QUALITY of the film?  It seems that those who are critical of the Final Fantasy's story are judging the film using different standards than those that have given Princess Mononoke the #108 spot on the IMDB top 250 list.Third the acting.  The acting is better in Princess Mononoke?!  I found the dubbing from Princess Mononoke far more artificial than Final Fantasy.  At points during Mononoke, I felt like laughing out loud at the quality of the voice acting.  So the acting in Final Fantasy wasn't the best acting ever. So what?  Can you say that the acting in Princess Mononoke was worthy of Academy Award nominations?  Then how can anyone expect that from Final Fantasy?For those of you who haven't seen the film, I can simply tell you that I did not leave the theatre feeling cheated of my money.  If you're a fan of animation, this is simply a must see, especially on the big-screen.  Final Fantasy is a film that has been treated unfairly.  Is this the best film ever?  No.  Is this a great work of animation?  Yes.  Is this film AT LEAST as good as Princess Mononoke, currently rated 8.4 on IMDB?  Princess Mononoke was good.  But significantly higher caliber film than Final Fantasy as the reviews suggest?  Please!  Try again! "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy The Spirits Without Souls","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Many people herald the Final Fantasy series as the most popular video game franchise in the world. It's no doubt that each of the award-winning installment has all the right ingredients great graphics and gameplay, a truly emotional soundtrack by our dear Nobuo Uematsu and most of all, the most important element that keep the entire series enjoyable intriguing storyline. Ever since I always expect that Final Fantasy The Spirit Within will have all these elements that are crucial for the game's success. By the time it is released, my expectations finally shattered.The movie looks promising at first but after a few minutes of anxiety and excitement, things start to get weary. Maybe the best scenes in the movie are mostly depicted from the trailer, leaving the uneventful moments untouched. There are so many bad things about this FF epic despite the incredible uses of CGI and other newfound techniques.  Dr. Aki Ross and her gang look realistic but they tend to act like robotic pups throughout the whole show. Worst yet, they are truly one dimensional characters that seem to follow every single order by the director. Truly bland and emotionless, nobody wants to waste their money just looking at their so-called fluid antics. Like Headmaster Cid has mentioned to Seifer in FFVIII,I don't want them to become machines. The dark atmosphere makes the movie itself worse it isn't as colorful or vivacious as the FF games, something that is not supposed to occur.The entire settings reminds me of Aliens and there isn't a single glimpse of Chocobos (I heard there is, but not much), mages and knights (in the present? That would be highly original!) or even the powerful summoned monster like Shiva and Alexander (Sob!). As for the soundtrack, it's purely disappointing. I always expect some similar FF themes to appear on the score which is, unfortunately, not available.Hardcore FF fans might expect the movie to hit big but soon they'll realize that they've just found a gnome. Many ambitious movies such as Godzilla and Titan A.E. have failed and FF The Spirit Within may likely be listed in this greatest movie flops category.  "}{"Title":"Good Animation . . . Bad Story . . .","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was disappointed greatly by this film.  The animation was astounding, I will give it that.  There were times in the film that I forgot that it was not real . . . but the story was horrible.  It gave no depth to the story. None at all and I could have cared less about the characters.  I all about gave out a yawn when three main characters were killed within five minutes. It also gave no depth to what they were really trying to do.  No explanation. . .just bang, bang, bang . . . end of movie.  And even the bang, bang, bang part was boring.  The movie was two hours long and halfway through I was thinking to myself that this movie should end.  It was about that point that I just started paying attention to the animation and not the story. (Sad part is the story was so simplistic that I was able to pay attention to both with no problems.)  Finally it was nothing, and I mean nothing, like any of the Final Fantasy video games.  Now before you start thrashing me saying they have nothing to do with each other anyway . . .I must clarify. None of the Final Fantasy's have anything to do with Earth or anytime even near the present.  In the movie it was 64 years from now on planet earth. I'm sorry, this movie should not have been made.  It was just a bunch of animators showing off that they can make computer animation look real, or close to it.  That is all it is.     "},{"Title":"The Negative, The Positive, and The Bottom Line","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Negative Some character features are still too perfect.  Almost plastic looking.  The area around the eyes need more imperfections.  Mouth movement doesn't quite fit.The Positive  For being an animated movie, with simple voice-overs, the story was quite entertaining.  Dr. Sid was by far the most impressive of all characters.  It was easy to forget that what you were watching wasn't real. Model movement was amazingly life-like.The Bottom Line  Entertaining story, unbelievable CG Animation.  I recommend this movie simply to witness how far our technology has come, and just how far we can go as processing power increases exponentially. "},{"Title":"Final FantasyRevenge of the CG animators.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Here is a movie made for 12 year olds by 14 year olds with a terrific amount of computer training. The much hyped realism of the humanoid computer-models is initially impressive but can't sustain the interest of the viewer.The problem lies...without getting too technical about it... in the technology that captures the motion of the live actors who are used to make the moves that are then incorporated into the computer image and also to some degree by the japanese acting of the animators. It is interesting to note that all the eyes are brown and dead looking. Lightning up the eyes... an easy task with this technology...would have improved the live look as a viewer generally watches the eyes of an actor.. What works best in this film is the imagery based on geometry machines,buildings,weapons,actors in armor,and the plasmoid jelly-monsters. The storytelling aspect...which is the film itself...is a total failure ,if you are more than 12 years old and/or don't spend your life playing video games.Clearly the key personel of this picture do spend their livesin this way. Even comic-book readers will find the plot incomprehensible.That may not be a bad thing.as most action/SF/efx  pictures of recent times have incomprehensible plots..proving that the audience itself may be incomprehensible. Final Fantasy has about 5 scenes repeated over and over again using different props and backgrounds , resulting in an extremely boring picture.Everything in this film...from the post-nuclear-destruction look to the starwarsy flying machines and explosions...is a repetition of everything thrown on the screen in recent years. Despite its technology this picture has no imagination or ideas.After leaving the theater the lasting impression is that one just saw another special effects movie with very bad acting.It is sad that after 4 years of production and 110 million bucks and clearly a lot of technical know-how all the makers could come up with is a shoot-them-up videogame but not a motion picture. "},{"Title":"Quite cool, good not great","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't think there can be much question that Final Fantasy is the new benchmark in computer animated movies. Based on comments I'd heard from friends, I went in with pretty high expectations, and I was still impressed with the visual wizardry. This movie brings home the fact that this technology is probably only a few years away from being really dangerous-- I hope that audiences take a second to try and imagine the potential social and political chaos that could ensue when digitally created images make the small steps left in becoming indistinguishable from reality. Oh right, this is supposed to be a movie review...Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a wondrous feat of computer animation, but I won't say it's a great movie (I give it a 7 or 7.5 overall). The plot is pretty basic, the dialogue even more basic, character development is weak, and even with the great look, there is something cold and empty about watching something so close to real that still isn't (the same problem I had with Shrek's Cameron Diaz's character). Maybe it's the use of very recognizable voices (Woods, Baldwin, Buscemi, Sutherland, etc.), but I found myself wanting to see the real face, just so I could actually connect with the characters. Basically, I'll admit that the high rating is largely because of what I feel to be simply unparalleled animation effects. There are some cool scenes that would do good live action justice, and the story does have some interesting ideas, but this movie ultimately rests on the fact that just about every scene is fascinating to watch for novelty's sake. In a few years, when this kind of animation looks like Pong to today's videogamers, Final Fantasy will be a ho hum title. Right now, it is pretty neat stuff, definitely worth a watch or two.    "},{"Title":"Great Animation. Predictable story line with . . .","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great Animation. Predictable story line with a couple of bright spots.But in the end you are left feeling COLD about all the characters. You are also left with that PREACHED AT  feeling, quite annoying. (Could the under lying  message thump you on the head any harder? Doubtful.)6/10 max "},{"Title":"Special Effects Saves the film","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie leaves many questions unanswered.If the ghosts are not invaders then how come they kill humans? What does the destruction of THEIR planet has to do with the spirit of the earth? What the do they want from us???? How does their 8th freaken spirit mesh with GAIA??? What makes each of the 8 spirits truly special other then they are alive? How come that eagle is never one of the spirits???? Why would ghosts would want to invade the civilian cities so badly if they are not invaders????What is the Final Fantasy? There isn't even a real finality to this movie.The special effects of this movie is dazzling. Unfortunately, it is apparent the producers believed the special effects alone will carry this movie, and it did, BARELY. The plot leaves all intelligent questions unanswered. I don't think it is because the movie is trying to be cryptic. The movie simpy doesn't have a plot which makes sense. "},{"Title":"How did it get past the execs at Columbia? (Not that it is bad... Spoilers)","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yeesh, that is a review. Anyway, while not great, it is better than lots of films that get released these days. I really want to know Square Pictures secret, however... (Spoiler) How do you get past the execs at Columbia with such a film? Again, not the greatest film, but still good. That isn't the point, though. The point is that so many films have bad happy endings, that with such a down ending (only two heroes live through the whole film) it is surprising that it could get released. (Spoiler over) I was trying to get through the whole film without just saying, Wow! Those are good effects. I must get the director's e-mail address! I succeeded, so I can't talk about the animation much. (Just this How do you do this with a publically available 3D suite? If I'm confusing you, skip these reviews.) Rating 4/6 "},{"Title":"Not the movie that Final Fantasy Fanatics deserve","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm a die-hard fan of Final Fantasy games.  I can honestly say that I've played every game that holds the name 'Final Fantasy' and to say that my anticipation for this movie was greater than any other should go without mentioning.  And I must say that I walked away disappointed.  Don't get me wrong - this movie is worth anybody's money for the ticket.  The graphics are incredible.  The voice-acting is amazing.  And the story is worth noting.  However, if you are going to see this movie just because it has the Final Fantasy name on it, then think before you do it.The Final Fantasy franchise has captivated millions world-wide, and this movie is just another trophy on Square's shelf.  But for those of us that see the movie expecting to see some of the classic Final Fantasy traditions (elements, magic, summons, character names) on the big screen, we were let down.  With the exception of Sid, there wasn't much in the film that proved worthy to carry the great name that is 'Final Fantasy.' Don't expect me to call this movie bad, because it wasn't.  It just isn't the movie that the Final Fantasy enthusiasts have long waited for.  Maybe next time, Square. "},{"Title":"Graphically unbeatable, nominal story line, worth the wait.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First, you have to go into this movie with the right attitude. Be prepared to be amazed with eye candy as much here with the technology and graphics as you were in Jurassic Park when that hit the screens, because the difference in the leap of technology is about the same. At times you will find yourself in absolute awe at some of the scenes, making this movie a 10 based on technology alone. But, where it excels in technology, it loses in story depth, the only real negative about the movie, and even then, the story line is good enough to support the goal of the movie. That goal, obviously, is to be a vehicle for the makers to show off their talents regarding computer animation, which they achieved. "},{"Title":"Typical strengths and weaknesses of Japanimation","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I admit that I have never been able to cultivate an interest in anime. While the visuals are stunning in their beauty and intricacy, the characters are all cardboard, and the plots don't make any sense. It's best to think of FINAL FANTASY as a very big-budget Japanimation film. The computer graphics are groundbreaking; one gets the feeling that this may be the TRON of the future, a so-so movie that showcases what the tomorrow will hold. The biggest problem is the plot, which deals with vague spiritual concepts that I think would leave hard sci-fi fans completely cold. Another film that comes to mind in this regard is Luc Besson's THE FIFTH ELEMENT, where a beautiful production was ruined by lazy plotting and puerile philosophical concepts.I do recommend seeing FINAL FANTASY on the big screen just for the incredible visuals, but don't expect an engaging story. "}{"Title":"If you've seen the Alien you've seen a superior version of this","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My dad wanted to see this movie, I myself am not a fan of CG films, but allowed myself to be dragged to a screening.  SPOILERS AHEAD The visuals in this film are truly awe inspiring, the characters lifelike to the point that even their pupils dilate in light.  However the film lacked originality and depth.  The plot was campy, and the visuals really couldn't save the horrible voice acting.  The whole movie is very much like a computer animated version of the Alien movies.  The characters lacked a soul, and really CG people cannot act.  Don't waste your money.  C- "},{"Title":"technology over story?","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm sick and tired of those movies that are used to brag about the advances in technology and forget to provide a story that is actually interesting. Good thing Final Fantasy is not one of those movies. I was so impressed with the animation that I actually started looking for flaws (which was usually just lighting).  In some scenes you could swear up and down you're looking at a photographic movie. Not only good graphics, but it had a wonderful story as well.  I don't want to spoil anything for the future audiences, so I won't get into explaining it. Um.......that's all I really have to say. "},{"Title":"Finally, a decent video game flick...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** It's about time they made a decent videogame-movie.Let's see we've had Street Fighter, Mortal Kombat and it's horrid freakin' sequel. And who could forget Super Mario Bros.? (If you have, count yourself lucky.) Then of course, we had this summer's stinker, Tomb Raider.But finally... Final Fantasy. Sure, the plot's got nothing to do with the video game whatsoever, but ya know... maybe that's why it succeeds. Okay, so I'll admit that the acting is mediocre and the plot's as thin as a communion wafer, but... MAN does it LOOK GREAT!Honestly, we all know deep down inside of us that the only reason that we're going to see this movie is for the outstanding visuals in it. This movie has taken computer animation to a realm that I never thought it'd reach. But, what do I know? In the first scene we get a closeup of the heroine's eye and... man... the animators weren't shy. They were confident in their work and they SHOW OFF in this movie. Now let's get on to the... ahem... story, if you will.The story involves a funky new age theory that the earth contains something called a Gaia. What this is... is a spirit. This dude, Dr Sid, states that every living thing -- humans, animals, plants -- all have a spirit. Well guess where that comes into play? YOU GUESSED IT! These spirits are humanity's only hope against soul-stealing transparant aliens! So our heroine, Aki, is on a mission to recover the eight spirits (why 8? Good question). So she... along with a band of misfit soldiers, commanded by Aki's ex-beau, Grey (who looks strangely like Ben Affleck)... goes out in search for the sacred spirits. And along the way, of course, they face a bunch of really cool lookin' but really bad, bad alien phantoms, who're able to steal the life from a human, just by coming in contact with them.Now... the characters in this movie... well, they leave much to be desired. In fact, the only character that I TRULY connected with was Steve Buscemi's character, Neil, the lowly comic-relief pilot. I LOVED this guy! I don't know why... Buscemi's voice coming from that body just... wasn't right. But other than that, he was outstanding, because he wasn't a comic-relief in the ALWAYS SCREWS UP AND THAT'S WHY HE'S FUNNY way. Because this guy was actually good at what he did and he was a very important character in the film. The rest of the character's don't really give you much to care about. I mean, yeah you want Aki and Grey to get together but that's only because you've been programmed by sterotypical movies your whole life and you EXPECT the hero and the heroine to get together, right?! Ming-Na was decent as Aki, but nothing spectacular. Alec Baldwin as Grey... well, he was also okay. Not bad... just not real good. Steve Buscemi, as I stated before... was great. Ving Rhames was great as always but the script doesn't give him a whole lot to work with and we never really get to see his character develop. Rounding out the supporting cast were Peri Gilpin, who absolutely sucked as Jane and Donald Sutherland as Dr. Sid.Now, this animation is breathtaking. It's so life-like and at the same time. it's something else completely. Never once do you think that these characters. Grey, Aki. are real humans. Not once. But you accept that they are LIVING BEINGS. To me. they almost seemed like some sort of living action figures. Their skin looked so lifelike but at the same time it looked so plastic and fake. But don't get me wrong. this isn't a complaint at all. In fact, in my opinion, it only added to the overall effect of the movie. And the world that these people live in. This could only be accomplished in the world of a computer. There's no possible way to film any of these locations in real life. It's just impossible. There are scenes that show our characters in anti-gravity, and while this has been done before, it's never been done in such a way that we see the INDIVIDUAL HAIRS on the person's head FLOATING! It's freakin' amazing, that's all there is to it.Now for a few qualms that I've got with this film. For those of you who haven't seen it and don't wish for certain plot points to be revealed to you, I suggest you leave now because the dreaded SPOILERS are headed your way.Okay, like I said, the plot of this movie is paper-thin. It tries. it STRIVES to be a complicated and intelligent plot, but all it really does is make itself confusing. There are so many elements in this story, that you'd think that people would be ranting and raving about how well-written it is, but in actuality. all of the elements in this story are rather silly. I mean. Gaia? The Spirit of Earth? Sounds like a bunch of tree-huggin' hippie crap, but in this movie it's an actual SCIENTIFIC THEORY! And what about these PHANTOMS? I mean, we're told about two-thirds into the movie that they're not actual aliens, but rather they're ghosts that TRAVELLED THROUGH SPACE to earth. Now, that in itself is a rather stupid concept but get this The Phantoms are ghosts. the Phantoms move through a human body and steal it's life-force and yet. GUNS HURT THEM! The humans shoot the Phantom. BOOM! It falls! Like a living creature it falls! But it's already dead! HOW DO YOU KILL SOMETHING THAT'S ALREADY DEAD!?!Well, it felt good to get that out.Now, the bottom line If you walk into this movie expecting great acting, a great story and great characters, then you're in for a huge disappointment. BUT, if you go into this movie expecting a lot of really really COOL looking stuff and lots of action and things BLOWING UP, then you'll enjoy yourself.And you know what? You're allowed to enjoy yourself at the movies. Sometimes you're allowed to go in a watch a movie and not expect it to be anything more than what it is. And what Final Fantasy is. is a shallow-sci-fi flick. but it LOOKS GREAT.  "},{"Title":"Sleeper Hit of '01","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow, a sci-fi movie with an interesting, original, pseudo-scientific plot. Don't see many of these anymore. It was able to balance all of that with some incredible action sequences. And the computer animation was incredible down to the last detail, whether it was depicting the fall of New York under a horde of spirits, or a character moving through a spacestation in zero gravity. Forget what the naysayers are saying about how `fake' the people look (It's called suspension of disbelief. The same people probably had no problem with the human characters in `Toy Story'.).`Final Fantasy', along with `Memento', is probably the only movie I've seen this summer that hasn't disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Amazing animation/ good writing/ weird storyline","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  From the opening sequence to the very end of the movie it is one breath taking animation feat after another. Not to mention the excellent cinematography. I thoroughly enjoyed watching the movie. The characters were likeable and seemed to interact well. The fact is that you forget you are watching animation after a while. Now the down side. I felt as if I was being proselytized into the New Age movement. The movie makes a shameful plug for the New Age faith by trying to justify the faith with science. Not that I have a problem with that but it wasn't very convincing. All in all, the movie was worth my time but maybe I would have felt better renting it rather than paying to watch it on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"Just like VIII Good visuals, Mediocre story","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don't get me wrong. This film is great. Square awes us once again with stunning visuals and unique characters. But this movie turned out like FF8. Everyone loved it for awhile because of the visuals. Then they learned the story sucked.I personally thought it was okay, but there have been mixed impressions. The animation looked very real, with a futuristic theme (complete with cheesy ad placing in the first scenes, like the Pepsi and Sony billboards, lit up by Aki's flare).The story like was a tad on the FF7 side, though not NEARLY as good. Devastated earth in the future, invasion of an alien race, named Phantoms.Pretty good there, but nothing more than a modern Sci-Fi movie.Aki and her mentor, Doctor Cid (I know it's Sid, but in my book, and Sid in an FF is C-i-d.), are testing a theory about 8 spirits. After obtaining 6, they find the Phantom inside Aki can be contained. Of course, no one believes.Then everyone dies and they're right.Hmm. Overall, this movie was pretty good, and I reccomend you go see it. It has some disappointing moments (such as when Neil, the comedy relief, dies. He dies comically, though. That's a plus.), but no real biggies. Best film I've seen in awhile. "},{"Title":"Great computer graphics and sound effects","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Some friends and I watched Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, the sci-fic movie that everyone was talking about. It had great graphics, sound effects, and the voices blended in perfectly. The worst thing that I thought about the movie is the phantoms. Pretty weird- looking when they pull the spirit out of people. The plot was okay with the spirit-searching and looking for the similarity of the phantoms. The movie was pretty long, longer than the average movie. Overall, this move was WAY better than the other similar movies. I suggest people who like sci-fic movies, computer graphics, great sounds, and interesting plots, this movies for you. "},{"Title":"A rental at best.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Aside from the beautiful computer graphics, this movie was very unspectacular. In fact the animation wasn't that great either. They tried to go for realism, but the motion capture used for the characters really distracts from the movie. The story was a rehash of Aliens, and the dialogue wasn't anything to write home about. With a few exceptions, the characters are not developed at all. The one character that is developed is the villain, who is fairly interesting. The plot is muddled and uninteresting, and by the end of the movie you don't care what happens to the characters, you just want the movie to end. One redeeming thing is that the music is quite good. It was never pretentious (like in Pearl Harbor), and never needlessly drew attention to itself (Blade, or any other bad action movie). "},{"Title":"Not without flaws, but a very enjoyable movie","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I wanted to view this movie without any preconceptions about how good or bad it was going to be.  I've been anticipating it for a year now and swooning at the previews, and then I saw that a lot of critics didn't really care for it.I agree with some of the things the critics say, but I don't let that detract from my appreciation of this film.The quality of animation, despite not being able to *quite* capture the nuances in a human face (subtle muscle movements, etc.), is excellent.  Of course, objects and landscapes are far easier to do, so you have 98% believable humans walking around in a world that doesn't clash with them or make it look like these actors were pasted onto different vistas.  Everything meshes very well.  I was particularly impressed with the concepts of the phantoms (the bad guys) and the different types of phantoms that gave them a bit of variety (appreciated!) .The voice acting is... better than a lot of English-dubbed japanese animation that I've seen.  Yes, there are parts where it seems like they're reading from the script instead of actually putting emotion into their words but it's not enough to make you wince and grimace and squirm in your seat until the scene is over.  And as far as the dialog itself, it's bearable.  Expect some cheese, but not enough to make you wave your hand in front of your nose.  ** POSSIBLE SPOILER **The plot?  It may seem convoluted to some, but it's actually textbook Final Fantasy given some of recent games in the series.  Technologically advanced humans have to deal with spiritual / mythical factors in their world.  Towards the end of the movie, veterans of the games will probably agree with my friend who said that it's a perfect *prequel* to Final Fantasy VII.  Final Fantasy VII dealt a lot with the spirit of the planet and how the stuff we do could really screw it up if we're not careful.  The movie doesn't focus on this, but one of the movie's conflicts deal with two ways to rid Earth of the aliens the spiritual way developed by the female lead and her scientist mentor, or the military way which uses a super-powerful orbital cannon that could just make things worse by wounding the planet.If you're not a player of the Final Fantasy games, you'll be wowed by the animation but you may grimace at some of the plot and delivery.  If you are a Final Fantasy player, you'll be wowed by the animation, recognize some of the plot, and grimace at some of the delivery.  But if you can get past the minor blemishes, *everyone* who's interested in seeing a decent sci-fi fantasy movie will not feel they've wasted their money.  This is *not* an ehh, it's a rental-deal; see it in the theaters!  "},{"Title":"All together an excellent film","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No one can really disagree that Final Fantasy is nothing short of a historical movie simply because it's the first full CGI movie to feature a full human cast. Not to mention is the first CGI movie to be marketed to the mature audience. You may not be deeply moved by the story, but you will leave the theater knowing you watched the beginning of the next step in movies.It isn't exactly a crime for a summer blockbuster to depend on special effects, and considering this movie (save the voices and sound) is entirely visual effect, Final Fantasy has a lot to fall back on. And they are fantastic effects. While nearly the whole time you know you're watching digital people, there are some instances where you have to remind yourself that they aren't real. There is no shortage of eye candy in this filmNow critics are always going to try to rip on something, and the easy target is the story of this movie. But I want to inform everyone the story isn't that bad. All the critics say It's generic and dull, blah blah. But I found it rather engrossing, and sometimes pretty suspenseful. Subtract the one part (you'll know it when you see it) where the dialouge just goes to hell for a minute, the story is good, not great, but good.So here's the score sheetSpecial effect the star of the movie 10Realness of the humans sometimes they are so close to fooling you, but other times the movement and expressions are lacking. 8story not fantastic, but enough to keep your interest 7character development I know it's possible to feel for animated characters, but you just don't feel for most of these guys 7Overall 8  "}{"Title":"graphics = orgasmic , storyline = disgrace","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've played every Final Fantasy and MANY videogames in my short life-span but this movie had the most amazing graphics i've ever seen....anywhere. I've waited for 4 years for this movie to finally come out and it did! At first i was *stunned* by the computer graphics. the opening scene shocked me with the detailed, believable graphics of the virtual reality. The film looked like a video game from the future. There were times in the movie when i could not distinguish between real flesh and the one's created in virtual reality. The graphics were almost totally believable and made you forget you were watching a CG cartoon or anime. My only disappointment was the fact that characters other than Aki and cid were not designed as well. The faces were more flatter and less-detailed, thus less believable. The name Aki is japanese by the way. Nevertheless i, being a videogamer for a decade appreciated the value of CG graphics generated in this movie. I kept wanting for more.The story line on the other hand was Very weak. It basically had no plot. It somehow involved collecting spirit to defeat these monsters called phantoms. The explanations made in the plot made absolutely no sense. For the longest time i thought the movie was dubbed from japanese to english because the plot made no sense. The characters' personalities were totally ONE-dimentional and this annoyed me. The plot was soo weak and even AWKWARD especially at the end of the movie when i was left wondering it the movie done?CONCLUSION  If you wanna appreciate state-of-the-art CG graphics and settle for weak plot and character developement go for it. In the end i think it was well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just watched the movie, and all I can say is Wow. After reading a few reviews here, I didn't expect too much, but now after watching the film, I'd say that all the people who are giving bad reviews probably never played the games. This movie has so much to offer for someone who has really played any of the Final Fantasy Games and enjoyed playing them. Voice acting was good, the animation was outstanding (not that I expected anything else), and the story was good. Problem is, that a movie can only give us part of the story an epic Video game could give us. That is the biggest problem of this movie. Nonetheless I loved the movie, and I will get it as soon as it comes out. "},{"Title":"Well, that was strange...","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Once you get past the ooh, aah factor of this film, it was not all that great. My initial attraction to this movie was the computer generated graphics and the movie did not disappoint. Once getting past that I focused on the story which, in my opinion, was quite silly. I won't give away the story, but let me say that for a computer or video game, the story would do nicely because the story is basicly filler for the actual game. For a major motion picture, more substance is needed. In short, wait for the video. "},{"Title":"what a beautiful rip-off!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have to say that the technical brilliance of this movie almost blinds me to the fact that many aspects of it are taken from other films.  In a generous mood, i would like to say that this is tribute.  However, given that in the US, most people have never seen, say, Miyazaki Hayao's Kaze no tani no Naushika (Nausicaa of the Valley of the Winds) or read the manga of it (formerly printed by Viz comics in the states, now sadly out of print).  Since the company that bought the US distribution rights to Naushika pillaged the film and released its bastard creation as Warriors of the Wind (the event that kept Miyazaki out of the US until just recently), most US viewers would totally miss the similarities (like Aki's uniform) and some out-and-out lifts (the design for the battle armour worn by the human soldiers).  Not to mention a great deal of the plot and plot devices (Aki, like Nausicaa, communicates with a force thought to be destroying her eco-ravaged world and learns how to deal with it properly).  So sad that Miyazaki-san or Studio Ghibli do not recieve so much as a thank you in the credits...That said, i loved watching the movie.  It is gorgeous and breathtaking, and shows just how bad the efforts of Lucasfilm (who did the sound for FF) at the CG-rendered film elements of Star Wars really are.  There are scenes that it seems so real that you question that you are actually watching animation.  But, really, go hunt down a copy of Kaze no tani no Naushika or, even better (and much easier to find) the manga for it.  No-one can outclass the master! "},{"Title":"Great graphics, plot needed work","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have been looking forward to this film for a LONG time. Now that I have seen it, I have mixed feelings. I will nitpick now.First, the graphics are breathtaking. Not only that, and the direction of the scenes and the virtual camera movement are skillfully done. The only thing I can pick apart of this, is that the animators needed to devote a bit more time to facial animation, namely lips. For the majority of the film the characters look as if they are wearing prosthetic rubber masks, their lips rarely match their speech. And every time I found myself forgetting that I was watching CGI, one of these oversights was close-upped, apparently just to remind me. Dr. Sid (Donald Sutherland) is by far and away the best rendered model ever. Everything on him, from facial wrinkles and lip movement to liver spots on his hands, are perfect. The evil General Hein (James Woods) is by far the worst in the film. Apparently there was no human actor to motion capture for him, because he walks around so stiff that he makes Sam Jackson in Unbreakable look downright limber.Second, the first forty minutes or so of the story are intriguing, riveting, and very suspenseful. Then it takes a kick into some new-age pseudo Native American spirituality. I have no problem with the spiritual philosophy itself, but it feels tacked on and silly in this movie. It just doesn't fit the dark and somber mood of the beginning of the film.Third, Sci-Fi characters from a can. I don't think I gave a flying rats tail about any of them.Don't get me wrong, I did enjoy this movie. The voice acting is flawless and the graphics and effects are beyond compare. Also worth noting is the production design, which is brilliant. From the guns and armor to the spacecraft down to the design of the aliens, they are inspired and original. I give it six out of ten. "},{"Title":"Let's take a minute or two...","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...to take a break from all you 'plot' critics out there (Why do you 'plot' critics even go to movies, anyway? We hate your whining. Now go home and see if YOU can write something better and let US enjoy the movies)Anyway, as other people have said, this is the first step in the future of movies (at least action movies to start out).  The CGI is the best you've ever seen, and the story worked well.  The ending was a little drawn out, but they definitely get an 'A' for effort.  One thing I looked for in addition to awsome action scenes was how emotion was expressed on the character's faces.  This they still need to work on.  Some facial expressions really drew you into the scene, but other times a very emotional scene had dead-pan expressions.  The voice talent (Alec Baldwin, Ving Rames) kept the characters believable.  Overall, it's definitely something to be viewed on the big screen.  8 out of 10.Ok, we now bring you back to our normally scheduled program of Plot Bashers. "},{"Title":"One weird ass movie","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Im a fan of these Final Fantasy games but the movie seemed a little bit disappointing. It's below average. Half the time I didn't even know what the hell was going on. But if you want to see it go ahead and waste your eight bucks. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but not as epic as the games","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" As a movie, this one really wasn't bad overall. In fact it was quite good. Still, if you're a fan of the games you may be disappointed. It did not have that huge, moving epic feel that the games have simply because it was too short.Let me start out by saying that I am a long time fan of the games. I was first introduced to Final Fantasy when the first game came out for the original Nintendo. But back then, I was more of a Dragon Warrior (Dragon Quest) fan and didn't give it much of a chance. I didn't become hooked until Final Fantasy IV came out in the US for Super Nintendo as Final Fantasy II in 1991. This game had it all; an epic story line, great character development, major plot twists, and beautiful music. I became a squaresoft addict, playing nearly every game they released. Now I am, 22, and still playing these games! I remembered dreaming about seeing Final Fantasy on the big screen, but eventually realized it would do much better as a series. The average Final Fantasy game is 50 hours long and the average movie is 110 minutes. An epic can probably be captured in a 3 hour film, but no less than that.Well, now the movie is out, and I was unfortunately correct. There didn't seem to be enough time to establish the characters or provide space for major plot twists. There were a few surprises here and there, but none of the major twists that made the game stories so interesting. Perhaps this is only the first part in a bigger story, it was semi- open ended after all, but on its own the story was rather bland. I think Square tried too hard to conform to the standard Hollywood formula action movie, and in the process lost a lot of the magic and originality that they created in the games.Another complaint I have has to do with the music. I understand Nobuo Uematsu has been rather busy with the now quite frequent releases of new Final Fantasy games, but I still missed his presence. The score was good for this movie and fit well with the action, but it was a standard action movie soundtrack, nothing really sticking out or particularly interesting like the music in the games. One might argue that movie soundtracks shouldn't get in the way of the action on screen, but there was nothing memorable. I guess I just miss the flowing harp, wild bass lines, and organ work that would make Keith Emerson proud that Mr. Uematsu has provided us in the games. His music has a very progressive, powerful, and epic sound not heard enough in movies.Okay, enough of the bad stuff. The best part about this movie was, as everyone mentioned, the visuals. Final Fantasy has certainly come a long way from the munchkin people of the first game. The action scenes were particularly good, and the designs of, well, everything was superb.Final Fantasy continuity enthusiasts (I know there are a few of you out there) may like the movie's story more than I gave it credit for. This movie fits quite well within the overall story and provides a frame of reference from which we can place the rest of the games. Since FF1-5 takes place in the past, and FF6-9 takes place in the future, this movie would have to have taken place after Final Fantasy V and before Final Fantasy VI. Therefore, it would have to take place several thousand years after the events in the OAV series. In fact, we finally have a year, 2065, which means this is the only Final Fantasy that takes place within the limited time span of the Christian Calendar. The Lunarians have already left our planet, and magic, monsters, and dragons has faded away on Earth. I don't want to spoil anything that happens in the movie, but let's just say that the humans finally get back in touch with the elemental spirits of the planet. Perhaps this triggers the return of the gifts the Lunarians left behind. This is a good logical setup for the war of the magi which takes place perhaps thousands of years later before Final Fantasy VI. Still, the continuity between the Final Fantasy games is vague at best as it is hinted at very subtly. Many do not believe that an overall story exists (although I and several others could provide a lot of evidence against that assumption).Don't worry if you don't understand any of the previous paragraph, this movie, as all Final Fantasy games, is a stand alone story, and no knowledge is required of previous Final Fantasy games. If you're a sf/fantasy/anime fan, you'll probably like this movie, it is reminiscent of Akira and Princess Monoke. Even if you're not a fan of any of that stuff, at least see this movie for the visuals alone. Believe me, it is nothing like you've ever seen, but don't expect too much out of the story. Just see it on the big screen for God's sake! "},{"Title":"Excellent First Entrée to a New World of Film","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What can I say?  Loved the film, although it was flawed.  The video game plot (collect all eight game pieces and solve the puzzle before the clock runs out) felt a little weak.  And the moments that were meant to be emotional felt a little cold as the filmmakers obviously focused on the science of illustrating the moment rather than the art of expressing it.But I still enjoyed it.  The Zen / Gian / Poltergeist twist on the alien invasion rose Final Fantasy well above such stinkers as Independence Day.  The characters were fairly well developed (albeit stolen from Aliens, Dr. Strangelove, and other great sci-fi).  And the images in the film were stunning - not just because of the animation technique, but because of the camera work, if I dare use that term.  There are broad amazing landscapes, tight close-ups, odd angles to accent the weightlessness of space, and - my favorite - changes in lighting to demonstrate the transition from a dream to waking.Final Fantasy the Spirits Within is a work of art.  But, like a painting put out by a gifted student, it suffers because the artist is still concentrating on learning the skill.  Not a perfect film, but a great way to spend an evening.  "},{"Title":"The average anime is better","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well what can I say. I got exactly what I expected. The animation is pretty good but the movie itself was awful in my opinion. The plot was very straightforward and there was no second in the movie that I could really feel that I had a surprise coming. The feeling in general is that this probably huge budget movie has spent its money on the voice actors and the animation and then forgot about a good plot. The average anime doesn't have high tech computer graphics but at least has more twists and turns, surprises and deep characters than this movie. I gave it a 3 for the cute graphics but that is really where it ends. "}{"Title":"Impressive visually, otherwise good (but not great)","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Visually, Final Fantasy  The spirits Within is a wonderful piece of animation.  While they wouldn't pass for human exactly, the characters are about as close as anyone will see for quite a while, and the fluidity of motion is done very well (though showing of emotion on the human faces still needs some work).  For those of you who ask why make photo-realistic human characters at all when you can just use real humans, I say this--do you ask a painter why he paints a portrait of a person when he can just take a photograph?  The level of artistry involved in making this movie was amazing, the look is truly outstanding.That, of course, leads to the second part of my review, the not-so-shining aspects of the movie.  Let me set this straight--I think this is a good, solid movie.  There is nothing wrong with it, however, outside of the quality of the visual artistry, nothing truly stands out about the movie.The storyline is interesting, but at times predictable and at other times hard to understand.  Most of the characters seem to be there as space fillers, including the villain character General Hein who, with the creepy-surreal look given to him (what's with his eyes?) and voice work by James Woods, could have been much more interesting.  The voice work is good, but no one performance especially stands out.  It's hard to really feel any empathy for any of the characters.  The chemistry between the main character, Aki, and her love interest Grey really isn't there.  As for the soundtrack, though I find it enjoyable as background music, it has no real emotion to it, and any underlying theme is hard to discern.The final part of my review is the movie through the eyes of a long-time Final Fantasy fan.  In that respect, the movie failed horribly.  Except for the name and the inclusion of Doctor Sid (note  not Cid), there are no ties to the game series whatsoever.  The movie is pure science fiction, there are no fantasy aspects anywhere in sight.  Even in Final Fantasy VII and VIII (under the helm of Hironobu Sakaguchi, the writer/head honcho for the film) had heavy fantasy elements mixed in with their sci-fi elements.  None of the recurring elements (again, except the occurance of Cid and I'm told a couple pictures of chocobos supposedly hidden here and there that I didn't see) of the game series appear.  Magic, summoned monster companions, airships, the underlying theme of good vs evil (even the villains in the movie aren't really 'evil') -- all are unfortunately absent.  It seems as if Square wanted to completely distance themselves from the fans and everything that made the series so great.  The final blow for me was not to have Nobuo Uematsu as the composer of the music.  The Final Fantasy music has always been well-known for being incredible, and while I like the music, as I said, it just pales in comparison to the music from the games, especially arranged versions that have been produced.So, to sum it all up  It's a good movie, but don't expect greatness from it except for the visuals.  And if you're only going to see it because you're a Final Fantasy fan, don't bother.   "},{"Title":"Sleek and Impressive","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have to say that Final Fantasy was both more and less than I expected. Mostly it was more. The animation represented an extreme step forward in theatrical presentations of animated features and an equally strong step forward in content in animated features.There's not allot to say about the animation in the film as I'm not an expert in the technology used to create it, but I can simply say that it was quite impressive.  Very realistic but there still needs to be some work done on human faces. Other than that... wow!The content of the film was extremely mature and has surpassed almost every other sci-fi out there.  I haven't seen such a high-concept sci-fi, or film for that matter, in years.  Even though some of the plot points were more than a little muddled and confusing. But the overall concept pushed through and was very satisfying.Some of the screenwriting was a bit problematic as almost none of the humor or the love story came across as well as they could have. But the action and plot were very well cemented.My hats off. "},{"Title":"I had no idea the future would be here so soon...","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First of all I don't have a clue as to what Final Fantasy is and have never played the game. Second I would never have gone to this movie without the prodding of my children. OK you have the parameters to which I saw this movie. To say I was totally blown away would be an understatement, this movie does to computer generated movies, what Star Wars did to Sci-Fi movies 25 years ago. I want to say this film (Is that even a correct term anymore?) is as lush, alive and vibrant as any film I have ever seen. Stop what you are doing, put away all your prejudices and go see this!***** easily "},{"Title":"An okay attempt","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  All this movie was trying to do was show off its CG. All those close up of faces are saying to us, hey, look at the detail of the skin, eyes, etc., isn't it cool!? Since all they focused on was the graphics, the plot, character development, and story was sub-par. The magic of most of the Final Fantasy games were about character development. This movie didn't really have them. The plot is unoriginal. The story is average. If you're a student of computer graphics, this might a good movie to watch just for the graphics. If you want a good story, look elsewhere. The best part of the movie was the Spiderman trailer before the movie.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Eye Candy But No Depth Whatsoever","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was so excited for this movie.  I'm a HUGE fan of the Final Fantasy video game serie, and after seeing the previews for this movie I was basically pooping myself with anticipation.  So I go to see it, and yeah it looked great, I mean there were some scenes where if you looked close enough you could probably have seen God, but there was noting under it.  Nearly every factor that is introduced in the movie doesn't get explained.  Things happen, and you're left wondering why.   The Cast is awesome.  Donald Sutherland, Steve Buscemi, Alec Baldwin, they're all great.  I have to say that I was a little disappointed by Ming Na, she just seemed kind of flat in her vocal performance. The one other real complaint that I have is that with the exception of Dr. Cid, and Gaia being somewhat similar to the idea of Mako energy from FFVII, this movie has no connection to the Final Fantasy games whatsoever.  So yeah, stunning to look at but it's beauty is only skin deep. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Imagery Mingles With Awful Narrative","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  People obviously play video games for reasons. They play because they can put themselves into the world of the game. They play because they wish to embody the game's hero. They play for the intellectual challenge. Or they play for the rush of adrenaline. I wonder, however, how many people play video games solely for how they look, irregardless of how dull they might be or of how insulting they may be to the player's intelligence. For those people, though, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within will be a great time at the movies. For most people, though, I suspect Final Fantasy will serve as more of a historical footnote, an idea of what technology can do and why it's still a long way from replacing people.The assumption I'm under, you see, is that just as everything on the screen is computer generated, the script as well was produced by plugging a series of sci-fi cliches into a computer. The programmers obviously clicked the New Age Mysticism button, but failed to click the buttons labeled character or logic. For me, Final Fantasy, as pretty as it was to look at, was dull, unintelligible, and totally uninvolving.As such things go, the plot involves an Earth overrun with shimmery phantoms which came over on an asteroid thirty years before the beginning of the film. The Phantoms suck the life forces from people and humans have retreated to a number of enclosed cities, where they plot to take the Earth back. On one hand, there's the military faction led by General Hein (voiced by James Woods). They want to blow the Phantom Crater back to the stone age. On the other hand, we have the intellectuals led by Dr. Aki Ross (Ming-Na) and Dr. Sid (Donald Sutherland). They fear General Hein's plan will kill the spirit of the Earth. And they have an alternative plan involving eight spirits. The origins of the spirits and how they're gonna stop the phantoms makes no sense. Occasionally Captain Grey (Alec Baldwin), Ross's former flame) expresses confusion about what's going on. The audience share's his confusion. In response to his queries, Ross tells him not to worry about it. The film share's her blatant disregard for the audience.Final Fantasy is frequently amazing to look at. The computer generated imagery is at its best in a series of dreams that give Dr. Ross completely irrelevant conclusions as to the true nature of the Phantoms. Dr. Ross herself is an amazing creation, though her movements and appearance are vastly superior to those of any of the supporting characters. She has a physical depth that none of the others match. The phantoms are fun to look at and it's frequently entertaining to watch the computer guys emulate real camera tricks and cinematic devices.But the characters aren't interesting. They're flat. They're weakly motivated. And they keep saying stupid things. As a result the vocal talent is stranded. General Hein is so uninteresting that you wish James Woods were playing the role live action. You see, human actors can give shading to parts when the writing isn't up to snuff. These cyber-actors are just trying to look superficially like humans. The cyber-actor playing Ross can't act. She can't pull off any of her emotional scenes. She's empty. A real actress in the role may have had a fighting chance. Baldwin sounds bored and Buscemi has one lame one-liner after another. It gets increasingly annoying.In terms of its visual strength and Green politics, Final Fantasy reminded me of Princess Mononoke. The more conventional animation of that film was far more beautiful and the characters were far more compelling. Princess Mononoke was truly magical. Final Fantasy has all the mystic powers of a Got Your Nose trick. There's just not much to this 3/10 disappointment. "},{"Title":"go for the graphics","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I went to see Final Fantasy for the graphics, not the story.  Therefore, I walked out with my expectations quite satisfied because the story was lacking, the characters were underdeveloped, the movie was too long and its momentum was often sluggish.  But the graphics man, the graphics!  This movie features the most photo-realistic CG human characters I've (and I suspect anyone) has ever seen before.  The skin textures, the musculature, the hair, the clothing texture and swaying, etc.  But for all their qualities, the characters were still lacking; specifically, the facial expressions and body language were too stilted to convey a full range of human expressions.  I cringed whenever Aki was supposed to be 'crying' because the 'vibes' I was getting from her face were all wrong.  I suppose the body language could easily be corrected by using motion capture more carefully and more often (I suspect that sometimes programmed interpolated motions were used instead of motion capture, especially when characters were mostly standing still, which is a no-no since the body language is always important).  However, the facial expressions will be a bit trickier since there are a lot of muscles involved.  But then again, one can only presume that given another 10 or 20 years, most of these glitches will have been rectified and we'll be one step closer to not being able to distinguish fantasy from reality...  "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi, but that's about it","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  At the beginning of Final Fantasy The Spirits Within you're so amazed, you're just sitting there with your mouth hanging open, asking yourself, 'how have they done this? How have they done this?' The animation is just that animation. It's not photo-realistic, but gives the impression of reality in its use of depth, texture, and movement of people and objects. After about an hour you begin to take it for granted. You think less and less about how this feat was accomplished and more about the actual plot. FF never sells you on it, though. Perhaps the animation is too good. By this I mean that the so-so story is so uncompelling it actually keeps drawing your attention back to the animation. The audience wants to feel like it's sitting there for a reason. FF never comes up with a better reason than the amazing CG artistry to keep watching, and that's a shame.The main character, Dr. Aki Ross, is actually quite fascinating. You really think of her as a real person, like she's got a soul, that she came from somewhere. The other characters are not as well thought-out, either in appearance or personality. Take Aki's leading man, Grey, for instance. His animators make no attempt NOT to make him look like Ben Affleck. Then they give him Alec Baldwin's scratchy, too-old sounding voice (it's Rafe McCawley voiced by Colonel Doolittle!). It's just a bit unnerving. Added is a cast of throw-away macho soldier-types voiced by the likes of Peri Gilpin (Roz!), Steve Buscemi and Marcellus Wallace, er, Ving Rhames who are supposed to add humor and emotional depth to the story. What they contribute is no better or worse than, say, the Nebuchadnezzar crew in Matrix. Final Fantasy proves that even computer-animated people can be bad actors. Real actors can stop worrying that they'll be replaced by a software program.Still, Final Fantasy is the best of the genre since The Matrix. There are so many great ideas in it, ideas that would have been difficult to execute with live-action. What makes good Sci-Fi is the story, though. FF seems to be a collection of homages to other Sci-Fi staples like the Alien films. That it's set in the future and the Earth has been destroyed by a meteor is straight out of the Sci-Fi movie textbook. The alien 'ghosts' are the difference here. They exist in some spirit dimension (or something) so instead of squishing people, they suck their life-force or soul right out of them, which is more freaky really. And then there's the story behind the ghosts, which come in all sizes and species, another cool idea. What they really are and where they came from is a mystery that slowly unfolds over the course of the story.FF will be remembered for being the first major motion picture to use all animated human characters. I was almost more impressed with the many scenes involving people doing nothing more than standing in a room talking. At times I thought, if there's going to be this much of this stuff, wouldn't live-action have been easier? But then you think about how sci-fi action, aliens, spaceships, other-worldly landscapes have all been done in CG animation before, but scenes with people standing around in a room talking have not. Director Hironobu Sakaguchi and company are really showing off more with the talking head scenes than the big action sequences. After all, the last thing this guy directed was a video game. He's an old hand at that, but not at stuff like the emotional exploration of characters.Ultimately, Final Fantasy was conceived as Sci-Fi action and so, mission accomplished. This isn't the history-making feat that many hoped it would be. Years from now, it will still be looked back upon with respect as an important step forward.Grade B-  "},{"Title":"Just my take on it.  Take it for what it is.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ah, yes.  Final Fantasy.  I've not played the games at all, so I can safely say I didn't see it 'cause I'm a Square fanboy, or anything... Nor am I an avid movie-goer.  ..I'm not too social.  I first saw the trailer for it in a preview before the movie Hannibal.  Good movie, that.  ...but on to the analysis.  Warning, I may accidentally spoil some of the story in the following passages.  My apologies, as it's not my intention.  When discussing the story, I'll do my best not to mention specific details, but rather explain my gripes in vague terms.My overall rating for the movie is a 7 / 10.  ...With 5 being a perfectly average film.  Um.. Let's pick a movie to represent that on my scale... *thinks*  How 'bout Pinnochio?  Not too terribly exciting, but just enough to skate you through a boring summer day.  ...If nothing else is on, of course.  Anyway...  There's your middle.  10 would have to be American History X, Good Will Hunting, Shrek, or American Beauty.  0 would be something like Book of Shadows Blair Witch 2.  Essentially, 0 = total and complete movie-dung.  Of course, your own personal scale differs.  ...I merely listed my dislikes as a way to gauge your own against them.First off, I'd like to critique the presentation.  The decision to make the entire movie in 3d CG is a monumental task, but just because you have the means, should you do it?  Yes, it's trendy.  Yes, it'll do good in the box-office 'cause of all the CG freaks out there (like me) who will storm the ticket counter like it's the next Jurassic Park.  ...3d can do wonders for film if it's executed properly.  In this case, eh...  Honestly, I was disappointed.  Granted, I was in awe the first few minutes as I watched the beautifully rendered scenes and immaculately designed character models. ...Then they moved.  I'll tell you what.  Digital replication of organic movement still has a bit of a ways to go before I'll consider it a replacement for real human actors.  ...that, and the emotions and expressions on their faces were dull and lifeless.  Their goal in this was to be as realistic as possible in their portrayal of such familiar concepts as body structure, proportion, etc.  ...and they succeeded, mostly.  ...To a fault.  Honestly, one of the main reasons I like CG movies is that they can make a fantasy world seem believable (Star Wars series), make extinct species seem to come to life (Jurassic Park), or simply make a big cartoon character seem just as alive as that guy down the street who shouts stuff when you go by (Shrek).  The whole purpose of this movie was to make a fantastic setting seem believable.  ...and it worked.  I totally dug the atmospheric effects, and the gratuitous eye-candy.  ...I don't understand, however, why they decided not to use real-life actors in this 3d generated world.  It would've made this movie ever so much better, I think.  ...They used 3d models, yes.  Beautifully, realistically textured, yes.  So realistic, in fact, that I considered them to be actors, and judged them as such.  Their emoting and expressions were horrible.  The acting was forced and the bipedal movements were choppy at times.  Yes, they looked human. No, they didn't move or act like 'em.  Case closed.  ..The only excellent movement I saw was in the big robot warrior things (it's a vague description so I don't spoil), but that's probably because I wasn't raised around big robot warrior things and have nothing to compare 'em to.  Who knows?Onto the story.  ...I'm not going to talk much on this, as it's the only real section that could seriously spoil the movie for everyone.  Of course, the movie does it to itself, ... -way- too early.  ...They have some decent events and comments that play on everyone's personal deciphering of what happens.  There are several such events, and it lends itself beautifully for personal pondering, and reaching for a deeper meaning.  ...Kind of like in school, when they made you read all those poems and cryptic sonnets, and had you analyze what they meant.  Most everyone comes up with something different, if they reach deep into their own beliefs.  Occasionally, you found a poem or literary work that seemed to be almost spiritual in it's significance to your life.  ...But, also like school, the meaning is wholly ruined, as you're basically told (1 hour, 20 minutes in, or so.. I don't remember exactly) that your own view of what happened is completely wrong, and they go to a shallow explanation of it all.  At first, I though it was deep and meaningful.  ...Then they basicly halted the movie and had the evil guy (I'm terrible with names) explain what happened.  ...Then asks Is that right?  ... and the heroine says, essentially, Yep., and nods stiffly.  I'd say that's the theatrical equivalent of a man stopping the movie, standing under a spotlight, and waving his laser pointer of the screen, pointing out everything you saw, and analyzing it for you.  It's terrible.  ...It leaves no room for personal translation.  Nothing. Honestly, I think it just tries too hard to appeal to everyone, and sinks the story with a rundown of the details so the little kids can comprehend the complex storyline.  *shakes his head sadly*  Ruined. ...I'll spare you the details, and stick with my original opinion on this movie.  ...The bottom line?  Don't waste your 5-10 bucks watching it in a theater.  ...Either waste someone else's, or rent it when it comes out on VHS, and moves out of the New Arrival section.Yes, my review is cryptic and confusing.  I'm out of school.  It doesn't matter anymore. "},{"Title":"One word sums this movie up.... Wow...","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Unbelieveable.  Simply unbelieveable.Final Fantasy has shown us the REAL future of computer animation.  Forget Shrek, forget Atlantis, even forget Toy Story.  The animation in this movie surpasses everything that I was expecting from it.  After about 20 mintues into the movie, my mind shift from thinking this was animation, to thinking that these were REAL actors.Even the camera movement within scenes looked like it was actually filmed and not animated.  The backgrounds were detailed beyond description. And there were time that I honestly thought There is no way this could be computer animation.  All I know is the rendering time for this movie must have taken years.The only problem I really had was with the plot.  The New Age concept is in full force in this movie, culminating with the emergence of Gaia, the eath spirit. Other than that, Final Fantasy IS cutting edge cinema.  If this is what can be produced in 2001, I can't wait to see what in store for us in the future. "}{"Title":"What a Peace of Crap","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's Funny, what good potential this movie had. To start off with, it seemed like this movie started in the middle of what the plot should have been. There were so many random occurrences during the movie that I almost died of disgusted. It seemed like the first 10 minutes of the movie were it peek just because the fight seen was cool between the troops and ghost like things. Another thing I don't get, is if the phantom things were not invading the planet but just crashed on it, why the hell are they killing everything in sight, it makes no F****** sense. The only thing that keeps this movie from being quiet possible one of the worst movies of all time is the graphics (which will probably win the movie a few Oscars). Movies like thing make you wonder, do the people who do this movie actually read the story, or just learn there lines and get paid a couple million. "},{"Title":"Paper thin.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The graphics of THE SPIRITS WITHIN is what makes this movie famous. If you want a computer generated slug fest, look no further. If you want a half decent story, something remotely intelligent, either stick to the games of FINAL FANTASY to save your sanity or go see any other movie in the theater other than this. THE SPIRITS WITHIN is a vast disappointment to the fans of the series and nothing clever is explored.The setting is 2065. Soul sucking aliens have taken over the planet while humans hide in barrier cities. A young scientist races to prove a theory correct that may hold the key to defeating the monsters and saving her life. The military sends a group to monitor and help her, but a General has another idea on how to kill the monsters and it is bad.Since the entire story is laid out upon us, the viewer's job is to sit back and watch your hard earned money go to view computer generated people get the snot kicked out of them by computer generated aliens. The aliens are not bad, but some of the humans look like they have a hard time moving their upper body. There is a little bit from every FINAL FANTASY game in this movie, which is a shame since the video game series strives on either raising the bar of the last game or doing something different. Thankfully only one of the FINAL FANTASY trademarks (Sid) is kept compared to some of the others (chocobos, title theme in the game, Biggs, Wedge, etc.) All this talk hides the main facts THE SPIRITS WITHIN has a paper thin story, with uninteresting characters, cliche dialogue and a score that was terribly annoying while you are trying to enjoy the movie. People who have waited a long time for THE SPIRITS WITHIN will be thoroughly disappointed. "},{"Title":"I was very pleasantly surprised...","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Most reviews have given grudging praise to the animation while trashing the film as a whole. (And blathering on about what this technological tour-de-force means for Hollywood and the acting profession.) Well, this is one of the better sci-fi movies since The Matrix... in which human actors portrayed computer simulations. The real acting in Final Fantasy -- the voiceover by a top-notch cast -- is excellent. The dialog is, no doubt, pedestrian, but the overall plot and concept are quite satisfying for the genre. "},{"Title":"Evolution of a Science","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While the world of CGI has had a stunning impact on ENHANCING films in the past, and eye candy animated projects like BUGS LIFE, TOY STORY and the wonderful 2001 SHREK have been very well received and produced--a digital rendered real life film had to happen.  Like all pioneers, and explorers the people at SQUARE took that extra step and made a movie that far exceeds most sci-fi/fantasy films of the recent past.  FFTSW is a engaging trip into another world, an escapist piece that isn't perfect--but worth the trip--and for many may be worth repeat trips.  Sure the facial expressions were off, especially in moments of intensity where drastic expressions were needed for highly dramatic moments.  There was a lack of compassion toward the characters because when they needed to show you how they felt, they couldn't...  Distracting to some, (I for one) but overlooked when looking at the whole scope of the film.  See this movie.    "},{"Title":"Impressed, but not satisfied!!!!!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is a milestone for animation, however, the story line was not. I feel the creaters could have came up with a little more of a story that the average person could comprehend with. Having been and addimant FF player, I was looking forward to the release of this movie, but instead of being fascinated, i now know how Dungeon and Dragon fans all feel like!!!!!1 "},{"Title":"THE CHARACTERS ARE  INCREDIBLY SEXY!!!!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The characters are INCREDIBLY SEXY.... It is like watching porn without the nudity!!! ....oh and of course the special effects were AMAZING ....and I must admit, the characterization within the story was not bad at all.  You develop real feelings for the characters.  OK, I admit..... I actually welled up a few times too.Great bit of entertainment.... "},{"Title":"Aki, hot?","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Hello! Please read my review.... Okay, maybe today I'm a bit pathetic. But did you ever wonder, if someone writes a review on IMDB, and nobody reads it, perhaps it's not really there at all? And if my review only exists in my own mind, then I begin to wonder about my own existence all together. And if you're going with me here, and you find this line of reasoning provocative, then you're just the person that should see this movie! Ah-ha! I got ya, didn't I? You thought I was REALLY pathetic when all the time I was just being trite. Oh, well. Don't let it bother you. Now, as for this movie, it does have a rather bizarre story line. Something about the earth having a spirit and man might destroy that spirit. Excuse me?! I can comprehend the earth having a spirit. But man destroying it? The movie was positive about mans spirit being indestructible. So how can it be that mere man can destroy the earth's spirit? Of course, perhaps I just didn't get it. Which is okay because it's not like ANYBODY'S ABOUT TO READ THIS ANYWAY!!! But, just in case this is read, how about that Aki! She was amazing. My son is in love with her and I think that is just fine. I mean, I have this theory. Some people say it's not natural to have such a strong emotional feeling for a digital character. But, how different is it than the feelings we have for flesh and blood actors? I watch Linda Darnell in The Mark of Zorro and she makes my heart beat fast and furious. I think I've been in love with her since I first saw that movie on TV in the 60s. Now, how real is Linda Darnell? Even if I met her today she'd be all dead and unattractive. So, it wasn't Linda I fell for, but that celluloid creation on the screen. It's no different for Aki. And, what did I like about Aki? I liked her sense of vulnerability. A strong woman with a sense of vulnerability gets me every time. Oh, and nice hair. That gets me most times. So, I'm thinking you should see this movie if you like unique, or technologically new stuff, or if you like women with 60,000 beautiful hairs, or if you like strong, yet vulnerable, women.     "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy The Turkey Within","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Following on from pet rocks and Hello Kitty comes the Japan's latest contribution to Western culture - Final Fantasy The Spirits Within.  It is about as boring a 2 hours as I have spent in the last few years.First of all, what's right?  The animation of the lead character, Aki Ross, is quite amazing.  The animation of her mentor, Dr. Sid, is great.  The animation of the other characters is often a bit wooden and jerky.  In general the movie looks good.  The signature dream sequences (such as the foot in water scene in the US theatrical preview) are great.But while the animation is generally in good shape, the script, like the stunning heroine, is frequently on life support.  The dialogue and interactions between the characters are laughable, the plot is new age mumbo jumbo which will appeal only to vegetarian schoolgirls, and the whole thing starts off slow, and just gets slower.  Unless the vegetarian schoolgirl demographic (particularly the subsection that likes video games!) is a lot bigger than I figure, this movie is in big trouble. "},{"Title":"The best movie of the summer so far.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a great movie. First of all, the computer generated effects look so real. At times I almost forgot the humans were only CGI. The story was really good too. Basically, its about how a meteor carrying an alien virus crashes on the earth and has killed most everyone. The remainig survivors live in places called Barrier Cities. The main character, Dr. Aki Ross, has contracted the alien virus, and is the only hope of saving humanity. I'm not gonna tell any more, for it will give the plot away. The sound is amazing as well. You could hear footsteps fade away as a person walked by, and the explosions and all would shake the seat I was in. The only big problem I had was with the dialogue. For instance Neil (Steve Buscemi) would try to make a funny comment every now and then, but it just wouldn't work. Overall though, this movie gets an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Undeveloped and boring looking characters, poor writing, a bad idea gone wrong","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I went to see FF, I expected some familiar music, good graphics, some attractive characters that I may get attached to, maybe even some magic if Sony even had an idea of what people wanted to see, but no.  None of the people were interesting to look at, the male lead was completely undeveloped and just a boring character, no magic, no spells, just laser guns.  The plot was also pretty lame, I just felt myself guessing at what would happen next (most of the time I was right) and wishing the scenes would hurry up and get over with so something cool would happen.  There wasnt really a specific bad guy, there werent that many fight scenes, and characters were killed off just for cheap instant drama.  I'll shall leave my comments half finished. "}{"Title":"Graphics are there, but not much else.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie has indisputably awesome graphics. However, after the first twenty minutes, or so, it appeared to be all the movie had to offer. As I sat through the movie, I found myself just sitting there emotionless; almost in a trance like state. I was simply fixated on the graphics. The characters had no character. The suspense was not there. The adrenaline was not pumping. Something was missing. Movies like Toy Story I & II, Stuart Little, Shrek, etc. I enjoyed. Maybe it was because, although animated, I knew it was a cartoon, had a few laughs, and the graphics were pretty decent as well. Final Fantasy, however, was geared towards an older audience, was supposed to be as real as it gets, etc. Even with the voiceovers of an impressive cast behind the scenes, the characters in the movie were lacking that human element one can attach to. WAIT!!!!!!!!!That's it. The movie was lacking the human element. I didn't care what happened to the characters. The body language and facial expressions weren't there. The intensity and humor wasn't there even with the voiceovers. Admittedly, the opening scenes where the lady lands and is searching the ruins had some intensity and suspense; of which I attribute to the fact that there was no dialogue at this point. Overall, I think the movie was a good learning experience. Hopefully, the directors and producers see it the way I did. It can be done, as the opening scenes proved. However, much attention needs to be paid to the human element. Without it you start to drift and become fixated on the graphics and everything else becomes superficial. See this movie for the graphics and where we're at technologically. With that in mind it's pretty good. Otherwise, it lacks. Hey.........it's a first attempt at such, unless you count Heavy Metal back a while ago. Ironically enough, those characters had more character. Scary. "},{"Title":"Not Final Fantasy but still fun action sci-fi","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, all you FF fans waiting for Ifrit, Shiva, swords, magic, and chocobos  You'll wait a while longer to see any of that on the big screen. Other dissimilarities to FF  weak/minimal dialog (perhaps the Japanese team should have written this?), no Nobuo Uematsu soundtrack, little character development, and little of that charm we've come to expect from something with the name Final Fantasy.  Similarities  Gaia concept, FFVII set design and costumes, haunting FFVII quality, tightly-constructed action scenes, humor (but not as funny as the games), keeps you going to the end. What's sad is that everyone points the blame for the movie's weaknesses at the movie's video game roots, without having experienced the FF games... and as a consequence will never experience the great storytelling and sheer artistic creativity they have to offer.  I had hoped moving FF to Hollywood would infuse some magic back into the silver screen.  We all know it's needed.  Square, why did you call this Final Fantasy anyhow?  The fans of your games are Square fans as well.  We'd still come to see your first movie.As a CG professional, I was totally blown away by this movie's visuals. Pretty astounding, but once again, if you've been keeping up in the games, it's a pretty natural progression from the videos in FFVIII/FFIX.  Donald Sutherland gives a great voice performance for Dr. Cid, and on the other end of the spectrum, Steve Buscemi tried way too hard.  Does it look real?  Is it supposed to?  No one but an animator will understand that each person involved in this movie put ten times as much work into it as the computers they use; that this movie is their artistic ability on display, not the power of today's silicon chips.For an action-scifi, it's head and shoulders above all the lousy movies that have filled the theaters lately.  Armageddon, Starship Troopers, Red Planet, Episode 1, etc. etc. etc. -- action is supposed to deliver fresh excitement, new visuals.  Final Fantasy meets up to this promise, where all its recent competition has fallen flat on its face.  If you're looking for a fun time at the movies, look no further.If you're looking for a cerebral, truly magical experience, wait for Final Fantasy X on your PS2. "},{"Title":"About frickin' time!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I always check here before I go a movie, just so I can try to see where everyone else's comments come from, and while what I read was mostly good, after the movie I really felt that some people just weren't getting the point.Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a movie that did not sell out and adopt typical Hollywood conventions and is extremely faithful towards the Final Fantasy games. As a fan of the the games, it is difficult for me to understand why anyone else who is also a fan would not enjoy this movie. As for the many negative comments I've read thus far, I believe that it simply reflects a lack of familiarity with the Final Fantasy phenomenon.From the first time I saw the full motion videos in Final Fantasy 7, I've often wondered about the potential for Square to take it to the big screen. While this movie wasn't perfect, it made for two hours of mind-blowing entertainment, and I am more excited than ever about what will come.This is definitely not a movie meant for kids. When I saw it in the theatre three young people (I'm guessing between 10-13) seem to get bored (and subsequently I almost dove over the seats to threaten their flapping mouths!). As Japanese animation has always been, just because its animated doesn't mean its for kids.While the plot is not the most spectacular mind-blowing creation in existence, it is exactly what I was hoping for-- it contains elements of the game and takes advantage of the limitless bounds of CG to make for one amazing visual adventure. This isn't going to win any Oscars (except for sweeping the technical achievement awards), but then the Oscars are overrated anyways.I was extremely wary about this movie being in english, but the voices cast did better than I expected, with Ming-Na and Donald Sutherland clearly standing out, with Alec Baldwin doing a good job as well. The voice-character synchrony was a bit off for everyone except for Sutherland, but when one considers that in all the previous CG segments from the games no one ever talked, the animators did pretty well.Go see this movie for what it is an absolutely breathtaking visual adventure based on an incredible series of video games that stays true to Japanese film-making (as in a non-Hollywood happily ever after fairy tale). For fans of the FF games, this is everything we were promised. For all movie-lovers everywhere, witness this first step towards a whole new era of film-making-- photorealistic CG is not going to go away, and has the potential to change the film-making industry. Square pictures will be a power Disney will have to fight to maintain its status as the prominent animation production company in North America.This gets a 10/10 from me, not because it's perfect, but because it shows the potential of what CG movies can be. "},{"Title":"It's the next step.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Really, I liked this movie. Sure it didn't look real although there were a few moments where I did forget it's animated. As for the plot, as with many anime type movies either you get it or you don't. I understood the story very well, of course I was paying attention to what was being said you need to do that to understand what's going on.I was very pleased this was nothing like what disney puts out. I've had enough of animated song and dance, I wanted some action (at least enough to keep it interesting) and a story (once again not the song and dance to kill time).Hopefully this movie will help people to realize Anime can have a dark side to it and it's not all a kiddie cartoon show. "},{"Title":"A Visual Masterpiece with a Mediocre Storyline","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was a stunning example of Square's ability to produce quality visual effects.  But the storyline wasn't of the same caliber as the visuals.  If one closed their eyes, they would realize the story wasn't that great.  And I feel that the title `Final Fantasy' was only used to run off of the success of the videogame.  The story line was like a Square Soft game, but not like the Final Fantasy Series.All together, a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"Original, beautiful, exciting, if a bit predictable.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Let's start out with the obvious Final Fantasy The Spirits Within has nothing to do with any the Final Fantasy video games.This is good.Movies that follow their video game source too closely usually turn out bad. Final Fantasy does not make that mistake, and the result is a great movie that doesn't confuse it audiences with obscure facts from the game. It's almost a shame that they didn't call the movie simply, The Spirits Within. Die-hard fans would have still seen the movie, while more general audiences wouldn't be turned off by yet another video game movie fresh on the heels of the mildly disappointing Tomb Raider.On it's own, Final Fantasy stands as a wonderful action movie (having the right combination of drama, romance, and comedy) with jaw-dropping special effects. In fact, the whole movie is actually one big special effect.While the initial story is fresh and original, some of the plot developments were quite predictable. At many times, I felt like I was watching a modern version of James Cameron's Aliens (which is not a bad thing, since Aliens remains one of the ultimate guy flicks out there).Best part of movie The bad-guy, General Hein (James Woods) being a good-guy from his own point of view, and his reaction (in the shuttle) to his mistake in New York.Worst part of movie Predictable plot developmentOverall Rating 8 (9 if you love action films) "},{"Title":"A new age in entertainment technology is upon us.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'd say this film is revolutionary, if for nothing less than the computer graphics alone.  Just like Star Wars settled in the ranks of ground-breaking movies, so has Final Fantasy.  I'm not just talking about the fact that they rendered each of the main character's 60k hairs separately.  Everywhere I looked on the screen at any given moment, I was thoroughly impressed by near lifelike images, detailed with painstaking precision.  Much of the technology depicted throughout the movie was well beyond our comprehension, as it should be.  My eyes were dazzled by a rush of sparkling gadgets while my mind was held in check by the movie's almost romantic story line.  I think that the plot was, although not 100% original, as original as one can expect in today's day and age.  It was scripted well, and the acting was better than you can expect from most real actors.  The main thing I found disturbing was the lack of facial expression, but I'd rather they tone that down or skip most of them rather than do a bad job of it.While I heard some comment that some parts of the movie were a bit too unrealistic or stretching things too far, such as the representation of a spirit, I completely disagree.  When I walked into the theatre, I had extremely high expectations and wanted them to hold absolutely nothing back, especially with the price of movie tickets lately.  Fortunately, they did exactly that, and it looked as though digital artists are beginning to finally be able to walk down whichever road the wind blows towards. "},{"Title":"What do you get when Video Game makers make a Movie?","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A Video-Game-Movie.I had high expectations for this flick based on my experience with the video games and all the hype that had been built up for it; I was sorely disappointed.Visual Presentation To me, this film has the look of a film that sets its ambitions too high. The creators go to all this trouble to make very lifelike (but nothing like photorealistic - Banish that word from your vocabulary when dealing with this movie) visuals, only to give it some of the poorest animations since early Playstation CGI video games. The movements of the characters are really quite terrible, arm motion in particular seems to have nothing in common with reality. The other thing is the lack of expression in the faces. Toy Story had better animation (watch any of Woody's or Buzz's myriad of facial expressions, you'll see what I mean). I specifically remember ONE time someone's (Aki's) eyebrow moved, for two reasons It looked forced, and it was the only time it seemed to happen. Calling this an animated feature actually makes this facet worse, as animation usually allows for Greater levels of expression not possible with flesh-and-blood actors.Anyway, most shots viewed still-frame would look fantastic - in motion, it's actually some of the worst animation I've seen (I liked that in Parasite Eve and Final Fantasy VII (Square) video games better).Sound This was the biggest letdown. One of the great hallmarks of the Final Fantasy games was their exquisite use of sound and - especially - music. No memorable music here, just loads of cheap crescendos to build up to dramatic events, every 120 seconds or so. The music was either non-existent where it should have been used, or overbearing where it shouldn't, and all of it lacked any sort of emotional impact whatsoever.Camera Work This game, er, movie, used a lot of really cheap Camera Shots. It looks like it was made by a video game producer who studied cinematography, and then decided to use one and only one of each example of shots in the movie.The Best camera work is invisible. FF TSW keeps reminding you.The Dialog Some of the worst dialog since, well, probably ever. Again, too many forced dramatic scenes. It's like the writers studied movies and tried to throw in every dramatic mechanism they could find. I think the real clincher, the point at which I couldn't help but laugh out loud in spite of my attempts to be courteous to the audience, was James Woods' character's lines What have I done. Hilarity at a most awkward moment. It really goes downhill from there.If this movie had come from a film student, it would have been decent. However, presented as a serious summer blockbuster, it is laughable at best. Literally.I wanted to like this movie, I love the games. I tried really, REALLY, hard to do so; but it was just to emotionless, too soulless (in this of all movies), and too canned. However, in a generous mood, I can only give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Animation is great, but the story isn't","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie had probably the best computer animation I've seen. The skin and hair of the people look very realistic. You can still tell it's computer generated though, because sometimes the mouth movement when the people talk is off. The clothes dont really seem to move with the people and their movments look robotic. When the characters are scared or upset they don't seem to show it. They dont have many facial expressions. Otherwise it is hard to tell that the scenes arn't live action. The story on the other hand is not very good at all. It is put together in blocks, it seems, and does not fit together well. It's also pretty predictable and the dialog is bad. I would highy recommend this movie if you are a fan of animation\CGI. "},{"Title":"nothing special","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  FINAL FANTASY is undeniably good-looking, though some moments of animation look no better than the average video game. But I was confused throughout the whole film. Just when I thought I knew what was going on, some technical/pseudo-religious explanation was given that sent me back to scratching my head and trying to keep up with the techno-babble dialogue. The voice acting was top notch, though I thought Ming-Na's voice didn't match her character at all. Alec Baldwin, Donald Sutherland, and the rest were good, though Steve Buscemi's comic relief was pretty flat and didn't get much laughter from the audience. And it still seems that the lip synching with the dialogue remains the hardest thing to accomplish. Strange that traditional cell animation is better at that (the lip movements in the various animated BATMAN series were great). The movements of the characters were pretty fluid, but sometimes appeared unnatural. The faces also weren't that expressive. I still think CGI has a long LONG way to go before it can fully replace live actors, though it most-likely never real. CGI will never be as convincing (physically and emotionally) as live actors. I think it actually would have been better had it been filmed live-action, and it really could have been. The cast isn't made up of $20 million-per-film actors and actresses. It could have been done, and the special effects could have easily handled the enormous sets and other effects. Perhaps the die-hard gamers will enjoy it, but as a casual movie-goer who has played many video games and is a fan of them in general, I was left rather disappointed. In the end, FINAL FANTASY is an interesting experiment in filmmaking, but comes out as just another typical action movie that is ultimately nothing special. "}{"Title":"Ballsy, Imaginative, but a Failure","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy has ideas to spare.  It also has some provocative statements on things like war, nature and science.  Unfortunately, the makers decided to place their bets on familiar ground, and bogged down the film with cliches.  The pencil-thin characters were unable to hold the story together despite their best efforts, and in the end, what we got was squandered potential.  If the creators had shied away from making their movie a tribute to the Alien Trilogy, and lent what they had written down to an experienced screenwriter who knew how to give a story flow and structure, then perhaps Final Fantasy could have succeeded.  It certainly had the daring, just not the competency.  It was as if the same folks who did the CGI pooled to write the script. "},{"Title":"Only a Feast for the Eyes","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Not being at all familiar with the video game(s) upon which this movie is apparently based, and not being a fan of computer games at all, I had no expectations when I walked in. All I knew was that it was supposed to be a landmark in computer animated human characters.What I found was that the movie had a very tortuous plot, bland dialogue, lots of fairly slow moments, and a pretty stupid and uninspired plot. It also had very detailed and beautiful artwork and special effects. While I was being numbed by all the things that normally comprise any quality film, this one saving grace made the viewing worthwhile.A word on the human animation. The characters, without exception, spend all their time covered in either body armor or neck to toe gowns. Only the heads and hands are visible. In many scenes, the hands had all the convincing realism of your standard department store mannequin. Sometimes the shading of skin tone and shadow had very visible striations. On the other hand (pun intended), more attention was paid to the faces and hair. The latter always looked good and moved with body motion and breeze in a realistic way. The skin texture and color was really very convincing, and body hair, moles, pores and other blemishes added to the realism. Still, the characters faces never looked, well, completely alive. I think this was because there is very little facial movement or expression; everyone just looks poker faced all the time. In facial closeups, little things like detail in the inner corners or the eyes is missing, and contributes to the doll-like appearance. This is a very good effort, and does advance the state of the art, but computer graphic replacement of live humans is still a way off. This would have been even more apparent if more of the bodies had been visible.Otherwise, the movie is one visually stunning vista or action scene after another. The 'spirits' are really nicely done, and the overall art design is inspired and lovingly detailed.If you are interested in computer animation, you will want to see this just so you can be up to date on the state of the art.And by the way, the younger kids in the theatre during my viewing were all obviously bored by the halfway point. Leave them at home. "},{"Title":"Bland story but revolutionary none of the less","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don't go to Final Fantasy expecting a great script and story cause you won't get it. It's at many times confusing and the end makes little sense. The emotional impact is really never there. It has all the flaws movies based on video games seem to always have. I'm recomending this movie, never the less, cause it's revolutionary and visually stunning. I love the exciting action scenes, which are just amazing. The non-action scenes however contain some of the most incredable visuals with excellent detail to everything. One of my favorite scenes was near the begining where a futuristic lazer devise is used to help save a person. You just have to see it to get a real idea how amazing it is.I give Final Fantasy the Spirits Within 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Extremely good animation, but...","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think that, not having played the video games, I am missing a LOT ofthe background information. For example, I had no idea of theinterpersonal relationships, or some of the things that had gone onwith the heroine previously. Things that were mentioned in the movie,but that we didn't see happen. Now, I realize that they can't tell usthe whole life story of a character from birth to death in a 90 minutefilm, especially an ANIMATED film like this. However I wish they'dspent a little more time giving us the background info.I don't think it would have killed them or added that much more timeto give us a few flashbacks of some of the important backgrounddetails. I really did feel kinda lost there. I got the impression thata lot of this stuff was covered in the video games.   "},{"Title":"Very nice indeed !","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy is one of the most great movies planned for this year to come out. And it has been worth the waiting. The animation is great and it has cunnig scenes in it. The only thing that bothers me is that it wasn't al the action I hoped it would be and the story is a little bit thin. But the great graphics makes up for it. So my overal opinion is that this is a movie u really should see!!!! "},{"Title":"Beyond normal movie's","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Final FantasyThe Spirits Within, is in my opinion, one of the best done films of all time. The most obvious difference is that it is a purely CG rendered movie. But unlike other CG movies(Toy Story,Dinosaur) this is the most human looking film to date. It makes you feel like these people are real.The film takes place in the year 2065 on our planet, Earth. It is a time when all life hides in closed in cities and where our once major cities are now grave yards of dead people. The story revolves around Aki and her old lover Gray. As they try to find the last spirit in an attempt to stop the aliens who have over run our world.Against them and the true enemy of the story is a proud General(i forget his name) who wishes to stop Aki and Gray so he may use his new weapon on the phantoms. All the while he is plagued with great ambition of his own.A wonderful story with incredible graphics. My only complaint is that they didn't have any Chocobo's or summons. Both of which have been incorporated in every game and have become a series trademark. But other than that, i can't wait for a sequel. "},{"Title":"LAME PLOT. GREAT TECHNOLOGY","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"    The story of aliens devastating the earth and brave humans holding them off has been done many times. This would be okay if there was some originality in the characters or their methods. However, this is a straight combination military/scientific story with no new ideas. The only complication is the usual gungho military leader who tries to save the world with his own force saves all method.  The CG imagery is indeed beautiful and a definite advancement over anything done before. I did notice that the lip synch appeared to be slightly off at times with mouths continuing to move after the voice had ceased. There were a few jokes that occasionally drew a mild chuckle.   Bottom line, the most important part of any story is how well it is told, and this movie fails to deliver. "},{"Title":"Great movie! ... well, kinda","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was rather impressed with the sheer detail of the visuals in the movie.  However, it seemed that a little bit more time should have been spent on character and plot development.  As an actress, the one thing that really bothered me is the lack of facial expressions.  So much of a character comes across in the face, and it just wasn't there (especially when Aki was crying).  The plot was very interesting at first, but then became too predictable.  Plus, there were a lot of things that remained unexplained.  When the end of the movie finally arrived, both my husband and I sat there thinking, That's it?  It seemed to need a bit more explanation.My husband's main complaint was that SquareSoft touted the fact that the movie was going to be completely original, and he kept on seeing objects and plot segments that seemed to be knock-offs of the Final Fantasy videogames, especially Final Fantasy 7.  I think I enjoyed it better since I don't know the vg's.My recommendation --- wait to rent the DVD. "},{"Title":"If you're a final fantasy fan stay away!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The only saving grace of this movie was the absolutely amazing special effects (computer art) in it! Otherwise this movie would be rated a 1 out of a ten. There is no crystals connection like in the rpg games and it's not even a fantasy it's sci-fi! You don't even care about the characters and the movies drags on and on with only a few interesting spots in the picture the first 15 minutes, and interesting car chase scene here and there. There's nothing in the picture that is all that original. With all the hype that this movie has received and all the buzz, it was a big let down! "},{"Title":"Pretty Good.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Im starting to wonder if people flame this movie because they fail to realize, the differences between the game and a movie itself...  If you have a brain, you should be able to realize that you just cant compare the movie from the previous square games.For your information this is squares first movie.  Remember square's first final fantasy snes game.  Final Fantasy Mystic Quest. Hell, I dont think the Final Fantasy series got got good till Final Fantasy 4 or 5.Walk into the movie with an open mind and be blowed away by stunning cgi, and an age old plot with a twist. "}{"Title":"Spectacular and flat, all in one","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First and most importantly, the visuals are absolutely spectacular. The characters look stunningly real, even managing to express emotions through their faces. This is basically an Anime in  different visual medium, the dialogue, the pacing and the plot are all drawn directly from the genre. The plot in interesting but raced through, and the dialogue feels forced.-BUT- None of this matters, the visuals are so spectacular that you find yourself totally getting into the movie, because everything is CG, it meshes seamlessly into a world that you can't really create with a mix of live action. I found myself forgetting that the characters were not real, they look unbelievably alive, all the neat little holographic gizmos the characters interact with look amazing and totally feasable. This is a movie worth seeing in the theater, your jaw will drop.  "},{"Title":"Sony Drones will love it","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you're one of those people who thought Final Fantasy 7 was the best Final Fantasy game, and that Sony and Squaresoft can do no wrong (even Saga Frontier), then you'll probably love this movie even if it was about a refrigirator and a can of beans.  However, if you're at all unbiased, then you'll be amazed by how good the computer graphics are and appalled at how mediocre the story really is.  First of all, the story is just an excuse to render CG phantom monsters, futuristic cities and space stations, and vehicles straight out of Aliens.  There's somewhat of a FF7 planets are alive twist to it, and something about aliens, but it really suffers in any significant characterization or creative plot elements.  In fact, it suffers the most when it forces sentimental and sappy moments on you and utterly, utterly fails.  In fact, part of the problem is that although it looks great, it STILL isn't real, and is actually noticeably not real.  There are moments when their movements are disjointed (when Aki first talks to Cid about spirits is the most noticeable occurence), they try to force them to cry but it comes out awfully, people talk like they're on novicane...  And although the voice acting is pretty good for the most part, there are parts where it seems pretty forced and comes out like your average dubbed anime. See the movie for the effects, but realize that its really mediocre fair when you come down to it, and if it were live action, I doubt people would give it any more of a chance than the upcoming Ghosts of Mars.  Oh, and if you are a Sony drone who thought Final Fantasy 7 was the best thing to come from Asia since rice, dispite its complete lack of a coherent or moving story and absolutely horrible ending, something it has in common with this movie, then I'm sure you've purchased the import FFX that you can't read just for the DVD trailer of this movie.Oh, one more complaint, the main male character in this movie, its Alec Baldwin's voice, he has got to be the most whipped male lead in a movie in a long time.  Don't touch that.  Okay.  Don't do that.  Okay. Distract that giant alien creature while a polish my nails.  Okay. However, there was a pretty cool Spiderman preview before this... "},{"Title":"A slight disappointment with what was overall an exceptional film.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final FantasyThe Spirit Within Looks awe inspiring. Lets get that out of the way first. No other film this year can stand toe to toe with its computer generated imagery. In fact no other movie has such a self contained vision as the one in this movie. Throughout the whole film I was completely amazed by sights like the desicated New York City which puts the one in Spielberg's A.I. to shame ( even though that statue underwater as David was sinking did look pretty cool ) or even what I thought was the coolest effect, the soul suck the phantoms perform on their screaming victims.It seems like the filmmakers know that they have some cool visuals; all throughout the film characters are shown going through even bizzare circumstances than they had at the begining, as if its all to show the artistry of the person behind the computer screen. Heck, before too long you'll start noticing things like the movement of hair, or even the feathers of a bald eagle. In repeat everything looks good!!!! Now if it only sounded just as good. When it comes to story I think thats where the movie falters. Don't get me wrong; everything playing out on the screen is quiet easy to understand if you just listen while you watch. Even particular plot points are handled deftly so as to make them more understandable. Its just the whole story seems better suited to an RPG than a feature length film. Theres little plot details or romances that feel like they're just dumped on an audience instead of explained like they might be in a game. Its as if the story would work better if it were a little longer instead of cutting in to jump right into the action, as a movie unfortunately demands. Now I don't want to sound like I'm totally bashing the film. I'd take this one over all the Super Mario Bros. and Mortal Kombats alike. I just wish they put as much effort into the story as they did the visuals. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable work of animation","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you are familiar with computer animation or you even work on that or you make animations for fun you will be amazed from those first extremely realistic computer generated characters. This movie, also if is still now a little far from the real real reality, achieves a level of realism impossible to imagine just two or three years ago. If you know the difficulties of this field and the time and the patience that it needs you have just to watch and fill a great admiration. As story and rhythm this movie is  better then Supernova and for sure worst than Pitch black. My suggestion is this if you are a computer graphic user go flying, if you like sci-fi movies go, if you are just a normal movie watcher you can go but not expecting a really great movie. Any case I dedicate to this animation masterpiece a standing ovation.  "},{"Title":"More a technology demo than movie","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie really rises and falls on the merit of it's animation and that it first rate. Everything is stunningly well done. The spirits/phantoms/aliens are incredibly interesting as are the locations and vehicles. There are times that you will forget your are looking at animation. In particular, the best scenes are early on with the soldiers in armor moving through a ruined city. The animation isn't perfect and it is mostly in the humans that you notice it. Speech (mouths moving especially) is still rough. Expressions are better but they still can't get all the nuances of the human face. Little details (like sweat) are still missing. You'll notice it but the people still move and look more like people than anything you've seen before in computer animation.The plot and characters are pretty incidental and almost meaningless. The script reads like a video game- find these items and combine them to win. The writers try to give the characters emotions and deep feeling but they fall flat and seem glommed on to the movie. There are lines of dialog that hit like a brick they are so bad.This film is at it's best when it focuses on the action sequences and lets you marvel at the technological wizardry behind it. When it tries to delve into philosophical and emotional areas it just rings flat. Still, it is a worthwhile flick to see. "},{"Title":"A Final Fantasy","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The film wants to be human, but it is not, its a very realistic cartoon, and at moments you forget they are not human. The plot is about finding the soul of the earth, similar to the Princes Mononoke. Films like these are about 2 or 3 years from achieving perfection. They move like humans, facial expressions are human, but some characters are more physically developed than others, but the spaceships, planets and everything else could pass for actual. The story is like better than A.I. & here you marvel at 'us humans' we have created an alternative to actors that's realistic. Humans are practically extinct, but instead of robots we have phantoms. The destroyed Manhattan scenes are darker and scary. In a couple of years you can't help but to ask yourself if one of these creations can compete for a Golden Globe, and if so, kiss the star system goodbye. >   "},{"Title":"Mediocre Movie, Great Demo","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy is not a great movie. You've probably seen about 50% of it before - the first time it was called Aliens (which *was* a great film). Another 30% or so is lifted in easily recognized bits and pieces, occasionally near-verbatim, from most of the *other* great (or just notable) SF films of the last twenty-five years; Blade Runner, Star Wars, Fifth Element, The Terminator, etc. The remaining 20% or so that's more or less original is marginally comprehensible New Age nonsense (I have *no* idea what happened at the very end of the film). The average moviegoer probably shouldn't bother. Most of *you*, however, shouldn't miss it.If it had been filmed as live-action, Final Fantasy would be just another mediocre retread sci-fi film. Instead, a great deal of money and effort was put into creating a kick-ass technology demo. While it was much more original, Tron was by no means a great movie, either. But as showcases for the state of the art in computer graphics (circa 1982 and 2001, respectively), particularly for technogeek viewers who recognize just how significant (if imperfect) the technological achievements involved are, they're must-see movies.Said state of the art, incidentally, isn't quite as advanced as the trailers for Final Fantasy lead you to believe. As a series of quick cuts, the film's human figures are *very* good (especially the female lead, on whom 80% of that money and effort were clearly spent). But strung together at feature length, the illusion never lasts for more than a few seconds at a time - the art of accurately reproducing all of the subtle (and half subconscious) traits that our minds look for in a human being is still beyond our reach. Reproducing emotion, in particular, is going to require a few more breakthroughs.So you're not, at any point, going to be fooled into thinking that anything you see is real. But as derivative as most of it is, the highly detailed Fantasy world is pure eye candy, the action sequences are for the most part as well done as anything else you'll see this summer (and better than say, Tomb Raider), Donald Sutherland and Steve Buscemi turn in good voice performances, the sound mix is excellent, and every once in a while (mostly in close shots of Aki or Dr. Sid), just for a second or two, you might believe.It's been almost twenty years since Tron was released. I'd say that the Screen Actors' Guild doesn't have to worry about digital applicants for at least another five.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie, technological masterpiece, but what does it have to do with FF?","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy was incredible as a movie in many ways. It was a unique sci fi story, had interesting characters, not to mention the fact that it has the most incredible CG ever used in a motion picture. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys drama, sci fi, or fantasy. It has a unique perspective and the 'actors' look almost real, down to individual hairs on their heads. See it!The only major problem I had with 'FF The Spirits Within' was that I have played every Final Fantasy game that has been released, and I could draw very few connections between the movie and the games. It was rather disapointing in a way. I think that the producers would have named the movie something different so that it could not be misconstrued as an addition to the FF saga. The movie, first of all, takes place on Earth. Our Earth. There are no Moogles, or Chocobos, or Airships, and there is not a single sword in the movie. Nor does anyone cast a spell, persay. The universe was not as fantastical as any of the game worlds by far- part of the movie happens in New York City, complete with police cars and taxi cabs. The characters do not fit the game's usual array and *SPOILER* the survival rate is a bit different *END SPOILER* It did have the same capability to draw you in and keep you on the edge of your seat, but they could have easily called the film The Spirits Within and been done with it. IF they make a sequel and somehow draw a connection between on of the in game universes, I will be able to appreciate the title more. For the moment, however, I can't consider it 'Final Fantasy'. "},{"Title":"Lara who??","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Forget Tomb Raider! Forget Lara Croft! Go see this picture and truly be amazed.  The animation is unbelievable...no actually it IS believable. The CGI is the best. Aki's hair moves. That's the first thing that hit me. The movement...hair, water, the way the characters move...it's all so believable.  This is the picture to see. More than once and on a HUGE screen. "},{"Title":"Go in, sit down, be awed, be excited!!!!!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation is astounding, and almost photo realistic.  The movement of the lips on the characters is a little off though.  The story is solid and entertaining, if not a little confusing.  The characters are believable and consistent, making the film worthwhile.  I would see it again and again, and each time, wonder if it isn't a real person up there, blinking, talking and moving about on the screen. "}{"Title":"Technology alone does not a movie make!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It takes more than fancy computer graphics to create something worth watching!  After all the hype about this movie, it was a severe disappointment to sit through this one.  The Toy Story  movies are much better at creating good productions merged with high  technology that are worth the time and money.  I hope Final Fantasy stays a final fantasy. "},{"Title":"Anime in glorious 3-D","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sadly, many American film-goers will be lured into this film by the misleading ad campaign, leading them to expect an action-packed summer extravaganza, and they'll be sorely disappointed.  This is unfortunately, because Final Fantasy is actually a great animated film for those with the patience for metaphysics-laced storyline.The visuals, as heavily covered by many others, are breathtaking.  While many debate the merits of the human figures, I really don't think that the approach could be classified as photo-realism, as so many seem to believe.  The characters certainly look solid and three-dimensional, but there is a definite fantasy element to their appearance, as if they exist halfway between traditional Japanese animation and 3d computer modeling.  It lends a nice air of pseudo-reality to the film and the characters coexist very well with their fantastic environments.  The world, for me, is the center and main attraction of the film.  There is nearly always something incredible to look at.  The Tuscon sequence is worth the price of the ticket.  Yes, it takes place in America, which leads me to the final pointThis is one animated film that does not pander.  There is no child-friendly material here, and the American approach to animation is nowhere in evidence.  This is a good thing.  The story might be considered slow by some, and does take a lot of swallowing, even if you're familiar with Japanese storytelling.  There is much talk of spirits, and the story often seems more religious than scientific.  It's great to see animation without cute, wise-talking animals for once.  There is more influence felt from the likes of Miyazaki than Disney.If you are already a fan of anime, you may really enjoy this film.  Others may just enjoy the visual brilliance.  If you're expecting an action extravaganza, don't bother.  I give it an 8, and will certainly be seeing it again. "},{"Title":"Oasis in a Wasteland","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You know all those fanciful, computer-generated images of a wasteland that appeared in the preview for Final Fantasy? The images prove especially poignant in this wasteland of a film season. The digitized people and places of Final Fantasy are more gripping than anything to hit the theaters this summer. With this ironic twist, we recognize both the dazzling future and the dull present that Final Fantasy, as a landmark in film technology, helps to illuminate. As Jean Baudrillard (and Morpheus) would say, Welcome to the desert of the real, where the love between CG characters Aki and Grey makes Pearl Harbor's Ben Affleck-Kate Beckinsale romance look like the stuff of brain-dead soap operas. To say that Final Fantasy is an original tale in either its romantic subplot or its _humans versus aliens_ grudge-match would be a gross inaccuracy, but this film comes alive as most live-action movies (in the past three months) have not. The viewer really does forget that the characters and landscapes came out of a hard drive.It is enough to like this movie because it has the elements that film-goers really enjoy (Steve Buscemi's one-liners and breathtaking action sequences come to mind), BUT AT THE SAME TIME IT PROVIDES A REVOLUTIONARY VISION OF WHAT FILMMAKING MIGHT BECOME. With computer animation, directors do not lose their artistic freedom; cinematographers do not forfeit their creativity. Rather, CGI enhances a director's options and provides the tools with which a crafty cinematographer can work. For example, Final Fantasy has some amazing shots, especially extreme closeups of eyes and faces. (Final Fantasy avoids the messy combination of live action and CGI that ruined Star Wars Episode 1.) It is no surprise that some of the finest actors in film and TV -- Donald Sutherland, Ming-Na (ER's Dr. Chen), Ving Rhames, and Alec Baldwin -- signed on for this project. Final Fantasy represents a stepping stone to new worlds of filmmaking. See it because it entertains. See it because it will become a milestone. See it because its as real as any summer 2001 film is going to get. "},{"Title":"At the summit of the blend between art and technology","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Why is that when a fantasy movie tries to examine the essence of life itself it is disregarded as boring or been there done that cliche?Contrary to the elitists of cinematic critique, this film's dialogue and character development was done with taste. There were subtle pauses and personal flourishes in conversation by believable characters who weren't one-sided (the general being a great example).Additionally, also contrary to expert opinions, the story was well constructed and executed. Yes, the theme of a planet having a life of its own and displaying a species that is destroying it through its continual praise of the military-industrial complex, is a bit worn in the genre. But, it's remarkable method and consistent style of presentation does a concept that broad, well, justice.And, of course, the computer graphics raises the bar on every movie ever produced.If you don't appreciate it, either the sci-fi genre doesn't appeal to you in general, or there is little that can entertain you... "},{"Title":"The most incredible-looking movie I have ever seen.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Possible Spoilers To call Final Fantasy a great leap in film making is a bit of an understatement.  This movie looks great, sounds teriffic, and makes you stare in disbelief that this movie could possibly be made (much less, under a budget SMALLER than Titanic). Aside from visuals, the movie itself is pretty good.  The plot is much like the video game series because of Hironobu Sakaguchi's talent for telling the classic save the world and all humanity story.  All of the videogames in the series of the same name have a story telling about some sort of plague threatening the whole universe, and along the way, tackle the issues of life, death, love, and inner conflict.  The same goes for the movie. The characters don't really develop that much, but as far as I see it, that was the only big flay with the plot.  I would love to see Aki and Jane relate to one another a little bit more.  Otherwise, the story was very decent for a 90-minute movie. Another thing that impressed me was the surprisingly solid voice acting. My personal favorites were Peri Gilpin (Jane) and Steve Buscemi (despite his aggrivating voice, had humerous dialogue). My biggest complaints- the score was not done by the FF games' composer Noubu Uematsu.  Donald Sutherland's acting was very stale and not energetic in the slightest.  Finally, the ending sort of left me out in the cold, expecting there to be more. Overall I highly reccommend Final Fantasy to only the game veterans. they know what to expect out of this movie, and as a big fan, I have to say it was very satisfying, despite its flaws. "},{"Title":"At least the animation is good","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw the trailers a long time ago and have been following this project ever since.  Naturally, I was enticed by the beautiful animation.  I was expecting a mediocre plot, and if that's what I got, then I'd still be cool with it.  However, what we get here is not mediocre, it's just plain bad. Poor pacing, poor dialogue, and extremely lame plot.  It plays like a cut scene from a video game, and because of this, it even becomes boring at times.  Which is a real shame; it's obvious that so much heart and soul was poured into this project.  The animation, while sometimes uneven between the character models, is always beautiful, especially the incredible Dr. Sid, who looks extremely convincing.  However, what these guys forgot, and what Pixar makes a point of, is that a good movie needs a good script.  I'm very interested to see where these outstanding animation techniques will take film makers, hopefully towards better story telling.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful and realistic... so much it's almost too Hollywood","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've been eagerly waiting for this release for a while now and for two reasons I'm a great fan of high-quality, computer rendered animation (CGI, CGM, whatever you want to call it), and I'm a great fan of the Final Fantasy video game series (especially VII and IX, which are just gorgeous).Final Fantasy will not disappoint when it comes to computer rendering the graphics are phenomenal. I'd be willing to say the best I have ever seen in this type of a movie. True... there are some details that could have been worked out a little bit better at times the characters look like they're biting their lips, and the detail on some characters has been done better than on others. But there are also scenes in which you lose a feeling you're watching an animated feature and feel like you're watching real actors and actresses. Character movements are done exceedingly well, and the scenery is just magnificent.Maybe it's the reality of the movie that accents it's biggest weakness lousy voice-overs. For all the high paid cast like Ming-Na, Baldwin and Suderland, the emotion just isn't there. A lot of times listening to the characters is like listening to a second-rate radio show. I don't know if the movie will come out in Japan with a Japanese voice-over, but if it does I'll have to check it out and hope that it's better than the American version (It is almost a pattern with Hollywood animated features voice-overs usually suck). Another slight weakness is that the movie comes out too... Hollywood style at times. I'm not sure if it's the voice talents, or the movie action. It seems hard to tell sometimes.Storyline is pretty original, at least for a movie. To those who say that there is no connection to the Final Fantasy series, I say you haven't been paying any attention. There is an underlying theme in FFVII and somewhat in FFVIII and FFIX that is almost identical to the movie. But I won't give away any spoilers. Ending... not too Hollywood and for the best; otherwise I'd have to deduct another 2 or 3 points from the rating.Go see it! It's truly eye-candy! "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the legacy that is Final Fantasy.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was a complete failure in bringing the excitement of Final Fantasy to the big screen.  The only majorly redeeming quality of this picture was its wonderful CGI animation, although the mouths really didn't seem to match up with the actors dialog that well.  This movie contained hardly any of the games spirit, and thats what made the Final Fantasy games such a success.  As a matter of fact, the only similarity between this movie and any Final Fantasy game is that the movie contains a character named Sid, a trait that all FF games share.  Don't bother waiting for magic spells, guardian forces, swordfights, plot twists, or even the lovable chocobo... you won't find them in this movie.  Final Fantasy was founded on epic storytelling, and The Spirits Within has fallen short of this.  If you want a good Final Fantasy epic, hold out for FFX (the TENTH installment) on the PlayStation 2.   ...and if you want to see a good movie, save your money and rent one. "},{"Title":"Best CG Movie I have seen","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This beauty of a CG movie shows what computers are capable these days. The movie storyline is a Japanese one with an American touch, it feels a bit like an anime movie. This movie is very science fiction  with a touch of fantasy.You have to watch this movie to find out for yourselves, enjoy )  "},{"Title":"Room for improvement","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Overall I'd give this movie a B- (but only because I weighted the animation so highly).  Before you read my review, that into account that I did enjoy the movie and will almost certainly pick it up when it becomes available on DVD.The best feature of this movie is easily the animation.  The level of detail and realism far exceeds anything I've ever seen before (other than technology demos).  Since I focused most of my attention to the CG, I noticed a handful of faults - no sweat from vigorous activity, no tears from crying, extras wore masks (faces are very expensive to render).  Had moisture been added to the movie, it would have greatly increased the amount of realism immensely.The voice acting was atrocious at best.  Ming-na and Alec Baldwin sounded like 1st graders learning how to read aloud for the first time.  Emotion in the voices were lacking at times and often inappropriate for the line/scene when actually present.  Donald Sutherland gave the best performance and he was mediocre.If the voice acting doesn't make you plunge sharp objects into your ears, the script will.  The lines are contrived, unrealistic, and well... cheesy.The musical score lacked the luster I grew accustomed to in the Final Fantasy series (from the pre-Playstation games at least).  Much to the dissatisfaction of many fans, none of the major songs from the series were present (Prelude, victory song, etc.).  There were many points during the movie where the lack of music is noticeable - perhaps because it focused all of my auditory brain functions on the horrible voice acting.Sound effects were very well done but nothing special.  No complaints here unless you count the noise coming out Ming-na's mouth as a sound effect.The plot was surprisingly decent though a little to similar in theme to FF7. The general premise worked well and most problems with the story stemmed from poor dialogue writing and the aforementioned sorry excuse for voice acting.  Characterization was lacking somewhat - you need to depend on prenotions on how the various archtypes will act to get a decent fell for them.  While this is usually a big downfall for most movies it is acceptable given the epic-style of the story (for the unaware, classically epics draw upon stereotypes rather than working on characterization). "}{"Title":"A good flick","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After reading a couple reviews of Final Fantasy the Spirits Within I was seriously offended. Every single review threw the first bit of criticism towards how un-real the actors looked. I'm sorry, but how many of us actually go in to see an animated film and are shocked when we can tell it's animated? Do we really have to be told that the animation looks like animation? Granted - this movie has been featured everywhere for it's life-like, realistic animation but who on earth thinks it's supposed to BE real?So enough of my raving on this subject...the graphics are great, naturally. The voice acting is well done (I love Steve Buscemi but he was a little akward here). And as an avid Final Fantasy video game player, I enjoyed the similarities in plot between movie and game. So what's wrong with the film?Three things, really. One, the direction was a little jumpy and small plot details may have ended up on the cutting room floor by accident.Two, because the plot was similar to the video game style, the movie may have been a little too fast to correctly present the story line.Three, the animation rarely matches well with the voices. To me this is something that they could have done a much better job with. They put so much into the detail of everything else, this just seems last minute to me.Overall I would rate this film a 6.5 out of 10. I liked it. I will watch it again. I may someday own it and I was completely entertained while in the theater (which is the main goal of films, if I'm not mistaken). "},{"Title":"Amazing animation, passable plot","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation is simply spectacular, there were many times during the course of the movie that the characters looked like real actors and made me forget that they were animated.Obviously the dialogue/plot isn't all that great, but it's not bad, comparable to any Final Fantasy videogame.  Those of you looking for elements from any of the games (besides Cid's ubiquitous appearance) will not find them.  However, this film does a great job of maintaining the look and feel of the FF series, to borrow a term from Apple computer's legal team.Is it just me, or does anyone else think that Gray (character w/ voice of Alec Baldwin) looks suspiciously like Ben Affleck?? "},{"Title":"pure crap","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this movie wasted my time and my money. at first the computer animation gets your attation but around 20 minutes into the movie you it begins to lose its effect and you start to wonder what the point of this movie is and why your watching it. the movies never explains who the people are where they came from what there history is, no charter devolopent, the script sounds like it was wrote for a video game not a movie. everything is easly predictable and this god awful movies make you feel like you were just robbed of 2 hours of your life that you will never get back. "},{"Title":"Actors may fear not, for they have yet to be replaced","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like all of us, I wanted to like this movie.  I anticipated the poor plot (hoping to be pleasantly surprised) and anticipated ground-breaking computer animation (hoping not to be disappointed).This movie was not ground-breaking.  It was not unique.  It didn't do anything new, and it didn't forge any new paths in the movie-going experience.  The characters were too few, and not consistently detailed (main characters had far more detail than minor ones).  They were animated poorly, and any scene with prolonged subtle animations (speaking, observing, etc) appeared immediately false and unbelievable.  Animated films work because they move properly.  Animation is as much an art as computer modeling, texturing models, and even making those stupid freckles and imperfections that people dwell upon.  All the freckles in the world won't make a poorly animated character look real. Many will complain that this is simply a fault of the state of technology, that currently Square pictures couldn't make as realistic a picture as they may have wanted.  That's all bogus.  Shrek was more believable, and it was an obvious cartoon.  Toy story, also believable.  Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, Snow White, Bambi.  All of these are animated films that have preceded Final Fantasy, and all of them were animated more professionally, more artisticly, and more accurately than the model actors in Final Fantasy.Ultimately, there is no excuse for this movie.  The plot was horrible (it is simply unacceptable for the plot of a ground-breaking movie to stink), and the visual element to the film, for which I paid my admission and waited over a year to see, was at points so unimpressive that I felt cheated.I could go on and on, but I'll stop here.  I am actually going to recommend this movie, because i want people to have some basis for comparison when a real movie is made (whenever that may be.  I'm still hoping for Lord of the Rings.  Dear God don't let them foul that one up too). "},{"Title":"Didn't have to be Final Fantasy","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Spirits Within was a great movie, and the best adaption of a video game I've ever seen.  But that's where the fault lies.  To tell the truth, it isn't really a video game adaption at all.  If I hadn't known that they were trying to make a Final Fantasy movie, I would accuse them of making a good movie and trying to make it better by adding a popular name.  Don't get me wrong, it is an amazing movie, with computer effects unlike any before, a plot that I didn't find too stereotypical, and decent voice acting, but I believe it could have gone over just as well, if not better, if it wasn't Final Fantasy. "},{"Title":"I was praying for death...","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  15 minutes into the movie and I was bored. The voice acting wasbland (except for Donald Sutherland...nice job, Mr. Sutherland), thedialogue uninspired (written by the same people that write thegames, I'd guess), the plot and character development as complexas a Nintendo game (written by the same people that wrote theuninspired dialogue, I'd guess), and the character motivationchildlike.The ONLY thing this movie had going for it was the graphics...andI'd expected that to be enough to enable me to sit through theentire movie. I was wrong.I had to leave after 45 minutes. I couldn't stand the pain. It just keptgetting worse and worse, and at 45 minutes, I believed it hadreached bottom. My friend stayed when I left, and according to himit actually got worse.I really wanted to like this movie. I'm a huge sci-fi fan, and am veryforgiving when it comes to such movies. I think it's hard to make ahorrible sci-fi movie...most of them don't sink below average(average examples Pitch Black and Soldier). However, if youenjoyed Stargate you'll probably be able to bare through this film.Save yourself the pain, and if you MUST see this movie for thegraphics, rent it. Or borrow it from some slow witted friend whomight actually purchase the thing when it comes out on DVD orvideo. "},{"Title":"Finally a good video game movie","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've been a huge fan of the Final Fantasy series ever since it first appeared on the original Nintendo entertainment system, and since then I've been convinced that Squaresoft can do no wrong.  When I heard about the movie, they were developing, I was pretty skeptical.  Yesterday, I am glad to say, I was very pleasantly surprised.Enough has been said about the CGI.  The computer graphics are nothing short of amazing with its lifelike characters and incredible visuals.  The movie's sharpest criticisms are aimed at its plot.Personally I thought the plot was actually a pretty decent one - a nice combo of mysticism with a sci fi visual fest thrown in the mix.  Fans of the game may criticize it for its location, but truly I don't think the idea that the game's setting on Earth is something that hurts the movie - set it on any other mystical planet, like the games, and you've still got the same thing...the setting just allows for a better connection with the nongamer audience.  I was also impressed by the strong ties with the games - particularly Final Fantasy 7 and 8.  Replace Gaea with Lifestream, Zeus with the Junon Cannon, and of course let's not forget the bit about returning to the planet, or the appearance of Dr. Sid.  All in all, it was a nice touch, I thought.Good movie, I recommend it for all ) "},{"Title":"It was pretty though...","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really wanted to like Final Fantasy, and honestly, I still do.  I just think it's a shame that it had to be so Hollywood-ized.  The animation was superb, but the writing was just awful.  Most of the lines were so corny and cliched that I had to stop myself from cringing in my seat.  I had expected much more because the video games had far superior writing than this, and just because the company that made it had a reputation for solid story-telling.  Unfortunately, Gray felt like an afterthought that was added to the story, and personally, I felt that he served no real purpose in the story.  Another point to the weak writing was the Neal character.  While he's supposed to be a funny character, most of his jokes fell rather flat, and few in the audience (well, our audience anyway)laughed.  As for the plot of the story, I think it had one main flaw, and that was predictability. It was one of the few movies where I sat in my seat thinking (SPOILER) Just die already! We know it's a cheesy elimination plot! That may sound a bit harsh, but I could barely restrain myself from sighing when everything happened as I predicted it would.Besides the writing though, the animation was wonderful, and is hands down, the best CG animation available as of now.  Dr. Sid is by far the most realistic, but a few others did move somewhat stiffly.  It improved (or I didn't notice it as much) as the story went on.  It got me a while to get into the story just because the voice overs were sometimes distracting. One thing I have to comment on, is that as storylines go, the idea of the 8 spirits stays close to the video game ideas, making it a true final fantasy.For the silly and cliched writing, I give it a 3.  As for the animation, I give it a 10+ because it's just so much eye candy! (I know animation isn't everything, but it's just exceptional) Overall, I have to give it a 7.  It could've been a much better film, but I'll still buy it on DVD when it comes out anyway. By the way, I loved the L'Arc en Ciel song in the end. =) "},{"Title":"Proof Once Again That You Can't Please Everyone","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Complaints, complaints, complaints...that is all I ever hear about this film, complaints.  Even as the audience was leaving the theater all I heard were complaints. That movie sucks. To quote a movie patron after viewing Final Fantasy The Spirits Within.  At times I heard people laughing at certain scenes that were not intended to be laughed at. Personally, I felt that I had gotten my money's worth  and then some.After viewing the movie, yes I was a little disappointed by both the graphics (at some points) and the story but after thinking about it I came to realize something.  If you compare this movie with those that have come from America and are made to please Americans you will think that this film is all graphics and no story.  However, if you take into consideration that this film is based on a Japanese RPG, that this film was made by a Japanese led team, and that this film intended to show us the complexity and beauty of the Final Fantasy world...then you will leave this film pleased beyond belief.(SPOILERS AHEAD!)People complain that the graphics, particularly the human characters, looked flat, cardboard-like, and had this inability to display facial expressions and voice-lip syncronization.  People, it took these guys 3 years (thats years, not months or days or weeks...YEARS) to get the graphics to where they are. This is the first film (that I am aware of) that uses the graphics employed in this film.  Take for instance TOY STORY and TOY STORY 2.  The first TOY STORY was the first to fully incorporate the Pixar technology and they couldn't do certain things...but after some more work and another movie, they were able to do fine details (like dust) that was though impossible at the time.  IF they do come out with another Final Fantasy movie (or a movie with this engine) be prepared to see things that are absolutely incredible.Is this film true to the Final Fantasy realm?  People say no because you don't have chocobo's or swords or wizards etc etc etc.  Also they complain that this film has no connection with any of the Final Fanasty games at all when it comes to story and/or setting.  Every installment of the Final Fantasy realm, if you haven't notice, is always different from the previous title.  Considering the background of the story, alien beings who kill humans by literally pulling the souls out of their bodies by meer touch, it is understandable why there are no weapons like mystical swords...you wouldn't get close enough to use it. And besides...THEY AREN'T EVEN ALIVE!  As for chocobo's and other mystical creatures...THEY ARE ALL DEAD! Remember how the soldiers were shocked to find a mere plant still alive and well deep within the heart of the ruins of Old New York City...or how they found that lone eagle in the middle of nowhere.  This is a ravished world where hardly anything is still alive.  Taking that into consideration you will find that the story is true to the world it portrays.As for story and plot (which many claim is boring, drawn out, and borderline over-complex) I liken it to say Rollerball.  Now after the first time I watched the film I was bored beyond belief...but after a second and third viewing I realized that there was this beautiful story that required you to think instead of being a bump on a log sucking soda and popcorn.  Such is Final Fantasy.  The style in which the story is told is not far from say the way Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon is told or even a Shakespearian Tragedy.  People complain about all but two characters dying in this film...but look at Crouching Tiger (a film that nearly took Best Picture from Gladiator), character died left and right...even the main characters!  In Shakespear...well, even Cecil B. DeMille couldn't match the bloodshed found in Shakespear's plays.  To quote Sherman, War is Hell.  People die, people, especially in a war.  Final Fantasy pulls no punches about that.I guess I rambled on for far too long now. I guess what I'm trying to say is that when you tell a story you wont please everyone.  Such is the case with Final Fantasy The Spirits Within.  Either you will like it, or you will hate it.   "},{"Title":"Amazing animation! As for the rest of the movie...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within will probably win every special effects award for movies in existence this year. The animation was incredible. Some of the characters looked totally real. The movie as a whole was enjoyable but when you really get down to it, a few things didn't make sense. Maybe I missed these things in the movie but I was nonetheless confused. The whole spirits concept was not explained very much or well. It was just sort of there. Also, Aki Ross and Alec Baldwin's character's (I forget his name in the movie) relationship just sort of popped out of nothing. A few lines were very corny as well and I couldn't help but laugh at the corniness a little. I'm being really critical of the movie, but overall it was a pretty enjoyable flick. "}{"Title":"Worth the price","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was actually better than I expected. I figured it would simply be a piece to show off the cool graphics technology Square has developed. I was expecting 0 plot. I got a plot that was weak and thin, but better than I expected. Won't win an Oscar for best picture, but it will win one for 'Best Special Effects'.Worth the money to go see it. "},{"Title":"A Visual Feast","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Spirits Within takes the mystical, ethereal tone of the games and transfers it successfully into this fantastic CG film.  Not your typical production out of Hollywood, it deals with man's relationship with and understanding of nature, and how the brute force method is not always a solution.The CG animation is incredible -- movements and backgrounds are realistic and lifelike.  Voice-overs are generally well done, but the character of Dr. Sid in particular is practically flawless.If you're familiar with the games, don't expect any magicians, chocobos, or summoned beasts.  And if you haven't played the games, don't worry, it's not required.  The Spirits Within is a visual treat and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Trite and Boring","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the first movie I have had the desire to walk out of in over a year. I stayed merely because I didn't want to waste my money. Yes the animation was cool, but there was no emotion in it, and besides, no matter how good the animation is, it can never be acting. Secondly, I felt the script, you know the reason a movie is, was recycled sci-fi fare, nothing new or original. It's almost like the company spent more on technology, and neglected the movie part. The plot is weak and contrived, I predicted it from almost the very begining, including the nuances, the characters are shallow, and the dialogue is cliched. Not only that, each character looks like who they are, bad guys wear black and have dark lighting and features, good guys wear lighter colors and their music is happy. It reminds me of a weak melodrama. The bottom line is, if you want to waste your time and money on a movie that is even worse than Pearl Harbor come see Final Fantasy.  "},{"Title":"Visionary","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within**** (four stars)Every so often, a movie milestone comes along.  Disney's `Beauty and the Beast' was the first animated film to make of computer generated images (CGI) to a sweeping effect.  Then came along `Toy Story' which was the first completely CGI animated movie.  `Final Fantasy The Spirits Within' is a notable landmark in its attempts to replicate human actors with CGI ones.  But that's not what makes it special.I have never seen a movie like this.  Disney's `Dinosaur' comes close, but when you see prehistoric creatures talking when they have no real capability of speech, it kind of ruins the moment for you.  No such ridiculous moments are found in `Final Fantasy'.  I have run out of superlatives to describe how stunning the film looks.  You will never see a movie as visually astonishing as this.What makes the film so wonderful to look at are two aspects  First, detail.  Director Hironobu Sakaguchi (Director of the Video Game Final Fantasy VIII) shows how much he cares for this project by the richness of his images.  You can tell that a director loves his work when he puts so much into all the little things.  No CGI movie before this has put so much on the screen, thanks in part to technological advances in computer science.Second, creativity.  Sakaguchi seems like a wellspring of new ideas.  The creatures, landscapes, cities, action sequences, weaponry, are so original.  I've never seen images such as these, and his wealth of imagination is so welcome from the commercial excess and mainstream thinking of Hollywood.  His creative energy is wondrous to behold.  It is no wonder that this movie took 4 years to make from a collaboration of Japanese and American filmmakers (It's amusing to note that the credits show so many computer science titles e.g. Software Engineers and System Administrators).The story revolves around Aki (Ming-Na from `The Joy Luck Club' ) a young female scientist who is trying to discover a way to defeat an alien infestation that has overcome the Earth.  Her mentor Dr. Sid (Donald Sutherland) provides her guidance, and her love interest Grey (Alec Baldwin) provides her protection. They try to find 8 spirits which hold the key to the defeat of the aliens. But it's a race against time since General Hein (James Woods) wishes to destroy the aliens using a destructive weapon called the Zeus cannon.I have to admit that the plot is not original, but it is told very well.  Donald Sutherland provides a wonderful voice-over as Dr. Sid.  He's always had the reputation of being able to sound so wise.  He carries the emotional brunt of all of the characters.  Everyone else is ok, but can anyone tell me that they'll watch this movie because of the acting?  Mind you, the mood of this film is at times dark and cold, it may upset young ones, and is targeted toward mature audiences.  It's not Disney.Those familiar with the video game will recognize Sakaguchi's touches and spirituality.  Certain names will sound familiar, even the way some of the characters dress.  The underlying theme that he wishes to impart is that technological advances can get you so far&#133; but it is the spirit that truly drives humanity to its full potential.  And it is that spirit that will help us reach our dreams.  Cynics will not enjoy this movie very much, but its imagery is more than worth seeing.  Final Fantasy is one of the best movies of the year.  And can be described in one word  Visionary.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful, if heavily flawed film.  The people are artificial, and so is the story.  All artificial, no intelligence.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about Final Fantasy.  First off, the movie is down right cool.  The special effects are absolutely amazing.  I couldn't help feel that I was watching a piece of cinematic history.  Soon, movies won't even need actors.  You watch; they'll completely replace them with CGI people and fake computer voices.  But, despite that the movie looks beautiful and the action is great, the other points of the movie are weak.  Normally, I can see a weak movie and still love it, but Final Fantasy is flat out, ummm, flat.  First off, I want to explain an idea I had.  This is a Japanese movie.  Just because the cast is American does not make it American.  I know that it was made in Hawaii and everything, but this movie really reminded me of Japanese Animation, or Anime.  Why?  Well, the first thing about it is there is a mass of stuff.  Yea, you heard me.  One of the aliens is just a mass of stuff.  Remember Akira?  Next, the ending really reminded me of Anime.  I don't know why, but it did.  Next, the movie combines elements of science fiction with spirits, ghosts and other supernatural stuff.  I have seen several Japanese cartoon/movies like this.Okay, I hate Japanese animation because I think it's perverted, unnecessarily gory, and flat out weak.  But that's just my opinion.  Final Fantasy is not Anime, really.  It isn't original, but it isn't Anime either.Okay, there IS a problem with the special effects.  The backgrounds, the objects, the camera motions, and the costumes all look photorealistic.  But, as good as the people look, they are not photorealistic.  Some people are, however.  Dr. Sid is amazing and looks completely real.  But other people just look a little off.  Also, the voices don't match the lips right.  They are dubbed well, it's just that for some reason, it doesn't seem right.  It's awkward.The story is weak.  It really, really is.  Many people will laugh at how, well, stupid it is.  Many people got mad at AI for blending fantasy with science fiction.  But, Final Fantasy does that too well.  Technically, Final Fantasy is just that, fantasy, but it tries to act like it is science fiction which it flat out is not.Overall, I kind of liked the movie.  It has stupid jokes, dumb dialog, stupid characters, a flat out boring and weak plot, and most of all awkwardness.  The movie comes off as weird to me.  I am not a weird movie person.  But, the special effects are BRILLIANT, despite some other problems.  General Hien's leather trench coat is AMAZING.  I did like some of the characters.  I found that Hien (James Woods) was the most complex and interesting.  I did notice how Alec Baldwin's character, Captain Grey, looks too much like Ben Aflack to be a coincidence.  I did enjoy it, but the weak plot and characters are very apparent.  Most of the plot is a little too `out there' for my tastes, and I'm a guy who loves science fiction.  But I did have a good time.Now, does this classify as a game-to-movie movie?  I do not think so.  First of all, all of the Final Fantasy games have nothing to do with each other (that I know of).  They all take place in different times, on different planets, with different characters.  So, this movie, as you can guess, has nothing to do with the games because it isn't a game.  That's how I see it.  They could have called this Phantoms 2 and nothing would have needed to be changed.  Hey, this is Phantoms 2!  Ben Aflack is in it!Rating 6/10PS The fact that Roger Ebert gave this movie a 3 ½ out of 4 stars only goes to prove my theory that Mr. Ebert only cares about pretty effects and fancy lighting and not about the soul of the movie, which is the characters and the plot.  Go read the article at CHUD.com about how special effects one day will cease to be special and filmmakers will have to rely on a good story instead.  "},{"Title":"gah....*wiping drool from chin*","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  absofrikkinlutly gorgeous.  Unbelievable work (even tho they cheated by 3d scanning real people 8P).  I admit that the story and characters were dry, but this is the first attempt at something of this magnitude...The visuals made up for most of the story's flaws however. They still need to work on lip syncing and minor facial expression details, but those are minor things.  The details in the skin textures and hairline are incredible.  The up close shots with the eyes and all the wrinkles in around the eye and forehead were darn near perfect. In the end I was entertained, and thats the goal of any movie, to entertain.  "},{"Title":"impressed","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow!.. what can i say, there were times during the film i had to tell myself 'Self, this is animated.'  The animation was just amazing. The only thing bad i noticed in the animation was the occasional awkward movement and there was just something lacking in the face when characters talked (i think the lips seemed a bit stiff).The plot followed a general Final Fantasy plot, gather something special save the world.  I guess i missed the explanation of spirits the first time around, and was left to wonder - 'What makes these things better than anyone else's spirits?' but it can be figured out right at the end before it's really important, just so you know....  As far as the Phantoms, personally, i thought that was kindof neat, but i just kind of wish they hadn't called them ghosts so quickly (call them -the dead or just the spirits are fine) because at the first mention of ghosts i thought out loudWho ya gonna call?...This last paragraph is just a minor prefrance.  While i do like Sci Fi and technology, i was just left wanting a bit more magic, spells, mystics, callers, whatever - integrated into the plot.  Most of the FF I've played in games has done a good job mixing them, the movie, was it a little longer, could have as well.... "},{"Title":"Finally Fantastic","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok- let me clarify something to begin with. I'm not a computer junky, and I never EVER once played any of the F.F. games. My peripheral knowledge of the storyline comes only from contact with friends who were deeply involved in the games ( and subsequent culture) of the Final Fantasy series.So initially, I'd considered this movie a pass. I knew nothing about the background, so I figured it was just a waste of time. The trailer caught my eye, and over the next few months as it showed in the theatres I became enthralled with the film, and committed myself to seeing it.The movie does not fail to impress and is no doubt the forefront of the exciting (and intimidating) new genre of CG movies. A testament to this fact - in the 600capacity theatre, filled to the brim with critics and technology buffs, ready to rebuke the latest competitor into their world, only one soul was brave enough to venture out of his seat to the bathroom during the film. The audience sat almost motionless, stirred by the the realism and power of the visuals.The movie captures you like one of the creatures in the plot itself, and glues you to your seat as you stare amazedly at what seems most certainly real, and yet somehow definitely not. It's this surreal feeling - not the plotline, or the characters, or the acting, nor any other element of the film - that really immerse you into it.Sadly, when the picture is reviewed by stale-minded halfwit critics, it is panned for lack of plot. Undoubtedly, these moronic creatures lash out as such a remarkable piece in self-preservation, for when the wave of computer actors hits, the future of humans in the entertainment industry in general is at stake, too. The plot... well, it's basic. But every year Hollywood churns out another Stallone/Snipes/Willis movie with the same action/explosions/aliens combination seen in Final Fantasy, so it's a moot point. One way or another, the viewing audience will find ways to watch simplistic action-adventure movies, and this film's redeeming qualities far outweigh its flaws.Go see it, if only for the graphics. Stay for the experience.One word -awesome. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was a great movie...well worth the money. Don't miss seeing this on the big screen!!!! The special effects are simply amazing and the storyline is equally as entertaining. Aki blows away any current heroine. This is one of the better movies I've seen this year. Maybe not as good as The Animal...but close! (kidding!) "},{"Title":"Square blew it.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Fantastic Story!! Photorealistic Humans!! Incredible voice acting!!!***************YOU WON'T FIND ANY OF THAT HERE!!!!***********Forget about advances in animation and photorealism. What this movie needed was advancement in storytelling. If you could pay attention to the dialogue and ignore the visuals for a sec, you'd find a mish-mash of sci-fi that eventually would blur together and leave you unsatisfied in the end. The plot of this movie was sorely lacking in creativity. In fact, anyone who has played any of the games will recognize the plot formula immediately.On the animation side of things, Dr Sid was by far the best. The rest of the characters were quite rigid in any scene that required expression. The voice acting, except for that of Sid, was quite bad. Buscemi's voice was terribly mismatched with his character and the dialogue was terribly written. One would think Square (or any animation company, for that matter) would have focused more on the lead character of the movie. What they did focus on was making things look good up close. What good is it gonna do, if the camera is even a few feet away from someone, to render out every pore?(Although it looked neat for all three seconds that the camera was actually that close) Anywho, aside from everything that was wrong with it, (Thanks mostly to the hype) the monsters of the movie, the Phantoms, really stole the show. In both their solid form from the dreams and in their bioluminescent spirit forms, they were, hands down, the coolest thing about this movie... The bottom line a fruitless overkill with much to be improved. Sorry Square. "}{"Title":"looks good.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  took my little brother to see it...he's been looking forward to this forever. one of his favorite books is ender's game by orson scott card, and he mentioned that the incredible cgi would be a great way to adapt that book to the big screen. sounds good to me. anyways, worth seeing for the visuals. it was a little weird seeing the ben affleck-looking character with alec balwin's voice. that's all. "},{"Title":"the game has more plot","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just got finished watching this movie 2 1/2 hours ago and I have to admit that the visuals on this movie were great. It amazes me how far we have come from Tron. Heck in the relatively short amount of time between this and Shrek, it still is quite amazing. The eye at the beginning really looked like an eye. the desolate landscape looked more realistic than any thing in Titan A. E.  But stunning visuals do not make a great movie. Every character in this movie, from the big bear of a black man with a heart of gold to the crazy scientist was cookie cutter from top to bottom.  James Woods did better voice over work in the clerks animated series and so did Alec Baldwin. still if you don't overly analyze this its entertaining enough. Kids will love it, and adults will tolerate it. rating 7 "},{"Title":"It was ok, a good try.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have been waiting for this movie since i saw the very first trailer. And i waited and waited for it to be release and now it is here. I will say that the animation is the best of the genre, plot was pretty interesting, but the dialouge was kind of a pain to listen too. And i walked out thinking to myself, should i look forward to the other movies i've been waiting for , will they be like the let down this was. Well one good thing came out of all of this and that was that i got too see the SPIDER MAN trailer. Final Fantasy comes out as a Final Number 5. "},{"Title":"ground breaking but needed help","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't like to talk much so here are likes and dislikes about FF 1. (like) CGI is scary real soon you won't be able to tell the difference 2. (Dislike) Plot was too far fetched (Gia the Earths Spirit Oh Brother!) The movie is too new age religion for me the plot was just stupid if they would have left it Earth vs Alien invaders it might have been o.k. 3. (like)Donald Sutherland's voice added a touch of Class to the movie all liked him. 4. (Dislike)Movie is hard to follow plot wise 5. (like)The main female character (I can't spell her name) I always like to see strong woman characters she was sinsitive yet tough and brave. I think they should have given her a gun. 6. (dislike) did I say the plot was really stupid.that is all I will say about the movie I could say more but I'm tired of typing. Would I recommend the movie; yes but just for the special effects and not to much of anything else  "},{"Title":"Great animation and special effects.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a huge fan of the Final Fantasy video game series, I've been waiting for quite some time to see this movie. So I went to see it on the first day and well I'll say I was very impressed.   Sure, some of the characters are pretty hokey (Donald Sutherland's takes the cake as being just plain silly) and the dialogue is a little weak, but the animation and special effects more than make up for these faults.  Alec Baldwin, Sutherland, Ming Na, Steve Buscemi, Ving Rhames and James Woods (the best character in the film) each give their character a distictive personality and each of them are given enough screen time, though Sutherland seems to be given a bit too much.   The Spirits Within is everything I expected, though I must confess, as I watched it, it reminded me more and more of the Playstation game Final Fantasy VII, especially in the later scenes.  But overall it's a great film, though the dialogue could have used a bit of tweaking. I give it **** out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Good Story, Bad Animated Acting!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just got done watching this movie an hour ago.  I've been anticipating this movie for over a year, and I'm afraid that it was not worth the wait. I wanted to see this movie because of the new technology Square Pictures used to animate this film, but I think an excellent story was wasted.The movie starts out a bit vague and the animation is distracting for the first 10 minutes of this film.  It's amazing how well this film was animated.  The details in human hair, facial movement, body movement, and clothing were outstanding.  However, no matter how good technology becomes, it will never master the craft of acting.  Because of this fact, I think it was a lot harder for me to connect with the characters.  For instance, Steve Buscemi is the comic relief of this film.  He has always been good comic relief, but I think this film points out the he is good partly because of what he does physically.  This film failed to capture any of the actors talents, for the afore mentioned reason.  The end of the film was anti-climactic.  You never want to leave your seat thinking, 'That was it?' I'm afraid that happened to me.  The story is a bit hard to follow and the ending can be confusing if you don't pay very close attention.  This is a great story, but I don't feel it was told very well.This film was budgeted for $70 million, and they spent $140 million of it. In my opinion, this film could have been a blockbuster success, if they had filmed live action instead of pioneering a new genre of films with this technology.  With this cast, it would have attracted many people, and there would have been a much better connection to the characters.  If these were real actors, they would have been among the worst.  The over use of hand gestures were distractingly bad.  I feel bad for the hundreds of animators who slaved to make this film.  You can tell that this is the result of years of hard work.  If you've been to the official web site of Final Fantasy and visited the 'Behind the Scenes' portion of it, you will know what I mean. Everything about this movie could have been wonderful, if it was not for the fact that it was animated.  I think that this movie will be panned by the critics, and I don't think that it will be saved by the younger audience, as did Godzilla.  It is my understanding that Square Pictures has promised its investors that it will not produce another film.  If they can write as good a script as this films, I think they should try again, but with live actors.As fantastic as the animation is, I don't think I will see it again, nor will I purchase the DVD when it is out. "},{"Title":"Mixed bag of tricks","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It seems the summer of 2001 is displaying an odd case of emotional vacancy in many of the movies coming out under the Blockbuster label.  I was sad to see that this one fell into that abyss too.  It again reiterated that when one puts all their marbles into one basket, as the production was clearly a monumental breakthough in CGI, you miss out on something.  I have seen cartoons with more life than the characters in this movie.  It is easy to get caught up in the technical challenges.  However, as a piece of software-generated media, I have to admit they put in their time. Renderings of polygons, texturing, luminosity, color and sequencing was far beyond what I expected.  I felt that Lucas himself will have to one-up this in his next digital feature (And I hope he doesn't leave out the character development in SW-II this time).The animators did have a little trouble making thier stars smile, lauph, cry or flirt. I also felt they weren't allowed to act, and somewhat strangled by over-directorship.  However, I was glad I saw it on the big screen, for it will be just a cartoon on my 27 TV. "},{"Title":"Stunning, atmospheric, cliche... worth a look","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie's storyline is based on the Gaia vs. Anti-Gaia theme introduced in Final Fantasy VII, but the similarity to the games pretty much ends there. Fans of the series who go into the theater expecting-- no, demanding-- to be presented with images of Alec Baldwin and Donald Sutherland in pointy hats atop galloping Chocobos will be disappointed with this movie; everyone else should give it a shot.Final Fantasy The Spirits Within isn't the first movie to be done completely in CG, but it is the first to attempt to create totally realistic scenery completely in CG and, for the most part, it works. While the characters sometimes look obviously computer-generated, it's a testament to Square Pictures that they look believably real for most of the movie, and the settings are absolutely breathtaking. The use of CG to completely paint a realistic-looking picture of this dark future creates an atmosphere you won't find in any other movie. Dr. Aki Ross (the raven-haired main character) looks particularly good.The movie is set in the distant future. A meteor lands on Earth and brings with it a horde of spectral creatures known as Phantoms. These creatures feed on the souls of human beings, and as they cannot be seen without first being coated with a barrier residue, they have pretty much decimated most of the human race. Those who survive live in sheltered cities equipped with barriers against the Phantoms.The survivors are divided on how to best combat the Phantoms. One group, led by Earth's General Hein (James Woods), proposes to simply fire a powerful beam cannon at the Phantom's home base and wipe them out. However, the kindly Dr. Cid (Donald Sutherland) believes that a force called Gaia exists as the soul of the Earth, and firing upon the crater could injure Gaia.While most laugh at Dr. Cid's proposal to gather eight spirits of Gaia in an attempt to cancel out the anti-life force of the Phantoms, Dr. Aki Ross (Ming-Na Wen) has her own reasons for believing Dr. Cid. Meanwhile, Captain Gray Edwards of the Deep Eyes military force has some history with Dr. Ross and seeks to protect her with his squad of soldiers bringing up the rear. Together they try to find the last two spirits before the Earth is completely destroyed.The storyline is original and well-presented, so there are no problems here. It's the dialogue that drags this movie down. While it isn't always bad, it is far too cliche, far too often, to be completely effective. And while the voice actors do an excellent job (for the most part), whoever hired Alec Baldwin for this movie should be spin-kicked in the head. I could hardly stand listening to this rock speak for the near two-hour duration of the film. The soundtrack is similarly unremarkable, though not outright bad.Final Fantasy The Spirits Within brings little to the big screen that hasn't been there before, but the sheer beauty of the CG in the film makes it worth seeing. The storyline is interesting if at times predictable, and there's plenty of action to be had throughout. It's not going to change the way you view film, and it's not going to be everything to everyone, but Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is definitely worth seeing at least once.  "},{"Title":"At least it's better than Tomb Raider","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After playing the fantastic video games, I was hoping the movie would goto grab the wonder of the games.  In many ways, I was wrong.  Don't getme wrong, it was an OK movie, but there were three areas that made themovie go downhill.  First, a poor screenplay.  Good plot, not the bestdialogue.  When you reach for an epic, you try to get memorable quoteslike What we do in life echoes in eternity., said by Russel Crowe inGladiator.  Trust me, I will not remember the dialogue in a fewmonths.  Second, mediocre performances.  Especially by Dr. Sid (DonaldSutherland), but a very good performance by the villain General Hein(James Woods).  The acting was like listening to a book on tape.  Notmuch expression.  Third, a bad ending (SPOILER).  The ending, in myopinion, wasn't thought out to well.  It looked like the screenwritersgot bored and made an ending with no thought.  I mean, come on, doeseveryone (save two) have to die?  And if they are, can't you make it abit more dramatic?  But, these problems only came to me at the end, dueto the fine graphics.  All in all, they could've done a lot better, butas I said At least it's better tha "},{"Title":"Beautiful to look at but boring","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Saw the movie an hour ago and had mixed feelings.  The CGI was amazing ! This probably has the best approximation of real human skin complete with pores and lines and even freckles ! Machine animation was also top-notch.  Too bad all the effort did not seem to extend to the storyline.  This is anime but not as well put together (not the level of Ghost in the Shell or Princess Monokoke).  However do watch this movie as a peak into the future of animation. "}{"Title":"Could it have been better?","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In a word, yes.Although probably enjoyable to kids, this isn't a great movie for adults, unless of course your really into the Final Fantasy series.  Under such pretenses, one's enjoyment will probably be heavily biased.  Even still I'd be surprised if many adults will love this one.Must say, visuals were great.  But the story & script are a bit hard to swallow.  So far, I'd say that computer animated dramas have a long way to go.  At this time, it's just too transparent.  You never lose yourself in the movie.  This was apparent as I looked at my watch a couple times during the movie even though the movie wasn't long by movie time standards.  It may however been a bit longer than most animated films.  Computed animated films are much more palpable as comedies. "},{"Title":"Eye Candy.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The visuals are great.  There are many times when the characters look like real actors.  But the story and the characters are not original. Everything that someone says, or does, or has done to them can be predicted minutes before they happen.  I need engaging character to be entertained, so this was a big disappointment. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Makes for a great trailer...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see this film for the visual effects, and the high-tech sci-fi gadgets. It didn't let me down. It didn't give me anything else useful, like oh... say... a PLOT. Nothing new here. The enemy idea is kinda cool. Alien meets Predator meets Ghostbusters, but the weak attempt at misplaced spiritualism got old real fast, and SPOILER I was a little disappointed to find out that God is a river of blue goo under the surface of the Earth. "},{"Title":"not ready to replace real actors yet","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You'll be hearing all sorts of stuff about this being the film to revolutionise the movie industry, but it's all hyperbole at this point. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within was a marvelous work of human art, but these guys on screen aren't ready to replace real actors just yet--and they won't be for quite some time. The sort of disappointing truth is that the uninteresting storyline creates a narrative vacuum that just can't be filled by CG actors, who emote with the best of them, but still can't manage to make you care about them despite some excellent voice talent.As a first attempt at creating a science fiction film utilising CG human actors, it's a noble effort, but this isn't going to revolutionise anything--and everybody who's talking about how it has the greatest effects ever will be eating their words next year when the next greatest effects ever film gets released, whatever that may be. If you want to look at revolutionary, I'd sooner look to Toy Story for inspiration than anything else. Toy Story 2 even moreso. The reason the Toy Story films were revolutionary achievements in cinema was not strictly because they showed us effects we had never seen before, but because of the solid fusion of effects and storytelling. Final Fantasy, on the other hand, is a film solely preoccupied with getting the graphics just right, more or less completely spurning the notion of a cohesive story that's going to appeal to anybody with an impartial sense of wonder.But by the question that should really be on all of our minds is...where the hell are the Chocobos?Facetiousness aside, this only vaguely resembled the spirit of Final Fantasy. The relationships were all so shallow that they were almost comical, and the plot lacked entirely in any sort of real, emotional conflict.You'll walk out of the theatre saying, Eh. Yeah, the effects are great, but who cares? The movie going public doesn't care about how good a film looks. All they care about is are they going to feel anything about the characters--and unfortunately CG humans and an uninspired, vapid story don't quite meet the task. Still...nice try, folks. Better luck next time. "},{"Title":"I need more than visuals...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There is no question that the visuals in Final Fantasy are stunning. They make it worth seeing.That said, I came out of the movie feeling cheated. I grew up with Final Fantasy 3 on the Super Nintendo, then 7, 8 and 9 on the Playstation. The movie's title was Final Fantasy, and there was a character named Sid, but that was all that seemed to indicate it was Final Fantasy. Where were the castles? The nobility? The towns? The Chocobos? Where was the magic? The sometimes-overly-deep characters?Instead of that we are hurtled into a world of pure sci-fi (no fantasy elements that I could see). Instead of some character getting involved into a situation we have characters already in the thick of things. Ugh, the characters. By the end of the story I know maybe three things about THE MAIN CHARACTER. The minor characters, I knew basically nothing about, except their names. They didn't have the mystery and appeal that the ones in the game had. It made me think of the Matrix, and Blade Runner rather than Final Fantasy. And I didn't want to go see Blade Runner or the Matrix.I would have been happy with a bad Final Fantasy. But that wasn't even Final Fantasy. I hope they make another one sometime, one that actually fits the franchise. As for this one, see it for the visuals. That's really all you'll get.  "},{"Title":"A movie that some will love others will not...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you are not familiar with Japanese Anime or do not like at all, then Final Fantasy is not the movie for you.  The plot actually takes up the characteristics of a good anime action, growing love and/or sexual tension, some supernatural/or sci-fi aspects.  I thought the movie was great.  I followed this movie since I first heard about it in 1999.  Since then I've been finding every tidbit and piece about it, downloading every preview and trailer.  When I watched it today and I wasn't disappointed.As for digital characters replacing actors? Well, I don't think it's quite there yet.  The emotion in the character's eyes is somewhat inexistent and the facial expressions aren't quite down yet.  I think that may have prevented some people from seeing how truly well-crafted this film is.My opinion Don't see this movie if you're expecting flawless characters that look exactly like people.  You will be disappointed.  But if you can look beyond the graphics, you will enjoy it.   "},{"Title":"summer of disappointment continues...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  oh my, what a disappointment... this movie reeked of americanization. it has absolutley nothing to do with the  final fantasy games, save the addition of a character called sid... and in the game it was always spelled cid anyhow. the plot was severely lacking (when stacked up against traditional final fantasy games), the acting was poor (alec baldwin and steve buscemi were particularly bad), and it just overall disappointed. "},{"Title":"A powerful synergy of technology and story","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a Final Fantasy fan I went for the story.  As a computer scientist I went for the technology.  What I encountered was a synergy between the two that brought the movie to life with a force I didn't expect. Several times during my first viewing I was surprised to have emotional reactions to the story and its characters.  I went with high expectations.  To have them exceeded was a rare and unexpected delight.The characters and their virtual world ARE easily detectable as computer-generated imagery.  The rendering technology is an order of magnitude beyond anything that has preceded it.  As impressive as it is, however, and it IS impressive, to completely fool human perception is impossibly difficult at best.  The point, though, is that it doesn't matter.  Sometime during the first thirty minutes you forget that the characters aren't real, that their every movement down to the batting of an eye is entirely scripted, that their universe exists only as ones and zeroes on a handful of twenty-first century computers.  The combination of graphics technology, awesome scenes, and well-written story draw you in to the fantasy and keep you there to the end.As with most movies it isn't perfect, and I tend to be more critical than most, but the problems are underwhelming in contrast with the work as a whole.  There are some inconsistencies in the storyline, the computer-generation of human movement is excellent but still less than realistic, voice-overs are out-of-sync on occasion, and a couple of the characters don't really fit their voices.  For me, however, these minor issues detract little to nothing from what is otherwise one of the best big-screen efforts I've enjoyed in a long time.My personal video collection numbers fewer than thirty titles, comprised only of works from my own short list of great movies.  When it becomes available, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within will be joining them. "},{"Title":"A 40 hour game crammed into a 2 hour movie...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, I guess I am one of those geeky guys that eageraly awaited this movie's arrival for years, but a lot of people who saw this movie are the same way... anyway, now that this movie is here and I've seen it I would have to say that it's better than I thought it was gonna' be. I was really just expecting it to be another OK movie to game translation like all the past movies that came from games. I was pretty far off the mark. This movie was a blast! The animation is the best CGI I think the world has ever seen. It looked so realistic, that sometimes in the movie, I forgot it was just a computer generated image and not, in fact, real people. It was that good! And the sound and voices are great too! The sound effects are amazingly realistic. The only thing wrong with the sound I think, is that I really didn't hear too much music in the background. If there was any music, they should've made it louder.I was kind of expecting the wonderful music that is a trademark to the final fantasy series, and it was there, but only in small quantities. Now for the plot... I would have to say that this movie has the best plot out of any video game movie to date. This plot would be worthy of being in a final fantasy game. The basic plot is that aliens, called Phantoms, have invaded earth. They have infected Dr. Aki Ross, but she and her companion Dr. Cid have devised a way to keep the Phantoms from taking over her body and killing her. Unfortunately this solution is only temporary, and Aki must set out with the Deep Eyes military squadron to find the 8 spirits located on earth that are necessary to create a special spiritual wavelength type thing. This wavelength, when created, will cure Aki and destroy the Phantoms. All this leads to some pretty good action scenes and a satisfying conclusion. This is definitely the best video-game based movie out there. It actually has a good plot, and quite a lot of star-power to boot, with such names as Alec Baldwin, Donald sutherland, and Ving Rhames. If you are into Sci-fi action movies or video games, go see this movie. I would give it an 8.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Stunning visuals, but - what else is there?","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I must say - I was impressed - scratch that - extremely impressed by the visual fx the movie offered. It doesn't disappoint in that department. But, I think the movie failed to offer much else other than that. I mean, it wasn't particularly bad in any certain manner, but everything was rather lackluster. The voice acting was OK, but the plot was very, very predictable. It's the classic action/adventure story. At every turn, you can pretty much expect what will be coming.I'd say it's more of the same Hollywood has been churning out, but w/ a fresh look. Look elsewhere for a good movie. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Lives up to the hype..","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don't let your lack of interest in any of the variety of related computer/console games  deter your willingness to see this. I know nothing about the games, but was intensely interested in seeing the incredible visuals and effects. I was not disappointed. Nor was I treated to merely a feast of fluffy eye-candy. The story, the characters were as compelling and interesting as anything I've seen in near memory. Ten times more impactful then the rest of the summer trash being heaped at us by Hollywood this year. I had some issue with the attention and importance placed on a pseudo -religious belief they were trying to reinforce, it wasn't necessary and dragged down what would otherwise be a perfect movie-going experience.Experience the wonder and awe of Final Fantasy... "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A friend of mine got me into a free advance screening of FF and I'd have to say the price was right...  On the whole, I enjoyed this film, although, by the end, you're so unsure of what exactly happened that instead of the standard wow! or whoa responses, I heard myself and others utter Huh?. The first two-thirds of this film are pretty impressive as far as CGI characters go, although they never quite got the mouths to move right, especially in the case of the lead character Aki.  There are some truly amazing effects, particularly in one sequence where our heroes must escape from the city.  Overall, a good, but not great film, where the only points they earn is for the computer effects, not for originality. "},{"Title":"You can't replace acting with CGI, but you can try","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There are many moments in FINAL FANTASY when you almost forget that the entire film, including the actors, is computer generated -- the faces have pores, the skin of the characters is imperfect with freckles and and wrinkles.  (The effect is almost creepily realistic Capt. Grey Edwards has a scruffy, sexy look; he's very hot, and I kept wanting to see him with his shirt off, which left me feeling weird and confused.) But then they talk, with great, expressive voices like those of Alec Baldwin and Donald Sutherland, and there is NOTHING THERE.  The computer technology can reproduce the mechanics of acting, but not the ineffable qualities that make you care about the characters.  When the heroes, Grey and Aki, finally kiss, it's almost pornographic in its lack of emotional commitment -- rather like sculptures being molested by puppets.  The script is a joke, impossibly hard to follow and a bit overlong.  But I cannot help but feel compelled to recommend it, even half-heartedly, because the film IS all CGI and is eye-popping.  Years ago I was so caught up in the then-new efforts of Japanimation (of AKIRA), I could see beyond the plot holes.  I'm not so forgiving now, perhaps, but there will always be a proper place to suggest seeing a movie that's deeply flawed just because you feel you may be witnessing the birth of a new filmic expression. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies to come out over the summer.  I know that doesn't say much this year, but I think that this is the movie to see at theaters (unless you haven't seen the first two hours of A.I. that is).  I have been into Final Fantasy since the first game came out for Nintendo.  The games are fanciful epics which, if directly translated to the screen, might have ended up chopped to pieces, and looking like Tomb Raider.  However, this movie simplified the plot, and kept everything to a constrained time, especially considering that the games take a minimum of 25 hours to play nowadays.So, I think that this was one of the most fanciful, awesome looking, well-(voiced?) sci-fi movies in awhile.  I am so glad I got to see this one.  Check it out.8/10P.S. Some people may say that this (as well as FF7 and FF8) are insults to the series because they take place in the future, well they should know that stories can't be the same every single time, or else they would get tired. "},{"Title":"A Halloween bag full of eye-candy","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've always been a big fan of animated movies -- well, in my day we still called them cartoons -- but there is always a sense of wonder in watching a world unfold that could never be created otherwise.      Whether it's one of the dozens of Disney films, the magnificent claymation of Nick Park, or the new generation of digital animation like Toy Story or Shrek, what we see on screen is a remarkable new world with characters often targeted at kids, even as the humour grew more adult.The latest wave in animation, however, has been towards more adult-oriented movies, which for the most part has been a dismal failure.    For every Iron Giant or Princess Mononoke, we have had to suffer through a dozen Anastasia's or Road to El Dorado's -- movies with neither a soul nor a sense of humour, and often trying to hard to be set in just an animated and slightly futuristic version of our world.  When I first saw the trailer for Final Fantasy, I was struck by a sense of awe at how far the animation had come, yet everything about it reeked with the potential of another Titan A.E.So last night, it was with both great excitement and extreme trepidation that I stepped into an advance screening of Final Fantasy  The Spirit Within.      The theatre was as packed as I've ever seen for a movie preview, and it was clear that the geek factor was out in full force, this movie would be judged by the harshest of critics.From the opening scene to the final credits, this movie is visually spectacular.    The mix of colours, the unique dream sequences, the stunning landscapes create the best eye-candy you've ever seen.     The attention to detail is phenomenal and the characters, at times, appear completely lifelike.     There has been much talk about the effort that was put into making even the characters' hair flow properly in the wind, and there are absolutely times where you can't help but sit and stare at how real that looks too.     Pay special attention to the character of Dr. Sid (voiced by Donald Sutherland) -- he was the last character to be animated and it's clear that the technology matured over the four years it took to complete Final Fantasy -- he is certainly the most life-like character.The story itself is solid, though certainly not spectacular.    At many points of the movie, you feel the strong influence of Japanese storytelling, but for the most part it is a standard good vs. evil, save the world from destruction story, but it's clear that the star of the show is the visuals.     There is, however, strong characterization (for a cartoon) and it's a well-written script that elicited good reactions from the audience, with the occasional Hollywood one-liner tossed in.The main character, Aki (voiced by Ming-Na of E.R. fame), is a scientist who is working against the odds with a small group of soldiers to free Earth from the grips of an alien phantom invasion, creature which are virtually invisible and strike by stealing the souls of their victims.     Aki and Dr. Sid are working on a plan to eliminate the alien creatures through non-military means to prevent further damage to an already-ravaged planet Earth.      Their nemesis, General Hein (brilliantly voiced by James Woods) is determined to use the Zeus cannon to destroy the aliens.     Of course, Aki soon learns that things are not exactly as they seem and it quickly becomes a race against time to find a way to defeat the phantoms before life on Earth is completely wiped out.      Just some classic storytelling that keeps this movie moving along from one gorgeous scene to another.Is the movie perfect?    Certainly not, although it absolutely raises the bar a few notches for anyone that decides to follow.     There were times when the animation probably should have been a little less perfect -- everything flowed so brilliantly *except* for the facial expressions when a character is talking, the technology continues to be just off, so that when there is a close-up of a character, you just know something is wrong.Some of the voices should have been chosen more carefully -- Steve Buscemi is simply not believable as one of the soldiers and Alec Baldwin does not match the image of the young, gallant Grey, the commander of these soldiers and part-time love interest of Aki.    In most animated films, the characters are often drawn to somewhat resemble the actors whose voices are being used...in Final Fantasy, no such effort is made and at times this is VERY distracting, the sounds coming out of their mouths just don't match the look of the characters talking.But these are minor points in a movie that leaves you with your mouth hanging open most of the time.     Animation has taken a huge step forward with this movie, and while it may only appeal to the traditional sci-fi geek crowd, it will certainly be a predecessor to even more spectacular animation in the future. "},{"Title":"Most realistic anime I've seen.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had very very high expectations for this movie and was slightly disappointed. It didn't grab me and suck me in, and so I'm mad at it. Now I will point out every little thing that wasn't absolutely perfect about it. Please take this with a grain of salt...How do you evaluate a movie made entirely of CG? You could compare it to a normal special effects sci-fi film. You could compare it to previous all-CG films. You could compare it to a Japanese anime film.Compared to a regular Hollywood blockbuster special effects film, the effects are much, much better. There isn't a familiar celebrity playing the lead role as in Tomb Raider... there aren't one liners when the hero kills bad guys... however, there are some issues with the more dramatic segments of the film. The more emotional scenes are a bit awkward, and could have been directed better. It's not a limitation of the technology, it's just bad directing. The action scenes lack urgency. At several points, a character is in mortal danger and has a means of escape, but for some reason chooses to sit there and ponder the situation for several seconds before finally deciding to fight inertia and get to safety. This is a typical action movie problem - it's hard to believe the danger when the actor doesn't seem concerned nor in a hurry.Compared to an all-CG film, such as Toy Story 2, the effects are light years ahead. Square simply has fantastic artists, with vivid imaginations that produce breathtaking visuals. This movie will be everything that you hoped for if you looking for that. The animation itself could be better - at times (not just in zero-G scenes), it seemed like the characters were moving underwater, because they moved in such an unrealistically graceful and willowy way. The ultra-graceful slow wave of a hand through the air gets tiresome after the first time Aki does it. Real people are more herky-jerky than the characters in this movie, and you would think that motion capture would reflect that, but it doesn't. It's like they tried to capture the ideal turn around and face the other person, the ideal walk up this rocky hill, rather than what someone might actually do. Disney films and anime (which disney films are based on after all!) get human motion right, without the benefit of motion capture. In zero-G scenes this comes off very well, though; the grace is believable. Also, there are many, many places where lip synch is clearly off. Worse, there are scenes and angles from which characters don't look like the same person. Did they use high and low detail models for close-ups vs. group shots? If so, it shows; if not, I don't know what's going on, but sometimes, Aki didn't look right. You would expect that with a 3D model she would look consistently like Aki, but it isn't so. The same goes for all of the other characters. Finally, Grey looks far too much like Ben Affleck for it to be a coincidence. On the other hand, landscape scenes are gorgeous, the concepts behind computer interfaces of the future are very innovative, and in general everything other than the people looks amazing. The people look amazing in stills but not quite right in motion.Compared to an excellent anime, this movie has a predictably bizarre and technomystical plot line. It lacks the typical anime cyborgs, cat/bunny girls, street hardened police, or pencilnecked geeks. Anime fans will feel at home with neato future tech stuff, cybermilitary gizmos, giant power stations, mega-cities, dramatic space scenes, and very strong female leads. Of course, the animation technique is totally different, and nobody goes superdeformed when they get embarassed or upset.Don't get me wrong - Hironobu is a creative genius and I have enjoyed FF 7, 8, and 9, but apparently he has a bit to learn about dramatic film direction, and I look forward to seeing his develop these skills in his next film. This movie is a great starting point - the people look very much like real people, even if they don't move quite like they ought to. The concept art is clearly genius material as well; I can't imagine how much effort must have gone into actually modeling the phantoms. The love interest is there but doesn't overshadow the plot, and the bad guys are complex enough that it's hard to say they are really all bad.Go see this movie, in a theater, and pay the outrageous prices; it's worth it. Pay close attention - there will be many derivative movies and hopefully sequels, and they will all have a major affect on the future of the art of filmmaking. You'll probably really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Prepare to be awestruck.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits WithinAs the summer movie season limps along, it becomes evident that Hollywood movies are a dime a dozen.  Okay, they're actually more like a hundred million a dozen, but you get the gist - it is rare to see a film that is truly innovative and entertaining.  For every Run Lola Run, there are fifty Freddy Got Fingered and Tomcats befouling the theaters.  Although it sounds horribly cliched, I had the opportunity this evening to see the next step in filmmaking.  And what a step it is. In 2065 the impact of a huge meteorite and the phantasms it carried within, have left the earth virtually devoid of life.  The humans that survive cling to existence in fortified cities, beyond which is a desolate deadly wasteland.  Dr. Aki Ross and Dr. Sid are the under funded, overworked scientists who are working feverishly to find a solution to reclaim the planet. Unfortunately their work is based not in pure science, but smacks of paganism and they know that if they cannot finish their work in time, the head of the military, General Hein, is willing to embark on a literal scorched earth policy.  The fate of humanity hangs in the balance - how's that for a bit of pressure?An acquaintance of mine who works in computer modeling told me that one of the major stumbling blocks in computer animation are the eyes - apparently, they are nearly impossible to render properly.  Based on the animation in this film, you can consider that problem solved.  Unlike Toy Story or Antz which dazzled viewers with vivid cartoon computer animation,  Final Fantasy creates human characters that look amazingly real, from the way they move to their hair and freckles.  That realism extends to the environment the detail in the landscapes - from rock outcroppings to the cities - is phenomenal. Indeed the rush of images (literally) is almost too much to keep up with at times - at one point I thought I might need a Dramamine.  Most impressive for me however was the final sequence before the credits - I still cannot believe that those final shots were computer generated. While this film will surely be viewed as a watershed for it's visual content and its successful combination of elements from the giants of the sci-fi genre, there are some weak spots.I can only assume that the producers spent so much money on getting the look just right that they had to sacrifice a bit on the writing there are sections of dialogue that sound as though they were pulled out of a old B-movie or Harlequin novel.  However, many clever one-liners and subtle jokes remedy these oversights.  Another concern is the plot - while I found it intriguing and compelling, some sections are quite obscure and convoluted.  Also, the overall theme of the film is built upon a New Age style philosophy that may lose a lot of viewers.  Finally, I found it curious that while the mouths of most of the characters seemed to be in synch with the dialogue, two looked like they had speech impediments.  Okay, enough with the quibbling.   If you're looking for an iconoclastic night out at the movies (and who isn't?) this is the film for you.  Definitely worth full price to see it on the big screen.  I'm going again just to see what I missed the first time.  "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a long time Final Fantasy fan, I had been looking forward to this film since it was first announced.  However, as the release date neared and trailers began to become available, I started to lose faith.  The trailers I saw were downright AWFUL.  They seemed to showcase the most overly noisy graphical scenes, with video-game like one-liners and a cheap alien invasion theme.  Thankfully, the film was nothing like that. The first few scenes of the film had some woody voice acting and poor dialogue, but once you get past that it seems to improve dramatically.  The plot is *NOT*, and I repeat *NOT* just an alien invasion.  The aliens have a well-developed backstory and aren't really the central conflict in the film.  As expected, the animation is VERY lifelike, especially Peri Gilpin's character, Jane.  As you get drawn into the story, it's easy to forget these are computer generated characters, although it takes a few scenes before I got used to them.  Although there were a few loose ends in the otherwise great plot, and it would have been nice to get a bit more used to the everyday life of people living in this nightmare world before the action began, it still left me very satisfied.  All in all, an excellent experience.  I'd give it an 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's unleashed fantasy... and incredibly original!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  BEWARE... MINOR SPOILERS! This is one movie that totally exploits its medium. I was overwhelmed throughout the screening! It's apocalyptic; it's metaphysically challenging!  Yep, the whole production is simply mind-blowing, aesthetic and powerfully exquisite! And Aki's dream world, gosh, I gulped and I gasped with total disbelief. This sci-fi movie encompasses some undeniably heartfelt themes love, friendship, fate, and death&#133; enlightening for sure! And it dwells on plenty of philosophical ideals. OK, the dialogue is lame and the contents of the story are rather farfetched and complex. And the scientific jargon can be rather confusing. Sure, I'm a total stranger to the properties of energy and I'm not one for defending the theory of ghostly spirits. But watching the characters in action and the amazingly gorgeous backdrops is worth the price of the movie tix.  Amazing artistry work!  Funky as the plot may seem, Sakaguchi's apocalyptic vision is original!  Hmmmh, energy and spirits battling as high-octane weapons for survival! Who dares to say that this is not an astounding and refreshing idea!  Of course, this is not the customary Hollywood action flick! No martial arts nor humanoids!  Yes, I'm impressed with Sakaguchi's CG-animated flick and applaud his stunning technological accomplishments. His computer-generated characters are unbelievably realistic!  Real looking eyes, supple skin texture, sweeping hair strands, and everything that makes them incredibly lifelike! As the characters moved, communicated and battled, I was completely mesmerized!  Indeed, it's relatively easy for viewers to dispel them as faked screen cronies! Just watch the movements of the characters' lips! What if future movies follow this filmmaking trend? Perhaps the Oscar Awards will have to include new categories! Best Voice Performance? Best Digital `Actor'?  It's certainly a welcoming idea for the aging cameos and for those with vocal talents!           "},{"Title":"A Sci-Fi High","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I can still clearly remember when Final Fantasy was first released back in 2001. It was kind of a strange movie release 'cause nobody raved about it. Nobody marvelled at it. And nobody (including myself) went to see it. Final Fantasy came and went without even as much as a whimper. It was a weird phenomenon. Final Fantasy was The-Movie-That-Wasn't.Over the years about the only thing, anywhere near to an opinion, that I've heard about Final Fantasy is that it is unbelievably boring. Yeah, B_O_R_I_N_G! I guess word-of-mouth of this sort kept people away in droves. It's really amazing sometimes what one, little word like boring can do to the fate of a flick.Well, I, for one, certainly didn't find Final Fantasy boring. To be honest, the story was a bit dry, the action a bit slow at times, but, all-in-all, it did hold my interest for the most part. Yeah, I'll admit that War Of the Worlds, it ain't. But, hey, I didn't expect it to be, anyways. So, I wasn't disappointed.Where Final Fantasy excels (to the 10th power) is visually. It is an absolute delight to behold. The attention to detail in all the computer-generated imagery is nothing less than fantastic.Any short-comings that Final Fantasy's story may have will be immediately forgiven if you simply treat this movie as basically a feast for the eyes. If you do so, then you won't feel let down when the story doesn't meet any of your preconceived expectations, or if it doesn't go accelerating into high-gear.Final Fantasy's story is set in the future. Natch. The year is 2065. Mankind is on the brink of total extinction after our Earth is infested with alien Phantom-Spirits that feed ravenously on the human life-force.Our quickly dwindling human population is forced to live within great, domed cities. These cities are now the last and only refuge for Man. A specially engineered force-field engulfing the entire city shields these last remaining citizens from being totally annihilated by the ferocious Phantom-Spirits.Top scientists within the city are frantically searching for a means to successfully combat these menacing spirits, yet retain and protect our planet's fragile environment.WOW!! Now, does that sound boring to you!?.....Check it out. You might be pleasantly surprised at how non-boring Final Fantasy really is...... ) "}{"Title":"Come for the visuals, stay for... well the visuals are it really.","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Even though it is hard to tell exactly what the hell is going on in Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, the fact that things look amazing whilst doing it is indisputable.In short the Earth was taken over 34 years ago and the remaining human population has holed up ever since in increasingly small pockets. The outside is a barren lifeless wasteland where the phantoms reside, creatures that are translucent glowing things of varying sizes that can pass through solid matter. Touching them brings infection, should they pass through a body they effectively rip the very life out of the inhabitant &#x96; this is a game of tag where you don't want to be 'it'.Dr Aki Ross and her mentor Dr Sid (Donald Sutherland) have a theory, they think that the phantoms are actually haunting/attacking the Gaia &#x96; the spirit of the Earth. Unfortunately the army lead by General Hein (James Woods) have other plans, they have a giant cannon pointed right at the heart of the Gaia ready to blow away the phantom menace (tee-hee). Team Science thinks this will destroy the very spirit of the planet.Which is bad.So Aki Ross and a team of soldiers including her ex Gray (Alec Baldwin) head into the barren wasteland looking for the last few of the 8 spirits that can heal the planet &#x96; a plant is one, Aki herself is another &#x96; as Aki is a spirit as an unwelcome by-product she is phantom-bait, meaning that she and her escorts are rarely safe for long in the open.As must happen the hothead army guy ignores Team Science logic and in a rush to move things along unleashes all hell. The team are inadvertently stuck in the middle of a huge rush to escape with the spirits encroaching ominously and the clock ticking down on the giant cannon being fired.The ending is fairly hippy-ish, as is the underlying message that we must be good to Mother Earth (Note I didn't say it wasn't an accurate or false message, just the way it was related here was hippy-ish and a little heavy-handed.) Final Fantasy boasts an all star-voice cast including all the above plus Steve Buscemi, Ving Rhames and Keith David. The visuals are often incredibly well-rendered, it's hard to believe this was made 10 years ago.Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is like a Brazilian supermodel with no command of the English language, whilst it looks absolutely amazing once the dialogue starts it is easy to get a little confused at times, but for the most part you still don't mind.Final Rating &#x96; 5.5 / 10. Come for the visuals, stay for the&#x85; well more visuals really. "},{"Title":"Has not much to do with Final Fantasy, but still entertains!","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I played nearly all the Final Fantasy games that are out there, and was very curious about what this movie was exactly about.And now that I have watched it, I can tell you guys about it here on IMDb.Sadly, the movie has almost no connections with any final fantasy game. I'll come back to that later.What's the story? Well, it's rather complicated, but I'll try. It's the year 2065 and the world seems in a post-apocalyptic state. The fact is that actually the Earth is swarmed with alien creatures, referred to as Phantoms. They steal the souls of the humans and are a threat to mankind. Hiding in special barrier cities, the survivors of the human race try to develop a strategy to annihilate these creatures. They come up with two methods. 1. Blow up the meteorite on which the aliens came to the Earth or 2. Assemble 8 spirit waves that, combined, will provide an energy wave that will neutralize the energy waves of the Phantoms, thus destroying them.Does theory 2 sound a bit Final Fantasy-ish to you? Good guess, since none other then Dr. Cid himself came up with the idea. That's the first Final Fantasy reference you will see in the movie.The story is good, but maybe a bit farfetch'd. Then again, this IS a movie based on the Final Fantasy games. And most stories in those game are complicated, vast and deep. The whole movie is made in CGI and it looks wonderful. It's as if you are watching cut scenes of a FF game non-stop. I found it very entertaining. The cast is good, with a few familiar voices; such as James Woods and Donald Sutherland. There's also action and humor in this movie. Subtle, but effective lines will make you laugh now and then.There is one more connection with the FF games shown in this movie, in the form of Gaia. If you have played Final Fantasy 7, you will see a resemblance with the lifestream from that game. In conclusion, Final Fantasy the spirits within, is a very nice movie with all the good elements a movie needs. It's just a shame that it didn't had that much FF references or elements in it. Not even music by Nobuo Uematsu / "},{"Title":"A wonderful, under-rated movie...","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" .. but not for mindless action fans.This movie shines on many levels. The character animation is fantastic. Watch Apple Seed Deus Ex (2008) and see how Duenan's hair moves in large clumps when it moves at all, then watch Dr. Ross's hair in this movie made 7 years earlier. It will blow you away.It also succeeds where the best of anime succeed-- in presenting a complex, challenging and very philosophical plot.Of course in doing that, it fails for about 80% of the American audience. It is both too intelligent and too Japanese for the hump of the bell curve in the US. But if you understand the animistic nature of traditional Japanese religion and philosophy, then you will be delighted in how this movie takes that fundamental core belief set and creates a science fiction epic there from.This movie makes comprises neither in visual quality nor its story telling. It doesn't follow the Hollywood rule of 3 which says you have to spell everything out like your talking to a 6 year old or most of the audience won't get it... and thus most of the audience in the US *didn't* get it.In that sense it is far from the most easily accessible Science Fiction film ever made, at least for western audience. But it may well rank as one of the most brilliant. Give it the mental energy and thought to understand what it is saying and how, and it will reward you in spades. "},{"Title":"A movie that focused on story and animation","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Beautiful movie, awesome animation detailed right down to the birth marks on the Captain's neck and the veins on Aki's hand. This movie was intelligent, creative, and elaborate. I am amazed that this was done before the turn of the century (release was in 2001 but animations take many years to develop remember Shrek 2 took 3 years?) Really deserves a +1 rating to what ever you wanna give it. The story is great, I guarantee you will not be able to take your eyes off of Dr. Aki Ross, she looks so good. This completely destroys Advent Children. Like I said in the summary, this movie is about story and animation, Advent Children focuses on action and animation. "},{"Title":"Still beautiful after 7 years","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The title rang a bell - isn't there a video game...? I don't know games, but I do know graphics. Back in 2001 Aki's hair was something new, well - they still look pretty good. Compare the way it bends in 1g and 0g nicely done. The faces are a bit bland, but all the other motion (capture) is just great. Like the fleeing spacecraft when a phantom travels through it, ripping life from all in it. The way it slightly jerks, slows down, tilts, glides back and crashes. Things I didn't care for &#149;Why the board wouldn't believe in Gaia - and meanwhile there are these amazing creatures upon them. &#149;That the aliens, however extra terrestial, were still humanoid. Things I liked particularly &#149;The (hand painted) backgrounds &#149;The guts to try and CGI real humans. &#149;The great (voice) cast &#149;The gradual way in which the story unfolds. &#149;The lighting (it even looks like the Huygens principle was taken into account when imaging back-lit hair.) &#149;The (virtual) camera-work &#149;That scale correctly and consistently influences movement &#149;That the love interest dies &#149;That the bird doesn't sound like in every other movie. &#149;That the Gaia theme made my girl friend watch this SF with me.A beautiful combination of accuracy and fantasy. "},{"Title":"Actually pretty good if you ignore the Final Fantasy title...","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Now, I am actually a pretty big fan of the FF games, so I'm gonna take a second to talk to the fanboys out there who put this film down...First off, The film looks incredible, even now! Try enjoying that aspect.Second, ignore the part of the title that says Final Fantasy for a moment and actually watch it without expecting Cloud to appear and summon Bahamut to smite all of the phantoms, or Squall to start blasting them with his gunblade. Take it for what it really is, a pretty decent sci-fi film with some great actors in it trying to tell us a great message. "},{"Title":"A Science Fiction Love Story","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" One of the great things about re-watching films you've overlooked is when you find something that you haven't realised before. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is not the most impressive science fiction film or even the most impressive animated feature-film, but it is a very warm and compassionate drama about two people in love.This angle of the movie is not often focused upon which is probably why people went to see it, expecting an action-spectacle of sorts and ending with something different which they probably saw as a disappointment.Animation and visual effects are rather clean but not horribly impressive. The film has great voice-talent behind it which undoubtedly keeps the film alive. Aki and Grey's characters now stand in a new light with me but the film is rather heavy-handed in its emotional content which is why it requires quite a bit of concentration. The film is also unfortunately very technical in places which makes the plot slightly hard to follow the first time you watch it.The Spirits Within is a very touching story and a well thought out movie that is not suitable for the more hardcore fans, but definitely recommendable for people who like human-stories. "},{"Title":"Only sour grapes could account for this magical film's low rating","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" OK, the plot could have used a little boost, it's a little too touchy-feely, but otherwise, in my not-so-humble opinion, no animation film has come close to equaling this incredible movie. This movie is an out right masterpiece. It's images are unbelievable, and why they haven't become the gold standard could only mean one thing, namely, no one in Hollywood can pull this level of perfection off. Sakaguchi and Sakakibara are real magicians in my book, and I will see ANYTHING they put out that I can get my hands on. I can't say that for anyone else working in flicks today. Shame on you all for discounting these guys.The main character, Dr. Aki Ross, is so beautifully imaged that she quickly became someone I cared about and believed was real. They somehow got so many of the fleeting and slight body and facial movements down so perfectly that, in many ways, she is more real than many live actors. She's certainly a purer distillation of a particular kind of woman than any real woman could pull off. This is truly magic. I'm not sure I want to know how it was done, but I think it's CRIMINAL to deny these guys carte blanche the day after this film was released. Films like Shrek and Happy Feet though full of humanity and heart, and undeniably enjoyable, nevertheless, seem almost adolescent in comparison. I could go on, but what's the point. Any audience willing to give this film an average 6 out of 10 is too low brow, or too embarrassed, to get the message, anyway. "},{"Title":"In its core, it's a pretty awesome movie!","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The movie is really good looking but also surprising to see how much the techniques have outdated already. I remember when the movie came out how impressive and revolutionary it all looked. People were actually worried that soon real actors would be replaced by computer animated characters and the way of film-making would change forever. On my most recent viewing I wasn't that impressed anymore and thought that especially the facial expressions looked quite wooden. Amazing how fast and how much computer animated techniques still evolve every year. Who knows, maybe in 50 years from now people would look at this movie and call this the 'first step' in the direction of revolutionary new film-making.This movie was much hated and also bombed at the box office, although I think that the professional critics were really that negative about it. I actually remembered this movie receiving more praise than hate from them. It was the audience that caused this movie to fail and bomb, although the movie itself is also to blame for that. It really wasn't the best choice to include 'Final Fantasy' into this movie its title, since this movie has really nothing to do with the immensely popular game series, with the same name, from the same director and company. It was the reason why people disliked and even hated the movie. Who knows, with a completely different name and marketing, this movie might had become an huge and popular hit.The quality for it is definitely there. The story is original and interesting enough and its look and style also definitely makes this movie one well worth watching.The story is quite unusual, since it prominently features some spiritual subjects. The entire main plot line relies on this. Yet the story is told in such an easy and understandable way that you start believing in the story, even though it gets highly unusual at times, especially toward the ending.With just the story of the movie, the movie really wouldn't had been a good one to watch. It therefor features also lots of action sequences. Some of the moments and characters reminded of movies such as Aliens and Starship Troopers. It was obvious that the movie was also inspired by this. The movie would certainly had been bad and a bore without the Deep Eyes, the military characters of the movie. It makes the movie great and pretty awesome to watch,The movie is also definitely helped by the fact that it has a great, Nazi looking and Nazi like acting villain, voiced by the incredible James Woods. The character has such a great evil look in the movie, without exaggerating things too much.All of the characters but especially the environments and aliens are greatly animated. It's awesome to see the streets of a post-apocalyptic New York City, with lots of details in it. The movie features some great big and impressive looking sequences.All the characters are being voiced by some well known actors, such as; Ming-Na, Alec Baldwin, Ving Rhames, Steve Buscemi, Peri Gilpin, Donald Sutherland and the earlier mentioned James Woods. These are not only great actors but also persons with great voices. So great casting work here!Also the musical score by Elliot Goldenthal is surprisingly great. He doesn't compose an awful lot of big scores but when he does, the end result is always something special and great.Of course the movie isn't as great as it could had been and it has some missed opportunities with its story and characters. Nevertheless a perfectly great and entertaining movie to watch!7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"what more can i say?","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" great movie, i thought it was fantastic. i mean i knew that they weren't gonna make it like a game because to watch all the little fight scenes would take hours to get levels up. i mean is that what you were all thinking it would be? a game? its a movie, their 1st try at a final fantasy movie where they wanted to experiment.but no it doesn't look like a game so we must not watch it because we are nerds who like the games. i love ff1-10, haven't played 11 or 12 yet. i love the games but i mean just cause the movie doesn't look like the game we nerds have to badmouth it. the graphics were awesome. now i end this saying. BECAUSE OF U *******ing NERDS BADMOUTHING IT THE CREATOR OF THIS FABULOUS SERIES GOT KICKED OUT OF HIS POSITION OF EXEC OF SQUARE. THE CREATOR. IF I HAD IT MY WAY I WOULD GET HIM TO STOP THE SERIES TO SPITE U *******S "}{"Title":"One of the best you'll see ,  so unjustly underrated .","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" What happen that made this film go so unnoticed for so long , It's a real gem , The people behind this movie are true artists of animation , Never before have I seen the detail and realism to the degree these guy's achieved back in 2001 , It can still hold it's own against the best of today's , actually it's still better than a lot of today's attempts , buy it , Watch it , keep it , this movie is one of those rare films you can watch again and again , And every time you do you'll see something new or something you didn't notice before , I could go on about how great the story is as well but others more qualified than I have done that admirably well already , You won't be disappointed , that would be impossible as this movie should and I believe it will go down as one of the greatest animated films of it's time. "},{"Title":"Great movie with a bad wrap.","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was an awesome film with a bad reception. Many people who would love this movie will never see it in the belief that it is a video game movie while the fans of the game series were angry that it did not have more elements from the series.As a sci-fi movie it was great, the script was good though the dialog could use a bit of work, most sci-fi movies are much worse. The graphics were breathtaking, no one with an solid idea of graphic design argues there. Overall, this is a great post-apocalyptic fable; if you haven't seen it - do so.It is unfortunate that Square abandoned their film production company, there was a great deal more potential that could have been realized had they had a little better PR.-Alchemic Paladin "},{"Title":"Sci-fi, but mostly fantasy, animation movie where the viewers should be open-minded for maximum enjoyment","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This review is based on my second viewing. During the first viewing, I could only marvel at the CGI quality and could grasp only the general idea of the plot (.. eventually was at a loss by the end), while the second viewing proved to be a more complete experience.General sci-fi fans may feel that something is not quite right in the picture. The 'Final Fantasy' series of Square (speaking of games) were never good examples of solid and well-established pieces logic. Well, there is no 'logic', the keyword here is 'fantasy'. In the games, we have 'flying sea ships', '2 meter (aprox. 6 feet) long swords', 'every type of creatures you can imagine'. You shouldn't expect anything different than these theme, in this movie. 'The earth is alive and has a spirit', 'We are fighting with ghosts from an alien planet' etc. You have to be open minded, and delve into the 'fantasy world', or you will just throw the plot into the trash, merely enjoy the CGI animation work, and maybe call it crap.This is not an 'action/sci-fi'. We have drama elements, romance and mystery. There are theories about spirits, long talk sessions, which may be boring for most of the viewers, so you should be prepared. This is an animation, but it is not so different from live movies. It is 'absolutely' not aimed for small children.The CGI animation is fascinating. I have witnessed CGI clips from Final Fantasy game series, but this is something else. In some scenes you just swear that you are watching a movie with live actors and environment. After 5 years, I still rank it high in my 'Best 3D Animation' list.I recommend the movie to anyone who are fans of 3D animation, open-minded sci/fi and fantasy fans which are ready to feel contempt with 'Love is the solution for everything and is able to save the earth (literaly)' theme. "},{"Title":"Who needs actors?!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I came across this by accident, not having any experience of the game and not expecting to enjoy an animation. I changed channels during an ad break and caught a glimpse of this (not long after it had begun) - enough to make me sit up and take interest. I thought it was an animation, but then I saw this beautiful girl who surely couldn't possibly be the result of CGI? The more I watched, the more confused I was by it all. I couldn't work out if these were animated characters, or real actors made-up to look like animated characters. I decided no-one would go to the trouble of paying actors to look like CGI, and began to marvel at the astonishing level of detail in this virtual creation. Individual hairs, goosebumps, beads of sweat, freckles, wrinkles and veins. To someone born (just) into an age of slide rules and b&w TV, this is truly astonishing! I have no idea how it relates to the game, and nothing in the movie would make me go out and buy the game. I judge this purely as a standalone movie - and as such, it is worth watching. It doesn't have the greatest (or most easily understood) plot ever, nor are there lots of big explosions or laughs. I think the value of this movie lies in it's extraordinary attention to detail, an attempt to perfectly re-create a 'real' movie with CGI. The line between video game and movie is increasingly being blurred anyway, so I don't think it matters that this is based on a game. What matters is does it entertain - and the answer is yes.I happily sat through most of the movie (as I said, I missed the beginning) and found myself starting to form some sort of relationship with the virtual actors! I quite wish they could star in some other animated movies, and begun to wonder if we need 'real' actors at all! If we only had CGI stars, we could each have one copy of our favourite star in our very own home! No exhorbitant fees, no massive egos, no ageing of beautiful faces! The possibilities are endless.Maybe there are better CGI movies out there - I have not felt inclined to look, until now. If I find one, I shall still remember this movie fondly, for introducing me to a whole new world. Don't judge this movie as a video game, nor as an animation, nor as a story. Judge it as a pioneering piece of art - one that should be immortalised in movie history. I hope in years to come, this movie gets the recognition it deserves. "},{"Title":"Extremely ambitious animated fantasy that can't quite pull it off","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Update 9 years later, I had a chance to pick up FFTSW for a couple bucks, and decided to get it for the eye candy. Watched it again, and actually enjoyed the execution of the plot a lot more the second time around. All the non human visuals are still stunning (if a little shiny and plastic), and the anthropormorhpic stuff is better than I remember. Adding another star to the rating, up from 6 to 7.Unlike many young Playstation owners, I was never much of a fan of Square Studios. I enjoyed a few of their offshoot games (Final Fantasy Tactics, Xenogears, etc), but the big budget, multimillion sellers of the Final Fantasy role playing game (RPG) franchise didn't do much for me, even the mega-seller Final Fantasy VII. I recognized that the Square RPGs incorporated wonderful music, art direction and very ambitious goals, as well as unprecedentedly high production values in their famous animated cut scenes. Even so,the play mechanics generally left me cold, and the fantasy-based writing and story lines were juvenile and dopey. R.A. Lafferty could out write the Final Fantasy guys with one frontal lobe tied behind his back, as could Gene Wolfe or Jennifer Robeson. Maybe it was a Japanese thing that a 'gaijin' like myself can't fully appreciate. (I have much the same problems with most anime and manga.) So when I heard that Square was committed to creating a feature length movie showcasing their famous 'cut scene' animations, my first reaction was, well, it will probably look fantastic, in an overheated 'manga' way, but it probably won't be able to hold my interest, and it will probably bomb at the American box office. And it turned out, unfortunately, that I was correct on both counts. Too bad, because though my enthusiasm was low, I really wanted FFTSW to succeed - its success would probably have opened the way for other, more mature and better written efforts to follow. (I do love well done CGI based movies).Alas, within moments of the opening credits, it becomes obvious that Square bit off more than it could chew, given the current state of the art. I read somewhere that it required one of their multimillion dollar SGI renderers a full day to produce a couple of seconds of usable animation - and the results show on the screen, in that the environments and machines and monsters and fantasy creatures all look great - beautiful, fantastically detailed, shimmering with energy and light, etc. But you also have to have a story, with real characters and actors and engaging looking people to tell that story, and that is where FF falls down.This isn't really the fault of the voice actors; they are accomplished pros. But the voices are then put in the bodies of blank faced Ken and Barbie dolls with wrists and fingers that don't bend quite right and who can't bend at the waist or throw a softball convincingly. The animators, knowing their limitations, work hard to cover up these problems - there are lots of helmets, visors, chestplates, flowing robes, space suits, bucklers and bracers and giant armored exoskeletons to distract the viewer and cover up these defects, which is cool. But still, when your goal is to convincingly depict the human body in a realistic way, the results are far less immersive and enjoyable than the more stylized, minimalistic type used in Pixar and Dreamwork films, or even in recent hand drawn animated series such as Justice League and Batman Returns.I wanted to love the human animation - I really did. But watching FF required a constant effort to suspend my critical judgment about all the stiff necks, blank faces, grimaces, death masks, tics, bobbing heads, awkward hand gestures more suitable for a opera singer doing Carmen, etc.On top of this, the story line is third rate space opera with a mix of shamanism, animism and Gaia-oriented fantasy. I don't have a problem with any of those story types - my bookshelves are filled with fantasy titles with those same themes. But the execution of this one loses something in the translation. It's both derivative and unable to deliver on the potentially interesting complex and concepts it presents. It might engage the interests of many younger fantasy fans who read the Dragonlance novels and play Dungeons and Dragons, but it won't do much for anyone who isn't completely steeped in Nippon and its pop culture obsessions. THe story simply fell flat for me.Still, I hoped this movie would be great, and I'm not sure anyone, even Square (using a more mature, less hackneyed storyline), could have pulled this off given the state of the art at the time. It was a very nice try. Worth seeing once, maybe even twice, just for the eye candy. "},{"Title":"A great film. I don't understand why everyone rates it so low.","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Although CGI isn't nearly perfect, I think there are very few films with realistic CGI, maybe True Lies, but of course NOT Star Wars 1,2,3 NOR Lord of the Rings.The CGI effects are quite good, but the script and voice acting is amazing and emotive.I always wonder why in the world all the critics and non-critics rate so high films of the Disney, Lucas, Spielberg or recently Lord of the Rings factories when most of them have poor CGI, worse animation and awful scripts and actings. Money is money and image is image...I strongly recommend this film to everyone that wants to have a very good time.Best regards. "},{"Title":"FINAL FANTASY is a masterpiece!!!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Is it too premature of me to say that FINAL FANTASY is the CITIZEN KANE of animation films and a quantum leap in film technology in general? The possibilities seem endless for these new techniques in animation. And whilst I'm sure there's going to be more advanced computer graphic-based films in the future, I'm also sure this will be the film text book that they'll use to develop even more groundbreaking visuals to stun us with.Even if the animation hadn't been as fantastic as it is, this would still be a bleak and brilliant look at the Earth in 2065, after a 34 year siege by alien phantoms.The Earth is a mess, New York is under a glass dome and death and destruction is everywhere. Dr. Sid, his assistant, Dr. Aki Ross, and Aki's boyfriend, Colonel Gray, have discovered the real reason the Earth has been invaded and they try to save the planet. A gung-ho Government representative, General Hein, won't listen to reason and sets about fixing things so well he nearly destroys the Earth in the process. That's about it, storywise, and yet, there's hardly a dull moment from start to finish.For some strange reason, when this film was first released, a lot of people complained about the supposedly crappy existentialist storyline. Some people just can't see the forest for the trees, can they? Don't people open their eyes? Can't they see how good this film is? And, of course, some people just can't handle anything that deals with spirits, the afterlife or any form of mysticism whatsoever. I feel sorry for them.All I can say is this film is both outstanding and astounding! The computer graphics are sensational, breath-taking and, at times, beyond belief and genuinely scary! The lip-synching is a tad off sometimes, but after a while you don't care (or really notice) because there's so much happening.This is a great film and there's absolutely no doubt in my mind at all FINAL FANTASY is a masterpiece!!! "},{"Title":"unforgettable like usual","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" i think this movie shouldn't be underrated as it's just an anime, though produced in the most advanced anime technologies of the time. The appearances of people is so near to the reality the mimics and their devotions for the salvation too. And the theme is also mystery that push you questionnaire looking for where or what is the meaning of life and and the devotion for its existence. What's more this movie a bit provides you to questionnaire the creation purposes of the human being, all the other living thing you have faced and what's the concept of hostility that is inevitable some actual cases in these times. As a last word i think if you're lucky enough you may even understand the deep emotions and ideas lying under the end. Firstly you should be able to hardly avoid to connect your heart to the breathtaking Dr. Aki Ross . (cos i couldn't). And i'd like to thank all the people who make us live such kind of experiences because of topics and loves because of dreamy beauties. "},{"Title":"Critics pull a General Hein with this one...","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" General Hein, driven by a mixture of personal grief over past tragedy, prejudice, and plain meanness tried to blow up the planet; and critics for similar reasons could not understand the underlying substance of this movie, and did their best to destroy its ticket sales.Being a Japanese-type production that compares very favorably with other works in its stratum, this movie will show viewers just how broad-minded they are when it comes to integrating the entertainment habits of other cultures. If you have no imagination, are unable to catch implied plots, are blind to details, and need the director to do all of your thinking for you, then don't rent this one. "},{"Title":"Good story and animation!!!","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The spirits within was very good. Story was fast-paced even though a lot of people say that it was boring. Before watching the movie,I asked my friends about it. All they said was it had no summonings, it was far from the ff series itself and blah bah blah!!! I was pretty turned off since the comments weren't so nice. But i had a chance to watch it recently since one of my closest friends(who was one of the minority fans of spirits within) has a copy. All comments against the movie was nonsense. I didn't find anything wrong about the movie. It still has the final fantasy feel to it(because of the huge spirits of the aliens). The story is better than expected. I feel shocked that my friends don't know what a quality movie is. All i can say is this movie is way better than the latest, advent children. It was all crap. There was no story, only battle after battle after battle...I am so satisfied with this movie... "}{"Title":"When examining a movie with hyped special effects...","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...you have to ask yourself the question What would this movie be like if the special effects were ordinary?Beneath all of the CGI, FF TSW was a very ordinary, very schlocky movie with mediocre acting and a somewhat uninspired plot. If this was a live action movie, it would have been relegated to the same dustbin as movies like the Scorpion King, the Chronicles of Riddick and other yawners. While I must commend the creators of this movie for what is (IMHO) indisputably brilliant animation and excellent artistry, the fact that under everything, the movie's plot was so poor reduces these technical achievements to the status of a mere curiosity. I find that to be very unfortunate.I'm not one of those people that expects every movie to be a Casablanca, but if they put just a bit more effort into fleshing out a real plot to back up their animation prowess, this movie would have been a slam dunk. "},{"Title":"Admirable but I doubt it'll be memorable!","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All Costs A brilliant young scientist named Aki Ross (voiced by Ming Na) teams up with old flame and squadron leader Gray Edwards (voiced by Alec Baldwin) to battle some phantom like creatures that are threatening to tear apart the fabric of the earth and to eliminate the harmful bacteria nesting inside her...It's four years since this film has been released,yet it's failed to achieve any real cult status as the first ever computer generated film (it's lost,even in this respect,to a considerably lesser film like Independence Day).It's failed to even have a sequel!A film can marvel all the inventive angles and gimmicks it likes,if the script disassociates it from the audience,it's all out to sea.While you have to admire all the hard work that's obviously been put into bringing this feat to the big screen,you can't help but feel you're watching a story fantasized by some geeky 14 year old boy who's destined to be a virgin until he's at least about 34.** "},{"Title":"Animation is good, film is less than mediocre","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie had potential to be great. Such a shame they used all their time to make animation look good. Story is just mediocre at its best and dialog is just plain awful. That Steve Buscemi's character had one stupid on-liner after another stupid on-liner. And those clichés.. yeah, in Hollywood way in your party must be at least one female, hero, one sidekick and one black guy. C'mon! Is this really best you can do? What happened to the people who wrote those fantastic stories in Final Fantasy games?This film is still watchable, but it's quite likely that most will watch it just once for the fine animation.5/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but way off the game","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie has the most beautifully rendered computer animation ever and in 3 years since the movie, nothing tops it animation.  Its sharp, crisp, and is very real looking.  You can even see separate hairs!  The voice acting was great too.My huge problem with the movie is that it did not have the feel of being a final fantasy game.  Sure, in this movie their deal with the spirit of the planet in which games like FFVII touch on, but the cast of characters and the story did not follow anything that I played (I may be missing something since I've only played I,VII,and X).  Where is the Cloud or Tidus-type figure?If the story were anything near the quality of the CGI or any actual story to a FF game, this movie would have had a lot more success and would have not caused Square to close down their movie branch.  This movie gets 7/10. "},{"Title":"Hunka Junka","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I was little, my sister had a catchall phrase for anything that was lame, stupid, idiotic, or generally a waste of time  it's hunka junka (hunk of junk).  The full phrase is hunka-hunka-JUNKA-hunka-junka-junka, said vaguely in time with the phrase cock-a-doodle-doo.  As I watched this film, the phrase hunka junka echoed repeatedly in the background, even though I'm a grown man and my sister lives five states away from me.  Why is this film hunka junka?  Well, for instance, did you know that ghosts can be killed with explosions or gunfire?  And that they cannot fly, which would make it easier for them to catch the humans they are after if only the ghosts remembered that they are no longer earth-bound?  Do you have any idea how unsettling it is to hear James Woods's voice come from a cartoon character?  Criminy, thank god they didn't use Christopher Walken's voice.What is this film about?  Like all Japanese animation, the visuals are stunning but the storyline wanders all over the place.  Here's what happens when you watch Japanese animation  you sit down and start watching the film, then the storyline leaves your television, hops a cab downtown, parties all night long, strolls along the beach, makes love to a beautiful woman, eats three chili dogs, then returns to your television where you sit wondering just what the hell you watched.  That's how the storyline of Japanese animated films work.  Hunka junka. "},{"Title":"The Beauty Within","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like watching the sunset, or feeling the change of seasons via the soft wind blowing through your window; Final Fantasy becomes an experience indescribeable by words.  The relationship between Aki & Gray is so traditional, yet rare.  What isn't included in speech, is taught by silence & the masterful compositions of Elliot Goldenthal.It is a shame that this didn't achieve more (financially) at the box office; but it just represents how more & more people are over looking the finer things in life for a quick fix.  The painstaking time taken over this film is evident in all its glory.  It's the one animated film that both my father & step-mum will put up with watching.  They enjoyed as much as I did, & that's saying something if you ever happened to meet them.Most Final Fantasy fans say this has nothing to do with the game; but every game is different isn't it?  So is this.  It's all about overcoming fears & working together.  It has far more in common than you think.  And with this; I only encourage SquareSoft to make another for me to lap up.  I've seen the latest technology used on 'The Final Flight Of The Osiris' & believe it is time to lay an impact on the disbelievers.This is not your friday-night-with-the-lads film; it is one to be read into deeply.  How can you resist such a thing that makes your emotions tingle like this does?Simply put  you can't. ;) "},{"Title":"Sorry, didn't appeal to me","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, this movie did have good points.Firstly, i would like to say WOW! sorry. But, you'll have to agree that graphics are fantastic, most of people looked so real, and the space ships were pretty good as well!However, the plot was... well, there wasn't one. Something about ghosts, but that's all i understood. Also, i felt this film was boring, so thank god i didn't see it in the cinema. However, i did buy the DVD which i found to be a waste of money.So i say watch it, don't buy it! "},{"Title":"An out of this world visual and sound experience","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You can't talk about this  movie without going into the stunningly detailed and beautiful CG that Square created. The film took years to do and massive hardware developments to create. The subtle movements in close-ups are phenomenal reaching a level of CG detail that really has never been seen before, but it isn't completely perfect. The computer-generated actors still move rather robotically, especially above the shoulders. When they speak, the faces are pretty stiff and kind of kill the illusion that the filmmakers were trying to create. However, the animation on Dr. Sid's face is fantastic and really stands out from the other actors. This is one of the things that really hurts the film as you get the feeling that if they spent a little more time on the facial animation and lip synch for the rest of the characters, they would have come through with a flawless piece of CG art. On the other hand, the motion captured animations that are used in many of the action sequences are great and at times are so life like you are fooled and for a second here and there and it looks as if it is a real actor running around in armor and not a creation of an artist. That is one of the best achievements in the film. The movie is worth watching just for the visuals and almost every shot looks incredible. As for the story, most of the dialog is pretty stale and the movie follows so many rehashed sci-fi and anime clichés that genre fans will probably find themselves groaning at a couple moments throughout the film. But, again, the visuals are so stunning that this movie is recommended.Its kind of rare to truly find a disc where the 5.1 track completely immerses you in sound from every angle such as this movie does.The final touch to make this DVD a winner is that it a 2 disc set with enough and varied extras to make anybody happy.  There is so much that it can't all be listed here.My rating is 9/10 mostly for the incredible CG imagerary and bow you sound. "},{"Title":"spoiled by inept story","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I strongly believe in the technology and cinematographical era that this movie pioneers  using CGI not as a style of animation, but as a substitution for live filming.  However, the story and dialogs are so bad as to make this movie un-watchable.  It is a shame that the credibility of the technologies that this movie was supposed to promote will be questionned because of this commercial flop, mainly due to a stupid scenario. "},{"Title":"Who needs actors?","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Ten(?) years ago I saw an interview of a computer animator who said that the hair is the most difficult thing to capture. Tens years later the problem is solved. This movie is incredible in it's depiction of reality down to the finest detail. It's so fine that I have watched this three times and only on the third have I noticed only one miniscule item that could possibly maybe be done better. There were times I had to force myself to detach from the magnetic pull of it's realism.The story line, characters and science is all done very well. It's tightly written, directed, etc. An incredible A+++ for computer animators. The actors who did the voices did an excellent job in bringing the animated characters to life. Although I recognized the actors by their voices they're performance was done so well that I didn't get distracted by it.Although I wasn't knocked out about the story (my personal opinion) then for me the movie went slower than a normal scifi/action film. But it is done so well that this movie is worth seeing, renting, and even buying as the first truly great computer animated full-length feature movie in the history of man.- ZafoidPS With voice emulation in its infancy it won't be too long until even the voices will be programmed... all you will need is a director and a group of programmers. )12/25/04 Edited Polar Express is nothing compared to this brilliantly made computer animation. There were many many scenes where I forgot that I was watching computer generated images. Absolutely stunning. In Polar Express the characters are more 3 dimensional cartoons - more similar to the Rocky and Bullwinkle characters in the movie of the same name.If you want great, almost totally real computer animation, then don't see Polar Express - see FINAL FANTASY The Spirit Within. "}{"Title":"Proves that good animation does not mean good direction","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy could seriously have been something. Look at the games with the same name, made by the same company, the games were brilliant. This movie had the elements of the game, and done in animation because it would look corny if done with real actors. All it needed was a good and competent director with 'actual' experience in making movies, not just games.  "},{"Title":"Very average science-fiction story, but the animation is the real reason to enjoy this film.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"   Because it had received mixed reviews I waited a while to see this film. I had heard the animation was ground-breaking, and even some comments that we may not need real actors for future movies. I agree the animation looks remarkable, and a few times I really did forget that I wasn't watching real people. Still, there is no comparison to real actors interacting, and the real emotions that come from that. A Beautiful Mind, Finding Forrester, The Majestic -- recent films with deep emotions, one cannot imagine them having an impact through animation. I suspect only comedies will be highly successful in animation, as Shrek, Disney's Tarzan, Toy Story I and II, Chicken Run, A Bug's Life. Those don't try to look real, and they work best.But the story of Final Fantasy - Spirits was interesting, although a bit difficult to grasp clearly. Looking at the DVD extras we find out the author, an Asian, formulated this theory that a large star or planet somewhere out there is the source of all spirits and ignores the religious view of God, instead looking for a science explanation. One of the characters in this film has been afflicted with an alien spirit and she and the old scientist hope to counteract it with an anti-wave that will exactly counteract and neutralize it. Not too bad science, but not clear why they think this will work. So the whole film is their quest to find the 6th, 7th, and 8th spirits, all the while dodging the aliens and the efforts of a rogue general to use brute force to blast the alien spirits into oblivion.The animation is great, the sound track is great, using surround sound and deep rumbles to enhance the viewing experience. Donald Sutherland, James Woods, and Steve Buscemi were all very recognizable. Peri Gilpin as Jane Proudfoot sounds amazingly like Julia Roberts. In fact during one exchange I thought it was Julia. The DVD comes with an entire second disk of extras, and for anyone wanting more insight into the animation method there's a lot there. It is noteworthy that real people were used, with motion tracking, to animate many of the movements used in the film. So, in a real sense, Final Fantasy - Spirits is not animation.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   "},{"Title":"tech good, story bad","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" There's not a lot of reason to add another comment, since the ones posted so far have pointed out the real deficiencies in this movie.Poor plotting is the worst--how come there aren't any actual screen writers in Hollywood these days? I mean, there has to be someone who can actually come up with a story line and characters that makes some sense. They didn't find them here--in fact that's the truly dreadful part of the movie--the utter lack of any real story line whatsoever.But the really, really annoying thing was Aki Ross's hair--why anybody found it appealing is beyond me. It looked like someone must have followed her a round and cyber brushed it ever five minutes--it actually detracted from the movie because it was so irritatingly noticeable.Worth a watch, but only because the graphics are so cool (aside from that bothersome hair). "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review   not bad, but skip it","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Final Fantasy is another crossover from the world of videogames, fully animated with 3D computer graphics, and as a science fiction guy, I was wondering if it would turn out to be another Ghost in the Shell.Unfortunately, it's not. The story takes a stab at saying something deep and meaningful, but falls short and there's a lot of running around shooting stuff, as in Jurassic Park. The animation isn't bad, except for the facials on the characters, where much of the emoting was lost. Perhaps as a result, I didn't care much for the protagonist.Who should see this film-- video game players who've played Final Fantasy-- computer graphics specialists who love to figure outhow do they do that?-- Sci-fi film lovers, but only on a rainy day when you'vegot nothing better to do, and only if you're getting itfree on TV.I regret giving Final Fantasy, which had potential, a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I would have rather watched figure skating than Final Fantasy.  I'm a pretty big FF fan but I couldn't stand this movie.  The story was pretty hard to follow unless you sat there paying attention to just the movie. It was pretty shallow too.  Most of the movie made no sense, but the animations were awesome(the only upside to the movie).  The story didn't follow barely any of the games.  I seriously suggest not buying the DVD or VHS.  "},{"Title":"A new era in filming has begun","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You have to be an animee fun to enjoy fully this computer product.Not exactly an example animation, not exactly a movie but definitely an ordered digital product equivalent to a product which until our days was the result of a heavy industry (Hollywood, Bollywood, European Cinema...) along with the risky requirements in human and material resources (stuntmen-women, explosions, cars-trains-automobiles, boats etc.But today, watch this movie titled Final Fantasy The spirits within, and agree with me that what you have watched is a Primal Fantasy, future filming is digital. Oh, the story? wEll, ehhmm. ... start over. "},{"Title":"Awwwwww","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sometimes, the awfulness of a movie can be amazing. During the 30 minutes or so that I watched this movie, I had no idea what the plot was... and I didn´t care. I was watching the movie with some friends, and all of us were complaining. I mean, what was that? A joke? I'm glad this movie was a COMPLETE failure and the producers lost more than 100 million dollars. "},{"Title":"Junk.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The plot Earth has been invaded by aliens that originated from a crashed meteorite. They are transparent and insubstantial, and every creature that touches them dies immediately, as the soul is absorbed. Mankind has been forced into isolated towns, protected by the usual translucent blue Hollywood Shields (TM). Only there are they safe from the aliens. A scientist, his assistant, and a few soldiers try to accumulate a number (I think it was 10) of life essences from the derelict outside post-apocalyptic world, which they believe can save mankind and banish the aliens. Meanwhile, a powerhungry general wishes to simply blast the crash site of the meteorite with some new space-based ray gun, which, the scientists insist, would destroy all life on earth.Yes, the story is as trashy as it sounds. I went to the cinema without knowing anything about the movie, apart from its claim to having achieved revolutionary computer graphics. Within 5 minutes, I was bored. The film has an especially poor beginning, a dreadfully poor ending, and little of interest in between. There are a few good scenes (an action-rich car chase, the eery revelation of the true nature of the aliens and their origin, the brief moment when the general displays a conscience after causing a horrible massacre...) But all of that is quickly forgotten when things head for the cheesy showdown. And for 2 minutes of fun, the rest of the movie is too unbearably stupid. I highly recommend staying away...Besides, the graphics are not noticeably superior to other CGI cartoons like Monsters Inc, Shrek or the Phantom Menace.... 2/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but what happened to everything else?","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I recently got this film on DVD, having missed it in the cinema. The DVD package is quite impressive, and I was not expecting a great film, but by no means was I expecting a terrible film. I admit that the animation is incredible, better than I thought it would be. But what happened to everything else? Some of the great talents that lent their voices to this picture, such as Steve Buscemi and James Wood, seem so mundane, predictable and downright clichéd. The script was terrible, the plot was stupid in inexplicable, I'm not saying that it was complicated, more that it was riddled with large gaping holes and was a load of garbage. But even the rest, the small bits, all so stereotypical, no orginality, no inspiration after the first 15 minutes I was honestly boiling with rage, it was painful to watch.  "},{"Title":"the last Square film, unfortunately, not the last generic sci-fi film","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After watching the movie I was baffled. I don't mean baffled by the film's shallow excuse for a plot or its CG but rather what its makers were thinking when they made it in the first place. By calling it `Final Fantasy' it seemed as if they were targeting it at the mostly teenage-male fans of the game series. However, fans of the series are a relatively small percentage of the movie-going audience so perhaps realizing this the producers aimed for a more conventional film that would supposedly be more appealing to a main-stream audience. In the end they failed to please either. As a fan of the games I was immensely disappointed that The Spirits Within had absolutely nothing to do with the Final Fantasy series. Everything that made me love the games was absent here, the classic music of Nobuo Uematsu was replaced by some instantly forgettable drivel, the whimsy, beauty and ingenuity of Yoshitaka Amano's art was gone as well, a boring, pointless story was substituted for the humor, drama, plot twists and character development that made Final Fantasy a hit. Most dismayingly, instead of maintaining the delicate balance between fantasy and technology featured in the games they makers' of this film chose to go with a fully sci-fi setting, ugh! A more suitable title would have been `Generic Sci-fi Flick,' and perhaps, with that title I would have seen it for what it was, like the rest of the audience - a mildly diverting, but ultimately, forgettable computer graphics extravaganza. Speaking of the graphics, while they were pretty impressive, I didn't see much sense in rendering a clone of Ben Affeleck and then dubbing him with Alec Bladwin's voice, he wasn't as good as either of them so actors aren't in any danger of being replaced by computers in the foreseeable future. The way computers were used in Lord of the Rings was to me much more impressive. With their budget and technology Square should have been more faithful to the games which would have gotten a better critical response, better viewer response and created a more memorable picture. So in the end, if you want to see an entertaining CG movie watch Shrek, if you want good sci-fi watch Blade Runner, if you want good anime watch Princess Mononoke but if you want to be bored and waste your time and money watch Final Fantasy the Spirits Within. "}{"Title":"Sigh... Gorgeous film lacked dramatic intensity","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For the first 5 minutes, I was riveted.  There was a real sense of adventure and mystery, and I looked forward to enjoying the graceful movement and beauty of the heroine.  After twenty minutes, I was yawning--and I'm the kind of guy who can maintain interest in C-SPAN and the Weather Channel.  I watched it again the next day with the sound muted and a techno CD playing--I found the film riveting for 45 minutes, then fought off sleep the rest of the way.  At least the story made more sense without dialog.Despite the master-level talents of the geniuses who created this stunning work of art, the gritty, detailed world needed an equally realistic enemy.  Fighting transparent red ghost monsters wasn't exactly a visceral, thrilling spectacle.  I recall the effective pain and bloodshed conveyed by Bakshi's Fire and Ice and the acid-splattering gore-fest of Cameron's Aliens.  Imagine the incredible stunts and fight scenes possible with Final Fantasy's technology--this film had the potential to equal The Road Warrior's impact.  Precious few scenes even approached true, intense danger.Perhaps a quieter, more contemplative approach with plenty of emotional flashbacks would have been more fulfilling.  The claustrophobic, dimly lit sets and dead audio might have worked better if they contrasted with expansive misty landscapes with echoing sounds.  Seeing Aki's beautiful warm eyes through the cold rain would have been preferable to yet another metal gadget or glowing data display.  Having music in the film's universe instead of layered on the soundtrack could have drawn the audience in too.  Oh well.  Nobody's perfect.  At least we can learn from the studio and career-destroying mistakes they made. "},{"Title":"Upon reflection","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Watched it when it came out, sat in the dark and wondered if I had somehow missed important parts.Watched it again, and again, and realized that I didn't miss anything, important or otherwise, the first time.  B list actors can relax, your jobs are safe.  B list writers can rejoice-- this proves your talents are in demand, even if you have to take a B movie screenplay and dumb it down a shade.Okay, so it was shallow, filled with implausibilities, contradictions, and a lead who couldn't decide how long her legs were going to be from scene to scene.  It was still better than the average TV rerun, and you were free to make fun of it.  Actually, making fun of it was the most fun of watching it, and this should be a long, long term rental.Not nearly as bad as Plan Nine, it none the less qualifies to at least keep it company on the shelf. "},{"Title":"Ownage Movie","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't know why people don't like the story neither do I know why people didnt go in the theater and saw this movie, cause It is just plain ownage..Maybe people go in there watching the movie while thinking about Final Fantasy or something? I don't know the FF games, I just walked in there like I do to any other movie and let it slap me in the head.In the first 10 minutes I was really just looking at how damn DAMN! nice the graphics and movements was made, and actualy yes its kinda confusing in the start cause you dont know what all this tracer systems etc are about but as the movie gets started you will know )The Story is damn nice, Graphics own, Movements are nice, but could be better.. But overall its ownage, and Iwe already seen the movie 3 times by now. Certainly gonna buy it on DVD when it comes to Denmark thats for sure! "},{"Title":"Certainly worth seeing","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Given the fact that the fate of the Earth hangs in the balance, and that the central character, like the typical anime heroine, is a poignant mix of deep suffering and unlimited goodness, this is a curiously unmoving film. Film?  I must learn to stop using that word.  The only film involved was the stuff in the projection booth. The surprise is that the film is actually a visual success.  It all began, I think, with the phantoms - those marvellous, glowing, translucent phantoms.  An even more beautiful effect can be achieved with stop-motion, but stop-motion has a tendency to make things look SOLID, which would in this case have been a liability.  And what the hell - if the phantoms are to be CGI, why not make everything else CGI, too?  Nothing ruins the effect of computer-generated image more than direct comparison with a silver-nitrate image.  (And sometimes vice versa.)  The rendering of skin and hair and eyeball and costume on the human characters is not particularly naturalistic, but in a fully CGI context, nobody notices.  It has a cold beauty of its own.  Besides, the rendering is expressive.  I doubt there's a better way to suggest a technologically advanced society of weary, sober, suffering, perpetually besieged people.  Live action, stop motion, pen-and-ink animation ... all of these are too warm. The actual animation, on the human characters at any rate, is poor.  (It's not the worst I've seen - that honour goes to a film released around the same time, the title of which rhymes with blech.)  People move as though they have massive hangovers and are trying not to fall over.  I don't know how much of the footage was rotoscoped; by the look of things, not enough. The entire movie should have been shot with live actors, then digitally traced.  (If all you're trying to do is precisely mimic natural human motion, why not do it properly?)  There are a few awkward moments when the dialogue appears to have been dubbed from a different language - probably the result of TOO MUCH attention to lip movements, and not enough to body language.  Most of these moments occur when one of the voice actors expresses anger or excitement and the animators are unable to follow suit. I blame the voice actors rather than the animators.  The toned-down, unemotional look, while it is not particularly gripping, fits the story, and at any rate it is all that computer animators are currently capable of delivering; the voice actors should have been asked to restrict themselves to the same monotone.  (Yes, that's right this means scrapping entirely the comic relief character.) The world was worth the effort of creating and (this is a key test) it feels as though there's more to it than the bits we see (temporally, if not spatially).  It's pleasing to be trusted with the task of picking up the back story as we go along - although the foreground story could certainly have been improved. I'm not really sure if Final Fantasy is a success or a failure.  If it's a failure, at least it's an interesting failure. "},{"Title":"Pretty, but bad.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  To start off on a positive note This is one of the most beautiful animated productions that i've ever seen. Every minute of effort spent in the animation lab was visible, on screen.Sadly, the movie was awful. Not only did this movie have only a fraction of the emotion and power felt in the games, but the pace was so, so slow.One thing that amused me (and I won't spoiler here) was the 'big plot twist'. The Good Guys have to explore, the Bad Guys have to blow stuff up! Wait, a major revelation! Well the Good Guys, upon learning this amazing fact... want to explore, and the Bad Guys want to blow stuff up!Amazing depth there.The real pity here is, the voice actors were WONDERFUL. I applaud them, I salute them. I just wish they had something to work with. "},{"Title":"I expected a lot, unfortunately.","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  With the rave reviews FF was receiving, and from critics I respect, I went along with high expectations.  That was the first mistake (well, second if you count paying for it.)I was totally underwhelmed with FF.  The animation that was SUPPOSED to be cutting edge was just adequate - the walking and arm movements of almost every character were so wrong to be annoying, and the lip-synch was appalling.  The same hand model was used for the woman and the old man, and the animation of her hair was more than annoying - after about 1/4 of the movie I was so over her hair and so unimpressed with the rest of the animation quality I was almost ready to leave.Well, another mistake I made was seeing Shrek the week before - it is so much better a movie it is almost like comparing apples with shoelaces - there is no comparison.  Shrek was, as far as the animation went, so far superior to FF that FF may as well have been on flip cards.I am extremely disappointed with FF.  The amount of computer time spent on her hair was so out of proportion to the time spent on the rest of the movie that they really let themselves down.If you haven't seen this movie yet, do yourself a favor and go and see Shrek (again). "},{"Title":"Who cares if it looks good!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Honestly, i'm so fed up with these people who write about how good the visuals are even if the story isn't excellent. Well, firstly, it's not that the story isn't excellent...IT'S BLOODY AWFUL!!! Secondly, i got used to the awesome visuals within minutes, and after that they started irritating me. Sure the landscapes etc looked nice, but i've seen that in too many flicks and games already...thus, no impact.The problem with this big-budget screen-saver comes in exactly where it tries to be different from everything else we've seen before...the actual characters. I'm sorry, they didn't work. Remember, i'm talking on the pure visual level here. (let's not even go to plot and dialogue!) In general, the animation guys almost managed to pull off the movement and facial expressions, but every now and then (actually, quite often), something didn't work, and it would completely ruin any credibility it had. Examples like lips that didn't sync or the face without expression in a tense situation etc.You would have noticed that i barely mentioned the plot and dialogue. That is simply because they are hopeless beyond compare. Never before have i been so uninterested in the unfolding of a story! What a new age, empty, Gaia load of dung! Dialogue? More like 10 monkeys banging down on typewriter to produce the script!So, are the visuals impressive...? Sometimes I'd rather call them a first step in a long process before we get any convincing serious CG characters. Do the visuals make this a good movie...? NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO and again NO!  "},{"Title":"AWESOME, BRILLIANT, OVERWHELMING, OUTSTANDING... Pure Fantasy","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I heard about that SQUARE was going to make a movie based on FINAL FANTASY I thought It will be like the cinematics from the games, but longer.... And when I heard that after making the first 20 minutes of film they ran out of budget, I thought They're not gonna make it....But here I am, commenting Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, still astonished because of the film. I must say that I really enjoyed the whole movie from the beginning until the end. I'm a fan of japanese cartoon movies (anime), and I was never expecting an anime plot in this production (of course the writer-director is Hironobu Sakaguchi, creator of the games, but the film is also US).Let's point out the good and bad things of the film- Incredible animation I don't know which is best, Shrek or FinalFantasy, but one thing is sure both are incredible. 10 years before that was impossible to do, and now they are creating a movie without actors (only the voices P), totally digital. Using the MOTION-CAPTURE technique, SQUARE has achieved another level of reality. The weak point of the animation would be the face of the characters. It's very difficult to create a virtual human being, because we are so accostumed to see people that you know, for example, that Aki is not real, no matter her very expensive hair ).- Brilliant plot I found the story line quite interesting, with good rythm. It's like any US futuristic film plot, but with the japanese style.- Similarities with other movies we found several things in the film that are very similar to other movies. For example, the character Jean is exactly like Vazquez in Aliens. Also the final scene is quite similar to Mononoke Hime.You will leave the cinema with a sensation of worth paying for watching the film. I think I will purchase the Sound track... Anyway, it's totally a worth look!!!!!!!! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One word Ouch!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What surprised me most about the movie are the good grades it keeps getting. All right, the visuals *are* great, and the technical perfection is impressing (well, it will remain so for about a year, probably). Some scenes are even worth watching.But still the fact remains The whole background story appears to be the machination of some weird New Age freak (probably possessed by an evil spirit...), and the so-called dialogues... well, they could be fabricated by tearing up a 13-year-old-girl's diary and putting the words back together in no particular order.If nothing else, somebody should have told the authors this Too much pathos kills romance, and nonsense remains nonsense, no matter how gravely it is declaimed. If you can see this movie for next to no money, you may still want to it as an unintended satirical play, but do not forget to bring some alcoholic beverages. It makes it bearable. "},{"Title":"One word Ouch!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What surprised me most about the movie are the good grades it keeps getting. All right, the visuals *are* great, and the technical perfection is impressing (well, it will remain so for about a year, probably). Some scenes are even worth watching.But still the fact remains The whole background story appears to be the machination of some weird New Age freak (probably possesed by an evil spirit...), and the so-called dialogues... well, they could be fabricated by tearing up a 13-year-old-girl's diary and putting the words back together in no particular order.If nothing else, somebody should have told the authors this Too much pathos kills romance, and nonsense remains nonsense, no matter how gravely it is declaimed. If you can see this movie for next to no money, you may still want to it as an unintended satirical play, but do not forget to bring some alcoholic beverages. It makes it bearable. "}{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great animation, good cast and even the story could have been good if handled well.  Unfortunately, the script was the worst I've seen in a long time.  Too many instances where one liners made up the bulk of the dialog. Too often conversations were dominated by bad cliches.  I really couldn't help laughing at the silly things the characters said.In addition to that, the 'bad guy' seemed too irrational to be real.  You almost had to feel sorry for his stupidity.  Also, too many unexplained things about the spirits and the phantoms.  I mean, I didn't need explanation, but maybe someone could have told the characters in the film, and maybe they could have figured out what the problem was.Overall, I was truly disappointed.  This film could have been so much more. "},{"Title":"Animation OK, Story AWFUL","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After all the hype for this film, I was looking forward to viewing it ... The animation was OK, but there were some considerable flaws, like flames not shining on walls that are on fire, and shadows missing. To be fair .. the animation of the people was GOOD.As for the story, all I can say is ... tha animation was ok!A story that was not thought out, glaring plot holes, 2D characters (at best).This felt more like witnessing an experiment than seeing a finished product.My advice, wait for it to come out on the TV. "},{"Title":"I really wanted this movie to be good... but...","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ever wonder? That's the tagline for the Sci-Fi channel and is *the* reason why I love science and science-fiction/fantasy so much. If a movie can transform you to another universe and for a couple hours, keep you captivated, I would take that over all the art-house films ever made. That's just me. Movies are an escape, a journey to another world. In seeing the previews for Final Fantasy (FF), I thought I would get that. I really wanted this movie to be good.Unfortunately, while it didn't necessarily disappoint, it also didn't live up to expectations.First let me say the graphics are amazing. Truly amazing. That alone makes this movie worth seeing in a theater. And, if it were still playing, I would watch it again. It's not just eye candy, it's a whole friggin chocolate factory. But verisimilitude alone does not a movie make.One must ask if this were a movie with flesh-n-blood actors, what would it be like? Well, it would be like a movie that had an inkling of what it wanted to be, but failed in the delivery. Like me talking to women, I had the idea in my mind, but it came out all wrong when I spoke.NOTE mild spoilers ahead Here's the deal aliens from another planet invade earth. They end up destroying most of the life on earth. But, wait, they're not aliens, but spirits from another planet. Great. Nothing wrong with a spirit-of-the-earth (many had problems with a Gaia/Gaea/Gaya theory, but I had no problems with that in and of itself). But, how does a chunk of spirits from another planet annihilate all of Earth? Are our Earth spirits that friggin weak? And what's with all the fighting; why are the alien spirits so mean? And if earth can produce living things, why doesn't this alien spirit? And how exactly does there come to be 8 spirits that can combat the alien spirits? And why does the earth grow these spirits so aparingly? And how does the doctor know any of this? It's just thrown out there without rhyme or reason. Build an universe, yes, but don't just make things up because it's convenient.Lastly, a word on James Woods' character, General Hein. Utter crap. This is a character drawn so one dimensionally that it was a pain watching scenes with this guy. He was basically there to introduce conflict and actionify the story.Bottom like, I came out of this movie mesmerized for two reasons 1) the graphics, and 2) I thought about what the story could have been. This could have been an experience on a visual, creative, and intellectual level, but didn't quite get there for the last two. And that's a shame. 7/10 "},{"Title":"In the true spirit of Final Fantasy","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Everything about this movie was so typical of what the video game series is like, especially the end, which seemed to come right out of FF VII.  Square (and a lot of Japanese writers, movie makers etc etc) seems to like this idea of starting over and rebirth after apocalypse.  The viewer/player is simply presented with a scenario showing the final aftermath, with little regard for the actual individual characters that starred in the movie/game.The plot, like the game, tends to be very mythical and often ambiguous, dealing with the usual themes of technology versus life force, more Japanese favorites.  The end result strikes viewers differently, leaving some nodding their heads thinking very profound thoughts, and others simply scratching their heads saying, huh??Nevertheless, I didn't think the plot was outright bad, as overly melodramatic as it gets at times.  Moviegoers should go to check out the latest in computer animation at the very least, and it's definitely something different for those who are unfamiliar with Japanese animation/video games.The animation was impressive, but certainly far from perfect.  The GRAPHICS (not considering any movement of them) were more impressive than the animation.  Square has made great advancements, for instance, in skin tones and textures.  You can see imperfections in the characters' skin.  Often the problem with CGI today is every object is rendered too smooth and ends up looking fake, too perfect, cartooney, or plastic.  However I think Square went a little overboard with Aki's gorgeous, flowing, Maybelline, Salon Selective hair.As others have pointed out, the lips were noticeably off-synch with the voices at times; given all that they achieved elsewhere, this was a pretty big bug in the animation.Occasionally the movements of the characters seemed a little too puppet-on-strings-ish. In fact, watching them run down the hallways in some scenes reminded me VERY much of the polygonal, herky-jerky, stiff movements of Final Fantasy VII, which is over 3 years old now.  Kind of like what it looked like when you made your He-Man action figure run across the floor using your hands when you were little.FF The Spirits Within should be viewed as a preview of what's to come, in moviemaking, in video games, on the Internet, in entertainment and media in general.  Take the technology, multiply it by about 2 or 3, and that is what we'll be seeing in a few years.  Pretty exciting, and kinda scary too.Finally, I'm sure this was just some tragic coincidence, but I couldn't help but notice some huge plot similarities between FF and that sci-fi comedy Evolution, which came out just several weeks before FF.  Years from now, many people, unaware of the true creative order, will probably assume that Evolution was intentionally spoofing FF. "},{"Title":"Only the animation saved from being a one","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation in this film is amazing. There I covered the good.  Now the bad, everything else.  Plot was hackneyed.  The musical score was almost comical in the fact that everything had dramatic stings.  The actors did not seem to put any effort into trying to act the script. It sounded like someone taped the first reading of the script and that was it.  The script was one of the worst I have heard. The funny scenes weren't funny, however the dramatic scenes were funny.  The ending was pure cheese. I can not recommend this film to anyone except for the animation.  "},{"Title":"Yet another overblown movie based on a video game.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Almost immediately after the release and failure of the highly overrated Tomb Raider comes the release of Final Fantasy The Spirits Within. While Final Fantasy wasn't nearly as bad as Tomb Raider, the spiritual element made up far too much of the story for the film as a whole to be taken seriously. The religious aspect is unmistakable and almost suffocating, as Aki and Dr. Sid and the others search feverishly for the spirits that are expected to collectively eliminate all of the invading phantoms. There are many other heavily religious allusions, not the least of which is the basic good vs. evil story structure and the clearly Satanic appearance of the phantoms themselves. One of the great ironies of computer animation, that this film in particular brings to attention, is the fact that the better it gets, the less necessary it is. Sure, there are things that can be done with computer animation that would be impossible to film with real actors, but Final Fantasy looked so real that many of the scenes may as well have been real. On the other hand, humans have been particularly troublesome in computer animated films - they just never quite look right. But here, they are so real that it is unnerving, but this time, they screwed up the humans MOVEMENTS. No matter how real they looked in the movie, the actual motion was still entirely robotic. Besides that, it was a mistake to have so many well known actors lending their voices to the film, because all that did was take voices that we know and put them on other people, which was distracting because the people looked so real. This all makes you wonder when full-length animated films will become obsolete and computer animation will be used only to add to the special effects of other movies. On the other hand, Final Fantasy did have some of the most amazing scenery ever made with computer animation. The desolated New York City was amazingly real, and the idea of the humans hiding in gigantic enclosed areas to keep safe from the phantoms was also very interesting. But in the second half of the film, this all gets a little convoluted and we see the sacrifice of the human element of the movie in favor of the competition between Dr. Sid's peaceful theory and General Hein's militaristic tactics, as the two clash at the film's climax. Final Fantasy is not a complete failure, and is far superior to it's real life counterpart, the awful Tomb Raider, but there can be no mistake that it is disappointing. Fans of the video game may enjoy it, but this is not for general audiences.  "},{"Title":"Live Actors May Soon Have A Reason To Be Fearful.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As of the date of this writing, I can honesty say that I have never seen a film more visually amazing or beautiful than this.  I believe that those who have seen this film have now witnessed the next evolutionary step in animated film, one where the line between fantasy and reality has become so blurred, and within the next 5-10 years, it will be incredibly difficult to distinguish one between the other.  And the scary thing is, this is Square Pictures' first attempt at doing so.It has been a long time since I have sat in a theater with a slack-jawed sense of wonderment.  I continually had to remind myself that the environments, the characters, everything I saw on-screen was not real.  It was only computer generated graphics based on a video game series I've grown up with.  It was the bigger things, such as the phantoms and the spaceships, and the people who inhabited this world.  It was the little things, such as how light fell across an environment, or the subtle tilt of a character's head or the squint of an eye.  I took all of these things in with a sense of pure awe.  Dr. Sid was an amazing achievement in himself.The voice acting was generally very good.  I would have liked to have heard a few lines delivered differently to provide more of an emotional impact.  And yes, while the story did have some dialogue that sounded familiar to other sci-fi films, the plot itself told a complete story beginning, to middle, to end.  And it did break away from stereotypes at the places it really needed to, so it had a sense of not treading familiar ground at all times.  At some points, it reminded me a little of Aliens.  At other points, it felt like the game series it was based on.  While a great many of those game elements were not in this movie, there was a sense of familiarity found in its central themes.  The story, while not groundbreakingly unique, was satisfactory and served its purpose.  I think a great many reviewers who didn't like the story, have never played the games and are unfamiliar with its concepts.  Anyone should be able to enjoy this film.  Long-time fans will truly appreciate it.This film is a sensory overload.  There's so much to watch on-screen, I wasn't sure if I'd be able to take it all in, and I probably didn't.  I suppose what I enjoyed most about this film is the fact that I was just able to lean back and enjoy everything I saw during those two hours, even with the MINOR picks I had at it.  Come Academy Award time, I hope this film will be recognized for at least some kind of visual achievement, because quite literally, you've seen nothing like this.  Lucas only wishes he could pull off this kind of technical wizardry (His CG marvel known as Jar Jar Binks becomes an even bigger joke after this).  I have now truly never seen anything like this film before.See this film, if only to at least see its visuals (and fortunately, there is a story in there as well). "},{"Title":"cash cow","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  the advent of computer animation gives the filmmaker a new power in telling his story.  by combining the realism of live action and the fantasy of animation, movies now have the potential to become vivid dreams, showing audiences what they never imagined possible.  unfortunately, final fantasy the spirits within does not take advantage of the strength of its medium.  the CG is impressive, but not any more than in any other video game released in the past couple of years.  besides, all the fancy visuals have to offer is a mutant cousin of starship troopers, armageddon and mission to mars (all of which are equally terrible films).what this movie has is a myriad of cliche conflicts (leave me here, your methods are unorthodox, etc) thrown together with the signature 90s action/drama comic relief.  steve buscemi does not belong in action movies.  it is a shame that square has to sell out and slap its successful liscenses on all the garbage they release.  "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad box office outcome","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" final fantasy remains today as one of the best animated flicks in my opinion, it had great voice acting, a deep and poetic storyline, Realistic CG character design (A good change from the androgynous character design of the video game that it is not related to at all), but most of all, Great action sequences that are comparable with the very similar but still Totally awesome game Gears of war. unfortunately, FF became the animated Box office bomb in history. Square Enix lost $124,000,000 from this movie which effectively crushed Square pictures as well as the hopes and dreams of the Final Fantasy video game creator and director Hironobu Sakaguchi who went on to create the rest of the hugely popular video game series. "},{"Title":"Amazing graphics, ever more amazing sound design. Unfortunately, the story is awful","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I bought a VHS tape of FINAL FANTASY for 2 bucks. It's the best 2 bucks I've ever spent. Needless to say, I have to admit point blank that I love FINAL FANTASY. I avoided when it was released in theaters but now since I bought the used tape, I've been almost obsessed with it now. The thing that's amazing about FF is that the computer animation is truly stunning, even revolutionary. It's revolutionary not in the sense that it's first of its kind (it's not) or that its attempt is to be as realistic as possible (it's not there yet) but revolutionary in the amount of details crammed in every frame. I've never seen so much detail. Details around the look of the sets, ships, etc but also on the subtle facial expressions and body movement of the characters are fascinating to watch. The rendered characters, certainly those of Aki and Gray Edwards, are masterpieces of animated characterization.The second amazing aspect of FF is the sound design/effects, which actually blows the animation out of the water. Yes, it's that good. I actually plunk in the tape in my VCR and listen to the movie through my home theater system just to hear the intricate sound effects. My sound system literally comes alive with FINAL FANTASY. It's one of the best movies to test your home theater system with. And mind you, this is a VHS tape, not DVD, which I'll buy soon and will probably blow that experience away as well.But as good as FF is there are three major aspects about it which are truly awful the first awful aspect is the story. It's pitiful. One would think that the people who spent so much time rendering such amazing animation or creating such a mind-boggling soundscape would have spent a bit more time coming up with a story that was, well, acceptable. As it is, FF's story sucks. In the a nutshell, the muddled story is this every planet is a living being, with souls of every living thing being part of it. It's called Gaia. Anyway, in another galaxy, the result of a war between two alien civilization has completely obliterated the planet of one of the alien species and a big piece of rock from that planet crashed on earth, bringing along with it that planet's dying Gaia and all of the original inhabitants of that planet + the dead aliens which tried to invade that planet in the form of phantoms, or ghosts. Got it? Anyway, when the asteroid crashed on earth, it unleashed the myriad of phantoms and the dead planet's Gaia, polluting Earth's Gaia and killing everyone, for some unexpected reason. In order to revive dying Earth, a team of scientists and soldiers try to find the seven or eight spirits of the Earth in order to bring it back to life, or something like that. The story makes no sense at all. Why do the ghosts of the aliens attack earthlings? What's in it for them? Why don't the ghosts of the two aliens species attack each other instead of humans? They were enemies before they landed on Earth... Why do the ghosts of that planet need to kill humans and how do they know how to kill humans if they're just ghosts? How do the soldiers kill ghosts with their weapons?!?! Anyway, I could go on and on but it's pointless. The story is so confused and muddled by an incongruous amalgamation of genre elements (is it sci-fi? Fantasy? Horror? Supernatural? etc) and the ending is so unsatisfying that it's best to forget the whole thing altogether. It's a shame the story is so weak because the rest is so amazing.The second unsuccessful aspect of FINAL FANTASY are the design of these psychedelic phantoms/ghosts. Whoever designed them, well, he should be shot or stop taking drugs (arf!). I've never seen so much near obsessive detailing for such unappealing and ugly creations. They're not cool ugly or scary (like HR GIGER stuff) but just plain ugly looking. And the third and last annoying aspect of FF is the corny dialogue and the annoying voice-overs reading these lines of dialogue. Alec Baldwin, Donald Sutherland and James Woods (playing a bad guy, of course) should never do voice-overs ever again. I wish I could hear a Japanese version with English subtitles, if it ever exists.Anyway, the bad stuff is bad but it's not bad enough to eclipse the really amazing stuff in FINAL FANTASY. Make sure to check FF for the animation and the stupendous sound effects.Just think of FINAL FANTASY as a coffee table book for your home theater system. "}{"Title":"Gaia Gaia Gaia...","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Final Fantasy the Spirits Within 3/10 Have you ever walked through the airport and seen one of those religious cult members with their robes and bald heads selling flowers? You ever wonder what would happen if you stuck up a conversation with one of them and went back to the compound in the unmarked white minivan? I imagine after 24 hours of food and sleep deprivation they would show you this film.That's exactly what Final Fantasy feels like. A cult recruiting film for James Lovelock's Gaia theory. Really, forget Battlefield Earth (which was god awful but hardly filled Scientologist recruiting sites as people feared); forget Passion of the Christ, heck even Triumph of the Will was less of a propaganda film.Besides the heavy-handed religious message the film itself is a mess. The basic plot has alien ghosts that kill on contact overrunning the earth. The one group wants to use a death star style laser in space (paid for by your tax dollars) to kill the deadly aliens. The other group wants to travel around collecting magic broccoli so Gaia will use her spirit to drive away said ghosts. Guess what side the movie is on. To make the Gaia broccoli-collecting group look more reasonable the movie stacks the deck by making the Laser people completely insane.Even with the deck stacking and James Woods drooling as the mad general I still wondered why they couldn't try the laser? Oh that's right they might kill Gaia who lives under the earth like a cross between Lovecraft's Old Ones and a hibernating Care Bear. The animation is groundbreaking for film but really not that much better than the cut scenes in the last few Final Fantasy video games.(Which the movie has literally nothing to do with. Even the tone of the film is all wrong.)Either unknown voice work or live actors might have been a better choice in casting. The action scenes are well done though the ghosts aren't exactly scary. The magic of the visuals wears off after twenty minutes or so. The irritation at the story however can last for weeks. "},{"Title":"A must see for 3D Animators. Bad story.","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a very ambitious full length feature film based on a popular computer game. Fans of the game will be treated to an extravagant audio visual feast with plenty of action, thrilling explosions and weird creatures. The music and sound is excellent. The only bad point in this film is the story. A lot of hard work has gone into producing a sense of realism that we take for granted in regular films. What's unique about this film is that it has been generated entirely in CG. It tries to present us with very realistic looking synthesized human characters. The most daunting task is in attaining visual realism in matching human behavior and expressions, as opposed to animating dinosaurs or cartoon characters.   The details and texture on the terrain, structures, machines and craft are by far the best I have seen. The designers have given great attention in portraying atmospheric effects and optical distortions. There is a scene where heat dissipates from the craft right before it touches down in the Tucson Wasteland (003519) This was perhaps the high point of visual realism in this film. Only a highly dedicated and serious production team can depict details to this extent.The bumpy flight in the craft was conveyed effectively by jerking the crew just like it happens in a train ride. A great deal of attention has been given to the natural aspects of vision that we take for granted in cinema. Lighting effects, focus, depth of field, lens-flares, motion blur and camera shakes add a sense of realism to this purely synthesized cinema. The details and dynamics of hair on Dr. Aki Ross have been rendered beautifully well. The blemishes on her skin are also very real, especially during extreme close up shots of her eyes.To a very large extent Hironobu Sakaguchi and his highly skilled team has succeeded in portraying humans using CG, but since we have seen humans before, lets look closely   Facial expressions were limited to the eyebrows, lips and forehead. There was little attention given to the cheek muscles in almost all characters. Smiles, frowns and laughter are limited to just the eyes mouth and forehead. The muscles around the eye sockets and the cheek bone area do not move at all. This is one major drawback that distracts you from the illusion being created.I am assuming that most of the action, if not all, was captured with real actors wearing motion capture gear, which explains the fluidity of movement in the characters. The dialogues match very well with their body language, especially by veteran actor Donald Sutherland. I couldn't help noticing some inexplicable resemblance between the character and the voice actor.The rather thin and unimpressive script is what actually brings this film down. One would be forced to ask this question Would this be a good film if all the characters were played by human? I doubt that very much. This film draws attention only because it's an attempt at mimicking humans. I could not digest the whole idea of spirits and some kind of spiritual reunion theory. I also doubt weather it may sit in well with the more religiously inclined section of the audience. The lack of a strong script is perhaps the only shortcoming in this otherwise well executed film.All those aspiring 3D designers and animators must see this film at least twice and study it for its perfect execution of dynamics and atmospheric effects. The bad story shouldn't stop you from learning a thing or two from a team of outstanding animators and designers. My ratingsCharacter Animation 4/10, Lip Sync and Facial expressions 3/10, Overall Design and Animation 8/10, Sound Effects 7/10, Story and Script 3/10Overall  5/10  "},{"Title":"The most expensive screensaver in history","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  According to the marketing blurb, 25% of the rendering time for Final Fantasy was spent on Aki Ross's hair. Which works out at something like $35 million of hair care worries. Not even Jennifer Aniston has worried that much about her hair, and let's be honest if you are THAT concerned about hair you should be in a crack Vidal Sassoon styling squad and not making movies.But nothing could better sum up all that is wrong with this $140 million fiasco. Square decided that they wanted to have perfectly realistic characters and spent all their time and resources on that aim, rather than developing a story. The characters do look amazing (albeit scarily like they're cousins to Captain Scarlet), but they might as well be cardboard cut-outs inhabiting a plot that is less Asimov than Sonic the Hedgehog.The movie moves at a glacial pace which mistakes pretentious histrionics for intelligence. The inadvertantly amusingly named Doctor Sid burbles on about 'Gaia' and spirits in a touchy feely manner, but it all boils down to 'there are some evil orange blobs, go collect the blue blobs before the timer runs out.' Unfortunately there are no bonus rounds, no high scores and no refunds. But then 'Final Fantasy' is from the same writer as the 'Final Fantasy' games - tedious affairs with next to no interactivity, illiterate scripts and emaciated character development. A joke used to be that the 'Final Fantasy' games made good movies, but lousy games. Well now we know, the movies suck as well.A friend said the failure of this movie is that the public aren't prepared to accept Japanese thinking and dramatisations. Well sorry, I've seen a lot of Japanese cinema and read a lot of Japanese literature. This movie is bad, not because of any cultural differences, but through having a plot that seems to have been written by a 5 years old to fit on the back of a game box.It looks gorgeous, no doubt about it. As a showcase of Square's animators and the Maya software it is without parallel. But it is also a terrible movie. Ten years ago we all marvelled at the graphics in 'The Lawnmower Man', ten years before that the whole revolution was kicked off by 'Tron'. But who can honestly say either one was a good movie?Compare 'Final Fantasy' to anything from Pixar or the recent PDI 'Shrek' and you see where 'Final Fantasy' goes horribly wrong. Both of those start off with a script, that script is polished and reworked until it is perfect. Only then does work on character development begin and only after that does the rendering technology take over. Why spend 25% of your time rendering hair when it isn't needed? Give the character short hair and spend those processor cycles on moving the plot forward. If you can't make people photorealistic, don't bother, use a stylised approach. No one thinks that Andy in Toy Story is a real child, but he is a thousand times more appealing than Aki and her plastic friends; no one would mistake Disney's Tarzan for a real human, but there is a character in those drawings, Aki Ross is nothing more than a mannequin.But at the end of the day Aki Ross does have lovely hair, and perhaps that matters more to the people at Square and Columbia than storytelling. "},{"Title":"I hate Gaya","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was devastated to see the rating 7.4/10 here. This film should havegiant warningsigns on the posters, since its the worst crap I've seen for ages. The idea to use CG humans is very stupid and looks very bad. I dont even have time to write more about this bad flic. Do avoid! "},{"Title":"what's all the hubbub, bub?","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is an incredibly dull movie. If you enjoy watching emotionless mannequins spouting techno-babble exposition for almost two hours, then this film is for you.  Now on to the important stuff the animation. Some people will think the animation in this movie is realistic. Nothing could be further from the truth. What people are reacting to is the rendering and modeling, the textures and lighting given to the characters and sets. This is the most amazing thing about the movie and the only aspect of the film to achieve its vaunted (if somewhat cold and sterile)photorealism. The actual animation is stiff and unnatural, filled with stock gestures. The characters never seem to change their facial expressions (especially the lead Aki, whose eyebrows never move even when she is crying), and the lip sync is all wrong. Aside from the technical problems, this is simply bad acting. In trying to attain the subtlety of live actors the animators have made their creations lifeless and dull. Of course, in animation realism isn't that important, believability is. The characters don't have to look real, but simply move in a plausible way. This can be achieved by heightening reality through the use of exaggeration. Perhaps if the movements of the characters where stylized a bit more, made a little more expressive, they might have seemed more engaging and a little less awkward and creepy. After all, the caricatured humans in Toy Story 2 are much more credible than the characters here. (The Pixar films also know how to tell a story) People will think this film is a leap forward but it is actually a giant step backward. Back to the silent era and the rotoscoped animation of the Fleischer brothers' Koko the Clown. Whenever animators have tried to rigidly copy life-like movements they always end up with something less than real.      "},{"Title":"why this beautiful film failed","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" 1. A concept known as the uncanny valley (look it up). (the closer to photorealism a human-like creation is, the more subconscious unease people tend to experience with it when it is not a perfect reproduction; i.e. creep factor)2. USAmerican audiences have the attention spans of children or worse.3. USAmerican audiences are typically negative about science fiction (because there is, admittedly, lots of crap out there that is classified as science fiction and because good science fiction requires an amount of suspension of disbelief and greater than average general knowledge).4. Hard core fans of the game series this is spiritually based on were totally vicious in bashing the film as it was not directly based on the very long history and details of the game series. Check out Final Fantasy VII Advent Children (out on DVD) to see where the connections are. Advent Children is a CGI film. It doesn't take the photorealism approach, going instead for the anime look more common to the game series. It looks quite beautiful. This may be what the gamers are more likely to embrace.5. USAmerican audiences are typically less educated or more disinterested in intellectual pursuits found in films because they are looking for a mindless escape for their movie-going experience (understandable, but it is not my personal style and story-telling is meant to be richer than mind candy escapism).This film is an incredible accomplishment. i would have preferred it to be longer and more developed but it satisfied quite well for what it is. If you can get over the 5 issues above, try this film. You may find that it needs to live in your DVD collection as it does in mine.Science Fiction fans may need to add a little more suspension of disbelief here, if they are hard science fiction oriented; as the title suggests, this film deals with a scientific concept of actual spiritual energy. Not my thing, but done well enough that i loved the film, none the less.Last remarks This film is truly beautiful in its concepts and visuals. If you note the rating at the top of its IMDb page, it has aged well with audiences as it has slowly been discovered by the people who know how to appreciate its beauty. Don't let pop-culture box office movie ratings turn you off. That rating system is too quick and too shallow to mean much, especially with an intellectual science fiction title. "},{"Title":"An astonishing breakthrough in technology","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is one of those rare films that evolves cinema. Just like Toy Story was the first film that was completely computer generated, this film is the first computer generated film that attempts to duplicate what real people look like.It is best to have an understanding of the games before watching the film. Hinorubi Sakuguchi created the first Final Fantasy as a way to save the company Squaresoft from bankruptcy. If the game bombed, it would be their Final Fantasy. But it's great plot and strong themes insured it a best seller and since then the series has produced 10 official games (and about another 10 offshoots) over 4 consoles, highlights include 4,6,7 and 10. Each of the games has a common theme of spirituality and other important stuff. Also each game has no link to ther other, each is an orginal story, as is the film (actually there is only one link, an animal called a chocobo that resembles a big bird-horse that appears in every game. There is ONE in the film, but very hidden away).The film's story is a sort of sci-fi spiritual anime kind of plot. It is the year 2065 and Earth is defending invading invisible aliens that arrived on a meteor 30 years ago. Dr. Aki Ross (Ming Na) and her mentor Dr. Sid (Donald Sutherland) have devised a way to rid the earth of the aliens (called Phantoms) but the misguided baddy, General Hein (James Woods), has come up with a giant cannon that can blow them all up, but may end up destroying our planet. In between all this there's the love story between Aki and the suspisciously Ben Affleck looking Captain Gray (Alec Baldwin), a recurring dream that Aki has that could save the world, the Gaia theory (that states that all life has a spirit and when we die we go back to a big spirit in the Earth called Gaia) and a heck of a lot of shooting aliens.On the whole, Final Fantasy is well executed, Ming Na does a good job with Aki, James Woods does the perfect bad guy and Donald Sutherland is well suited for his very old digital counterpart. My only quibble is with Alec Baldwin who seems to have not put as much effort as he could've and as a result, Gray comes off a bit wooden. Though the real draw to Final Fantasy is the visual effects which are indeed, spectacular. The characters are EXTREMELY realistic and at times you have to squint to be sure that they aren't real, though lip syncing sometimes drops out. The backdrops are stunning and the effects are well done. Although there is no real danger of Hollywood actors being replaced, this film does demonstrate some advantages that CG has over real life, viewing the person completely in zero-grav for instance.Final Fantasy is not without its faults and its plot may lose some on the way (I know some people who couldn't really get it) but if you keep an open mind, and try not to let the occasional cheesy line discourage you, you should enjoy this effort from 240 artists working for 4 years. "},{"Title":"The alien crater wasn't the only hole in this movie.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had no previous knowledge of what was about to happen to me when I went in to see this movie.  Someone should've put a warning on the marquee, SAVE YOUR MONEY, next to the title.  I actually was looking forward to seeing the next step in CG movies, and the name Final Fantasy made me think this movie might be really good.  Astonishing as this may sound to those who were totally blown away by the special effects, I actually was in the theatre to watch a movie.  I feel that this movie could've done just as well as a silent film or maybe just a bunch of action mixed with music.  If you ever need a two hour screen saver, just download this movie off the internet and turn down the sound. I did feel that several parts of the film were very realistic looking, which is exactly what the entire movie was supposed to be... but that doesn't mean the story line should have suffered as badly as it did.  I feel as though this movie was a Phantom, trying to suck away my life essence. "},{"Title":"Save me...","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I walked into this movie expecting to see a good movie, guess what? I didn't. This movie had a horrible plot, stereotypical characters, and some of it didn't make a lot of sense. I think everyone who saw that movie is now dumber for doing so.  Though, the movie did have one good point, the animation. A few times I could've sworn I was looking at real people "},{"Title":"What a bust","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What in the world were they thinking to send this load of lard on U.S. soil? The story and plot was completely tacky and inane. The dialogue was comical and hilarious. If you want good cgi with actual experienced production crew, watch JP3. Both plot's are shoddy but at least JP3 entertains whereas Final Fatality puts you under the snooze bar. "}{"Title":"Biggest disappointment of the summer","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a big Japanamation fan and all i can say is this is the worst possible attempt to want to have an akira impact within disney type guidlines. Biggest waste of money on graphics i have ever seen and i hope such a waste won't happen on a regular basis with this type of great graphics.gave it a 1 to even out such a high rating by people that let there eyes decieve them from a trite science fiction plot. "},{"Title":"This movie was bad beyond all possible imagination","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It started with a truly great opening sequence, earth destroyed (Mostly) and society hiding out in barrier cities.  Neat CGI.It went down hill from there and continued a death spiral that never ended.  You felt as if you were coming in to a sequel.  The lead characters knew each other and hand a past, they didn't really ever share this past with you, you just needed to see that first movie I suppose.  Then you got to be introduced to what may possibly be the worst script ever written.  Dumb one-liners that wouldn't even make it into a B rated Arnold movie.  A love story that was...well...it didn't work.  Aliens that...well...didn't work.  CGI that...well...worked a little and only when it was the total focus of the scene.  My suggestion to anyone who would even consider plunking down there money for this piece of garbage.  Go smash your head against a Store front art sculpture.  It's less painful. "},{"Title":"A pointless movie that makes no sense","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was terrible.  The plot had no depth whatsoever and the characters weren't intresting in the least.  The story made no sense unless you play the video games.  The animation was great besides the fact that their faces were completly expressionless.  And their hair seemed to move when there was no wind, but it did look realistic. "},{"Title":"Nice hair, bad movie.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy is another popular-video-game-title-made-into-a-movie that just doesn't cut it as a movie. It had undeniably incredible graphics, but that alone doesn't make a good movie. But Aki Ross's hair was awesome.The story is as bland as it gets. Aliens have taken control of the Earth and it's up to the heroine to get rid of them. Naturally, there is a supporting hero who has a romantic past with her, and a crew of soldiers who fulfill the Sidekick Formula in every way  a wisecracker, a hunk, a tomboy - and of course a sage-like professor in the background. But Aki Ross's hair was awesome.What is it with futuristic shows that computers have to be displayed in the cooolest, most unusual way possible? And that the setting is almost always dark and moody? Aren't there EVER going to be happy futures? Are all aliens out to get us?But Aki Ross's hair was awesome.The main draw of this film is of course the graphics, especially Aki Ross's hair. It is intricately rendered and so impressive that it is almost worth the ticket price. However, the developers did not appear to have paid much attention to the crowning glory of the other characters in the film. Men are invariably crew-cut, and the only prominent female is conveniently a tomboy (so she gets to have very short hair). Still, the animation is seamless and realistic, and the rendering of eyes and minute facial features all point to hard work and talent.Too bad they didn't get better scriptwriters. "},{"Title":"Revisit the new DVD-- It'll reveal masterful art-- Great, GREAT movie!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just watched Final Fantasy on DVD. I had been pleased seeing it in the theaters last year, but I was amazed and astounded at this new venue. I was impressed this time by how good of a movie it is truly is-- not just the groundbreaking animation. I urge everyone to revisit this movie. I predict that on DVD, at home, you will appreciate it even more, and in an entirely new light Please note I am an academic at a university, and don't sell DVDs, nor own any stock in anything!.In addition to rediscovered delight, Final Fantasy also brought some issues with the current use of CGIs in many so-called live photography movies to the forefront. Quite often while viewing Fantasy on my wide screen TV, I totally forgot that this was a cartoon. Really. I innocently found myself believing the images and scenes in the same cognitive mode that I have when watching any blockbuster, CGI-laden flick. Star Wars II, Phantom Menace is mostly cartoon, and yet we bought into it enough to have a reasonably good time watching it once in a theater. Oddly, and no disrepect to George Lucas intended, Fantasy appears more real on DVD, in a strange way, than Phantom did. Pearl Harbor is another example. Say what you will about the unrealistic solitary heroism, romantic overkill, or whatever, it was a decent visual ride for the 17-1/2 hours at the theater. Oh wait, only 3 hours. Anyway-- much of Pearl was also cartoon, especially the battle scenes. Again, Fantasy was at least as real as that, and in many respects more believable. It was also artistically more on target. There are many other examples, but they all point to the amazing mastery Final Fantasy managed to bring to the screen. "},{"Title":"Ummm...Plot?","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The lack of plot and story background really hurts this movie. While the animation is incredible, the story is really needs to be more of the focus. This is basically a big-budget anime movie. If you are an anime fan, you will love this, if you aren't, you will keep waiting for this movie to end... and it seems to go on forever. It also gets VERY preachy religion-wise at the end. My friends and I now refer to this movie as Battlefield Earth 2. "},{"Title":"Over-rated as a movie, under-rated as a CG commercial","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Indeed this movie does provide us an eye for the future of film-making. What it hopes to accomplish, essentially, is putting stunt-doubles out of work. That is all I can say positive about Final Fantasy.CGI is nothing new to the movie industry. George Lucas, James Cameron, Steven Spielberg, among the many, have all revolutionized the art making it part of the movie experience. Final Fantasy goes in a new direction by giving us close-up animated characters instead of real actors. Bytes instead of blood. I can give points for that but to quote a cliche, nothing beats the real thing. Yes I thought it was cool too how Aki's hair bounce as she walks and the glisten of moisture from their eyes on extreme close-ups (Japan-thang). Then you see them showing some form of emotion. I won't spoil it for you. I expect good computer animation. It's a give-away. That's what hype does to you but it doesn't make a movie enjoyable.The plot is simple enough. It's a fruitbowl of subplots from all of their successful games into one plus scenes from Starship Troopers and  Aliens. If you've played the video games from Square, you realize there's nothing to rave about when it comes to a storyline and Final Fantasy TSW adds nothing new. If you've never played the games, it's your basic sci-fi movie with the beautiful genius as the centerpiece and her ragged band of gung-ho marines (love interest included) versus lots of cool aliens for the fate of the world. The villain also plays out like a predictable and overdrawn powermonger. Yawnage material. I've seen this before.The movie was mediocre in my book. I went to the theatres and found the room near half empty. I also heard it took them over $100M to make? ROFL. Ouch. And no one cared about the script.  "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Not considered one of the best films of 2001 (even though it is) because of complex and barely explained storyline. The only real complaint I have is that it seems like the movie was intentionally made this way in order to have people watch it more than once just to comprehend it.The visual presentation was immaculate and I love the characters. "},{"Title":"All looks and no brain","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy proved a disappointment to me. Not as big as one might have expected though.As most people I was expecting a movie that would entertain me, but wouldn't stun me with it's intricate brilliance.Well, suffice to say, it didn't stun me at all.In a time when fabulous computer graphics are *yawn* common-place this movie doesn't stand out. It would have required a fantastic plot to do that, not just (admittedly) outstanding visuals.So let's keep things separateThe visuals They're good. Visually the movie is really enjoyable, if very plastic as well. As a on-off computer animator I was impressed, and words such as rendering farm went through my head. The animation itself leaves a lot to be desired, I have yet to see a movie with realistic movement. Everyone is stiff-jointed, walking around like a hand-puppet. Very strange. Also the movie suffers from what every computer-animated movie suffers from - the Swooping-Camera syndrome. This means that instead of having proper editing, the camera moves around in gracious arcs and swirls, giving the movie a very amateur-ish style. All in all though, the movie is a fun ride through computer-animation.The story The story is at best laughable, at worst it is absolutely ridiculous. The voices are so wrong for the characters that I sat giggling at serious moments, and it's such a lax performance by otherwise superb actors that I was at times pained to watch it. The story itself, the pathetic attempt at a plot-twist and the holes in the plot are not fun to watch at all. If the makers had augmented the visuals with a strong and philosophical story, without the cut-out stereotype thoughts about the world we might live in - then this movie would have ranked a lot higher on my scale.total score 3/10 "},{"Title":"is this Suppose to be a Final Fantasy Movie?","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" OH WAIT! It's NOT! the animation is mediocre, the Story is Ridiculous with too many Exposition, the Characters are forgivable and Worst of all... IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH FINAL FANTASY! there is no Summon, Quests, Magic, Chocobos, Moogles, Big Swords and Awesome Villains! the only thing that pretends to REMIND US that is FINAL FANTASY is the Character CID that is just an normal Doctor... THAT'S IT!there is nothing redeeming about this piece of Garbage... i rather Level Up myself to kill off on this Disaster pile of Crap! so many few Terrible Movies based on games and the only good one i saw was Advent Children and Ace Attorney "}{"Title":"The best yet sad film I have ever saw!","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I found this film to have quite the best graphics and this is the First time in a really long time that I felt a like this, had the best storyline. I really mean it!I have to say Alec Baldwin was the absolute best at voicing the young captain guy including Steve Buscemi who was pretty much acting as the immature clown of the team! Their characters were rather interesting in their personalities! I have just realised that the actress Ming-Na Wen who voiced Doctor Aki Ross is also the voice of Disney Princess Mulan. I honestly did not know it was her since she not really a popular actress but a brilliant one! I'm very surprised that herself and Alec Baldwin weren't awarded for their involvement but still, that doesn't mean that they aren't good actors, they are just pros!I'm glad to have seen this movie! "},{"Title":"A Good Movie Made Far Too Soon...","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film was made at least five years too early. Which was sad, since it had a fairly good storyline. However, the level of CGI technology in 2001 was simply not up to the point where the animators could have been able to avoid the uncanny valley phenomenon which ultimately doomed the movie at the box office. That, and the staggeringly high production budget of over $137,000,000. The biggest problem that I had with the animation was that the characters simply were unable to emote convincingly, and their eyes, especially, looked dead and quite creepy.The story, which had NOTHING to do with the popular Final Fantasy game line, deals with Earth being devastated by the alien ghosts which arrived upon the debris left over from the destruction of their home world. The story is dark and excessively depressing, which puts it at odds with the Final Fantasy games, whose often-dark plots are balanced out with a hopeful undertone. Also, many plot threads are simply abandoned, such as the social conflicts brought about by the lead character's religious beliefs. Also, many might be disappointed by the fact that a much-promised nude scene of the heroine, Aki Ross, was apparently taken out at the last minute and replaced with a simple shot of water going down a shower drain. Kind of prophetic for the overall movie...More tragic than the storyline of this movie was the fact that the box office loss was so massive that it resulted in the closure of the Squaresoft movie division. Even more sad was that several years later, the crew was briefly reassembled to create a sequence for The Animatrix. Oh, what could have been... "},{"Title":"Animation values of this film are viewable and good, BUT...","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 2001, The year is 2065 AD. Uncontrollable alien spirits have invaded Earth. These aliens are killing humans and controlling large areas of the planet. The last of the human race is in a doomed protective city. The Earth's military are trying to fight the invaders. Lead by a strange dream and guided by her brilliant mentor Dr Sid, scientist Aki Ross struggles to collect eight spirits with the hope of creating a force powerful enough to protect the planet. A secret scientist group has found the spiritual answer to stopping and understanding the aliens, their alien origins, and their power to keeping the Earth surviving intact. Aki must save Earth from its darkest hate and unleash the beneficial spirits within.*Special Stars- featuring the voices of Alex Baldwin, Ving Rhames, Steve Buscemi. Director- Hironobu Sakaguki *Theme- Nature and spirit are twin forces for good, always. Humans only upset the natural balance in their ignorance.*Based on- Several previous 'Final Fantasy' film plots and Video Game genre. The film has obvious Eastern and Green religious and political themes.*Trivia/location/goofs- Last recent release from a notable series of feature science fiction films. Animated CGI film.*Emotion- While the animation in production values of this film are viewable and good, the plot is too simplistic and clichéd. The few dramatic plot instances have been better explored by other western live-action and bigger budget films writers. The voice actors dialog is disappointing and so predictable. It's full of trite western clichés and boring. IMHO Also the basic principle of not using live action performers on camera in such narrative film is flawed. Only using their voices to get ticket sales and not allowing the whole performer to be seen and enjoyed on camera is only using half of the actor's innate art or talents. This film suffers greatly. "},{"Title":"A great achievement","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Okay, at first I thought that it was going to be a pretty bad film, since it is based on a video game (And I hate video games) but then I read that this movie didn't had anything in common with the video game franchise in which this was supposedly inspired.Anyway, this was very good film, not only because it had a incredibly animation (Not like the boring and bland CGI crap that you see in most of the animated flicks released every year) but also, because it had a very interesting plot, combining science fiction with mysticism...And also, it had lots of aliens, all of them with an unique and fascinating look.This movie had many beautiful sequences, I liked specially the dream scenes, that take place in one alien planet. Also, I liked how it was deconstructed the whole concept of alien invaders that appeared in so many films... Apparently, one of the animators from the great movie Avatar, Andy Jones, worked in this film too, so no wonder why the animation was so good.It is true that not even the best animation could replace the emotion of real actors, but despite that, I still believe that this movie is a great achievement for the cartoon world. Hey, at least it is much better than the overrated kiddie crap that came every single year. And considering that it was inspired in a video game, it could have been very much worse This could have been anime. "},{"Title":"Stunning cut-scenes, too bad it was supposed to be a movie...","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Just like the title hinted, Final Fantasy would have been better had it been a video game...Computer Graphics at its peak, sure. But the plot?A far-fetched blend of sci-fi and new-age clichés... a bit too dry for something that relies on visual polish only. Real-life acting can somewhat salvage a mediocre plot, but CGI surely can't, no matter how hard voice-actors try.Just imagine playing a visually impressive video game saddled with an average plot and with 90mins of unskippable intro... That's Final Fantasy for you. "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad choice of title","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was a good SciFi flick.It's set in a post apocalyptic world. Has the domed cities to protect the remaining human element. You have the pacifist heroine, and macho military hero. The evil alien invaders destroying the planet and able to kill anyone with a single swipe. You have the band of brothers who is under the command of said military hero, complete with the tough chick, the lovable bad ass and the smart mouthed scrawny guy and you have the douche bag high ranking officer. The premise is our heroine Dr. Aki Ross is trying to find lifeforms with a certain spirit, an aura if you will, that can bring balance back to Gaia, the earth spirit,which has been thrown out of balance thanks to these alien invaders. She is in the field when she finds one of these spirits but comes under attack by the aliens, called Phantoms (due to there ethereal forms), when she is rescued by our military hero and his squad. The rest of the movie follows protocol of a SciFi flick, they go looking for other spirits, douche bag thinks this is all a crock. City is invaded by the Phantoms, Douchebag tries to destroy the enemy by destroying the planet. and so on... Here is where I give it a 3 out of 10, this has nothing to do with Final Fantasy. It was written by the creator of Final Fantasy. But even key elements that are in all Final Fantasy's are missing from here. No Summons, No final confrontation with main villain. In all Final Fantasy Games, even those that have the heavy SciFi theme, aren't close to whatever this movie was. Don't get me wrong, I am not asking for something like Advent Children, but they could have done a stand alone story that had the Final Fantasy elements in it and it still would have worked. If the title of the movie was just Spirits Within It probably would get a higher rating from me. But if this is supposed to be a final fantasy, then it doesn't work. "},{"Title":"The Special Effects Enhance This Superficial Saga!","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Science Fiction movies have come a long way since French filmmaker/magician Georges Melies adapted Jules Verne's 1866 novel From the Earth to the Moon into the first sci-fi epic entitled A Trip to the Moon in 1902. Méliès pioneered several cinematic techniques; among them trick photography using cuts, dissolves, and superimposed images, with models of various sizes. In this minor 14-minute masterpiece, Méliès showed heads of state and dancing girls entering a large, capsule-shaped bullet. A gigantic cannon hurls the projectile into space and it strikes the moon, depicted as a man's smiling face, in one of his eyes, making him frown. On the lunar surface, demonic creatures attack out intrepid heroes, but they escape and return to Earth by falling into the ocean. A navy ship rescues them and tows them ashore. Although the plot amounted to little more than a joke, Méliès dazzled audiences of his day with his ingenious but stage-bound visual artistry. Less than a hundred years after Méliès' seminal saga, Japanese director Hironobu Sakaguchi has forged another milestone in science fiction film annuals. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within ranks alongside Méliès A Trip to the Moon, Fritz Lang's ground-breaking German movie Metropolis (1926), Stanley Kubrick's visionary triumph 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968), Steven Lisberger's Tron, and George Lucas' Star Wars Episode 1 The Phantom Menace (1999) as another first of its kind.Basically, an evolutionary leap in the next generation of computer crafted images, Final Fantasy emerges as the first film made completely with computers featuring near life-like approximations of human characters. Two hundred graphic artists and animators from 22 countries spent four years in Hawaii creating these semi-photo-realistic characters and their backgrounds from scratch with cutting edge Silicon Graphic Ink on workstations before they transferred them on the big screen. Unfortunately, as with so many sci-fi cinematic classics, the plot takes a back seat to the visually resplendent action. As outstanding as the animation is, nobody could mistake any of the humanoid actors for the real McCoys. Indeed, they look pretty good, but Sakaguchi and company are going to have to improve the process considerably before flesh & blood actors have anything to fret about from their cyberspace counterparts. Nevertheless, for the time being, this $100 million video game inspired sci-fi extravaganza definitely provides a glimpse of the shape of films to come.Final Fantasy The Spirit Within occurs in the not-too-distant future during the year 2065. Earth lies in a post-apocalyptic shambles after a meteor with a deadly spawn of aliens called Phantoms crash-landed 34 years ago. Since then an all-out war has raged and the Phantoms have come gradually to dominate the globe. The remnants of humanity have holed up behind energy shields that form protective domes over the larger cities, and the government has deployed a Star Wars type weapon into orbit called the Zeus Cannon. They hope that this cannon with a bio-etheric energy force will blast these virtually invisible creatures to kingdom come. Unless equipped with special goggles, the humans cannot see these gelatinous red predators. They look like huge, semi-transparent lobsters, snakes, dragons, squids, and scorpions. They kill by either infesting the human body with spores or sucking the soul right out of them when they come into contact with their victims. Leading the battle against these lethal life forms is Dr. Aki Ross (voiced by ER's Ming-Na who voiced the heroine in Walt Disney's Mulan), a sexy, compassionate scientist who vaguely resembles actress Bridget Fonda. These vaporous entities have already infested Dr. Ross, and she is slowly dying. With the help of her mentor, Dr. Sid (voiced by Donald Sutherland of M.A.S.H.), however, she is able to survive while she searches on her own for an antidote. Essentially, if our noble heroine can gather eight key benign spirits from the Earth, she can make a big spirit wave that will neutralize the aliens. At the same time, the trigger-happy, narrow-minded, vindictive General Hein (voice of James Woods of Any Given Sunday), whose family was killed by the Phantoms, itches for the opportunity to fire the Zeus Cannon at them. A counsel of elders has managed to restrain him. What the elders fear as much as Dr. Ross is that the Zeus Cannon may not only destroy their alien assailants, but it also may irreparably damage the Earth.As the action unfolds, Aki lands her spacecraft in war-ravaged Manhattan, looking like the desolate setting of John Carpenter's Escape from New York. She is searching for a non-human spiritual life form when the wraith-like aliens converge on her. An elite unit of heavily armed soldiers designated 'Deep Eyes' arrive in the nick of time to save Aki from the Phantoms. Captain Gray Edwards (voiced by Alec Baldwin) takes in Ryan (voiced by Ving Rhames of Pulp Fiction), Neil (voiced by Steve Buscemi of Con-Air), and Jane (voiced by TV actress Peri Gilpin) to battle the beasties while Aki bottles the non-human life forms. Edwards wants to arrest Aki. At first, he wears his helmet so she won't recognize him as her old flame. Eventually, the militarist Hein orders Edwards to keep an eye on Ross and arrest her if he thinks she is succumbing to the effect of the alien spores in her chest. Hein constitutes more of a villain than the spectral creatures rampaging on Earth. Just to make sure that everybody knows that Hein is a villain, he wears a black, Gestapo-style trench coat and gloves.Oscar-nominated writer Al Reinert of Apollo 13, Jeff Vintar, and Sakaguchi have contrived a predictable, standard-issue sci-fi action spectacle that borrows its gung-ho elements from Aliens and its monsters from Starship Troopers. The dialogue sounds as synthetic as the characters look. As for the deadly creatures, the Phantoms reminded me of the Atari critters from the Centipede game. Since the scenarists reveal little about these beasties, they pose little danger.Ultimately, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within looks fantastic but lacks substance. "},{"Title":"Not a Final fantasy for sure...","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" First of all, let me just say that this movie is NOT a Final Fantasy related movie. This is a different movie that uses the title Final Fantasy in order to attract attention.I am a huge fan of the game. I already completed the games from final fantasy 1-9. Now I'm playing x, x~2 and XII. Being so, I waited, patiently, for this movie. I really really want to see on how they'll be like on the big screen. I watched this movie last July 11, 2001. It's been 6 years.. then after a while, i decided to write about it here on IMDb for the one's who haven't seen it yet... Here's a hint, if you played the game and liked it so far... prepare yourselves for this movie.. For the one's who don't know the game... You're blessed to see this because you don't have the slightest clue that this movie is somewhat a ripe-off... Well, don't let me stop you, go ahead and watch it.. I mean, every individual has his/her own taste in moves.. I'm just expressing myself here.. This movie should just be The Spirits Within, they shouldn't have added Final Fantasy on it... At least I'd understand...But the movie Final Fantasy 7 Advent Children is a masterpiece.. All bowed down their heads on this movie for it IS the real FINAL FANTASYHave a nice day... "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's now 2065 A.D, Planet Earth is being invaded by aliens, however, there is always hope. Dr. Aki Ross is a female scientist who works for a military group and is trying to find the secrets of alien invaders by collecting their spirits. However, Dr. Aki Ross and the team are ordered to destroy the aliens, even if it means that the world could get destroyed. Once they start destroying the aliens, it becomes a huge battle of good versus evil.When I was ten-years-old, I really enjoyed this film, but these days, I don't think it was as good as it was when I was ten. It had some awesome 3D CGI animation and the action scenes were fun to watch but what a shame...if only it had character development and if the film went at a slower pace, since the film was a bit too rushed, it would've been a lot more enjoyable.Now that I look back on this film, I seriously do not know why I thought it was really good. Maybe it's a film for younger people to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Allot of potential","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was interested in this movie because of my hobby in 3D animation, mostly using Anim8or and Poser.I believe it came out at about the same time as Titan AE. I think I'll compare the two.Both movies were animated and set in a post-apocalyptic sci-fi world. Both were aimed at an older, non-Disney audience. However, they both made the mistake that, unlike most animated movies aimed at non-family audiences, they didn't have any sex or violence. Well, no sex, anyway. (Later, the same company made The Final Flight of the Orirus in the Animatrix DVD, and they corrected this mistake ;) ) As for comparing it to the game; I've played one of the Final Fantasy games ONCE, I didn't get very far, I thought the game sucked, and I completely failed to see any resemblance to the movie whatsoever.Although the movie itself may have been a box office failure, it does show the potential of CG movies; you can actually use CG characters in ways other than Toy Story Disney-type movies. This was further proved to me by Monster House, which is basically a horror movie. A PG horror movie, but good nonetheless.Keep in mind, before Snow White, no one believed it was possible for the audience to feel any real emotion for a drawing.However, as for this movie itself; the problem is, the whole spirit Gaya theory doesn't quite make sense and isn't really that well explained. Why do you need the spirits of those particular life forms? If you can use two human spirits (Aki and the little girl) and one of those spirits is still alive (Aki) then why don't you just get any spirit? It couldn't be a blood-type thing because all the other spirits are non-human. Also, the Phantoms aren't really explained that well until way too late in the movie. "}{"Title":"It's no final fantasy","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I believe the main reason this movie did so poorly is really boiled down to one aspect. It is by no means a final fantasy flick.If they would have heralded this film as an animated sci-fi flick that was generations more advanced than ever seen before, or anything other than a final fantasy installment, this film would have been huge.No live action yet, beautifully made this film had great potential. The CGI of the film is so advanced that nothing compares.The story is in itself a little second rate but the graphics captivated me and showed what is possible in the future. and judging by this film great films are ahead.Note to producers though. If you are going to go into a certain genre, know the genre, be consistent to the fans.I judged this film on it's own merits and not the games. I am one of the minority on that thought.I've also seen Advent Children and think it to be really lame on account the monster consisted of fighting bahamut.An easy monster to kill. After all they went through in the game, Give me level 80 monster to kill please. "},{"Title":"Right Movie, Wrong Name","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Spirits Within was brought out by the mastermind behind Final Fantasies I through VIII. But I think Sakaguchi made the worst possible mistake here The film should NOT have been named Final Fantasy. There was no supervillain, no diverse selection of characters and weapons, and most importantly, no magic. This is not a Final Fantasy film; it's a Sci-fi film. Release it as The Last Stand The Spirits Within or something and yeah, all the Final Fantasy fans would love it. I was actually offended that Square would release such an abomination to the world under the umbrella of our beloved Final Fantasy. However, Square have since redeemed themselves in my eyes by releasing FFVII Advent Children. This is a reasonable movie, that was badly received due to the gigantic oversight of Hironobu Sakaguchi. "},{"Title":"The Forerunner of CGI Animation","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Upon reading many reviews before I watched this movie, I was a little iffy, but I was surprised when I left the theater when the movie was released back in 2001, after watching this movie countless times, I reached the conclusion that I actually liked this movie.The movie follows Dr. Aki Ross, who has strange dreams of an alien world, as she tries to find these spirit waves that could save humanity from an alien invader known as the Phantoms, which kill by a touching the body and pulling the soul out, she soon joins a special military group called the Deep Eyes, along with her friend and mentor, Dr. Cid, they start their search for the spirits, only later to be arrested by the military after General Hein found 'evidence' that Aki was working for the Phantoms, after getting free, the group tries to escape Barrier City #42, Barrier cities are an area that protect humanity from the Phantoms, #42 'fails' after Hein lets some Phantoms in, as the story progresses, the story tells you they're ghosts of aliens from another planet.Despite this being a video game adaptation, its one of my favorites, even though it didn't stick to its sources much, it still managed to impress me cause its visual style and plot, even though it was kinda predictable that critics flamed, I liked it and it was emotional at some point, what surprised me after watching for the 20th time was how real the entire thing looked, almost rivaled the real world, it's been the goal of video games now after FF Spirits within was released, I enjoyed this movie, but fans of the series should steer clear cause you'll hate it after the first half hour, those who don't know much about Final Fantasy, don't see this as your source to the series, fans of Sci-Fi movies, give this a check, it'll give you a big surprise. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I found this film to be a really great story. It is an apocalyptic vision of what the world could be like in a few years. And still though we went thru Armageddon there are still humans believing in violence being the solution to the problem. But finally a female hero can save the world. I love it. We need more strong women portraying heroes. Women are more effective they have something a muscle man doesn't Heart. And that's the savior of the future, cus nothing else will work. A great film with great voice over actors and awesome computer animation, among the finest for its time. many times throughout the film you forget that it is an animation and the story becomes so much more relevant that it is a new sense of entertainment and thrill ride. Give it a chance! "},{"Title":"Ignore the Game - Watch the Movie!","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm not a fan of the Final Fantasy series of games, so initially I put off seeing this film. Eventually I bought a cheap DVD, then wished that I'd gone to the cinema and enjoyed this visual experience on the Big Screen.There are no spiky-haired magicians with improbable-looking weapons to be seen in Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, so anyone looking for a game clone (like Doom or Resident Evil) may be disappointed. As far as I can see, the only link between the game and the movie is that they share the same creator.Anyway, what you get is a pretty well-realised cross between an American blockbuster Aliens-style movie and one of the more thoughtful Japanese Akira-style Anime offerings. It's easy to immerse yourself in this entirely computer-animated world and you may even find the story a'tugging at your heartstrings from time to time. The actors providing the voices do a great job of conveying their characters emotions, so deserve as much credit as the animators for making the film live and breathe.Look past the 'Computer Animated' hype and you'll find that Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a well-crafted movie that deserves viewing. "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy? I think not...","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Hmm, average movie. I've watched this movie in theaters and expected it to be a lot like the games. I have played Final Fantasy and grew up with people who loved Squaresoft for every games they made. At the time this movie was released, I was really into Final Fantasy, but only 9. I haven't played any other Final Fantasies but I intend to, just busy stuff in the way.Anyways, I was hyped up at this movie, as did many other Final Fantasy fans. A movie that was going to be based on the best game series ever. That would be fantastic. I watch the previews and the only reaction I had was eh? Is this Final Fantasy or anywhere NEAR what is usually is? Absolutely not.Final Fantasy are usually games full of magic, sword, fantasy-like world, and beauty in its landscape and its colorful and most descriptive/addictive storyline. I have to admit, Squaresoft are pretty darn good storytellers. But this movie is first revolved around futuristic Earth, which in no Final Fantasies appeared to even exist. It's like Aliens or any other sci-fi flicks but 3D. Ahh, the powerful touch Squaresoft has. This was the time when such advancement into the 3d world was appearing before eyes. Squaresoft;however, awed everyone in its beautiful styles implaced in every details. It's almost so beautiful and art-like. But this game wasn't art-like. Sure it was like watching a full cinematic movie, but it didn't have that touch and feel that the Final Fantasy games were known for. Don't get mad at me, dear FF fanatics, but I truly TRULY enjoyed Final Fantasy 9 and I was enraptured and bound by both its beauty in music and art. I absolutely loved Final Fantasy not because of its awesome RPG gameplay, but because of the beauty and the power that Squaresoft has on you as they almost sing to you the magnificent story. THIS Final Fantasy was merely an action-packed movie about some marines fighting off some creatures known as souls. Yes, Squaresoft had to include that bit of piece to make sure that element of lore and fantasy-like feel didn't disappoint Square fans. But I'm sorry Squaresoft, but it did. I didn't give a clue who on what these so called aliens were. They were of no aspect NEAR how a Final Fantasy game's enemy is presented.Truly I don't see how this is anywhere near a Final Fantasy, as it is just some sci-fi movie about futuristic humans fending against aliens of some sorts. Sure, it did keep me entertained, but the story and the feel didn't surprise me. I've seen many sci-fi flicks, and that's all it was. The same old story about humans in the future fighting against aliens that they don't know about. I kid you not, this is not even near a FANTASY genre. More of a sci-fi flick. Nice try anyways, Squaresoft. "},{"Title":"Good and bad!","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I don't know whether this film is good or bad...The animation and storyline is good but...Its not final fantasy! If it didn't have final fantasy in front of the title then I would have enjoyed it a lot more...as it has a good plot and animation but it was a disappointment as I had high expectations for a final fantasy movie. I haven't seen Final fantasy 7 advent children yet but I hope it impresses me as a final fantasy movie and not as a much of a let down. There is no fantasy it is the future, the year 2065 AD. And it talks about the earth when final fantasy isn't earth its a different world which is what makes final fantasy good. This is a good watch if you don't expect a final fantasy film! "},{"Title":"another stuck-in-the-middle movie","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" FINAL FANTASY THE SPIRITS WITHIN is another one of those movies where I tell you to watch it and draw your own conclusions. It is gorgeous to look at as some of the computer animation is simply awe inspiring. Other than that, it's the story part I had trouble with and that causes this movie to become quite boring at times. I would tell you that if you were to watch this movie with the volume on the television all the way down or muted, then you should have no problems with it what-so-ever. Other than that, I can't recommend it and I can't not recommend it. I like it for it's wonderful computer animation and that's it. Like I said with NATIONAL LAMPOON'S GOING THE DISTANCE, it's your call on this one. "},{"Title":"Great elements, but lacks the video game feel","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This isn't a bad film in itself. In fact, there is a lot going for it - it is the first of its kind using human-like CGI (which isn't perfect, with rigid human postures and something wrong with the eyes of each of the characters but nonetheless revolutionary), a great score by Elliot Goldenthal, and an interesting if not inspiring story. Regarldess, the root of the problem is that this film isn't a FINAL FANTASY film - this is because it isn't inspired by the video games it is supposedly based on. And the score by Elliot Goldenthal, though well done, is too American for a film based on the Japanese inspired video game series. In fact, the film itself is too American and has lost its Japanese inspirations that made the video games so popular. It won't be until Final Fantasy VII Advent Children in 2004 that they would get the video game homage right. Regardless, it is a solid 7 out of 10 and therefore should be seen. "},{"Title":"Not the most appealing CGI movie =/","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I was like, WHERE ARE THE CHOCOBOS? Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is not really a good CGI movie. Its plot is not really good. Space ships? Soul-removing aliens? Machine guns? GAIA? Dr. Aki Ross? Where the heck did that come from? Where did the mystical creatures go? Where are the GFs? Aeons? Or any kind of thing that has been in the good Final Fantasy games and doesn't have anything to do with the future.I was really expecting a movie that's like one of those Final Fantasy games, but they made it real-time when it takes place in the future and the whole cast was bombarding aliens with machine guns. The music wasn't even good either. The plot is not good.Anyways, I was tempted to give this movie 1 star, but as far as it goes, I also have to give credit to Squaresoft for the graphics that looks realistic. Maybe sometime in the future we won't need real people for the movies. Maybe we'll just make one using computers =p "}{"Title":"Beautiful animation of a beautiful story","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Final Fantasy The Spirits Within has no connection with any of the Final Fantasy games. However, it's pseudo-natural universe is similar to that of the games. It tells the story of a young doctor, in the quest of developing a planetary cure against an invading army of ghosts. The story is somewhat original, but could perhaps have been a bit deeper, but it's sufficient enough to please. This movie is enjoyable for anyone and not limited to Final Fantasy gamers in anyway.The soundtrack is enjoyable with a wonderful theme song. If you've seen 'Advent Children' and been left puzzled, don't hesitate to watch this movie. It's creative, it's beautiful and it's easily digestible.I recommend it.Animation 10/10 Storyline 6/10 Soundtrack 9/10 Reviewers tilt 8/10 "},{"Title":"Nice Computer Graphics, and...what?","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Needless to say, this movie has a very nice CG, as Sony put so much money into it. It could had been a good eye candy - at least. But the problem is, as all failed summer rocket-high budget blockbuster movie does, it does not show their top-notch graphics fully.A breathtaking moment cannot be made sole by bunch of polygons, special-effect things, lots of explosions, rock musics, shaking the camera crazily, etc. It needs script. It needs camera-work. It needs acting. It needs directing. It needs a good method, how it deliver the scene to the audience, so that they can feel the moment and awe at it.This movie simply lacks them all. Story is just useless, all taken from various movies and animes. Mankind is killed by some ghostlike monsters, and we need some kind of spiritual force of nature something to solve the problem...Okay. It could be all-fine if those adopted elements can be merged into a brand new, nice plots, but since directing and editing are also crappy, this one simply doesn't live up to worth.Especially, the ending was ridiculous. I mean, how just they end the movie by conveniently killing the hero? Without any character development? Without time and method to feel 'sacred the sacrifice' or something? Didn't they watch something like 'Poseidon adventure' or even 'Independence day'? Don't want to recommend this one. 3 stars for CGI and some nice designs. 1 stars for anything else. "},{"Title":"Excellent animation, story and acting average","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I really don't think the movie was as bad as has been reviewed, but I suppose that's a matter of personal taste. Certainly for the time the animation was top-notch; to compare it to Shrek or other cartoon-animated films is missing the point. The intent here was to produce a result that approached a photo-realistic appearance, not a caricature. Given the technology available at the time, I think the crew deserves some sort of award for their accomplishment. Regarding story and plot, I think some of the background concepts were iffy (Gaia, spirits, ghosts), and may have been what turned off so many viewers and critics; certainly the conflict between the military and the scientists seeking a non-lethal solution was cliché. I thought the voice acting was fine overall, but suffered from a script that included a number of stereotypes among the cast. I thought the pace of the movie was quite good, overall. Finally, I thought movie had good sound and soundtrack. I rated the movie 8 stars because of the technical excellence, with a 7 for story and voice acting, with a tilt toward 8 because I think there's more to like than not. "},{"Title":"Beyond belief for the time it came out.","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" At the time this movie came out it was quite an achievement to make an animated movie as long as a regular one. Of course, if you aren't into Sci-Fi just the slightest bit then you may get bored of this movie rather quickly.Final Fantasy, as many of us know, is also a video game. That said, the movie turned out even better considering how it was written. There is a moment where you actually see lifelike realness in this movie twice, but I'm not going to give up those two moments here. You will just have to see it. The people who put together this movie really knew what they were doing and pulled off an amazing feat.The spectacular ideas that were drawn out in all the mechanics, from the flying space ships to the futuristic consoles, and meshed together well. Obviously liberties were taken in imaginary gadgetry that we definitely may never see in our lifetime. In addition, the aliens were a digital mastermind. The only flaw in this movie were the people and the way their clothes 'stuck' to them. Hey! Animation is not that easy.Should there be a sequel to this movie, I am betting that it would blow all other animation out of the water. Most of my friends who saw this movie said it sucked, but if you were to ask me they have no idea how difficult it is to animate the human body or the clothing we wear.So before you turn your head, watch this movie at least once when you are in a good mood. I'll bet you sneak it home from a rental place from time to time to watch it over and over. "},{"Title":"The animated feature to date","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was rather surprised to find critics bashing the movie in one unanimous voice. I think they went overboard with it.For someone who has not played the game or seen it in action, the movie is definitely one of the best animated sci-fi feature to date. Most of the critics found the characters to be lifeless but I don't think no other production has ever attempted to reach the levels of perfection which this movie has achieved. The breath taking animations and the superb direction is something which animated features usually lack. Although I do think the story could have been More interesting, but the way in which screenplay unfolds More than makes up for it.Some of the concepts like spirits and Gia first perpetuated by Asimov in mainstream science fiction are sure to catch your fancy.My final words don't listen to critics on this one. Just watch the movie. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better.","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have read lots of threads and comments about this film , and the majority I read (although not all in this forum though) seem to focus at the name; This is not a Final Fantasy movie. Well, no, but yes it is. All Final Fantasys have their own story, their own plot, their own unique touch. Final Fantasy - The Spirits Within had a more realistic and futuristic touch, which for some, became to much. I enjoyed the movie, although I did not get to see it before it was released on DVD. I had friends who had watched it, all told me the same thing; Its cool, but too short and I can't necessary go against them, right? No, I believe they where right, its a bit too short, too few details and in the end, all happens really quick, but it was a well written manuscript, cool idea that maybe a bit MORE Final Fantasy touch could have been even better. The Spirits Within marked my soul. See it, enjoy it and be sure to take a close look on the outstanding animations from one of the worlds leading designers.danrozen,swe "},{"Title":"Got to watch it more than once","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The first time I watched this film, I was so taken aback by the CGI stuffs AND the music. But I didn't understand the story, like most people I know who have watched it. I had to force myself into buying the DVD, but I didn't regret it, because *the more you watch it, the more you understand it*.The plot is somewhat common -- aliens invade the Earth, blah blah blah... except the fact that these aliens are not quite alive. But here we are provided with some interesting theories and philosophical thinking about life, death, and spirits. But in order to gain them, you have to concentrate to what the characters are saying. If not, then you'd be lost like I was.So 1) be impressed by the incredible images, but next time 2) focus to the dialogues, in order to 3) make yourself understand what's going on.Most viewers expect this film to be game-based since the title is Final Fantasy. But I tell you, don't. I guess this is why a lot of viewers, esp. the gamers, dislike this (actually) stunning film. FF games are more to the fantasy-themed, with magic and mythological aspects. This film is a rather heavy sci-fi. No magic. No summoning creatures. Surprise, surprise. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Is the Best Film, that I have seen!, it is very realistic,it's good! the graphics are excellent,have many action. The plot is simple enough. It's a fruitbowl of subplots from all of their successful games into one plus scenes from Starship Troopers and Aliens. If you've played the video games from Square, you realize there's nothing to rave about when it comes to a storyline and Final Fantasy TSW adds nothing new. If you've never played the games, it's your basic sci-fi movie with the beautiful genius as the centerpiece and her ragged band of gung-ho marines (love interest included) versus lots of cool aliens for the fate of the world. The villain also plays out like a predictable and overdrawn powermonger. Yawnage material. I've seen this before. "},{"Title":"Great movie after watching it few times","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I was mostly bored... staring at the pretty graphics but with characters that didn't feel alive (maybe I was even looking at it more critically being a mostly motion capture movie and me learning animation)... but after watching it again... and again, noticing the hints and bits of information, thinking about what everything meant, where the phantoms came from and why are they there and the like, I have to say now I really like this movie. I still consider the animation the lowest point (I mean how the human characters move, not how they look), but I now appreciate the story on a level I never though I would.One example ( BIG SPOILER ) was where the final spirit came from. Basically... Aki was pregnant, expecting Gray's child (probably they did some stuff while in orbit after escaping the city), something I didn't catch on first viewing (or second either) but that I started to imagine after repeated viewings. All you get of it were hints, the phantom in her dream attacks her, and the blue light comes from Aki's womb, then she says With the hope of new life has Gaia changed the phantom within. This is confirmed on the DVD commentary, but is never really fully said in the movie itself. This, IMHO is the movie's biggest flaw, it leaves too much in hints and quick bits that are too easily missed. Most of the people I talked to about this movie feel there was little story, but from what they say it was not because it wasn't there, but because it wasn't said out loud or it was but too easily missed.That is why I think the movie failed, it was made in a Japanese anime style, where this is common, but with a Hollywood blockbuster style, where that just doesn't work and most movies are given just one chance. At least that's how I see it.My vote, 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Japanese, inaccessible, brilliant","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first saw this film in the theater lots of people thought it was horrible. The same thing happened when I went to see the new Solaris. I mention Solaris because similarly Final Fantasy is much more about spirituality than science fiction in the american tradition. Of course this typical of both Final Fantasy and Japanese entertainment in general (see also Serial Experiments LAIN). The second viewing (august 2004) was like watching a different film. True, there are some CG moments that were played in a bit of a ham-fisted way, but overall it was much better the second time around. The catch with this film is that it's got a fairly steep accessbility curve. I highly recommend this film to anyone with an understanding of Systems Theory (see also Fritjof Capra's Web of Life) or steeped in contemporary Japanese philosophy. "}{"Title":"Amazing Computer Graphics, mystical story","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In spite of some quite negative user comments, I decided to see this film on TV yesterday. And I was gladly surprised. The quality of the graphics is amazing and so close to real that I sometimes forgot this was an animated movie. Beautiful sceneries and impeccable action scenes.Stereotyped characters, yes, like in so many movies, but this did not disturb me at all. Quite liked the female leading actress who looked like Sandra Bullock from certain angles. For one actor there is a terribly miscast voice, as pointed out by others and this can be quite disturbing.The story feels a bit seventies-like (flower power and all) and reminds me vaguely of the book the Celestine Prophecy although the story is quite different. You have to be in the right mood to appreciate the story and not to keen at seeking holes in the plot (because there are some huge questions unanswered in the movie). More a film to enjoy with your partner and a good glass of wine than with your buddies over some beer.There are some that compare with Starship Troopers because there is a troop of soldiers and a planet full of aliens, but that is where the resemblance ends for me.I definitely recommend seeing the movie if you get the chance, but do not stay home for it. A sound 7 for me.  "},{"Title":"CGI dates badly....","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...and that's why I'm adding a review after all this time.  It'sironic, but when this film was last shown on TV there were video gameads shown in the breaks.  Some of those games have better CGI than 'TheSpirits Within'.    The film itself is a likable SF romp that would have a nice twist ifonly the title didn't hint at it, and which would be enjoyable despitethat if only they hadn't made such a giant dog's dinner out of the bigfinish.  Most stories have a natural ending point, this one exceeds itby several hours (You need to understand the theory of relativity tounderstand that last remark...).    Once I would have recommended it, but neither the story, nor the CGI,have withstood the test of time.  Go and play the latest manifestationof the videogame.  I'm betting that both the story and the CGI bebetter than this.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My first and only previous experience with FF was watching over the shoulder of the guy who was playing FF8 on his PC. As far as I understood, its plot has nothing to do with this movie. Not that one complains.The plot is quite heavy on action, with a nice twist at the end, all archetypes present. Animation is very good, scarce touching moments are distributed evenly in time. All in all, this makes FF an enjoyable evening-at-TV experience. It's even possible to survive it without any popcorn at all.Tell me somebody, why the bad guys are always red, and good guys always blue? "},{"Title":"All good looks, No real enjoyment","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I went to see this movie in the theaters the day after I saw Kiss of the Dragon (great movie), but I wasn't expecting much about this one. The reason being that it's hard to find a video game-based movie that's actually good and this one is no exception. The animation is seriously the only thing that was really impressed to me. The story was WAY off from that of a real Final Fantasy game, there is no ending in the normal sense of the word, and for all you FF-geeks there is NO sequel in the works since it cost Sony more money to make than it took in.One thing is particular that I really didn't like was the story. As I stated earlier the story isn't one of a Final Fantasy game. But what really made me dislike it was the fact that it played out like Starship Troopers. Sony could've have easily made his as a film adaptation of the Starhip Trooper Chronicles TV show and the only thing most would notice was that the characters aren't the same and the bugs are ghosts. Probably the only people whom I believe with like this movie are hardcore Final Fantasy fans. But even then, most probably won't like the fact that it really doesn't have anything to do with the game. Final Score 2/10 "},{"Title":"I liked this movie, but I had to watch it a second time to like it cuz I was expecting it to be a certain way and did not expect the total sci-fi thing. I like sci-fi a lot, and I really enjoyed this movie a","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy  The Spirits within, follows doctor Aki Ross, one of the survivors when Earth was attacked by alien invaders known as Phantoms. Doctor Ross and her surragate father figure, doctor Sid, have found a way to get rid of the Phantoms in a way that would heal the Earth. This consists of gathering eight matching Spirits from eight living life forms. However, the council have devised another way, which could end up destroying alot more than the Phantoms. Helped along the way with captain Gray Edwards, and a cast of believable characters, Final Fantasy is one great sci-fi film that goes in on the Gaia theory, and is a great film. I liked this movie, but I had to watch it a second time to like it cuz I was expecting it to be a certain way and did not expect the total sci-fi thing. I like sci-fi a lot, and I really enjoyed this movie after the second time, when I knew what was going on. Having certain expectations, it's hard to enjoy the first time around, so don't watch it expecting the same thing as the game, and you have to like sci-fi to enjoy it. This includes Star Wars and/or Star Trek. Basically, you have to expect sci-fi and the human race struggling to survive against a mysterious enemy if you're to enjoy it. If you expect it to be like the game, you'll be in for a GRAND dissapointment. Luckily, I had only played Final Fantasy III, and that was when I was 11(I'm 16 now), so I didn't have many expectations. Whoo-hoo for me. Sorta. Anyway, if you know what to expect, you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Keep watching until you get it...","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's worth the time. This is an excellent movie, it's not LOTR but for the scifi genre it is done  amazingly well. I can't believe people would downrate it simply because they didn't get it.Think back to 2001 A Space Odyssey, did you understand the ending when you first saw  that one? Do you even understand it today? Is it a great movie? OK.This is the same kind of film. Groundbreaking in it's visuals and in many ways even more  cutting edge in it's plot and story.Watch it a few times, it will come to you.Cheers. "},{"Title":"Great animation, good story","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ** Here might be spoilers **Earth is under attack from an alien invasion. Great phantom monsters roam the earth on the hunt from humans and human souls. The humans have retreated to a few sanctuaries guarded by barriers. In the meantime the humans simultaneously develop two projects two finally rid the earth of the phantom menace. One consists of a huge space station built as a massive energy weapon, Zeus, designed to fire upon the crater where the aliens first landed. The other consists of a theory that if the humans can collect a couple of souls of a specific wave-pattern they can create an wave-pattern that might cancel out the alien phantoms. The benefit of this theory is that the researcher behind it believes that the Earth spirit, Gaia, that he believes exists may be permanently harmed by Zeus.So he, and his protege Dr Aki Ross hunt for these souls. Along the way they team up with some soldiers and must not only fight the aliens but the human military that believes the Zeus is the answer.The movie is masterfully animated. One can see that the movie is animated, but details and movements of the characters are very believable. The distance from an actual movie is not that great.However, while a great effort has been put into the animation, there is a lot to wish for in the story. Unfortunately there are only a few moments that bring suspense or surprise. Most twists and turns are predictable. Still enjoyable but not the suspense and action-filled story that a truly great movie has.6/10 "},{"Title":"CG-Movie at its best","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Many people dismiss this great movie as a failure with reasons ranging from not the same as the games to too unrealistic.  Well, I've watched this movie multiple times and I still think SquareSoft did a great job.  The story is interesting.  The foreshadowings are clever.  The graphics and voice-acting are superb.  As a non-comical CG movie, The Spirit Within is still unmatched 3 years after its US release.Like Matrix Reloaded, the movie has many layers.  There are the eye candies, there is the story, and then there are the philosophies.  If you dig into it, you will be rewarded.The only problem with the movie is that several scenes that convey crucial informations are rushed.  A lot of viewers I spoke with missed the facts and lost the story.  So concentrate when you watch this movie!  This isn't your average meaningless-laser-gun movie that you don't need to pay close attention to.  P "},{"Title":"Complex story concepts","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The plot is way to complicated for viewers to understand.  The entire concept of the planetary/universe formation/destruction, human relationships, quantum physics, and science telemetry totally lost me. Since the movie is all computer rendered, this would pretense appeal to the younger populace.  Unfortunately unless you are a total brainiac you wouldn't understand what going on.  Some of the ideas to thwart and confuse us are Gaia theory, harmonic wave almagations, E=mc2, space-time shift, bio-electric cell life cycle, REM sleep, and other complicated ideas. This movie did force me to do some research and then watch it over a few more times.  In fact, I find this movie to be more like a complex philosophical science fantasy containing tragedy, rebirth, a lot of ironic concepts, and human follies.  This is computer animation the breaks into real life drama that can only be portrayed through a virtual environment.  Ground breaking and definitely a stepping stone for future computer animations to follow. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but way off the game","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie has the most beautifully rendered computer animation ever and in 3 years since the movie, nothing tops it animation.  Its sharp, crisp, and is very real looking.  You can even see separate hairs!  The voice acting was great too.My huge problem with the movie is that it did not have the feel of being a final fantasy game.  Sure, in this movie their deal with the spirit of the planet in which games like FFVII touch on, but the cast of characters and the story did not follow anything that I played (I may be missing something since I've only played I,VII,and X).  Where is the Cloud or Tidus-type figure?If the story were anything near the quality of the CGI or any actual story to a FF game, this movie would have had a lot more success and would have not caused Square to close down their movie branch.  This movie gets 7/10. "}{"Title":"A cult classic in the making","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie hasn't been accepted well, but neither were other ground breaking films. The Jazz Singer (first sound movie), The Wizard of Oz (first color film), and Tron (first film to use computer graphics) among others have all had their fair share of bad reviews.  Disney's Fantasia wasn't accepted by people going to see a Mickey Mouse cartoon in much the same way that people who played the games were disappointed that the plot didn't follow a particular game.  This movie has earned its spot among the cult classics that will continue to be seen by countless generations to come. I enjoyed the story and while it's not very earthshattering (excuse the pun) it has moments in the movie where you forget you are not watching digital images and begin to feel for the character's peril. "},{"Title":"It is still a long way to go...","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Remember the commercial for Virginia Slims? You've come a long way, baby... This is true when it comes to moviemaking as well, but - why spend so much money on great graphics when the plot stinks? There must be someone with more wits than this - in the business... "},{"Title":"Criminally underrated","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have no idea why people keep bashing this movie. In my opinion, it's a strong contender for the title of Best Animated Film Ever. Yes, as everyone concedes, the CGI animation is astounding, but that's the least of my concerns with it. It's a phenomenally good story, with good flow, good characters and that great tech/myth hybrid structure the Japanese are always so good at. The scoring is also excellent, with the end credits song one of my favourites ever.Lots of people complain that the calibre or nature of the film was such that using animation wasn't necessary. To this I ask, what does make animation necessary? Being just another kids movie like Shrek or Monsters Inc.? It's tragic that a medium that affords such limitless possibilities as animation should be relegated to churning out kiddie fare. Final Fantasy marked a heroic attempt to reverse this trend, and its commercial failure is all the more saddening because of it.At any rate, the film is indisputably an astonishing technical achievement and at the very least an intriguing piece of sci-fi/fantasy. As such, it deserves to be seen at least once. You probably won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best hyperrealism CG ever","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a work of art, I think it belong to a modern digital art museum. Forget the plot, it is what it is, and as far as Sci-Fi/Fantasy flicks go it was decent.What compels me to watch this movie every so often is the craftmanshift and intense attention paid to details by the animators. Equally stunning is the progression of the technology used in the movie. It took approximately 5 years to complete and you can truly see the changes.I can't pretend to have seen much animation, but I've sampled a far share. This is a glorious triumph of realism. I invite people to watch this movie the way they would a Rembrandt or a Renoir. Its it visuals that bring it to par and give it a life of its own. "},{"Title":"One big game cutscene.","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't see much difference between TSW and the later games in general, honestly.  Maybe that's why my feelings on the two are about the same pretty, not too great, but pretty.  But I have to say I enjoyed TSW more than Final Fantasy VIII; even though I didn't like it, it only took away a little under two hours of my time.  By the time you really start to get into a Final Fantasy game's plot, you could've watched TSW twice.Things to expect from something with the Final Fantasy name being overrated, having a nice look, animation that doesn't quite click, a mediocre score, a forth rate plot that involves saving the world in some grand and fantastic fashion, someone named Cid (Sid), Chocobos, and a mixed bag of characters ranging from first rate greatness to ninth rate stupidity. I would say `no connection to anything else in the FF world' but Square-Enix has decided to repeal that old tradition.It's a film that is probably worth seeing just to watch, but not listen to. Ordinarily, I'd be forgiving for a lacking storyline that fails to grab my interest and seems to serve only as an excuse to get more and cooler visual effects on screen regardless of how clumsy it makes the pacing, being a movie based on a video game I'd normally overlook that just as I go much easier on horror films for the same crime.  But this is based on an RPG, a genre that supposedly puts everything on the backburner for the story and any RPG enthusiast will tell you why they like their games, `It's for the story.'RPG stories haven't impressed me for awhile, so it comes as no surprise that TSW follows in its parent's footsteps.  What does surprise me is that people turn on the concept when it changes mediums and gets put in perspective. But that's just me.  "},{"Title":"Only worth watching for the technology","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's impressive to see that computer animation can make people who at times look absolutely human, but that it itself is not enough to make a movie worth seeing, and it's really all FF has going for it. The characters are generic and the story is both generic and rather silly. And while the graphics are impressively realistic, there's not anything exciting in the visuals, no special effects that will blow you away, no scenes of incredible beauty. This is all surprising, as Sakaguchi has supervised video games with far more depth and beauty. Perhaps he was simply out of his depth in a new medium; unable to develop his characters slowly over the 30 or 40 hours of a video game he just didn't develop them at all. Although I still can't understand how the film fails to impress visually when the games' cut scenes are so stunning. Overall, the movie is watchable but completely forgettable and pretty dumb. "},{"Title":"Graphic art - nevermind the story","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you take a look at the achievements of the graphics artists behind this, you see the value of this movie. It's not just a CG movie. It's a CG movie which took CG to a level where, almost 3 years after it's release, this is still the highest quality CG ever made.And not only the quality.. the shots, the shapes.. the aliens, it's taken to a very high level in terms of design and graphic art. All right, the word art is a bit of a hyperbole as this is a commercial piece of work, but there's definitely soul in much of the design/moods here.Well, the story is not exactly groundbreaking, and the acting is stale and tense.. still, imagine this story being anime animated - and not presented as a death of actors-experiment - then I'm pretty sure this movie would be higher rated. Anyway.. I just bought myself a projector. This is definitely on the list of re-views in that context. Last viewing was muted with our own techno music playing on top - also recommended.If you are into graphics in any way and can appreciate the fact that computers will be one of the main channels for human expression from now, this should be considered a must-see.  "},{"Title":"pretty, but weak","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  a predictable, if pretty, scifi flick filled with man of the space opera cliches we've seen before tendril-twisting aliens, self-sacrificing wounded space marines, a military commander bent on using brute force...oh, and a council. because no apocalyptic future is complete w/o an ethnically-diverse  council, right!?sadly, the most interesting aspect of the story was never fully explored--Aki's dreams involving the aliens' homeworld. the first time we see the power-armored (and thus intelligent) aliens stop running and just stare at her, i thought cool, maybe theres some message theyre trying to communicate. i wonder what it is? errt. nothing much. it would have been far more interesting if there was some sort of payoff, a further glimmer of intelligence or intrigue from the otherwise gooey-red-alien-guts tossed all over the place. "},{"Title":"Great flick....","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie and I gotta say that I really enjoyed it.  The characters were well done and the story actually made you think for once.  The animation was unbelievable and the backdrops were stunning.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a good action flick. I rate this movie at a 7/10! "},{"Title":"The future of film making???","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was a bit sceptical about watching this movie as I wasn't sure that CGI would be an adequate replacement to live action.  However despite this film having a bit of a weak story line, I still found the film enjoyable and hoping for a sequel, (even if just to see the main female character again!!).  I don't think that a live action make of this film would have been able to recreate the effects that were managed in this movie, as trying to put CGI into live action, still seems a bit off to me at the moment (like the crowd scenes in Gladiator and Star Wars which although good, I still can see through them).  All in all and good film with some good acting (albeit in voice only). "}{"Title":"i dont get it","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  erm.....i just didnt get it. what were those wierd creature things? whats the deal with the bird flying off at the end? what..what is it about?!ok the animation is pretty advanced but I just hated everything else.erm....what?I'm confused! "},{"Title":"spiritual & visually stunning sci-fi","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have seen this one 3 times already and every time it amazed me more. I know some people who go to cinema ONLY to have a nice time, might not like this one. But those who go to cinema to learn, have insight, contemplate AND have fun, will love this one. First, the CG are stunning all the way. Ships, soldiers, ghosts, planets, explotions, people, etc. are delicious to watch. The story can be hard to discern for those who arent really into any kind of spirituality, specially that from the far east(like reincarnation). You need some of that and a little knowledge of what are ghosts and the like. If you saw the sixth sense, take that understanding of ghosts and apply it to top-notch intergalactic sci-fi.Amazing. Some digital characters are too american cliché for me, but it doesnt damage the movie in the end.   "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Fantasy","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a serious science-fiction drama with incredibly realistic human digital actors.  The setting and conflict make for amazing visuals and thrilling action, but it's really the larger issues, character interaction, and human elements that make the movie take flight.  This is not just another sci-fi flick.  It has better action and more real human emotion than Pearl Harbor, and actors more life-like than you'll find in Tomb Raider--both terrible films that were also released in the summer of 2001 and became big hits.  The fact that this continues to divide audiences tells you just how cutting edge the idea of realistic CGI-actors is.  And the idea that it took a gaming company to try something so bold and so original--while the Hollywood studios continue to churn out the same mindless drudge--is a marvel in itself.  This film is going to continue to find admirers despite the nay-sayers.  Aki is a female protagonist with an unusual degree of sexiness, intelligence, and spirituality even if she does only exist inside a computer.  The idea that we could watch a computer-generated actor and feel something used to be an idea right out of science-fiction.  Now it isn't.  A fun ride, and a true milestone.  It took me by complete surprise.  Watch it! "},{"Title":"original story","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although it is the visual aspect of this movie that made it a sensation, what makes it most original for me is the story. I was very pleased to finally see a SF movie with an intelligent plot, yet conceived in a philosophy that totally differs from SF stereotypes. Excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Absolute Masterpiece","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Having seen this movie at the cinema and owning it on DVD, I can say that this is a fantastic movie in numerous aspects. It is a real craft. A masterpiece.This animation does the Manga-like theme justice, producing an entertaining and as realistic enough without looking terrible, mystical feature. In fact it is pretty much Manga, aside from the American military movie shades on it. The story and theme I loved, I really enjoy supernatural movies, it posseses everything a good manga needs. The animation is excellent. It is nice to see a light action movie with a spiritual theme to it, in amongst all this heavy action crap going around, such as 24, yes I hate it immenseley and make no apologies for doing so. It is a satifying feature and effort. It is a real original production. Certainly relieving to see the big studios are capable of making decent movies such as this. Pity they don't do so more often.When I saw the first few seconds of the trailer I thought that the characters were real people. Yet even after I realised they weren't, they were so life-like, I couldn't believe it. This movie shows what a great movie can be made, and just how far technology can go, and what a great end product can be made with it if used correctly. Margaret Pomeranz a prominent movie reviewer said on the Movi Show, If one tried to introduce the mystical, spiritual elements that are embedded in FF into a live action film it would look corny. With animation you get away with it. She is absolutley correct. I can imagine this set up with live actors looking like that horrible movie The Relic or a recent movie that involved summoning a Djin, it would look terrible.And Aki Ross is very nice looking, not with the whole big lips and boobs thing. If she were to be real, she would be naturally good looking.However it is a little too short, a few extra ten minutes would have sufficed but any way. While the dialogue is unfortunately a little wooden at times, much work seems to have been done to give each of the characters a personality of their own. General Hein is convincingly evil, Niel is funny at times and Dr Sid is good as the person who wants to help the earth but not race to arms.A fantastic movie worthy of praise. A state of the art production, and entertaining feature with an entertaining yet serious and non-cliched movie subject, and good characters. This is an original piece of work.Great work everyone.             "},{"Title":"An underrated movie...","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While the characters don't move in a natural manner and the plot is hard to follow, I found this to be an excellent movie.  First, the visuals are amazing and very detailed, every time I watch this movie, I notice something new such as the fact that the characters' pupils contract and expand when they look at different things just as in real life.  Also, the story is confusing, but with some thought and perhaps a second viewing, if becomes clear.  Overall, I feel that people expected certain things out of this movie and instead got something else; I feel that this is why the movie was considered a failure, and it is a shame that Squaresoft hasn't made more movies using this technology (aside from Final Flight of the Osiris from the Animatrix which like FF TSW looks amazing.). "},{"Title":"A beautiful if flawed movie","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off let me say that I am not a big fan of video games, but the Final Fantasy series was the reason I bought a playstation and the only game since Super Mario to hold my attention or get my excited. When I first heard about the Final Fantasy movie I was initially displeased because of the horrendous history of good games being made into bad movies (Street Fighter and Mortal Kombat for instance). Originally I let the hype sweep over, vowing not to see the movie for fear of being disappointed. However, about two years after the film was released, I managed to get caught up in a animated movie whose title I didn't know on one of those depressing rainy afternoons. The film completely hooked me with it's catchy if a little corny writing and the cool computer generated look. This film really moved me with its beauty and storyline.Reading other comments on here people have been saying that the film is copying other Sci-Fi flicks and that it's terrible, but I disagree. I think the concept of the film is a fairly new idea and that the film has remained faithful to the game series I know and love. The game series had the same sort of airy futurist plots as well and intense moving storylines. I also must commend this movie for the fact that some of its main characters actually die, which is sad yet refreshing.Bottom line, this movie is a bit corny and perhaps a bit to cliché. However, the movie is beautiful and moving and faithful to the games, which inspired it. I think this is one of the better anime movies to come out in quite a long time and although it wasn't a big hit or had a lot of success, it still remains one of my favorite movies of all time. In the end I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Sci-Fi Ghost Story","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film features great animation and one of the best sci-fi screenplays in years.  Intelligent and thought-provoking, it has terrific action scenes while being unusually serious and moving.  I'm not surprised that it has such mixed reviews since we really have never seen anything exactly like it. But if you have an open mind, and don't want just another mindless action movie, try this on for size.  The female lead Aki has an unusual amount of strength, determination, faith, and sexuality--even if she was made in a computer.  As a role model, she sure beats Lara Croft.  Roger Ebert loved the film and called it the first true movie of the cybernetic age, important in the way that the first talking films were, something entirely new.  In an era where most of our directors are taking steps backwards James Cameron and his growing focus on doing 3-D films; George Lucas and his actors walking around an empty stage not knowing what to do; the empty attention-deficit editing of Michael Bay and others, this is a film that actually went forward.  Hironobu Sakaguchi controlled every aspect of the production, as he did with the games.  One of the screenwriters was Oscar-nominated for Apollo 13!  There is a melding of Japanese and American storytelling here that is never quite seemless but always provocative. If you liked the new CGI Matrix short that came in front of Dreamcatcher in theaters, take a look at what this technology can really do.  When the main characters kiss beautifully and sadly in zero-gravity--and you find yourself moved--you'll realize that you have long forgotten that these are cartoon characters.  I give it 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Full of symbolism","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's hard not to notice the numerous symbolisms in this movie. The space cannon is named Zeus, just like the ancient God with his thunderbolt. The comet that landed in the Caucasus mountains was a zoo, a Noah's Arc,  and landed exactly where the original Noah's ark was supposed to have ended up after the flood...But these are not the most important ones. This movie bears a profound anti-war message. In the center stage lies the general, who is not evil as other people comment - he just doesn't have a clue. The alien life force does not die when it is attacked with brute force. On the contrary it becomes stronger and more aggressive. This is the message of the movieYOU CANNOT FIGHT VIOLENCE WITH VIOLENCEBesides the above, the movie has a few very dramatic scenes, most notable of which are the fall of New York (ironic, isn't it?) and of course the final scene.As a conclusion, I believe that the scenario is actually one of the strongest points of this movie, as opposed to being a weakness as other viewers have commented. Sure, the graphics are excellent, but there's more under the surface... "},{"Title":"Highly underrated","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Now if you are a fan of the Final Fantasy game series (New games or old), forget all of that or you will be sorely disappointed.This has nothing to do with any of the games besides the title.Anyway, this is a revolutionary film as far as visuals, sound and special effects go.I had high expectations, but I was blown away by the realism and detail, even while watching it on a VHS!But people often overlook this movie because they think 3d movies are all special effects and no plot, well they're wrong.This movie has an interesting plot, decent voice acting for most of the characters (Although they should have had a few more takes for one of the actors), and good direction.As far as film making goes, this movie isn't the best, but I didn't find any real flaws anywhere.If you're into fantasy/sci fi movies then you've got to see this.Overall 9/10 "}{"Title":"Wonderful film, but already old...","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is in many ways outstanding, it is the first good attempt I've seen to completely computer generate life-like human characters. The impression, which by the way is over all good, only leaves more to wish for in a few subtle cases e.g when the characters holds things in their hands or something with their walk. It is fascinating to realize that this film was ready and released in 2001. The fascinating part is that you realize what is happening to the film industry, in the area of computer rendered environments and beings the machines and software is undergoing a constant evolution that hardly rests for even a second. One can only imagine what will be possible tomorrow. The plot may be a wee bit thin but it still is a beautiful twist on the Alien Invader-theme.The film is awarded seven points out of ten because of its beautiful scenery and props and its (visually) extremely well made characters, but the plot and character personalities unfortunately adds a little minus.I am looking forward to seeing more films like this one. "},{"Title":"A Final Fantasy at heart...with a little missing","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen this movie many times, Including on opening night. When I first saw this movie, I was with a few of my friends, all Final Fantasy fans. The one question we did have was Where is the magic? All the recent Final Fantasy games including an intriguing mix of magic and technology, started majorly with FF3 (FF6j.) I have seen this movies many times since and still enjoy it's feel as an FF overall. The storyline, though complex, was what one expects from a movie with the name Final Fantasy in it. And the end of the movie feels much like the lifestream from FF7. (Hey maybe the orbital gun was a hint to the Mako cannon.) I would hope that they would bring a movie based on one of the games out...but at the same time, that would feel too much like playing the game which I have beaten. Like I said the only downfall was the great Final Fantasy mix of magic and machinery. I also feel that the characters where much like the games, where you know that you are watching a movie (instead of playing the game) but you do find yourself sympathizing with the characters in it. And for those of you who do find the story too complex, I seriously recommend against playing any of the games. Overall I'd give it an 8/10. Very good for a first attempt.  "},{"Title":"an amazing amazing movie","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is an incredible movie - it is hard to believe that you are watching all computer animation. Beside the amazing visuals, it's a great story. I can't wait to see their short before Dreamcatcher - give this movie a chance, you will be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Like watching someone play Final Fantasy on the silver screen","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a big fan of Final Fantasy. I love the games and have played every game. When I heard of the movie, I was a bit excited. Final Fantasy on the the big screen. Top of the line animation. Awesome voice actors. Action pack....wait. The first two were right but as for the last one, well thats were this movie tips over the deep end. This movie was so fricken boring to watch. The pacing was slow as hell and the action was stale. Yeah, all of the above features work in a videogame,but not in a MOVIE. I didnt give a crap about Aki Ross or what she was fighting for. The writers put no emotion into there script and the movie's pacing was slow. Yeah the animation was great, but Square Pictures has to learn something that the director of this movie should've known, graphics arent everything. Gameplay is. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Action Packed!","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is an awesome recreation of the video game, but better.  The action, the story line, the animation, and the soundtrack are awesome!  They should definatly make more movies like this one.  This movie gets 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated, but to those who care to look, a beautiful movie.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, i just finished watching Final Fantasy The Spirits Within about ten minutes ago, then decided to check out all the reviews i'd heard about slapping the movie silly, to see how different my views are from others. I wanted to watch the movie as soon as it came out, but i never had the time so i just let it pass me by. I also never got off my butt to rent it because too lazy/busy, whatever, and so finally I caught it on Sky Premier tonight. I was wary of watching it because i love the FF games and knew it wasnt based on any of those storylines (though im still hopeing for a movie version of FF8, though it wont happen) so i didn't want to tarnish my appriciation for the series if it wasnt up to grade, especially as the critics were crucifying TSW, but i am not one to listen to critics and rarely ever agree with their verdicts, apart from with masterpieces like Lord of the Rings (cause who doesnt love and appreciate that?) so i decided to bite the bullet and get round to watching it myself- i wasn't disappointed.I am a Westerner, live in the UK, and i could understand FFTSW fine and dandy. Is a load of explosions and people in skimpy outfits all that will entertain people at the movies these days? Reading some of the reviews on IMDB of this movie, my estimation of the movie-going public in the west (or at least some of them on IMDB anyway) has definately been lowered a few notches, the story was complicated? The FF game series isnt exactly known for its toddler-simple storylines now is it? Its pretty obvious why Solaris bombed in the US if this is what it had to deal with. Dya think that just because a movie is an animation it has to be mindless kiddie-drivel with no soul and a message of friendship with cutesy Disney animals? Movies are more than that, Final Fantasy is more than that. The movie was visually breathtaking (though i was trying my hardest not to nitpick given all the great reviews on its looks i really was looking for flaws, so sue me! *angel face*) the storyline was complex and intriguing, I think it was pretty obvious the movie was not aimed at a young audience (i caught the sneaky-and not so- swear words) but if we were measuring it by anime standards it could be considered pretty tame. It was tragic, but i had a feeling one of the main characters would end up dying, but i think it just adds to the emotional weight. I'm a Christian but i had no problem grasping the Gaia subject, it made sense in a world like that, i think it was handled with maturity and grace. Although sometimes bits of it seemed a little 'too perfect' if you could call it that, with the fight scenes and a few other bits, overall it was a stunning movie, thoughtful, poignant, breathtaking, innovative and heartfelt and it is well worth a watch so you can make up your own mind. Dont leave it as long as I did to finally get up the nerve to watch it it really is an entertaining and interesting movie, and well worth your time, if you can be bothered to think about it and not dismiss it for lack of explosions (though there were a few) and nudity. if you like your movies with a bit of brain, this is the one for you. Oh and for all those who've seen it- didn't Grey sooo look like Ben Affleck, especially when he takes off his mask at the beginning? (no wonder i liked it, teehee) "},{"Title":"A long graphics demo, but very interesting and fun","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a big fan of Anime, and an even bigger fan of science fiction, I found that while I really enjoyed several scenes of the movie, I found the overall effect to be somewhat lacking. I don't have much of a problem with the new agey spirit gaia bits, or the stock characters, some of the dialogue is hokey too, I guess that the movie is not quite sure what it is, (is it anime? it is a video game? is it a live action film?) so it doesn't quite add up. It's hard to become drawn into the story too much as the characters do not seem to ring true, they're pretty 2D. The special edition of the DVD though contains a ton of extras and hidden features that make this a great pickup for the sci-fi fan.Don't get me wrong, I really enjoy this movie, but I find that I tend to watch certain scenes over and over rather than watching the entire movie. "},{"Title":"well they shouldnt","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  the movie was great i cant argue with that. but it should not be called final fantasy.. the spirits within should have been sufficient.. they gave the wrong title and therefore destroyed the game, which is sacred! "},{"Title":"A mixture of comments about the movie and how it was marketed.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  **Spoilers may be present.**I was not always a big fan of video games, had never played Final Fantasy until a few years ago, when I did I couldn't stop playing.  For most fans of the Final Fantasy franchise I can imagine that for those like myself they were expecting elements from the console games to be out in plain view in this movie.  I shouldn't have to remind anyone that even in the series that while the elements are there, the games are not necessarily the same from rendition to rendition.I wasn't expecting to see anything from the series in the movie, although if I did it would have been a pleasant surprise to see them, but I didn't storm off pouting that I didn't.  The storyline was a little complex, but I had to keep an open mind about the creator of the story, and I ended up watching twice just to re-cap what I was confused on or missed.When I go to see a movie, I go to enjoy the positive mindless entertainment, not too terribly engaging in thought, that I'm sure (because I was at first) no one else wanted to sit there and think about it.  All in all, that I would have to say that this movie was definitely worth the price of admission, and not just to see an hour and forty minutes of eye candy. This was the one piece of theatrical work that was the exception to the rule of making me think about it.Despite the storyline not being as strong as its' console counterparts, it was decent enough for me.  The only problem that I can see from reviewing the financial bombshell that Square Pictures and Ltd, endured, was that it was marketed poorly.  As far as I'm concerned you can sell a freezer to someone living in the northern tier of the Northwest Territories of Canada if you market it right.  This movie was marketed all wrong, given a one-size fits all approach for movie goers, it should have been marketed to a more focused audience...All in all 11 Stars out of 10 in my book, and if Square does go for a round 2 in the movie business, they'll have my 10 dollars as soon as the ticket office opens... "},{"Title":"A Great movie that Gets better as it goes on","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have to say, from all the people I've talked to I rented this movie with the expectation of it being a bad or only ok film. But I was really wrong. This movie is really good.There are good movies, then there are powerful movies. FF The Spirits Within is a powerful movie. It's got some very emotional scenes in it. The acting was really good. And of course the graphics were good.Some people complain about the storyline. Well I personally had no problem with it. I thought it was very very good. Some say it's like Japaneese Anime style for the story. Well I will grant them that the whole 'Gaia' and planet having a spirit thing is like Japaneese Anime. But that doesn't detract from the movie itself. As mentioned it's really one of the most powerful movie I've seen.There was one thing I was disappointed about after I watched it. It wasn't that it was a flaw with the movie. I was trying to think how a movie that was this good, could do so bad at the theatre. Well, I'm sorry but I can't figure out how. It was a great powerful movie. Everyone should go see it, it's not just for the Final Fantasy loyals. In fact they made it like a movie and not a game. Which some people were hoped it'd by like the games . Well it wasn't, maybe that's what made some upset about it, I don't know.You have to at least rent this movie. I strongly suggest buying it. 10/10 stars. "}{"Title":"Excellent work of art.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like I've said before, there are some 'animes' out there that are far better than any recent 'hollo-wood' movie.  But this isn't 'anime'.  It's ... CGI!!   The first time I saw this piece of art I was amazed to see such a seriously achieved work on the CGI level.  And I'm not just talking technology-wise here.  I mean, it was both amazing and refreshing to find an interesting, intelligent, serious and well paced film in the form of CGI characters and backgrounds.  Excellent music, excellent camera work, pretty good lines and a very good plot development.  After a few seconds into this film you'll know all the money wasn't spent merely on CGI.  That's the least, I'd say.A piece to watch and consider. "},{"Title":"Complex story, breathtaking animation","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's tempting to regard this film as a normal one with normal actors. But it's your typical Japanese anime story, with a lot of emphasis on subjects like spirits, ghosts and souls, which may be unfamiliar territory for westerners.I can imagine that one would be disappointed with some of the movements of the characters, because they look, well, animated. The matter of fact is that the faces are so incredibly well rendered, that you can easily be fooled in believing that you're looking at real persons.I remember seeing Eurythmy in 1989, which at the time was quite ground-breaking in how dancing figures, dogs and especially flocks of birds were modelled. (In fact, Susan Amkraut and Michael Girard explained this to us at university.) So I can appreciate the progress that has been made in those twelve years, and I know how incredible the animation is. That alone makes Final Fantasy The Spirits Within a milestone in cinematographic history.The story becomes clear as the film moves along, so for the first half hour you're a bit at a loss about what the whole story is about. And without wanting to give away too much of the plot, don't expect your average Hollywood story.While it may not be the best animation ever produced, nor the best science fiction, what sets Final Fantasy The Spirits Within apart is the quality of modelling and rendering. I think I can claim that this is the best computer animation we've seen so far. It has set a mark for the future. "},{"Title":"CGI...10/10! Storyline...0/10...","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first heard about the film, about Square has taken large step from videos games to the big screen, I was excited and was so eagered see it once it came out in the theaters. Being a Final Fantasy (VG) fan, I was actually expecting alot...having the storyline which follows the Final Fantasy game series. Well then later I finally watched it in the theaters, and oh man was I disappointed! Yeah the CGI was breathtaking, way surpassing any American CGIs, but the storyline sucked! It's far from anything like the games, and I understand that Hollywood tried to make things original, but still the story sucked. Even I could cough up a better storyline then this snoozer of a film! I literally fell asleep in some parts of the movie. Even with Cid, this movie doesnt even come close to the games. This is a totally different story, and could of been given a different name. The title Final Fantasy was probably placed there just to lure game fanatics and non-gamers in. The CGI is terrific, but Hollywood and Square wasted their money and time in creating superior CGI given to a crap of a storyline. I heard rumors that Square is deciding to create another Final Fantasy movie, but this time the movie will relate more to the games rather then this one.3 out of 10 (Would of been a 1, but I loved the CGI!) "},{"Title":"Oooh Aki...","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If only I could be Geppetto and make you a real little girl. Hm hm hm. That's some fine CGI right there. I kept hoping she'd slip out of that skintight space suit and into something a little more comfy.Oh the plot? It didn't make sense unless you're one of those anime/video game weirdos who freaks me out.  "},{"Title":"If you don't want complicated you dont go see FF","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ok the computer images are fine, but what a complicated story !! It took me too long to find out what the plot was, and when you want to relax while watching a movie, you don t want something that s gonna make your brain smoke with overthinking... Then you don't go see a Final Fantasy movie. I mean realy first people complain that it has nothing to do with FF, then they complain its To complex. Whats next the movie has to many polygons i mean come on folks FF is about complex sweeping storylines that arent related to each other. Ever FF game is self contained, and they all have the same theme. If you make it a sequal then its not FINAL, and it its no complex its no FINAL FANTASY...Theres a reason why as soon as they could the FF games balone from oen cartridge to 3+ cds each game. "},{"Title":"average","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ok the computer images are fine, but what a complicated story !! It took me too long to find out what the plot was, and when you want to relax while watching a movie, you don t want something that s gonna make your brain smoke with overthinking... "},{"Title":"better than the reviews suggest","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Id heard a few bad reviews of this, but I wanted to make up my own mind.For the first 5 minutes you will be impressed by the quality of the CGIs, but after that you forget its all done by computer and get into the action & the story.The film didnt drag, even though its 2 hours+.  I was impressed enough by it to not think Id wasted an evening watching it.  (Unlike Donnie Darko....) "},{"Title":"Forget the critics and enjoy a Japanese film for once...","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is simply breathtaking visually and there is no surprise there. After all, Square have been responsible for the most visually brilliant games in history.That is besides the point however. A lot of people complained about how this film's plot line was thin and how the characters were more 2-D than 3-D. This seems to be a recurring nightmare with animation of the 3-D variety, especially Japanese ones.****Possible Spoilers******You see, unfortunately for mister average Westerner the story is a tad depressing as most of the characters wind up dying. It's a tragedy and a damn fine one at that. Also this whole idea of Gaia and spirits is common in Japan, but not in the US or the UK. This seems to have caused problems as many people cannot wrap their heads around the whole idea.The voice acting is not the best in the world, but you must remember that it has been dubbed into English and not purposefully shot into it. Alec Baldwin, Ming-Na and company do there best and there are some great moments, especially from the character Neil.Overall, this is a triumph of animation that people should not be afraid to see. It's not the end of REAL people, because you can never replace them, so overcome that fear that's been instilled by the American movies companys and buy it on video.10/10 "},{"Title":"Do some research folks...","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You know i find it interesting how many reviewers here post coment out their ass. EX, an amityville horror reviewers says its a rip off of a move that came out a couple YEARS AFTER it. And now FFTSW is being compared to Tomb Raider and being calk 2 dimensional.  EACH AND EVERY FF Game has the same premise, its a big battle of good vs evil, spiritualism, and magic vs science. Just as you must have a CID somewhere removing those elements removes the one elements that relates all FF.Ex FF1 The light warriors take on Garland the evil Dark Knight to save the world. FF 2A/4J Cecil the dark knights become disenfranchised with his leaders, the evil empire, and goes on a spirital quest eventually becoming a paladin. His quest takes him to the moon via a space ship shaped like a whale where he takes on Golbaz, the evil mage. FF 5J BARTZ the relucent hero must stop the evil mage from space X-death who was only inprosoned by previous heros FF 3A/6J Locke and Terra must protect the spiritual Espers from the evil MAGI TEk Empire and KEFKA. FF7 Cloud a mercenary and former SOLDIER gets wraped up in a battle with SEFEROTH who seeks to destroy the earth because his alien mother tried to in the long past. During the course of the story the planet's guardian the WEAPONS the life suckin city of MIDGAR fires a super cannon at one, as does the town of Juno. FF8 The Techno advanced and magically trained SeeDs of guarden are a group of mercs who get embroiled in stoping the SORCERESS a being with inate magical powers and a goal of World Domination. FF9 Our Alien hero with the monkey tail start up with a small band and select magical powers but eventualy gains access to the INVINCIBLE a high tech airship which he uses to take on the warrior-mage Garland who seeks to merge 2 worlds to bring life to his poeple by subvering the heros planet. The plans are complicated by his mad brother Kaju and ultimatly he must face death it's self NECRON FF10 A evil creature named Syn once destroyed the world when technology grew in power. Now fearful of technology a backward plant faces a resurged Syn, along the way the heroes encounter the techno embracing people. In the end they win, but Yuna their center point becomes a hardened heroine for... FF10-2 The Sequal to X, this action games pits a twin pistol weilding Yuna against the forces of Syn... "},{"Title":"Not even state-of-the-art CGI can save this clunker.","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Seriously, what is it with the Japanese? It's like they're trying to replace flesh and blood actors altogether. It's still gonna take them a while, because as impressive as this movie looks, it's still nowhere near as realistic as live action. I cringed every time I noticed a character wasn't moving properly. What we need is a happy medium in CG animated films. Something that isn't trying to be ultra-realistic, but also something more mature than say, Pixar's stuff (I'm seriously getting sick of all that cutesy CG animation).Besides the animation, Alec Baldwin's character is a flat stereotype, James Woods' motivation isn't explored enough, and the plot is confusing at times, not to mention hokey as all get out, crammed with corny new-age spiritualism. And other than the name Cid, it bears absolutely no resemblence to any of the Final Fantasy games. Everything that makes those games great is missing from this. How can they even call it Final Fantasy?Nice job Square. 4/10. "}{"Title":"I want more","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie, I was left wondering, What have I just seen? Sure, the graphics were great, but the story left me scratching my head. I didn't know if I liked it or not. So I watched it again a few months later and that time, it made much more sense to me. Perhaps it was because I knew what to expect?Since then, I've watched it several more times and have enjoyed it every time. I've never played the games, or seen them being played. So if it's true to the storyline of the games or not, it didn't affect my opinion. It's a pity that it didn't do well at the theaters but that's the way it happened. Nothing can change that. I just hope that if any one else is ever going to do another movie on a similar scale as this one, that they don't suffer this ones fate. "},{"Title":"Best effects in the story of Movies but effects is not all in a movie","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Im a big fan of final fantasy series, but this movie is not for fans of the series but is for especial effects intusiasts. Final fantasy! Only the title and the name Sid. Is not a movie based on RPG , is more like a movie based in a adventure game. But is a great movie, i recommend for all who wants see where the industry of games will reach some day. "},{"Title":"A dull exercise in CGI","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Nothing much happens in this movie.  The characters are flat, almost cartoon-like.  The General's character is so dumb that he seem to have forgotten that his stupid actions has just caused the city to be destroyed and goes goes on to create his next dumb havoc.  How could a dumb character ever risen to such a high position is beyond me.The film seems like a CGI exercise done by special effect shops.There isn't even that much out of this world CGI.  There was so much emphasis on the eyes, but they completely forgot about the rest of the character's features.  Everyone seems to have had 10 face lifts, their skin is so tight that there is literally no facial expression on any of them.  The person's body moves in one solid piece, with no flexibility or bounce to the skin, muscle or any other parts.  The clothing seems to be glued onto the body.  The overemphasis on the main character's hair, but at the same time, not one strand goes out of place.  How could someone with straight limp hair, when faced down, still have it fall toward the shoulder instead of covering the face?It would have been easier to make this film with real people and everything would have looked more realistic. "},{"Title":"Better than Attack of the Clones, that's for sure!","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think the world is topsy-turvey.  I just watched the dreadful Attack of the Clones, and then Final Fantasy.  Why is one a huge success and the other not?  Simply because of the words Star Wars attached.  This movie has better acting than Attack of the Clones, better dialogue, and a better story--even if you have to accept Gaia, the Earth spirit.  And while Attack of the Clones looks terrible on DVD--the backgrounds are vivid while the human characters are washed out and flat--at least this film has a vivid consistent other-world look.  It is beautiful!  And I still say the CGI characters are more convincing than Hayden Christenson and Natalie Portman any day.  Final Fantasy has its minor problems, but it is a masterwork compared to the new Lucas films.  The only problem here is with the end Why did they edit out the information that Aki was pregnant, explaining how she got the eight spirit?  Because of stupid test screenings!  Is it too strange for people that a pregnancy would play a role in an action film starring a female lead?  I think so, but too bad for these people.  As far as I am concerned, Aki beats Lara Croft and Princess Amidala hands down! "},{"Title":"Forget everything you've heard, this is a good movie.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Forget everything you may have heard about this movie on the 'net, Okay it's not Citizen Kane, but then it's not trying to be! And this movie isn't about making digital people to replace real actors either, it's a superb piece of state-of-the-art animation - an ORIGINAL animated movie that approaches things from a new, fresh perspective, shying away from both the cuddly Toy Story format and the usual shoot-everything-that-moves action movie formula.This is a movie that marries Eastern spiritual ideas with an American format, and it works. The only failing it has, is that audiences probably came to it expecting to see another Alien-type movie or a kids animation. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a modern, mythical science fiction tale, and at it's central theme is the ability to believe in things that can't necessarily be seen. It has an epic feel to it, worthy of any Japanese myth, and the inclusion of a female lead character makes a refreshing change too. Of course, cinemagoers are usually happy to believe in science fiction myths containing powerful unseen forces (where would Star Wars be without the Force for example), but for some reason, rather unfairly, Final Fantasy's spirits were beyond the reach of many of the audience. Perhaps it's time that we exercised our own imaginations a little, without the need for tired formulas and the usual alien baddies?This movie succeeds for me BECAUSE it is different - it looks like nothing you have ever seen before, and the story demands that the audience open their minds and think about the plot, something we often don't have to do with conventional action movies.Finally, just fire up the DVD version of The Spirits Within and treat yourself to a constantly beautiful piece of digital art - Everything was created from scratch for this film by the industry's most talented artists, even the soundtrack glistens and shines without the constraints of on location sonics.The truth is, all great cult movies are way ahead of their time and are often missed by the majority of the general cinema-going public. With this fact in mind, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is right on course to be one of the biggest cult films of all time. "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Fantasy","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This thrilling and visionary fantasy--with a high budget that included the cost of its new animation studio--was D.O.A. at the box office, proving once again that mainstream America is not ready for animated science-fiction, and Japanese anime especially.  But this is hardly a film of limited appeal. While it does recall its anime roots in some of its spiritual themes, it has the grandiosity of the great sci-fi epics, and the mind-blowing visuals alone are worth the price of admission.  Not only are the photo-realistic humans a sight to behold, but the details of this post-apocalyptic Earth are rendered with a fine-tipped brush, both natural and invitingly dreamy at the same time.  The story by director and game creator Hironobu Sakaguchi has its underexplained moments, and requires viewers to accept concepts such as the Earth's spirit, or gaia; but like The Force in Star Wars, it does manage to give the film the requisite mysticism.  Furthermore, Aki Ross is a heroine ten times more intelligent and worthy of worship than Lara Croft, the other prominant video game transplant from the summer of 2001. However adverse the viewer may be to the idea of computer-generated human actors, it must be admitted that Aki has more impact than a regular cartoon character, what with her unusual level of intelligence, spiritualism, and sexuality--even if she was made in a computer on Wakiki beach.  The direction here is at times uneven, the blocking often uninspired, and the editing rough.  One also has to feel sorry for the two American screenwriters one of whom is even Oscar-nominated!, since the dialogue was obviously translated into Japanese and then back again, giving the film sometimes Godzilla-movie-like awkward line readings.  But for all his inexperience and ill-placed determination to homage Jim Cameron's Aliens, Sakaguchi has managed to create an ambitious romantic adventure that doesn't cheapen either category.  In spite of its box office failure, it can teach a lesson to the star-driven flops that studios churn out with none of the passion of this often wondrous ghost story, the first true film of the coming cybernetic age.  No less than sci-fi author John Shirley has noted that the film will attract a cult following and deserves it.  See this film and find out why. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing if for no other reason than for the technology of it.","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There have been a lot of movies lately that came from Computer games, (Tomb Raider, Resident Evil etc) this one is different. The story line is definately something different, maybe a bit far fetched but then that's what Science Fiction is all about. It's a refreshingly new concept for a story. But that's not the biggest appeal to this movie.It is the first time (that I am aware of) that an entire movie was rendered completely in CG (computer graphics) that was an attempt to model real human forms. Dreamworks and Pixar have mastered the art of CG animations of cartoon type characters (Shrek and Toy Story are both amazing feats in their own) but none have tried to look like real people. The graphics artists and modelling designers for Final Fantasy have put together a very good result in Final Fantasy. The realism comes from the little things. I don't think anyone watching this movie would actually mistake Aki or Dr. Sid for real people, we're still a good ways from that, but the small movements that Aki makes when she's walking and talking at the same time do a tremendous job of causing one to do a double take.More over, this movie was good enough to me that I went and bought a second copy of it when my first copy turned up missing. I would have to disagree with Dan Grant's review of this movie. I think the story and the cinematography of this movie merit a solid 8 rating and I for one will watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Even better on DVD","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you liked the movie, the DVD has some wonderful features you'll love.  Like the character profiles that add even more depth to the characters.  And the vehicle scale comparison is really cool.  It compares the vehicles in the movie to real-life autos.  Also, watch the movie with the score-only track playing.  It makes a cool silent film. "},{"Title":"The visual effects are as thick as the New Age themes.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was thrilled to see the eye candy this movie offered.  The 'digital actor' still has a lot of growing to do and this film is the first great leap. The mouths of the characters were not fluid enough to be believable but that is OK because what was said wasn't worth hearing.  I would have to side with the villain (voiced by James Woods) and say the mumbo-jumbo of ghosts, spirits, and the like is not palatable. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just saw this movie and absolutely loved it. I can't call it a cartoon for it goes way beyond the boundaries of conventional animation. If you weren't paying attention too closely you would believe you were watching actual actors. The plot has been done before, what plot hasn't, but never in this way, that I know of. This isn't a typical movie made in the last few years. It actually makes you think about what's going to happen and how it's going to happen. I pride myself on my ability to pick up on what will happen in a movie within the first ten or fifteen minutes and it took me quite a bit longer to figure out what the heck they were doing with this film. If you want to see a good sci-fi flick this is the one for you. Overall I give it four cigars, on my scale of two to five. "}{"Title":"a very enjoyable metaphysical science fiction film","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy is a very enjoyable metaphysical science fiction film with an intelligent plot focused around a belief system that is no more or no less hokey than Christianity or any other current world religion.  And at least Gaia is a darn sight more colourful.It would have worked just as well as a (admittedly, very expensive) live action film.  Who cares about the advances in animation, really?  I skipped all the technical stuff on the DVD.  That didn't interest me in the slightest.  We've all seen wireframe/rendering demonstrations before.Certainly, animation probably does add something to the story-telling (perhaps like back projection used by Hitchcock even into the 70s - he did it, some have suggested, to distance the cinema audience from the fabricated onscreen reality) and there's a possibility it even detracts in other areas. And I'm not really sure what they were trying to achieve in going so life-like (maybe merely for marketing purposes?  Oh look - wow!  Come and see the film for its flesh tones!).But whatever the arguments for and against the realistic animation the film is undoubtedly beautiful and is (almost) matched in the plot department. Okay, so it borrows elements from other Japanese animated films but at least its not unashamedly derivate like most Hollywood tripe.`Gee-whiz - an ending with an aspect of tragedy?  We don't like that do we guys, no!  Where's our neatly wrapped up happy ending?'The dialogue could have been catchier, the utterly wonderful music louder (its buried beneath the SFX a lot of the time) and the `acting' could have been a little more exaggerated (the animators underplayed a little, but that's a Japanese animated thing - it's only Disney movies where everyone grins like an idiot).Cultural differences and attempts at advancing CGI are not the only reasons this movie is less than perfect, but it is better than most of the genre and most 'popular' films full stop.  Give it a try.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie Thumbs UP","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After seeing the movie I couldn't wait to buy it. It was awesome. Many people didn't like the movie saying that it didn't look like the game. Well let me tell you something IT WASN'T SUPPOSE TO.I like the video games but the name `Final Fantasy' doesn't specify a certain plot. The story of Final Fantasy - Spirits might be different but was very interesting.  I recommend to see it.  "},{"Title":"Most Impressive...","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Look to this film to see the future. Mind boggling animation. There's nothing like it in any other movie, video game, tv show. The animation is not perfect, but as close as ever to the real thing and leaps and bounds over anything previously seen. That said (because it took me an entire first viewing to accept what I was watching) the story is a strict action type plot to save all life from an utterly evil presence but with some nice touches of mythical and spiritual nuances. A must view to see the future of movie making.  "},{"Title":"Not for the small screen.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 102 min.This movie probably looks terrific on the silver screen and looks are about the only thing this movie has going for it. The story is tripe and holds as much water as a nylon stocking.It's a must see for people who like cutting edge computer effects but after 30 minutes of marveling at whats-her-names hair doing it's wave effects I got a little bored.There is amazing potential in the technology employed and I look forward to seeing it used again. Next time I hope the story is a tenth as good as the visuals.5/10 on small screen "},{"Title":"gleaming eye candy and dazzling visual effects, though a little cold hearted","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, I've never played the Final Fantasy game and had no idea what it was about until I saw it in the cinema. I was stunned by the movies visual awe. This is the first 3-D movie to be a serious sci-fi. Unfortunately the film is let down by a complicated storyline and the film comes across a little cold hearted. Luckily the film doesn't go on long enough to be boring and thus is perfectly timed. Final Fantasy was one of the best movies of last Summer and a sequel would be a good option. A solid movie for fans and fans alike, 6.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A film under-rated by those that didn't GET IT.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OK, so I was initially dissapointed by this film carrying itself off as Final Fantasy, because it wasn't very similar to the games. But then I suddenly came to my senses  and told myself that I am an idiot. It was very much like final fantasy, maybe not exactly like the games, but the themes explored are very similar, such as different characters going on an adventure to stop a strange interesting foe, while at the same time trying to save the spirit of the Earth known as Gaia (covered in Final Fantasy 7 also...). All at the same time looking so-good-it-makes-your-eyes-bleed gorgeous.The story is a solid, sci-fi tale, probably not told as well as it could have been, but its still interesting and exciting enough to keep me watching. MAny have complained that the story was too unconventional, and that they didn't get the ending.Well I cant really see what there isn't to get. You have to understand that this is coming from a completely different culture, so it will be inherently different from the drivel produced in Hollywood (and we all know thats a GOOD thing). There will be philosophical issues and deep concepts explored, and this scares too many away who just want a dumb movie, who dont want to think too hard.And I saw the ending as refreshing. Too many films chuck in a forced sentimental happy ending which destroys everything the movie had been trying to achieve. The ending may not have been the happienst, but it was the most satisfying, and it did a nice job of tying up the necessary loose ends.A great movie. Not the best, but it makes you think and entertains you, and thats a very good thing in my books. "},{"Title":"If the story doesn't get you, the animation will.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first want to get what I DIDN'T like about this movie out of the way. It was NOT true to the video game series. Granted, each Final Fantasy sequel has a new set of characters, a new world, a new story... But the elements are there. This movie lacked the elements. The closest thing they had was a Dr. Sid, and even then, it was spelled with an S instead of a C. Where were the wizards, monks, and knights? What happened to the lovable chocobos? No summons, nothing?Don't get me wrong. I love this movie. In fact, if it were NOT called Final Fantasy, it would have been better accepted. After all, what does it have to do with Final Fantasy?The animation is what captivated me first. It was so realistic. There were moments that I forgot the movie was animated. Then, there's the story. A sci-fi story VERY similar to that of Final Fantasy VII, which in itself was VERY similar to a popular anime, Akira. I don't, however, call it a rehash as some people so plainly called it. They reused a few elements, but that was it. There was even a symbolic message that they instilled deep within the movie that some people unfortunately do not get... It's the same message portrayed in Squaresoft's Parasite Eve (but in a not-so-eerie way), that the greatest enemy lies within.Whether or not you are a Final Fantasy fan, you should give this movie a fair chance. It was really well done and SHOULD have been a hit. It is not a fairy tale, it is true.  "},{"Title":"Amazing Science Fiction","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This truly is science fiction at it's best.  The animation, of course, was great, and shows a huge improvement since the days of Tron.  I think this film shows that imagination is limitless.  Anything can be put on film.As for the story, it is great, classic, sci-fi.  If you are looking for a Forrest Gump-like flick, this may not be your movie, however, Final Fantasy is along the lines of epic sci-fi story as Star Wars is.It sure is refreshing to see a thoughtful, intelligent, science fiction movie, with dashes of action, visuals, and suspense.  Although some people claim that this movie will not be regarded highly in the future, I disagree. I think critics are giving it a hard time now simply because of various reasons, like it NOT confoming to certain principles OR conforming TOO much to certain principles.  But when compared to other sci-fi 'crap', which accounts for 90% of sci-fi, this movie is in the top.  If you've ever liked a movie like Star Wars, Total Recall, Dune, etc... this is a sci-fi epic you cannot miss. "},{"Title":"Ahead of it's time","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like the movie TRON I believe this movie was ahead of it's time and will be remembered and appreciated more a few years down the road.SpoilersThe movie did have some things that probably caused problems with movie goers. One, a happy ending for the Earth but a lot of death to the characters you cared about. Two, I had a problem with hearing celebrity voices that didn't match the onscreen characters appearance. It's different when the voices come out out of say a SHREK character not a CGI enhanced human. Three, the story was probably too complicated for your average movie goer.I still gave the movie 9 out of 10. You need to see the movie more than once.   "},{"Title":"Kind of mixed feelings about it","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There must be some unwritten rule that movies with funny names don't do well at the box office, and this one continues the trend.  Also, it was promoted as being one of the first movies to use CG animation to supplant real life footage entirely, but for people like me who hadn't heard of the Final Fantasy series before it was kind of like stepping into Leonard Part 6.It did have a fairly original plot and approach, and the CG effects do some things (such as the appearance of the phantasms) that would be difficult or impossible to do with conventional animation or effects.One thing that did surprise me was Aki, the main female character, was the least realistic looking of the bunch.  Her torso was flat and panel like, while her arms were unnaturally thin poles.  The eyes were set too far apart and sometimes didn't seem to be looking in the same direction.  For the main character to look so different, who takes so much of the screentime (and your attention) was strange, for the other characters looked much more plausible.Regardless, it's got good effects and an interesting, if not mainstream, sci-fi story. "}{"Title":"Sets A New Standard for Animation","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect when I saw the trailers for this film. When it faded quickly from theaters after a strong opening weekend, I thought I had wisely saved my ticket money. Then, I saw it only sale at Blockbuster in a 2-for-1 deal, so I decided to check it out. Now, I wished I had seen it in the theaters.The movie is based on a series of computer games from Japan that led the way for such reality-based games as Wing Commander. The plot concerns Dr. Aki Ross (Ming-Na), a scientist who, along with he mentor, Dr. Sid (excellently voiced by Donald Sutherland), is trying to find life force spirits that might drive out the phantoms. The phantoms are aliens that have landed on earth and have destroyed much of the planet by ripping people's souls right out of their bodies.Ross and Sid are helped by Captain Grey Edwards (Alec Baldwin) and his small band of troopers (voiced by Ving Rhames, Steve Buscemi and Frasier regular Peri Gilpin). Ross has been having weird dreams about the aliens ever since she was infected by them. General Heiner (James Woods) thinks she's under their influence and seeks to discredit her work to find the spirits. He's a stereotypical sci-fi general, favoring military force to destroy the phantoms. In this case, he wants to use a new weapon called the Zeus Cannon to blast the meteorite the aliens arrived in 34 years earlier. Apparently the fact that humans have been driven to live inside protected domes hasn't dawned on him. Unlike sci-fi generals who are megalomaniacs or power seekers, Heiner is driven by an intense hatred that will make him do something disastrous, something that will drive him to the brink of suicide.The animation here is excellent. There are a few moments in the beginning where the movement is stiff, but it gets better along the way. The dialogue is very good, with none of the usual stiff one-liners that plague live-action films. The characters emote well, which is something I don't expect from CGI-created characters (even from Roughnecks Starship Trooper Chronicles). The only flaw with the characters is we don't get enough time to really get to know them before all hell breaks loose.This character flaw can be traced to the movie's grand flaw and, most likely, the one that helped kill box office sales. The movie is part of a series, so you don't see the beginning. In the beginning, Ross and Grey trade barbs as if they're old friends (or maybe old lovers). Imagine if the Star Wars franchise began with Return of the Jedi. Viewers would be wondering how all the characters got there, how they knew each other, why they're fighting the Empire, etc...Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a fine movie worth repeated viewings. But, despite all the viewings, you'll still come away with the feeling that you've missed half the movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't see anything wrong with that movie neither do I understand those people who call the plot boring or pointless.  All in all it's better than I first expected.  The CGI puts more recent movies to shame (Spiderman, Scooby Doo, you name it), it delivers a good message, has good sound fx and a nice soundtrack.  Maybe you should give it a 2nd viewing so that you can get a better grasp of the plot.  I've just watched it for the 3rd time and still give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Good, but you need to get the banana.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Firstly; I would like to say that I really enjoy this movie. I think it's a good first attempt at what is potentially a completely new industry. (CGI films).Now to reflect a little on what's been said about it; and why I think *you* should go out and watch it.The graphics are largely stunning, and anyone who argues with that must eat a couple of renderdrives for breakfast before I'll take them seriously. During some of the scenes of this film; the makers utilise some fo the latest 3D gumph about, Radiosity, POV blur-stuff thingies... I don't know the technical terms off the top of my head; but I work for a company that produces 3D visualisations at the hight end of the market; and these are stunning I assure you.Now onto the plot and characters.I am surprised no one else (or at least noone who I've read) has mentioned the glaringly obvious error on the part of the editor. This film has some of the most drawn out scenes for an action film ever.It's pretty obvious why it's done that way - the animators have obviously spent literally months constructing the set-pieces and character models for this film; and the usual action movie technique of cutting in 1-3 second chunks to increase the sense of pace simply isn't economical here.You see; it's as if the creators really really want you to wow at their technical excellence as you watch, which is a shame, because they don't seem to have realised that whilst that's considered good form in a computer game; in a film, we only need 3 seconds to know it's a blooming big ship, not the 30 seconds we'd need in a game to figure out where it's weak spots are so we could attack them in a later level.Basically put; this is a good film. Worth watching cos then you'll KNOW where they made the improvements for the various sequals.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A great film, but it certainly doesn't compare to the games.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Some time in November or December 2001, I went to Carlisle to watch one of the latest releases Final Fantasy The Spirits Within.  Because I am a veteran at Final Fantasy games, I thought watching this film would be quite suitable for me.  After seeing the film, I wasn't too disappointed, but what made this film less enjoyable than the games was the lack of things in the Final Fantasy series.  Yes, there is advanced technology and stuff, but no magic, materia, PHS, Shin-Ra, Garden, SeeD, pretty much stuff is missing. The storyline is that this scientist called Aki-Ross is trying to stop an invasion of alien creatures.  Similar to most other FF plots.  The detail and graphics are amazing; nice, clear sound and exciting.  I'd give this film a 8 out of 10.  So although it's like an oddball out of the Final Fantasy series, it's still quite enjoyable.  A really good film. "},{"Title":"A big disappointment.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of Hiro Sakagushi's Final Fantasy RPGs. I've beaten Final Fantasy 4, 6, 7, and 9 and I deeply respect Sakagushi for all the hours I've spent playing his games on the Super NES and Playstation, as well as trying his demo for Final Fantasy X and buying the game later. However, it's tragic that his first attempt at film is a profound disappointment.Granted, the Computer Generated film is amazing. The people look real, right down to their hair and clothes. Everything is gorgeously done and detailed. At some point, you might be fooled into thinking that this is a live-action film. It shows that there might be future where we won't need human actors any longer; we can create our own and they aren't going to be restricted with contractual BS.Unfortunately, everything else about the movie is subpar. The story is about Earth in the future that is under the control of aliens. A scientist named Aki is trying to cure herself of an alien infestation inside her body (shades of Alien 3) and she meets up with a Doctor Sid and a group of MERCs in a plan to cure her and beat back the aliens.The story is boring, slow, and talky. Unlike the games, the movie is just a space-shootout like so many others. I thought Sakagushi-san would come up with something a lot more deep and interesting, so it's shocking that this is his story, which none of his games ever had. Instead of caring about the story, you spend your time looking at the film's CGs and that shouldn't be the point of this film. There must be a decent story or it doesn't work.The script is weak, the dialogue is inane, and the story is somber and serious. There is no comic relief, it's grim to the extreme, and the voice acting is shockingly wooden. For the love of Kerouac, this film has Alec Baldwin, James Woods, Ving Rhames, Donald Sutherland, and the great Steve Buscemi providing voice talent! Put these men in a real film and you'd have Blockbuster. Put them here and you've got Boredom. Everyone is forced into a straightjacket, even Steve. The critics are also right about Ming-Na Wen's performance, it's so monotone (Peri Gilpin and Dwight Schultz, who would be ideal for these kinds of films from all the different voices he provided on the A-Team, didn't have enough lines).Still, if the movie is at it's lowest price at the video store, you should rent the DVD version (which is packed with more bonuses than I've ever seen in the short history I've had with DVD films) to see what the future holds for cinema. Just make sure you've had a good night sleep so you don't dose off from boredom. "},{"Title":"Good, but not perfect.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, this is a decent film. The graphics are really good and sometimes you do think the people look very realistic. However this movie is NOT as good as the games. I have only played Final Fantasy 8 but that was enough for me to know that this could have been a lot better. I wanted a beautiful, colorful world where there was lots of action and real cast members on screen. If they do make another FF Movie then thats what it should definetly be like!  This isn't a bad movie though, it just dosen't deliver as much as the games.  "},{"Title":"My god!  Its full of pre-rendered goo!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No matter what you've heard about the technology, its not worth the abuse to your brain to sit through all the enviro-wacktovist propaganda.  For those who think we'll look back at this beautifully rendered pretentious mess a decade or three from now as some sort of milestone, I would remind you that they said the same thing about This Island Earth back in 1954.Today, we look back at that film and laugh, with the help of our robot friends Tom Servo and Crow T. Robot, along with Mike Nelson and Dr. Forrester.  Which is probably the best thing that could have happened to that move.  And it would be the best thing that could happen to this movie.About the only positive thing I can think to say about this good intentioned mess of a film is, at least its not anime.  Say!  That wouldn't be a bad tag line. "},{"Title":"An underrated movie, because of viewers like you.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay. Let's get down to business. I'm watching this movie as we speak, while writing this review... and I must say, I am disappointed in the users of IMDB... At least many of the ones who write reviews...The story was bad, they said. But how exactly was the story bad? Most reviews I've read have missed all of the points of the story, as if they were flipping through a book reading only every other chapter. Is that the way people watch movies? Pay attention only to the shiny objects like cats glued to a TV with moving objects on the screen?They also said that FFTSW didn't live up to the Final Fantasy game series. I believe one of the reviews went so far as to say, Final Fantasy games are about 7 people who band together to save the world from evil. Okay.. I agree to some extent. But people are overlooking a blairing misunderstanding of the final fantasy series. There are many elements of mythology, technology, and style that are unique to that of  squaresoft and the final fantasy series. I believe FFTSW incorporates many of those aspects. At least, as many as they could cramp into 2 hours. The games are 40+ hours long, don't you remember, idiots?------ So here are the SPOILERS. -------No story? Let me go over the story for the slow of mind. Doctor Aki Ross is a scientist who's searching for life forms under a Doctor Sid. Aki Ross and Sid are on a quest to devise a wave pattern that cancels out the plague of the earth Phantoms, hostile creatures that came 45 years ago from an unknown alien world. These phantoms narrowed the human species down to a drastically small number. The survivors live in barrier cities that keep the phantoms out. Everything else is a battlefield.Sid and Aki are believers in a theory of gaia... the theory that the planet itself is alive (something that is not uncommon to square games). They have plans to collect the spirit energy patterns of 8 spirits of the planet, and use them to create an energy pattern that cancels out that of the phantoms. But the cynical General Hien wishes to use a large space station-based laser called Zeus (I believe), to zap the planet to death, placing the Spirit of the Planet itself at risk.Okay, if that's not enough STORY for you, then you should be SHOT.So how about we address some of the reviewers?Martymaster from Norway says So when the movie came out I hoped for a similar story about a group of people who goes on a journey to fight monsters and evil forces in a distant world and how they put their friendship on a test etc,just like the game.But... um... wasn't that the friggin point of the movie? Monsters from another planet come and destroy everyone? And a group of 6 end up together to fight it? Ohhh.. wasn't the friendship between aki, sid, and grey put to the test when they had to take on the phantoms? Oh.. you didn't notice that, did you?Someone named MLDinTN said  And the monsters, phantoms, made no sense. So they were saying that they didn't want to take over the earth, it was just the pain that was left in their ghosts that went around killing people. And if they could kill people just by touching them, how could anyone survive.THEY RETREATED TO BARRIER CITIES. THEY'RE SPIRITS AND HAVE BEEN ATTACKED AND PUT OUT OF PLACE! If you were DEAD, and ended up in a STRANGE PLACE after a GIGANTIC EXPLOSION... and the people in this strange place were SHOOTING YOU with LASERS... what would YOU DO? Sit around? Or go after them??? I mean..And that's all I have to say. Because of stuff like this, square is going to have a TOUGH time making movies. My conclusion? Square slacked on the voice acting and emotional expression in the characters. The story also wasn't exactly something epic enough for a Final Fantasy title, however it did have a very final fantasy-like feel. And that makes it alright in my book. Afterall, how can you cram the story of a 40 hour game into 2 hours?Okay.. I'm finished. Think about what you're watchin, okay?~Lev~ "},{"Title":"I'm confused...","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What the hell was it all about? I played the video game a number of times and that about a fella with a sword and a guy with guns for arms, i then saw this movie and it was about a futuristic alien invasion and super-duper marine troops. If you bother to see this movie, which you shouldn't, the only thing that will make you smile is probably the animation which is a real as real can be.  Anything to do with the story line or action sequences or anything that exists in this film will probably put you to sleep. Eye candy that tastes like crap. Thank you very much. "},{"Title":"Decent movie","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I would have to say that this is the best movie I have seen that is based on a video game.  While the plot was pretty weak, it was good enough to support the spectacular animation.  These characters moved like no other.  I expect this will be the first in a long line of movies with completely computer animated characters.  With each attempt, I think the stories will get better.   "}{"Title":"Great computer animation but with a weak story line","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie is only good for the animation and the visuals are wonderful.  The only thing that was missing is a good story line. What's up with spirits killing people in this movie and the whole fight, terror and death.  No wonder some people don't like this movie, especially myself.  I wasted my time and money to see this great animated, weak story line movie.  Don't see this movie at all costs!     "},{"Title":"An amazing accomplishment.","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a visionary, glorious, extraordinary and breathtakingly beautiful work of art. Twenty years from now people will look back at this and call it a ground breaking masterpiece. It isn't just a movie or an elaborate animated cartoon, it's a collaborative work of creative genius.  "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy is one of the best sci-fi films of 2001.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It may just be because I'm a fan of the Final Fantasy video games, but I really enjoyed Final Fantasy The Spirits Within. I believe it was one of the best science fiction movies of the year 2001, the other being A.I. Artificial Intelligence. But just because I enjoyed it, I'm not saying that it was perfect. I own the 2-disc DVD set (which I highly recommend for any collector) and have watched it several times, yet with each repeat viewing I notice things that could have been better. First of all, the character development considering that the film was only about 100 minutes long (if only it could have been longer...) the characters were rather well-developed, but the only ones that the audience really knew a lot of background information about were Gray and Aki. I think it would have been more interesting if there was further information regarding Ryan, Neil, Jane, and Doctor Sid. Of course, we can't expect for the filmmakers to cram 24 hours worth of gameplay into a single movie (which is why I hope they decide to make a sequel) but I believe it could have been done a tad bit better. Another thing that sort of missed the point of the games was the fact that there was more action and less story. I'm sure that fans of pop-corn blockbusters were pleased by all the CGI extravaganza, but any avid admirer of the games would have appreciated it if the director paid a little more attention to the plot. But these flaws are very minor, and they aren't big enough to spoil the movie, which is sheer entertainment. After kicking off the film with one of Aki's eye-popping dreams, it continues at a fast pace through a jaw-dropping futuristic metropolis and astounding wastelands, carrying the story as good as it could have. The only part that seems to drag a little bit is the ending, which was made for the sole purpose of going out with a bang. However, don't let this review turn you off to the movie, because it is pure adrenaline-pumping fun. Watch and enjoy!Overall rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Looky! A spirit!  I could just scream...out of utter insanity.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ooh, look at all the pretty colors.  It almost makes me forget that my head feels like it's been put in a vice, slapped with a wet towel, and kicked over and over again.  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is the prettiest peice of crap ever, if such a thing is possible.So here's what be up  These alien ghost things have wrought severe havoc on the Earth.  They touch you and you get all dead and stuff, usually involving your mortal soul being torn violently from your body (how lovely).  The survivors live in these protected city places.  One group, led by this doctor lady with nice hair, feels that these ghosts can be stopped by creating some supernatural eco-weapon using spirits that have connections to Gaia (Mother Earth).  The other group is led by the evil general dude. They just want to kill stuff.Wow, sounds great, now what does it all mean?  Sorry, can't help you there. Apparently, it was the breakthrough animation that mattered, not the story. What I don't understand is why so much of this neato technology is used to show off the lead character's individually rendered strands of hair.  Gee, nice, she must use Vidal Sassoon.  Unfortunately, I found it hard to enjoy the visuals due to the fact that the weight of my own cunfused, expanding brain was crushing my head.The spirits are the heart of the story, and that's what makes it so confusing.  The hair lady is all up in this high tech thingy doing stuff. I can't explain it better than that.  She does this random scan thing and, abra kadabra, a spirit pops up.  Yahoo, whoopee, WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON! Why is the spirit there and not somewhere else?!  How did you know where to find it?!  My head was about to explode, but luckily the soft, cushy stadium seating saved me.Meanwhile this other guy is all hitting on the hair lady.  Crap, multi-tasking.  Now I have to try to comprehend this bogus plot while trying to ignore a hoakey love story.  So the hair lady says she found a spirit. The guy is all like, Well, let's saddle up.  Excuse me sir, but do you feel that sensation of your head imploding?  That is called complete and utter bewilderment.  Don't tell me you're not having a duh moment.  Well of course the characters seem to completely understand what's going on. Meanwhile I sit with my fingers at my temples and my eyes rolled back into my head humming to myself.Soon another element invades my already over-stuffed noggin.  The general dude that kills things pops up with his crazy new weapon that could annihilate the bad guys, but has a better chance at wiping us out.  So now I find myself angry as an unbelievably gung-ho dorkwad continues to hinder the plans of the good guys, even though I'm still a little shaky as to what the good guys are even doing.  My head is now numb.  I hum louder to drown out the sound of my own head screaming for me to swallow a grenade and end the madness.The movie ends, I sit bug-eyed, and my sanity slowly returns.  Yes, I survived the lunacy.  I survived my own head striving to find an answer to a movie that really had a weak premise to begin with.  It was like a roller coaster ride that gives you both whiplash and motion sickness.  Man, I certainly enjoyed nap time afterwards. "},{"Title":"blah!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was totally on top in the graphics arena, but.. what makes you WANT to see it again? that's right kiddies, a plot.  Oh yes, this movie had a plot, but ... it was tired, weak, and half dead by the end of the flick. I've never liked the game much, and really...don't know why I wasted my money on the movie.  As the plot thinned out more and more, i could hear everyone in the crowd moaning about it.  I actually asked for my money back, was turned down, but it was worth a shot.  Will not get duped into renting the dvd by promises of extras...it's not worth it guys...just not worth it! "},{"Title":"One of the more underrated films of recent memory","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is not a perfect movie. It has a number of flaws, not the least of which is the name itself. Connecting Square Pictures' first (and only) film with the popular Final Fantasy series of videogames served two purposes; it drew in fans of the games, and turned away a number of prospective moviegoers, convinced it was merely a videogame movie. In fact, this film has very little, if anything to do with the Final Fantasy series, choosing to tell an original story rather than bring classic videogame characters to life on the big screen.The film takes place on Earth in the year 2065. Throughout the world, the remenants of Earth's population are scattered, congregating underneath huge protective barriers to escape attack from the Phantoms, mysterious, seemingly insubstantial beings that invaded the planet 30 years ago, wiping out a great deal of the world's population before the technology to withstand them was developed. The heroine of the film, Dr. Aki Ross (Ming Na) is a scientist working with the grizzled Dr. Sid (Donald Sutherland) in an effort to collect 8 Spirits, biological waveforms that, when combined, may be the key to defeating the phantoms once and for all. The are aided in their quest by the heavily armed Deep Eyes squadron, lead by Ben Affleck impersonator Gray Edwards (Alec Baldwin), and hindered by the vengeful General Hein (James Woods).  The cast is what you'd expect from such a movie, a heastrong heroine, the tough but sensitive squad leader, the wisecracking electronics expert, and a grizzled, but kindly scientist, yet the movie oftentimes refrains from the cliched situations which hound many sci-fi action films. This is not an optimistic movie about the triumph of mankind's most wretched underdogs against an alien menace, it is an at times fascinating look at life, and death, loss and vengence and the consequences which come with great power.But enough of the story. The visuals were this films main draw, and they pay off in a big way. Every character in this film is CG, human and Phantom alike. Using advanced CGI technology, a talented art design staff and motion capture from the voice actors, Square has provided one of the most visually striking films every produced. The human characters, while not consistently photorealistic will at times look and behave almost eerily realistically. It is the ability to forget that you are watching the product of computer workstations for scenes at a time that is this movie's greatest triumph.Is this a movie I would recommend for purchase? Not for everybody. But those who are willing to see this movie with an open mind, free of preconceptions about videogame or special effects movies, might just find Final Fantasy to be worth more than a cursory glance.  "},{"Title":"it is a nice movie, also they could've made a better story","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  persenaly i liked the movie a lot,the graphics are magnificent and the movie is great also they really could've made a better story but this one is good enough for me since i didn't have hight hopes for the movie, and the sound track is fab i loved it and laura fabian is great too, but i think that the details of the hands and backs are really bad you can know from the first moment that the hand look like video games but all in all i liked it, and since its a new ground i expect to see more of these movies soon.and if you didn't see it yet go ahead its worth it. "},{"Title":"The BEST!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Better than Shrek! Better than Monster Inc. Better than Toy Story 2! AND definitely BETTER than Ice Age! Yup! I just loved Final Fantasy! The whole story line, the plot, the characters, the love story and Gaia! I recommend everyone to watch this movie. Another bonus is the soundtrack...the song, Spirits Within, totally swept me away...oh the song, the melody was wonderful!!!!! This is my 3rd fave movie, first is Harry Potter and the Sorceror's Stone, then the Matrix and then Final Fantasy. Some people may disagree with me, but it has such a wonderful soundtrack with a lovely love story Just watch it and see it for yourself!  "},{"Title":"Technical breakthrough bogged down by a pointless plot","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No question about it, Final Fantasy is a technical breakthrough. You can still recognize that the environment and the characters are computer-generated, but for some, this virtual world may be more appealing.The story is far too familiar. Shoot the enemy enough times and it will disappear, if not, shoot it with a bigger gun, and if still not working, you are dead! Meanwhile, collect enough items so you can defeat the final boss. Jeez, you can just tell the story is written by a game programmer, not a movie screen writer. Lesson Number One to all action movies, the hero worth only as much as his enemy, and when the enemy turns out to be less threatening than we originally thought, the momentum of the movie is completely lost. Okay, so there's the obligatory bad guy in our own camp - the overzealous military man - but he's just too type-casted to be interesting at all.Weak (very weak) plot aside, watching this movie give you an over-whelming sense of why bother?. The environment and the characters are just too real and you find yourself asking why not just the real world and real actors who can deliver more facial expression than the computers currently can. Unlike movies like Toy Story or Shrek, where animation is almost the only way to go, there's very little reason for this story to be animated at all - other than showing off Aki's beautifully CGI hair.Altogether, worth watching just for the animation. "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, total score 79%","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy as a universe was developed in a series of anime games by SquareSoft Inc.  Anime is a genre particular to Japan, containing different motifs to conventional Western types.  Usually there is more emphasis on spirituality and greater leniency in allowing it to mix with science.  This said, The Spirits Within is remarkably accessible to Western audiences ignorant of the style from which it was born. The story centres around Dr Aki Ross (Ming-Na), a scientist working to free Earth of the malevolent, energy-based creatures that invaded 34 years before.  Aki is working with Dr Sid (Donald Sutherland), a scientist who discovered the bio-etheric energy these Phantoms are comprised of. Sid and Aki believe they can destroy the Phantoms with a specific energy pattern, but constructing it requires eight steps.  As they near completion they're forced to work against General Hein, a military official convinced the only way to eliminate Phantoms is with the Zeus Cannon-a weapon Sid believes will kill the Phantoms, but also Gaia, the spirit of the Earth. The Spirits Within is remarkable not just conventionally, but because it's the first photorealistic film made entirely with computer-graphic imaging. The quality and detail of the environments and characters is exquisite, and generally indistinguishable from reality. The story is complex but sensible and, in anime style, allowed to unfold at its own pace.  Subsequently, the beginning can be confusing-it's not until some way in that things become clearer.  This may be disconcerting to audiences accustomed to Western story-telling techniques, but is more interesting as well. The characterisation is understandably accused of being formulaic.  Deeper scrutiny, though, suggests a curious compromise.  There are characters apparently included by necessity for Western audiences the Wise-cracking Sidekick, Neil; the Tough Black Marine, Ryan; and the Bad-ass Tomboy, Jane. Even General Hein seems the typified, Narrow-minded Military Commander, but he is given a small, significant history that ultimately defines his role as more tragic than deliberately oppressive. The dialogue is surpassed only by the voice-acting, which brings sometimes facially-challenged characters to life.  Although Ming-Na is the only unknown actor in the main cast, it's not difficult to accept the characters, despite their familiar voices.  The subtle idiosyncrasies Ming-Na adds to Aki are detailed and thoughtful.  Lip-syncing is sometimes a problem for all the characters, but never calamitous. The score by Elliot Goldenthal is impressive, if conventional.  An elegant, recurring motif is altered to great effect throughout, and the performance by the London Symphony Orchestra is of the expected impeccable standard. The cinematography is well-executed but bland, and some sequences seem predictable, if not clichéd.  The final scene is particularly controversial-a homage to anime, which cannot be faulted, but which has drawn much criticism from those unaware of its Japanese roots. Overall, though the questionably formulaic characters and complex, spiritually-based plot may deter some people, good voice-acting and writing should help atone for this.  The Spirits Within is a well-crafted movie in all respects, but the most praise must be reserved for the visual artists. Story 8; characterisation 6.5; writing 8.5; acting 8.5; emotion 6; interest 9; originality 9; cinematography 5; visual effects 10; music score 8.5. Total 79% "}{"Title":"Anyone noticed the similarities...","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  between this movie and the 1978-79 season of Doctor Who. Note  small plotpoints will be divulged, but not the ending or anything which harms the story. During that season, Tom Baker's Doctor and Romana #1 (Mary Tamm) search for the Key of Time.  The Key is in six pieces hidden throughout time and space. Sounds familiar to Aki searching for the eight spirits of Gaia though the desimated Earth, doesn't it? Not only that, but also Aki mentions that one of the spirits was a child who was dying.  Very close to the final episode (The Armageddon Factor) of that season, when the final Key piece is actually Princess Astra (Lalla Ward, who would become Romana in the next episode). Maybe Japan doesn't know Doctor Who as well as Americans and Britons.  It's a challenge to consider.  So is FFTSW supposed to be Doctor Who for the 21st century.Oh, the graphics are good, but the plot's from Doctor Who and it's too slow! "},{"Title":"Very different...","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think Final Fantasy is a great movie, which totally works on its own level. This movie is japanese and it shows. It feels, looks and plays a lot more like anime than a traditional American action-adventure flick. And I think that is why so many people think this is a bad movie. They just went into the theatre, leaving their brain at home, and expected to see something like Aliens or Starship Troopers and instead they got this slow paced anime-styled flick with a complex storyline.This is a very good movie, much better than the critics think and Square sure didn't deserve going bankrupt on it. Clear your mind and pay attention to the dialogue and you will enjoy it too...oh yeah..and the story will come a lot more natural to you if you've played the Final Fantasy games. "},{"Title":"THE BEST ANIMATED Film","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  THis movie was AWESOME...To Hell with Shrek and that Neutron s***.This movie kicked the but! THe scenery was awesome, the animation ruled. Best of all Grey Edwards was hot!Besides that the plot is a bit confusing but the loves story and the music just created wonderful wonderful chemistry.  Definitely a movie worth seeing...Final Fantasy should have gotten an Oscar, so should have Harry Potter...why should Final Fantasy get an Oscar? Because it had the music, the effects, the romance, the comedy, the detailed 'humans', the wonderful story line (compared to Shrek, Shrek had no story line at all, it was just plain stupid), and best of all the voiced matched. It was moving and all I can say it was 'Bloody Brilliant'I loved it! It deserves an A+ My top five fave movies Harry Potter, Final Fantasy, The Matrix, David Copperfield, and Oliver!. "},{"Title":"Surprised the heck out of me.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I won't deny it...I went into FFTSW expecting visually stunning animation and not much else.  (When will I learn not to go into films with any expectations, good or bad?)  What I got was far from one of the best films I've ever seen, but still very, very entertaining. As I've stated in other reviews, I don't like to comment on animation unless I have nothing else to talk about.  So I won't. Final Fantasy's story is good--the general idea is great, and very creepy in general.  It does, however, seem very rushed...particularly at the beginning of the film, which is especially distressing since if you miss one thing out of all the stuff they've got to establish, you simply won't understand any of the rest of the movie and will likely despise it for the rest of your life.  If you /do/ manage to get all the little details the movie throws out, the rest of the plot actually makes sense, and believe me, movies are a lot more entertaining when they make sense.  There are still moments when the plot seems rushed, and there's certainly more they could do with it, but in general it's a nice, suspenseful ride. The voice acting is pretty good.  Some of the lines seem forced, but most of the dialogue sounds very natural, making it a lot easier to suspend disbelief and get wrapped up in the story. The action sequences are probably the least important part of this film, but they are amazingly well-done.  I guess I can't talk about choreography, really, with a film made in this way, but whatever the term, the action flows extremely well, and the characters in them show more emotion and involvement than a lot of live-action stars.  It evades the problem I have with a lot of action films...scenes in which the fighters/runners/whatever have looks on their faces that just scream, We're just running through memorized choreography, not actually battling for our lives.  I suppose the emotion might be easier to show with an animated character who doesn't have to concentrate on finding his spots and all, but even so, I have to give the FF guys credit for showing it.You may have wondered why I haven't commented on the games yet.  Yes, I've played them.  Yes, I like them.  No, I won't comment on how strictly the film sticks to their concept or how far it strays from them.  This film should be judged purely by its own merits, not by its relationship to the games, just as each new FF game should be judged on its own, not compared to the rest of the FF series.  If a film or game is a remake of something, I'll compare it to the old one...if not (and this film isn't) I'll let it stand on it's own...which Final Fantasy The Spirits Within can certainly do.  It isn't a masterpiece, it isn't a great film, but it is certainly good and well worth watching. Oh, heck, one comment on the animation.  Magnificent.  There.  And one on the soundtrack.  Great.  There. Okay, now I'm done. "},{"Title":"Stunning animation, but nothing else of note.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  'Final Fantasy' is, first and foremost, a technical milestone. It is the first completely computer-animated film to aim at creating a realistic world (as opposed to the cartoon creations of 'Toy Story' or 'Antz') and it is a triumph of dazzling imagery that nearly achieves its goal. Not that the characters can be mistaken for real people - they may have freckles, stubble and lines but they still look airbrushed, and they are a touch wooden when trying to express strong emotions like grief - but, from the moment we see a closeup of the eye of the hero the sheer detail and beauty of the pixels on screen is staggering. They are not replacements for real actors, but they aren't far off it.Of course, like nearly all big-budget Hollywood movies it is a sensory feast and an intellectual snack. The plot involves a future where Earth has been invaded by wraithlike aliens who suck the life out of anything they touch. The remnants of humanity are restricted to shielded areas in the larger cities, where they debate various plans for destroying the enemy. The military suggest blasting them with a big lazer (obviously little has changed since the Cuban Missile Crisis). The alternative, which is followed by our band of soldiers and scientists, involves collecting a bunch of different lifeforms from around the Earth to create a wave of Gaea energy that will cancel the Alien energy. Obviously there's a lot of vague and over-serious New Age bollocks involved in this, as well as some corny lines, but the characters, dialogue and plot are at least passable. Don't expect to be thinking about the subtleties of the movie for a long time - 'Taxi Driver' or 'American Beauty' it is not. But really depth of character and originality of story aren't the points of a film such as this - it is, after all, a fantasy, and the story and characters play second fiddle to the awesome succession of images filling the screen. It is the shattered cityscape of Old New York, the writhing, transparent alien collossuses and the incredibly detailed faces that will remain in the memory long after you have forgotten the names of the characters.I recommend it if you feel like an entertaining night.Tane "},{"Title":"Ground breaking","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a difficult film to review as it's really the first of it's type. Using only computer graphics, it attempts to create real looking and believable characters in a futuristic Anime setting. Unlike 'Toy Story' and it's followers, this movie isn't trying to look like a cartoon, but like a live action film with human actors.Considering it from this point of view, it's a stunning achievement. At times I found myself forgetting I was watching computer graphics - it really is that well done. The level of detail in the faces and the character movement is especially impressive, although at times it didn't feel quite right (on a few rare occasions it looked quite bad.) If we look at the film aside from the technical achievement, it doesn't fare as well. The plot is very Japanese influenced which is a good thing. We're saturated by American movies and it's refreshing to see something off beat. Unfortunately it feels watered down, as if it's Japanese origins have been diluted by American influence. As a result it ends up being neither Japanese Anime or American Sci-Fi Action - I would have liked it to have been a bit more way out, a bit more daring. Like the plot, the acting is weak. Facial expressions are extremely important in conveying feelings and the technology isn't quite there. The voice acting was good but it's difficult to empathise with the characters.I'd talk about the sets and costumes etc - but there weren't any right?Overall, this isn't a film I'd recommend to everyone. If you're interested in computer graphics, Anime or Sci-Fi - give it a try.     "},{"Title":"total waste of CGI","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  'It blowed me away', says one reviewer on here. So much for the mystery of this piece of crud getting 6.8. Only someone with an IQ low enough to confuse tenses in one's own mother tongue could like Final Fantasy.Come on, people, if this was a live action movie, you'd be screaming about how bad it is. CGI for CGI's sake is a dumb idea. And letting video game cutscene directors make a movie... worse idea. The story is the cheesiest piece of cheese in film history - earth spirits, ethereal parasites, what have you. If some people fail to make sense of the plot, they shouldn't worry - there isn't one. It's typical anime fare, and to be honest, if you watch anime for the plot, you're in dire need of a good book. The dialogue is a rancid mix of badly adapted sci-fi cliches and ridiculous new age mumbo-jumbo. The voice acting is uninspired. As motion picture storytelling, it's a failure.Now, the much-lauded CGI. It's boring, badly animated, no one ever looks close to realistic, apart from two scenes, which are ruined by bad camera handling (meaning the camera doesn't move like a real one would). There are some interesting shots, but most of them are covered in the trailer. If you want to see realistic human animation, check out Shrek, the scene where Shrek has the princess on his shoulder. Final Fantasy's animation reminded me of animatronics. The backgrounds are poorly lit and unconvincing. Flashlight beams behave as if they were mounted on robotic arms. Clothing behaves like spandex, but it can't be that close-fitting, because people aren't shaped like that. Hair looks like that only in shampoo commercials. Long story short, the animation is completely subpar to that of Pixar and Dreamworks.I hoped much more of this picture, but it's simply another nail in the coffin of computer gaming credibility. Come on, there are GOOD plots in gaming, Fallout, Gabriel Knight, even the shameless Starcraft, which borrows heavily from almost every sci-fi movie there is, yet combines it into an interesting story, and keeps its dabbles into psionic abilites and other quasi-magical phenomena beliavable. Not to mention the pure overload of attitude. Plus, the cutscenes, although with similarly mechanical-seeming animation, were paced, lit, and scored far better.Final Fantasy is an overdrawn cutscene, and a mediocre one at that. As for completely realistic CGI actors, i'm still waiting.  "},{"Title":"Don't Look at it as the Game.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You have to go into this movie realizing that it's not a 40-50 hour RPG but a nearly two hour film. Of course it's not gonna be as good as the game but on it own merit it is incredible. The state-of-the-art Graphics are quite impressive and should be shown to anyone who doubts the future of Animation. This is something you need to watch, even just once to see what Computers can do. Like Akira, this movie will be remembered for being a stepping-stone for 'realistic' animation.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Execution of great artistic talent.","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm sorry to hear that Square Soft Studios retired last october. This  picture will be revolutionizing the way we look at entertainment in the future. This is a masterpiece and a milestone in technological advancement for the animation industry. Excellent work. Hopefully, there will be more of this kind. "},{"Title":"Nice, but something is missing...","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When Final Fantasy was released, I heard two kind of critics about it. Some people said that it was a big piece of crap and others said it was a great new kind of scifi- movie. I bought this movie some time ago and I wasnt disappointed after watching it. Movie looked great. Computer animation is smooth and stylish from start to the end. But still there was something that I wanted more... something was missing. The story in Final Fantasy was just too shallow and that´s the problem with the characters also. In the relationships between headcharacters are too many cliches and that bothered me during whole movie. Still Final Fantasy was a good movie. With it problems it managed to bring something new for us. Maybe some of these days they will find a great script and make a breathtaking computer- film that also has a good story...I hope so... 6/10   "}{"Title":"Groundbreaking film -- fluff story","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Not the greatest story in the world, but definitely a groundbreaking film. Watch it, love it, marvel at its realistic computer generated characters. And forget that the story is about the spirit of a piece of planetary rock. "},{"Title":"Hey, lets just dispense with actors in totality, these guys are good!","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Depending on whether or not you consider FINAL FANTASY THE SPIRITS WITHIN a true movie, then it must be up for consideration as the best 'video-game to screen' transfer yet!Absolutely top CGI work which as one critic accurately commented, seems to improve in fluidity as the drama unfolds. The realism, notably the facial expressions and gestures are simply top drawer.Perhaps light-on in the plot area and spouting forth scifi cliches left right and center, this anime working really delivers in the detail division. The vehicles and backgrounds are superbly artistic - the smallest detail painstakingly realistic.Requires multiple viewings!  Much of the plot, which suffers at times from rampant complexity, is lost first time up, as the viewer's attention is absorbed principally by the visuals. Even more enjoyable on second and third viewings! "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Film...for everyone.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's really unfortunate that all people (including myself) tend to judge a movie, by who's in it, that it's based on a video game, or that it's animated.Final Fantasy definitely did not on the outside appeal to most people for the second and third reasons to say the least.  This is really sad because what was made here was, not only an amazing advance in film technology, but a very good story line to top it off.  I admit that I went to this movie for two reasons.  1.  I like the Final Fantasy game series.  AND  2.  I wanted to see the animation.  The story was just a bonus.  If the film had been live action and preview the same way, it would have done well.  If people could've seen Alec Baldwin, or Donald Sutherland, or Morgan Freeman as actors in it, then it would have done well.  This is a great movie people.  It is a very good story, and the animation is almost real.  I just hope that the $100 million dollar loss for this movie will not hinder the advancement of the animation technology. "},{"Title":"Impressive movie, but lacks originality","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While knowing nothing about the video games of Final Fantasy, but knowing that movies based on video games usually doesn't work out, I didn't think that Final Fantasy The Spirits Within would be any good. But already in the very beginning I was impressed by the beautiful shots and the great atmosphere. The CGI are really unbelievable and the characters are very well made. There's a close eye on details e.g. on vehicles, which is a good plus. The story lacks somewhat in originality, it does have some clichés, but nevertheless the story is good. In overall it's a decent movie, with no major plot holes or goofs. 7.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"The first 100%-CGI movie","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is the year 2065, and earth is under attack by phantom-like aliens that stranded here when a meteor crashed into our planet 34 years ago. Humans who get in touch with the aliens lose their spirit - and their life. Human race is living in constant fear behind giant walls, while special forces battle against the aliens in the wastelands. But now young scientist Aki Ross and her mentor Dr. Sid just found what could be the ultimate countermeasure against the ghostly creatures from outer space. To complete their plans, they must find the eight spirits of earth - but the stubborn General Hein has different plans. He wants to shoot at the aliens' crater with a laser weapon stationed in space. This results in disaster...Based on popular video games of the same name, this co-production between Japan's Square Pictures and America's Columbia-TriStar is said to be the first completely computer-generated feature film ever. Being a 106-minutes special effect, this movie faced heavy critic because of the lack of story and uninteresting characters. I really don't understand that - while the film borrows ideas from many science-fiction classics, it still HAS an interesting story and characters to offer! The animation is simply brillant and revolutionary, and the hole movie is eye candy par excellence. Genre fans should run to see it... "},{"Title":"Almost a good film, and very pretty pictures.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It might be most revealing to relate the judgement of a vote for this film If it wasn't CGI, it's a regular action sci-fi film with some corny dialogue, so I'd give it 6. The CGI is stunning (the hands are the weakest point; the Donald Sutherland character is breathtaking), and easily gets it an extra point. The double DVD has very good extras, so my overall I reckon it's an 8. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is visually amazing but does not have a lot to work with. It has some good moments in it and a interesting plot but it doesn't go too far. Also the word movements sometimes do not go with the characters and some of the actors are so misplaced. Steve Buscemi does not fit the profile of his character and kind of ruins the movie. Overall good job. "},{"Title":"Good and entertaining","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a good movie. The story is great, the animation is excellent, it is entertaining, and also interesting. I think you should watch it. It is fun and it is exciting, too. You wont be bored. You will be interested! It is much better than 'A Bug's Life' and 'Stuart Little' no matter how popular they are, believe me.   "},{"Title":"Good story, but could have been better","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I actually thought it was the animation that detracted from what I thought was a strong story. The CGI was good - but I just can't take to these characters - I wonder how much better it would have been if they had mixed live characters with the CGI action and story. Plenty of good moments - but not enough for me. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Was this really such a bad movie?","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's interesting what kinds of plots/scripts people will accept from anime, comics, foreign films, etc, and what they won't accept from a big-budget film like Final Fantasy. I have to admit that I was a bit disappointed in this movie, but is it really fair to compare it with the games? And who hasn't been a little confused by the events in a typical Japanese animated film? Sure the ending was ambiguous, but can you really explain what happens at the end of any mystical fantasy story? There is supposed to be a bit of vagueness because something is happening that even those that are involved (ie the characters) don't necessarily understand. Or maybe the character has gained some sort of insight or state of being that the audience is not privy to and therefore isn't expected to understand. Maybe we're supposed to THINK about what happened and draw our own conclusions. Wouldn't that make the movie more interactive, and therefore closer than normally possible to the experience of the games? Regarding the game/film comparison-is that the right thing to do? How much of our enjoyment of video games comes from the fact that the player is personally involved in the characters' decision-making? That's just not possible in a movie. I really liked the film, but I think perhaps that's because I tried to distance the watching experience from the playing experience, and because compared to a lot of recent sci-fi films, Final Fantasy wasn't that bad. "}{"Title":"Couldn't get past number 4","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...in the box office, that is.  For some reason, 'The Spirits Within' didn't draw a huge crowd. Perhaps video games should remain video games, and not try to make the transfer to the silver screen in an attempt to sack a few more millions for a major corporation.I've played two of Squaresoft's titles (Final Fantasies IV and VI), and I loved them both. I decided to see this movie out of curiosity.  My impressions it was ok. Just that. Number four was it's peak at the box office, and that is frankly what it should have been. It deserved no better and no worse...even though I expected it to hold the top position for at least a SMALL amount of time.For us Final Fantasy vets, there wasn't much in the way of familiarities, things that were trademarks of the game none of the beloved chocobo birds (although Square claims that there were a few hidden ones), a bit more sci-fi-esque as opposed to the fantasy theme that was the starting point of the video game series. No spells, nothing of that nature. By taking out all those things that made Square's video game series so famous, it took out what could have made the film number one.The plot was like that of a poor role-playing game, watered down until it was swimming in cliches the lead character (Aki Ross) must collect seven items necessary to build a weapon to eradicate the 'phantoms' that are plaguing the now dying earth. Thank God there was Dr. Sid (for those who don't know, there was a character named Cid in every single Final Fantasy to date)...and thank God Aki wasn't the stereotypical female - physically speaking. The characters had facial flaws. It was breathtaking - a break from the unnatural perfection of the characters of Final Fantasies beyond VII. The eye-candy throughout the film was gorgeous. But the ending...very, very depressing is all I'll say.If you really like the game series, watch this. It's not bad. If you're into sci-fi with a slight hint of fantasy, same applies. But if you don't fall into any of those categories, you might want to pass this one up. It gets a *2.8 out of 5* from me. "},{"Title":"Good..if you bring earplugs.","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Let's face it, they weren't going for dialogue.  But that doesn't make it a bad movie.  The script was awful, but visually this movie was incredible.  If they had worked more on the screenplay, I believe it would have gotten a better reaction...but that was clearly not their goal, and the goal that they had they accomplished. "},{"Title":"a film like no other......","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After hearing the bad press about this picture I made my mind up that the only real way was to see it. and I did..... It blowed me away... the C.G.I the story.... Its pure final fantasy. I'm a media student and for my project I'm doing study on this film about its film language. and as a film student I have seen MANY films ranging form new wave to film-noir to teen slasher. take my advise....remember the fairy tales and magic as a child,go into this film with a open heart and mind and behold its wonder.  "},{"Title":"A Historical Movie First","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is saddled with a plot from game creator Hironobu Sakaguchi, and some really awkward voice performances and dialogue that must be attributable to Jack Fletcher who was in charge of casting, and acted as the voice director, with an additional dialogue by credit.  As the Asian news service commented, you have to pity the two American screenwriters--one of whom is Oscar-nominated--when they were obviously working with a mostly Japanese crew who thought they knew more about English than the English-speakers.  The staging of the scenes is often amateurish, and the direction and editing leaves a lot to be desired.But given all that, this film puts some amazing sights on the screen, and the character of Aki is a wonderful female role model  smart and sexy, determined and emotional.  A real triumph.  This is not a great movie, but it is a movie that may in time change movies.  And it sure as heck beats Lara Croft  Tomb Raider!  One of the better summer blockbusters of 2001, this was a financial flop, although it does have its vocal supporters such as Ebert and Roeper, who gave it Two BIG Thumbs Up!  You may be skeptical, but check it out.  You'll be glad. "},{"Title":"Definitely requires a second viewing...","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although it has the same name as a hugely successful series of video games, Final Fantasy really has about as much connection with them as a Kubrick adaptation has with its source material. It's secondary title, The Spirits Within, is a much better clue to what this tour de force of computer animation is all about. Indeed, one of the comments made by one of the crew about the inspiration was that he conceived the project after a lot of thought about what happens to the bits of us that make us... well... us... after we die.The story is rather simplistic in nature it is simply set on Earth a few decades into the future, some years after a chunk of a distant planet seperated from said planet and landed in the Earth. From that moment on, the humans have always thought they were being invaded, as spirits with a physical form that is normally invisible attack them and remove their spirits. If that sounds a bit out of this world, then you're right, it probably is. Few films that have been shown in the English speaking world raise so many questions about what a spirit is and what happens to it when the body carrying ceases to function. Of course, there are those who have developed theories to explain why the spirits are seemingly attacking the Earth, but there are also those who persecute and ridicule them. Remember what happened when a certain scientist declared he believed the Earth to be round? That's basically what you get here.Of course, no computer-animated film can go by without comments on the quality of the animation, so here goes. Unlike certain animations about insects or living toys, the animation in Final Fantasy is so smooth and lifelike that one can easily forget these are just computer renderings of humans. They look and move in such a lifelike manner that one forgets for a brief period that they aren't actors. The voice acting is pretty exceptional, too. When the character of Dr. Aki Ross speaks, one can hear a certain sad authority in her voice that takes hold of the viewer and places them right in the middle of the setting.Some have complained about the ending. I admit, when I first saw it, I had to watch the film again to make full sense of it, but I thought it was actually quite an excellent ending. I won't spoil it for you, but the important line is one stated by Alec Baldwin's character. It really puts the whole film and its events in proper context. Grab this film on DVD... the extras on it are just as much fun as the feature. ) "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy is an amazing story that pleases the eye as well as the soul","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie gives an alluring view into the future of animation.  The creators of Final Fantasy did an excellent job building this storyline and inventing new characters that we will never get sick of.  The movie is full of religion, philosophy, and unforgettable lessons about life and our species.  This movie shows that we can find the strength inside of us to change the world for the better.  At the same time it shows how disturbingly greedy and fearful human beings can be.  It really shows that we do not appreciate our planet, or the Spirit that lives within it.Final Fantasy is an amazing story that pleases the eye as well as the soul. The innovation of the creators, concerning vehicles, guns, and other inventions is amazing.  It really looks like the future in this movie.  The scenery and dream sequences are so vivid, they make regular movies look like sitcoms.  The best thing about this movie is it goes places no camera crew could ever go, it creates landscapes and settings that are unimaginable until you see them yourself.  Personally, I think this is the deepest, most inspirational movie ever made. "},{"Title":"A graphical masterpiece, let down by anime influenced/complex storyline...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie never intended to tell a simple, see once and understand, type of storyline. As with all Japanese anime, the story needs to be visited 2 or 3 more times to be fully realised.On the other hand, the visuals are beautiful, even if the motions are robotic. Shrek, Toy Story and Monster Inc. all incorporate that cartoon feel so it is not very apparent to spot flaws, yet Final Fantasy's graphics is far superior to those animations, yet is let down by the audience's perception of reality.Character deveopment is non existent, but as the story is being written by the game creator, Sakaguchi-san is used to about 30-40 hours to develop the story, where here, he has only 90 minutes.This movie was never meant to be compared to the likes of Shrek and Monster Inc., or even Aliens and Blade Runner, but to be compared to anime's such as Ghost in a Shell. ...Four out of Five... "},{"Title":"unbelievable graphics","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was so amazed by this movie.  It was simply incredible.  This is something that has never been done before anywhere...never done in movies, never done in video games.  The details on the faces...especially the old guy was so breathtaking.  To me he was the most realistic character.  Motion capture has its limitations, so I wasn't expected too much with fluid realistic movement from the characters, but was still extremely impressed with what I saw.  The hair blowing in the wind, being able to see each strand of hair, the imperfections on their faces, their facial expressions, all were done so well.  But what I was simply blown away with was the lighting that was incorporated into the movie.  This is the single most important element in a movie, whether it's live action or animated.  Lighting captures everything...angles, depth, mood, and of course, makes your actors/characters look better than they really do.  To do this kind of lighting and then render it at 30 frames per second at such high resolution requires a lot of computing and graphics power.  This movie deserves a 10 because it's done what nobody has ever done on any medium.  I mean, you're not even going to see images as realistic as these in video/PC games for at least another 5-7 years.  Square deserves a lot of credit...especially Square USA.  ILM could learn a lot from these guys...they can't even make Yoda or Jabba look real!  I know this is a very technical review, but that was the whole purpose of this movie...the plot had nothing to do with any of the Final Fantasy video games, but the plot had existed in Sakaguchi's mind for years.   "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I heard from just about everyone that this movie was supposed to be stinking bad. I read the reviews in the papers, almost all bad, but all credit given to the CG effects. Then one day I decided to see it, since I'm a fan of the games I thought I might just find it in my heart to like it even though it wasn't good.So I watched it. And boy, was I surprised. Not only did it blew me away with the CG, it also exceeded all expectations that I've had. It was good, and not just good, it was great. It was an adventure not too Hollywood. It was everything I want in an adventure film, the obvious bad guys, good guys, heroics, everything. It was like a fairy tale you tell your children about. And with your imagination running wild.I don't agree with the bashing of this film. It was good. But since Square closed it's film department after the 'failure' with the film there wont be a sequel to it, and I want many of them. So this is the FINAL fantasy.And I can't see how anyone could dislike it. Maybe actors who maybe get hints of that their future careers will be competing with CG. But in my book this is a perfect 5 out of 5.Enjoy this, and don't complain about reality, it's fantasy. "},{"Title":"Outstanding science fiction","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Despite its title, I found Final Fantasy to be among the best science fiction movies ever, though with a strong new-age flavor.  It reminded me of the mind-expanding novels I used to read in high school, stuff by Frederick Pohl and Arthur Clarke.  Hats off to the writers and artists who put it together.  Sorry it didn't do better at the box office! "}{"Title":"One little pity","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is directed by two Japanese, however, none of its computer generated characters is Asian!That is the biggest mistake in this movie.I know that Ming-Na is the protaganist's voice. However, why does it look like a white female to me?It has blacks, but no Asians.what a pity!It is not a movie about race, however, it is a movie that can be made for any races. I certainly hope that the next one will be different. it is time to show some Asian faces!  "},{"Title":"Awesome graphics!!!","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  (Spoilers?)This is what Starship Troopers is not.  Fun. Great story and an awesome show.  The graphics are superb.  Hope there's a sequel.  Cause this is knocking on my door to get bought.  Can't believe this movie did so poorly.  There's no reason why it should have.The only problem I see is it gives no indication where in the entire Final Fantasy story this takes place.9/10Quality 10/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable  8/10 "},{"Title":"Very, very dull.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was not at all what I expected it to be.  This movie I found to be very boring.  I love the video games and I was expecting this to be a fun movie, instead I found a movie that had absolutely no connection at all with the game series that took itself way to seriously.  None of the games take place on the earth as we know it, but this does, the only monsters are phantoms, there is no well defined bad guy, and I could go on and on.  You would think they could have lifted the plot from one of the games, instead of the boring one they used.  The action scenes were pretty good, but there were just to many scenes where they just sat around discussing things.  Also, the animation was great at times, but at others it looked as if they were moving underwater.  There were many inconsistances concerning the monsters, too.  At the beginning they would infect a person, then it was like they were stealing your soul.  All in all I was really disappointed with this flick, they should have stayed more true to the game or at least named it something else. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking animation effects for a very good production.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Of course (as my father is glad to have learned), Japanese people know what they do. I think this movie was something much more than I've been able to see about computer-made cartoons.For instance, Toy Story (by Disney) was the first experiment in making cartoons with multimedia-capable stations, and was a little hard to see to the end, maybe because of the techniques used for it, that made graphics too ballooned and too much sharpened.Years later, advances in calculus capabilities by powerful microprocessors have been able to make the miracle to give characters a full scale expressivity, made of both movements (facial most of all) and care of single details in realization of clothes, weapons and so on. I think I saw for the first time such a preciseness in hair fluctuations, expecially for the main female character, Aki Ross.We can anyway see a little common things in Sci-Fi american films, like a partially destroyed New York City or a Russian origin of rampaging evilness (since the Phantoms' base is near Caspium Sea), even if this last detail is covered by the finding of Gaia's Spirit exactly in these places.We can also be aware that such precision in making most of the story (main characters and places) has a negative effect, i.e. that need to neglige something which has led to a sometimes unreal Doctor Sid's appearance and behaviour, as well as poor facial expressions by some of the members in Grey Edwards's Squad.Finally, a merit degree goes to landscape views, where power of Land Generators is far well given proof of, poetically mixturing the red tones of a sunset with the classic eagle flying 'round the mountains in the final scene, or recreating the sense of oppression and shrinking that survivors inhabiting the Cities are surely feeling.Globally I think this is a very good movie, with a not-so-deep plot, but still able to surprise, expecially with precision of virtual scenes. It's certainly not the Final Boundary of computer animation, but neither Toy Story was, and it was still considered a groundbreaker and future-projected production, at the time it was made. Final Fantasy will surely be overwhelmed by new techniques and new visual effects, but THIS TIME it's state-of-the-art, and be sure it will stay that for long. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi that doesn't deserve the comments it usually gets.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Square Pictures incorporated many different elements in this movie-the game series (characters in the style of FF8), japanese animation esthtetics, and Hollywood story elements all found their way into this title. Heavily promoted for its visuals, the question was How good are they really?. General consensus of most people as good or even better than one had thought. Some critics would diss the acting moves of the characters as wooden,clumsy and lifeless, average viewers however would really pick up on the technical side. The second question, of course, remains How good is the movie itself (story and atmosphere)?. Controversy is much greater concerning this question, the story was often found to be too complex or simply weak.In my opinion, the story was what made FF really special. This has several reasonsFirst of all, the characters are more elaborate than in your standard sci-fi production. General Hein springs to mind (I won't tell you about his role- see the movie!). Not simply a good or bad char, but a man with a story and his own emotions, his actions are plausible all the way through the plot. The same applies for the rest of the cast, serious chars are sided by funny ones that offer comic relief from time to time.Second, the plot evolves and takes turns (what made people say too complex), drawing your attention all the way to the final confrontation. It also employs emotion in reasonable doses, contrary to current hollywood fashion of exaggerating everything (check out Armageddon to see how bad it can really get), yet has moving moments in it as well. This is also due to the great voice acting (e.g Ben Affleck does much better than on the screen, imho) and the director (check out that opening scene- tons of atmosphere!- and the cuts and perspectives in dialogue scenes, too). Elements of japanese and american animation merge in this title. Close-Ups, changes of pace (still to hellishly fast), hollywood-action scenes with videogame-flavour (can you say Half-Life?) and dialogue (the FF games again) make a mixture that kept people watching for 110 minutes (the theater audience went completely quiet from the first scene to the last). Great directing made the great visual style really work as a movie. Players of the games will also recognize the story as classic FF concerning the surprises and the plotline quality (and hey, one character is called Sid!). Sure, this kind of story requires close attention, but hey, how much story does Alien have (or soylent green, etc.)? To me, sci-fi movies con only be truly special if there's more to them than fighting monsters-or discovering some horrible secrets.In a TV interview, the head storyboarder of Toy Story took pride in the fact that reviews commented mainly on the story and hardly on technical aspects. This was unfortunately not the case in FF. I think reducing the movie to being just a technical masterpiece (which it really is) does it great unjustice and makes many people refrain from seeing it (and miss a great experience).Granted, it's not Heavenly Creatures. As an entertainment movie of high quality, however, it stands out amongst many sci-fis, which in most cases are awkwardly simple, one-sided and cliche-laden. Check it out- you won't regret it!   "},{"Title":"Amazing animation! Hystorical moment!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This animation should enter history for its spectacular, astonishing computer grafics, the first step towards fision between cartoon and film! Ok, the plot is average and a little crowded (a bit too many things happening in too little time, they should have made it a bit longer). Ok, the dialogues sometimes reminded me of Independence Day or any other brainless bulls**t. But, Jeezes! it's worth watching just for the animation itself! UNBELIEVABLY FANTASTIC! I didn't give 10 just for the lousy dialogues... And while you watch, don't forget to remind yourself that you're watching an animation and not a movie...  ;)  "},{"Title":"The Future Is Here !","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In 1995 Pixar studios make a big revolution with the first film make by computer Toy Story,When I watch it I ThinkMight not make better.In 1998 I watch Antz and  A Bug´s Life  It´s incredible It might make Better,1999 Toy story 2 it´s  amazing but It´s not better than the other one.Yesterday I Watch Final Fantasy The Spirits Within and it´s the Best Film make by computer With Shrek.Aki and Co look like real and the movements  are natural and fast.The soundtrack is excellent and the monster are like in the videogames.It´s not a film that like everyone,you can love or hate it.SENTENCE FOR FINAL FANTASYA FILM OF 22nd Century  "},{"Title":"Very bad","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a fan of Final Fantasy game, i decided to see this movie myself. To my disappointment it doesn't have any similarity with the game itself. Many movies has been make based on video or PC games but only 10 percent of them are good.The plot is slightly complicated beside fancy graphics and sounds effects which can be said, excellent other than that nothing is good in this movie. Probably the story can be created more exciting by adding at least 60% likeness to the game itself.The casts, well only one is brilliant, he has such a perfect voice and good humourous dialogue which he possessed. "},{"Title":"Like nothing you've seen before. Do the right thing, go and SEE it!!!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was highly anticipating the release of Final Fantasy, since I had first heard of it back in 1998 and now that I have I have to say it was definetly worth the VERY long wait. No doubt the first thing the grabs you is the visuals. No matter what you think or other people say the CG graphics are like nothing you have ever seen before. At times, you just can't believe what your eyes are witnessing. The first action scene of the movie is brillantely done, pulling you in to the movie's slow, but deep and involving plot. Despite people complaining of the poor characters I found them very well done ( seeming real at times )and make me laugh witht he quick humor. Music is excellent, really making you about cry at the sad moments and exciting you at the ( most ) incredible action scenes I've seen in a long time. Totally recommended to everyone. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking; here's why...","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEAD, NOT THE LIGHT KIND EITHER...OK, so what on earth the eight spirits were is anybody's guess. Why one was a fish, one was a deer and so on is left completely unexplained (as are several other details I know). Holes in the plot were numerous.But here's the thing Toy Story, Bug's Life, Antz, all them; they're kids films. We were never really involved with the characters because they were quite obviously going to make it to the end alive.This was the film which made us ask, can we invest emotionally in a bunch of pixels? Here are characters who have never been actors, never been protagonists in a novel, they have only been ones and zeros. Can we care about them?I'm a fairly cynical moviegoer. But I got more involved with these characters than I did in any of the live-action summer crap I've seen so far this year, and I was genuinely rooting for them. No matter how many cliches the plot threw at us, I got caught up in the characters.Computers can create people we give a damn about. It's now official. We're no longer in the realm of Buzz and Woody, although I'll readily admit the script of Toy Story had more going for it in a single line that the taking-itself-oh-so-seriously sci-fi plot on display here.The ending, and here are the spoilers I warned about, is good for mankind but truly poignant for us, the audience. I say grumbly things when I see yet another couple-ride-off-into-the-sunset ending, and yet when this film was courageous enough to kill off 5 out of 7 of its main characters, including one half of the central romantic coupling, I really got caught up in it. When they started dying, I really did start feeling the loss.So what am I saying here? Not sure myself. But in a summer full of characters that I wish had died (including anyone from Tomb Raider of Evolution) it's an interesting state of affairs when I get most caught up with the ones who don't actually exist. The incredibly bittersweet ending is brave, and provocative (more than making up for the plot holes and poor acting).Their faces still have a way to go before convincing animation is delivered across the board. The script was clunky, with no sense of humour whatsoever. The plot holes were numerous, and the audience is asked to take too much on faith. But I still felt upset when each member of the deep-eye squadron bought the farm, one by one.Jurassic Park 3 would have had more weight if they'd killed a main character. This film did, and was genuinely powerful for it. The most unexpected ending of my moviegoing summer so far, I'd encourage people to see it. The action is good, Peri Gilpin's voice is as sexy as ever, the graphics are amazing and the film holds (in spite of never having existed in the real world in any way whatsoever) more weight in a single scene than all the dross I've put up with this summer so far.And I'm a Nintendo fan... "}{"Title":"Even my girlfriend liked it...","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a mild fan of the Final Fantasy video game series and I have an appreciation for sci-fi/adventure films.  My expectations were moderate, and my girlfriend was being dragged along.  Her mocking tone was replaced with a feeling of awe as the first images of Aki appeared on screen.  Indeed, every detail (including tear ducts and freckles) were featured.  The only awkward imagery centered around the lack of synchronization when some of the characters spoke (especially Steve Busimee's).Aside from the awesome display of computer animation, the story had an above-average plot, above-average music, and decent dialogue.  The attempts to interject humor typically fell short, but that was easily forgotten. This has definitely been one of my better movie experiences for the summer, it kept my interest and before I knew it the movie was over.  My girlfriend agrees, claiming that it's the best movie out since early May (she liked Shrek and Mummy 2 alot).There were NO children in the theater (450 showing).  The movie seemed to be geared to a more mature audience, much to my surprise.  The fact that this film is categorized as animated has deterred several of my acquaintances from seeing it.  It's a great film, and it is definitely worth my time and money.  See it for the revolutionary computer graphics if nothing else, it's great eye candy. )  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Amazing!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie was better than I thought it would be.  The CGI was remarkably realistic and fluid.  Dr. Sid (the best rendered character) looked real. Not only was the CGI incredible, the plot does a lot of character building. The ending left some in the theater in tears.People who don't see this movie, or watch with an open mind, don't know what they are missing.  This could be an incredible new film genre, but with dismal sales and uneducated viewers, might never make it off the ground. It's sad that such a ground breaking first attempt cannot be appreciated for the wonderful effort that it is.  Seems like most American viewers are more interested in a film which requires no thought, has no meaning, has misplaced humor, and plenty of rolling action shots.  If this is you, put your brain to rest and go watch JP3.  I'll pass.  I still haven't gotten over the joke that was JP2.I feel bad for the developers who were so proud of their achievement.  I hope the movie will do better in Japan where such films are more widely accepted but it looks like the producers may have americanized the film too much to do good there also. "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One word comes to mind WOW.I just got back from seeing Final Fantasy with a group of 9 people and I just had to vote. Firstly I was blown away by the special effects and enraptured by the PLOT/STORYLINE which is surprising in this modern era.Let me say that despite my lavish praise my companions were not so impressed. Sure they liked the computer graphics ( though a debate raged as to whether SHREK or ahem TOY STORY have better graphics) but for them the story was HO HUM.Well to the disbelievers and to my friends, just because you have seen so many rubbish movies lately, stop being JADED and just enjoy a cool movie when it is presented. "},{"Title":"Amazing film...","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, as someone wanting to be an a computer animator, this was a must-see. As a Final Fantasy fan, this was even more of a must-see. And I can say that in both terms, I was not disappointed in the least bit. I can out that theather wishing to go right back in and watch it again and again.Anyone will agree with me that that animation is astounding. Doesn't matter who you are. But for you nitpicky people out there, there is nothing else in the world that compares visually to Final Fantasy. This is a huge step for the animation world. They never said was was damn near perfect...but it was a definately a huge bound, so give Sqaure a break, they did a brilliant job there. And how can you complain about the visuals when the visuals were enough to get some people in to see the movie. And for those of you complaining about why they couldn't have used real actors. Let me ask you this, how cheesy would this movie looked had it been done with live action? How utterly fake would that have looked. Because everything is animated, you're more easily drawn in to this reality, it's more realisitic, yes I DID SAY more realistic. And I do not believe real actors have anything to fear. This breakthrough in animation allows for more fantastic adventures and fantasies to be told to an audience, it doesn't take away the life and blood of the actors and actresses today. I mean, think how much better Star Wars could be with this type of animation. Then, George Lucas could have his definitive view of the universe as he saw it and now have to deal with funny, childish looking puppets. And with the prequels, you can see how fake the scenes with both live actors and animated ones seem. If it had been all animated, it would have looked more believable than it ever could now. Also, for those of you who complain about the hackneyed storyline, when have you ever seen a story like this look so good???Now onto the Final Fantasy part of the movie. Any true gamer would have known instantly from just the trailers that this was not based on any Final Fantasy game. But the elements were there. Remember, this movie was also done by the Japanese and is not full blown American work, thank God. The theory of Gaia(not Gaya as some of you idiots spelled it) is something that has been in the Final Fantasy games again and again. It's nothing new. If people were more open-minded to different philosphies and just took everything in rather than complain every waking second, things would have made more sense. And it couldn't have made more sense, they explained every single thing enough to make it easily understood for any dunce out there. And also remember that each game's story is told in 50-plus hours, this movie was told in less than 2 hours. Something that is normally a huge and epic story is condensed into something extremely small. It's not going to be the greatest story ever told. Had Square taken the time to tell us the whole story as they would have intended it, this movie might have taken decades to finish. And there is no way you can honestly complain about this dialogue if you liked the ones in Titanic or Star Wars The Phantom Menace. And those of you that didn't even understand the ending really never even watched the movie, it was that simple. Although the music was not done by the same composer that worked on the games, it was still wonderful and complimented the movie perfectly. Especially the end song, that made me feel as if I had just finished a Final Fantasy game looking at the scene and listening to the song The Dream Within.All in all, there's no other score I can give this movie than a 10. Go see this movie and be open minded about what you see. Don't be so quick to judge and you just may enjoy this movie a lot more than you think. "},{"Title":"breakthrough in filmaking","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  despite the poor box office sales, i thought this film was done magnificently. the realistic animation is like nothing ive ever seen. the story was intriguing and fit the format well. i found it most impressive how human the characters felt. i think it was a great combination of animation and acting that brought the whole thing together. i really think this could open the door for a whole new world of film making, but its sales are pleading otherwise. i was very excited to see this movie, even though i was unfamiliar with the concept of the games, and i wasnt disappointed. computer graphics has become almost an integral part of film making these days and this is one of the best leaps ive seen beyond the cheesy cartoony feel that most graphics bring to otherwise high-class films. the only other film this summer that has reached this level is A.I. which could have been a masterpiece, but thats another review altogether. at any rate support this film. the future of cgi depends on you! "},{"Title":"Excellent film - experience with Manga storylines helps...","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was an excellent film.  The production quality was amazing, and if you submit yourself to the movie you end up forgetting that it's all computer graphics, it is that well animated.  Obviously it's not perfect - the animation of hands is a bit odd in parts, but having said that I was still totally blown away.The storyline is typical japanese animation - bizarre.  If we all knew the Gaia theory we'd find it a lot easier to understand the first time round. However, the ending is nowhere near as off-the-planet as Akira or End of evangelion, and the subtleties of the gaia and spririt stuff can be ignored until you watch it the 2nd and 3rd times. There is also enough action and easily followed storyline to understand the basic plot of the movie anyway. Nice to see a little romance too (but then I'm a closet romantic so I enjoy that stuff).Can't wait for the DVD! "},{"Title":"Visually stunning movie, too bad many people don't get it","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within was a gem to watch.  I was worried about seeing it after reading about all the negative reviews, but I came out amazed and wanting to see it again.Sure, it is not a movie without its faults, but I don't think it deserves all the criticism that has been heaped on it.  Sure, a lot of people nitpick about things such as lip sync and movements, but these things are easily overlooked when you watch the characters on screen.  Sure, some parts didn't look as good as others, but this would have to be the most REALISTIC looking CG film yet.As for people complaining about the plot of the film, or lack of it, I would have to say that they did not fully understand it.  I am a fan of the video game series, and after seeing the movie, I can say that the story was loosely based on Final Fantasy VII & VIII, more so VII.As some reviewers have mentioned, Final Fantasy is a misunderstood film, especially in terms of plot. People may ask what the deal is with all the phantoms and spirits, and to answer this, you have to think of it more as a 'spiritual' film than a conventional sci-fi.  As people have already mentioned, Final Fantasy has a more Eastern philosophy to it, more than Western audiences are used to. The whole concept of the spirits relationship to the earth (or Gaia as it is referred to in the movie)would probably be more familiar to anyone who knows about eastern philosophy or a follower of the games than anyone else.Overall I really enjoyed this movie and I can't wait for the DVD.  This is a film that deserves more praise than it has received. "},{"Title":"A great final fantasy story!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a great fan of the final fantasy games i have been eagerly awaiting this film ever since i saw the brilliant trailer at squares web site.Reading the other comments for this film i see that there are a lot of people that obviously don't understand what the final fantasies are all about.Yes they can be quite bizarre....yes they can include religion along the line......final fantasy 7 the game had an inclusion of religion and yet thats highly regarded as one of the best games ever made.I'm glad that they used the graphics engine instead of human acting because if they did that then the budget and the quality would just be laughable.As for the ending to this film....well....its typical final fantasy style that had me in admirational silence when the film finished. The film is not everyones cup of tea, but if you are a fan on the final fantasy saga you will love it!  10/10 - best film i have seen this summer....just edging shrek! "},{"Title":"They should hype it some more, it was beyond my expectations!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a fan of the FF video games, I just had to see this movie. Normally I don't watch movies which have to much hype surrounding them. And I must say it was definitely beyond my wildest expectations extreme level of realism, detail , sfx and imagination that went into this production. Knowing square from there video games , I did expect quality but not of this level. my score 10 "},{"Title":"One of the best movies i've ever seen","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This Movie.. wow, wow, WOW!This is a must see for all, it's incredible computeranimated, got real nice voicies and has a real killer story..I don't want to say to much about it, it will only ruin it for ya'll, but take my advice, go see it! "}{"Title":"Excellent animation, amazing plot, shoddy vocal work","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ***CONTAINS SLIGHT SPOILERS***Final Fantasy apparently relied too much on its amazing graphic development to hire people with any inflection in their voices. The best actors were minor characters, such as Steve Buscemi (Neil), Donald Sutherland (Dr Sid) and Ving Rhames (Ryan). The two main characters, Alec Baldwin and Ming Na, gave two of the most bland and completely emotionless performance of their entire careers, which even the Council members managed to surpass. In the most breathtaking of scenes something would go wrong...Aki reaches up and grasps the hand of the man she loves, as his soul is about to be taken away forever and returned to the dying spirit of the earth. Tears swell in the audience's eyes, and then Captain Gray whispers I love you. The moment is shattered. You would think the man had just said, I'm about to have my bowels scraped with he rough side of a sheet of sandpaper.The movie still recieved a 10 from me, however, because of the daring story, moving plot, passable script and extended character development, not to mention the amazing animation techniques used to create phantom ghosts, supernovas and realistic human beings with unreal hair.An improvement could have been made in the ending song(s), the first of which is a slow, monotonous power ballad only surpassed by Boston and Chicago, containing meaningless, droll lyrics and an equally droll and monotonous vocalist. The second song is an unbelievably terrible sort of ska mutation which has nothing to do with the movie, and actually not much to do with ANYthing. I wouldn't be surprised if it was about losing yer girl and drinkin wine with yer mama as a train goes by.If the first song had been done by Twisted Sister, now that would be something. "},{"Title":"A misunderstood, underrated and amazing piece of work","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I believe that Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is very much a Japanese art movie--instead of just a sci-fi action flick that the general audience and the majority of critics expected it to be. Therefore, I think that a lot of the negative reviews comes from the fact that the movie has been misunderstood.I admit that the dialogue isn't as good as it should be and there are a few lines that were bad or inappropriate. But if you can overlook that--and a lot of people did overlook the dialogue in highly regarded movies like Titanic and Star Wars--then Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is something special.Some say the characters in the movie are robotic and lack expression and emotion. I say they are misinterpreting the performances of the characters. These characters are directed by someone Japanese; therefore the characters have subdued and restrained performances, as one would see in a Japanese movie. Another thing some people complain about is the triteness/cliches. There seems to be a double standard for this movie. How original are movies? Rarely. Why not complain that the Best Picture winner Gladiator has the same basic story as Ben-Hur? Why not complain that The Matrix borrows from Ghost in the Shell and martial arts movies? Shrek received rave reviews, yet it was the typical fairy tale movie with characters we've seen before. That movie made use of references every minute. Where is the originality in that movie? Most movies derive from basic stories. The thing that matters is what the movie does with the story and what it adds to it. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a groundbreaking movie, both in style and in substance, from Hollywood. It is the merging of the Eastern and Western cultures, delivering something the movie audience has never seen before. The CG animation is absolutely breathtaking and blows away a recent CG animated movie by the name of Shrek. The movie needs to be seen several times to truly appreciate the incredible visuals. There is just too much detail to absorb in one viewing (notice the little things in the CG animation like the lens flare, the handheld camera effects, and the depth of focus). The movie features animated characters in an animated environment and should be treated as such--without all the nitpicking I've seen.To accompany the visuals are the incredible sound and score that immerse you into the movie experience. Elliot Goldenthal's score is one of the best I've heard all year and The Dream Within is a haunting and beautiful song that closes the movie perfectly. And now to the story. First and most importantly, let me say that this isn't a well-told story in the sense that it entertains the viewer and gently pulls the viewer along the way, something like a Dances with Wolves or a Gone with the Wind. The type of story Final Fantasy The Spirits Within contains is a form of expression. It expresses spirituality and philosophy. It requires the viewer to think and interpret what is shown in order to fill in the lines, like in a poem. It requires the viewer to approach it on spiritual and philosophical terms to truly appreciate the deepness of the story. Some say the ending sequence is incomprehensible. That is true--but in a good way. It makes you think about what is happening. It is rich in that you may need to see the movie several times in order to fully understand it. Although not equal in cinematic and technical terms, it is quite similar to the ending sequence in 2001 A Space Odyssey. Both ending sequences are spiritual, philosophical and profound. They show a series of images that leave the viewer open to interpretation. The story the movie contains is ultimately about life, death, and love. In conclusion, if you approach this movie expecting a summer CGI sci-fi action flick based on a video game, then I think you will misunderstand what the movie really is. Look at Final Fantasy as an art movie from Japan with some influence from America.  From the incredible sights and sounds to the philosophical and spiritual themes and messages, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a misunderstood, underrated and amazing piece of work.   "},{"Title":"It's great in both animation and story. Something wrong with you all??","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm not gonna say much about the animation since there's no doubt it's very nice and amazing. This is what i don't get; Most people call it a worthless storyline while i think it's a perfect fit for such an animation film.  I agree that such a story would be a complete non-sense if it's with real men.  But it's an animation, what you should expect is a story full of imagination and artwork. This story is a best fit for such a film.   I love the movie and i rate it 10/10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"The Bottom Line","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Im not going to comment on the visuals, that has been covered enough. Lets get to the story.The story sucked people, I'm sorry but it did. I don't care what you say about Japanesse anime and and crap like that, the story sucked. Its plot we have seen before, the whole everybody wanting to do one thing to stop the bad guys but its bad, but the lone person saying they are right and they should try something else to stop the bad guys and its the right idea. The concept of Gaia and mother earth crap was stupid. Americans (unless your some tree hugging hippie) don't believe in that sort of stuff. We find it very hard to be sympathetic for a planet!?!?!?! We also find it unrealistic that the military would refrain from using a weapon they know will work so they don't kill the planet. Also there was way to much stuff they brought up but didn't go into, namely the stuff about spirits. Unless I missed it, they never really said what made something a spirit. They also didn't explain enough of the technology in the movie. Now yes it is the future and somethings are going to be differnt, but that doesn't mean you forget about your audience. Aki has a tracker on her arm that can find spirits, how does it work? Your geuss is as good as mine. Another problem is the fact that they used name actors to play the parts of the voices. Thats not good. Because then we get a picture of that actor in our mind and it makes it harder to be involved with the charecters. Which brings me to the biggest flaw in the movie, the was no charecter devolpment whatsoever. The charecter of General Hein was some what devolped with the conversation about his wife and daughter, but all this did was make him the sterotypical badguy with a reason. And on that same note he really wasn't that bad of a guy. He had a actual reason to hate the Phantoms, he had a true reason to doubt Aki, and was backed up with logic and common sense. He really wasn't that bad. But the rest of the charecters are ignored entirely. The film acts like it was a sequel with the way it handles Aki and Grey's relationship. The movie was just a big mess. But you should see it for the visuals.  "},{"Title":"Impressive computer graphics leads to repeat viewing.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film goer has waited impatiently to see this movie since first learning about it nearly two years ago. Since I dabble in computer animation, there was an added fascination factor. This reveals something that explains my repeat viewing.Many people have expressed amazement. Amazement that the film was made at all. These were comments from viewers who sat next to me on my seventh viewing of what I consider to be a revolutionary film. One understood the story line and enjoyed it. The others couldn't follow along, which is fascinating to me since everything is explained by the characters as the plot unfolds. This is a common device employed by many older science fiction films to help the viewer along and is often looked down upon by those who wish to figure things out on their own. But obviously, it's a good thing they did, for I believe many wouldn't have a clue. Those same young ladies declared it a guy's movie and one couldn't understand why all the trouble to make a CG movie when flesh and blood actors would do.Here's why it makes sense to do this kind of movie using digital characters. Have you ever watched a fantastic movie with a wild story and even wilder special effects? Has something ever bothered you when you watch an extravaganza? I bet it's when real humans interact with the effects and fantastic backgrounds. It never looks quite convincing no matter how good the film makers are at their craft. It's often distracting instead of enhancing.In my humble opinion, even considering the faulty lipsync, which probably stemmed from a mixed Japanese/American animation staff and reported language difficulties, the result of using CG or hyper-real humans blended perfectly with the special effects and brilliant alien and Earth backgrounds. It helped make Final Fantasy even more fantastic for me.Animation lends itself to creating realities that normally wouldn't exist. Whether it's believing a rabbit or mouse can talk or a coyote can take a plunge off a cliff in stride. Much has been made about the photorealism in Final Fantasy, but I beg to differ...it's more hyper-real, which puts it closer to imagination and plants it solidly in animation territory.The problem this film is running into is the same problem I witnessed with Star Wars back in 1977. I knew people who thought that story was simple, the acting awful and effects mediocre. Now it has a life of its own. I think it's the same for any ground breaking film. Look at 2001 A Space Odyssey, even Rocky Horror. Acceptance is slow for many when it comes to a novel way of doing things.If you approach this film with an open mind, let yourself go with the story and the CG animation, you will enjoy it. If you're like me and have an inkling of how much painstaking human work goes into computer animation, Final Fantasy will blow you away and lead to repeat viewing to enjoy the high-craftsmanship again and again. "},{"Title":"Credit goes to Square","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just saw Final Fantasy this past week and I must say that my expectations were pretty high, but it met them all. This movie may not have agreed with many people for various reasons, but one must realize that the creators of this film are japanese and this film was made more for die-hard fans of the game series rather than the general public. The animation is first rate, nothing even comes close to this sort of film making. I personally enjoyed the story line, this film was very entertaining and I applaud Squares's effort, I look forward to future films by this company.  "},{"Title":"Really Better than A.I.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Apologies to Master Spielberg, but Final Fantasy was better than A.I. It was the best computer animation work I have seen so far and the humans were very human like, particularly the old scientist.  Also, there had been some thought taken to the spiritual side of man as well.  It too, did share a fault of failing to get me emotional about the story, but that wasn't the fault of the animation, just the writing. "},{"Title":"What is everyone complaining about?  It's great!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've heard numerous complaints as to the supposedly terrible plot of this movie.  I don't understand what everyone's problem is.One of the more common complaints was that the story line is cliched and dull. While there really aren't any shockers in terms of the story line, I don't think it's fair to say that much in the movie is really cliched to the point of being really unwatchable. The characters are somewhat caricatures and stereotypical (in particular, Ving Rhames' character), but they aren't as one-dimensional as they might be, especially in terms of the film's villain. There's nothing worse than a one-dimensional villain, but Final Fantasy does manage to flush out James Woods' character enough so that he's not TOTALLY the prototypical villain for the situation (it's not that far off, but far enough off to make him more interesting).  I think that James Woods really does a great job of making his character actually hate-able, which is something that is not possible for cardboard cut-out villains. The other horrible thing that Final Fantasy could have done but didn't, which would have contributed to the cliche criticism, would be to have a sickly-sweet happy ending, which it completely passed up, in favor of a very dark downer ending.  Which, I suspect, is the reason for a lot of people's dislike.The other criticism I've heard is that the story was incomprehensible, that questions important to the movie were never answered and that interesting subplots were never explored. The only subplot that I feel really could have been explored any further was the relationship between Jane and Neil. The questions of the origins of the phantoms are rather thoroughly exhausted, at least anything of any importance is. I mean, come on people, this isn't Lost Highway. If you can't figure out the plot, you must have some serious comprehension skill problems. Like I've said earlier, there aren't really any shockers in the story, but it's not a direct rehash of any movie I'm immediately familiar with (ie, NOT an ALIEN rehash).I don't need to speak of the visuals, because everyone already knows how amazing they were (the kiss was absolutely over the top). I will say, though, that the voice acting, particularly Steve Buscemi and James Woods', was also great. My biggest disappointment was that it turned out to NOT be Harrison Ford voicing Major Elliot as I had thought during the movie. "},{"Title":"that's good","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Oh my god what a good movie!!!!! this is so realistic and beautiful, the men from square are really the bests. And the story is also really interesting. that's the best value for this moment, so if you don't know what to do, just go and see it, you won't waste your money. "},{"Title":"This film must be experienced in the theatre...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  From the very first frame of film, I was hooked. 'Final Fantasy  The Spirits Within' is a beautifully executed sci-fi film...I walked in with no expectations, (the trailer left little impression with me) I walked out with the high one gets from experiencing something special.The story was simplistic, similar to dark sci-fi epics like 'Akira', 'Blade Runner' and 'Alien' trilogy...there is the familiar 'race' against time' scenario, our heroes seek to eliminate an 'invading' race of aliens that has destroyed most life on earth...The film uses a tried and true formula of 'good vs evil', but blurs the lines quite effectively. I was taken aback by the amount of emotion that was conveyed in the film, by the subtle twists that added dimension to the charectors as they struggled with the chaos of war around them. For this is where the films true power lies, besides the fact that it is a wonder for the eyes...;I enjoyed all the charectors, even the antagonists...the creature effects were both awe inspiring, and genuinely frightening. The story has solid sci-fi premise, with outstanding action, and many moments of both horror and extreme beauty.(...the horror and beauty sometime entangled together)The film is a CGI, and I've heard many people complain about this...and get the feeling that they cannot take it seriously because it's animation. That it the difficulty that I've heard, as well as 'slow' pacing...*WHATEVER*This film is an outstanding addition to the genre of sci-fi/horror, and should be seen in the theatre to be fully apprieciated.10/10   "}{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was totally blown away by this movie.  Not only was it visually stunning, but there was a good storyline as well (which you can't usually say for a summer blockbuster).  Definately worth the wait in line.  I'm looking forwards to seeing it again. "},{"Title":"Not perfect but DAMN CLOSE!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ill start with the most obvious feature The CGI. This film, 4 years in the making using a custom built supercomputer, has incredible graphics. Though it is _usually_ apparent that it is computer annimated, there where times when i could have mistaken it for reality had i not known better (specifically looking through Aki's eyes at old New York and Dr Sids Face) I have no doubt that in a few more years, there will be something new, something better, something that puts this movie to shame but until then, these visuals are (Expletive) awesome. The only familiarity i have with the FF game series is VII. The movies definitely had themes similar to the seventh installment of the game but without more experience with the series, i cant make judgments as to how the movie compares. (Obviously, the movie, trying to be a realistic futuristic environment, doesnt have any chocobos. Unless one of those phantoms was the ghost of one...) Storyline. What to say. It wasnt 5 stars yet it also wasnt anywhere near 1 star. There was little in terms of character development but then again, to get as in depth as the FF games would require a day long movie.As an adamant fan of everything SciFi, i may be partially biased, but having seen this movie and the visuals it presents, i now have a new favorite movie (barely replacing Matrix). At least until something better comes along...Overall 9 out of 10 (Mostly for CGI) "},{"Title":"Worth every Penny","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  FF is without a doubt the first movie of a new genre of movies that will begin to ultimately replace (IMHO) traditional films.  The quality of the animation and hyper-realistic characters is extremely impressive.The plot of the movie is more of a 7 out of 10 than a 10 out of 10, but it is still an amazing movie.I envision that soon actors will be valued for their acting through their voices, and not for anything else.  I believe characters like Aki (imagine her as an actress playing the part of Aki in the movie) will have box-office draw in a totally different, unrelated movie.  It will happen. "},{"Title":"Every frame is beyond eye candy - so don't blink!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The graphics are amazing!  The script is OK.  I really like the phantom creatures; I think the people at Square Pictures really took advantage of their Computer Animation platform to make something unique.That I marvel at the most is the impact this movie could have on animation. They have really raised the bar of quality computer animation.  In the future, this movie could actually end up being the worst looking as they perfect their technology.Bad points  Alec Baldwin was not too great as a voice actor.  Every other comment was What the hell or Who the hell... or Let's get the hell... etc. (not too original).  Also the soundtrack was really lame.  They could have definitely spiced up the action scenes with a good beat in the background.  As a fan of the video game series, it would have been nice to have game music composer Nobuo Uematsu involved in the score.All in all, this movie is a very entertaining experience.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great story!  Breathtaking imagery!  Decent character development.  Overall, brilliant!  This movie makes Shrek look like a cartoon, and Jurrasic Park seem soooo old! A must see! Look out ILM, here comes Square! "},{"Title":"Too much of a good thing is bad, but not TOO bad..........","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"    MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS The movie has nothing to do with the games.    NOTHING! I was very disappointed with this. First of all, I am a big fan of the games and respect them so much, I don't even consider them games. I consider them works of art. When I saw the fist trailer for the film I was like, Oh brother, a space opera being passed as a Final Fantasy movie!          By itself, the film stands out really well. The first hour is absolutely first-rate! It seemed very promising. The second hour is OK. It's full of action and excitement and is pretty awesome. The story is where the movie doesn't cut the bait. The film tries to explain too much. It's as though the writers didn't have faith in the audience to know what is going on. It's confusing.     I liked the movie. I thought it was extremely entertaining and well-made. The visuals will leave you gasping for air. They just should've dropped Final Fantasy from the title and called it The Spirits Within                      10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent graphics and special effects","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the most amazing movies I have every seen.  Some of the characters look so real.  At times you really think they are real people. Although the main character's skin is to clean and perfect the rest of the characters have better details. Not just a young peoples movie.  Need to go back a second time to take it all in.  "},{"Title":"what a story!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've waited 4 years for this movie, and least to say my expectations were very high. The movie lived up to everything i knew i would. The graphics made Shrek look like an Atari game, and the movie itself was perfectly acted. This just goes to show that no matter what square tries to create, they become the master of. "},{"Title":"9 of 10, here's why it's not a 10","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had been eagerly waiting for this movie for over a year.  I love sci-fi, video games, computer animation so this seemed like a movie that I would love.  I have to say that watching this movie was a very enjoyable experience, but it could have been better.Here are my complaints with this movie (although they are relatively minor).  First of all, the ending neither gave us a sense of closure nor made us excited about a sequel.  They killed off too many of the characters.  It wasn't really necessary to kill Grey at the end.  Speaking of Grey, he allowed Aki to control him too much.I also would have liked to seen more environments to allow for the exhibition of a wider range of animation techniques.  Titan AE did a great job in this area while Final Fantasy stayed in just a few settings.  Furthermore, this Mother of the Earth junk too closely resembles Captain Planet and that is never a good thing.As for the good in this movie, I could write forever on that but most of it is obvious.  The computer animation's realism surpasses everything before it.  I mean, they have the details down to the pores in their skin.  The action is superb, and Skywalker Sound did a fantastic job with the audio.  The flow of this movie is truly unique.  It is almost like a Virtual Reality.Conclusion one of the greatest Sci-Fi movies ever,  9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Far Better Than Expected","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As an avid read obsessed fan of the Final Fantasy games, I had originally hoped for all the usual Final Fantasy trimmings spiritual and magical elements, intriguing plot and characters, and of course all the traditional inside jokes. However when I first heard that not only would the Final Fantasy movie be almost entirely Americanized but set on Earth, I was highly disappointed (although less when I found out it would be written and directed by Hironobu Sakaguchi, writer/creator of the Final Fantasy series of plot-driven RPGs, or role-playing games and anime (Japanese animation) movies). I went into the theatre with low expectations but after the first twenty minutes, I knew Square had succeeded in creating a masterpiece befitting of the Final Fantasy name.Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is not to be confused with your average, run-of-the-mill SciFi flick with evil alien invaders, big guns, cheap sugary-sweet romance, and military oafs. Yes, there are some wily military people, and scary alien invaders, and a tasteful amount of romance involved but the Final Fantasy movie truly revolves around spirituality, taking risks, and overcoming the odds. Yes, the creepy aliens are rather rawr-kill-smash-eat in the beginning but the story unfolds to reveal Sakaguchi-sama's traditionally fascinating twisty-turny plots.Oh yeah. The visuals. Where to start? Mind-numbingly incredible. It's extremely easy those aren't real people walking around. There are some astonishingly beautiful sequences that are wonderfully remniscient of several of the more recent games, especially the disgustingly successful Final Fantasy VII, which sold six million copies world-wide (not to mention the villain's resemblance to Seifer, one of the villains of Final Fantasy VIII, and Ben Affleck).I admit that some of the dialogue was slightly cheesy but definitely fun. I really can't think of any horribly BAD things about it save for one major flaw no Nobuo Uematsu, the genius behind the haunting scores of the Final Fantasy reknown(as well as some of Square's other successful games), as well as the lack of the traditional Final Fantasy closing theme. It was like a Star Wars movie without its brassy opening. But then again, those are things that only the crazy fans of theseries would notice so general movie-goers probably wouldn't care.In the end, I am thoroughly pleased with Square's gamble at making a film. I was afraid they were slapping the Final Fantasy title on it only for monetary reasons but my fears were easily assuaged.If you liked the movie, I HIGHLY reccomend you try Final Fantasy VII (which I felt it most closely reflected) for the PlayStation and PC or any of the other games. For those of you that don't know, they have nothing to do with shooting people and/or blowing stuff up; the plots in the Final Fantasy games put a good deal, if not a majority of current films to shame.Thank you for your time (if you're still reading) and I apologize for my lengthy review. "}{"Title":"WOW...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow... Final Fantasy is the best surprise of the summer.  I went to the movie hoping to see some groundbreaking CGI (which I SO did).  I didn't expect to go in and see an excellent story as well. This manages to do so much, bringing a Japanimae reminiscent genre into mainstream possibility.  A must see.  "},{"Title":"Some will love it, some might not","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  People who understands about souls and spirits will understand the movie clearly and love it. Where as people who don't understand (or don't believe) will say it is bad. Anyhow, I don't care about critics. It is a great movie with a good story, has cool action and it is very emotional as well. Great job to Square and hope to see Aki (see looks nice) in another movie or game(is it possible, ask Square). Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"This is an AWESOME movie!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the computer-generated answer to the 1999 hit sci-fi film, The Matrix. An all star cast makes up the movie with ER's Ming-Na as Dr. Aki Ross and Fraiser's Peri Gilpen as Jane Proudfoot just to name a few. I hope that there'll be more films like this in the future. "},{"Title":"Another Success for the Never-Ending Oxymoron","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  (After all, Final Fantasy 2 doesn't make sense - Final Fantasy 9 is beyond oxymoronics)Love, hope, fate, and joy of human collaboration - all the things that Final Fantasy revolves around are in this movie, plus our good old friend Cid (who, to those of you who don't play the game, is in every one). In this magnificent story of a world without hope, the main character of one of the FF saga is female for a change. First I must congratulate Square Pictures, Square Entertainment, or whoever they want to call themselves. They've done one hell of a job - even going so far as the individual whiskers and age spots on Dr. Cid. This is a quality of movie unseen up till now - it is so spotless you forget you're watching people that don't exist (especially re the bird at the end). If I have one complaint, it's that they didn't get Nobuo Uematsu to do the soundtrack. The music was great nonetheless, but had they gotten the Great Composer in to do it, it would have been flawless. Second only to the quality of graphics, though more or less in line with them, are the characters and storyline. Though it lacked the originality of the mixed medieval-scifi blend of technologies in the game, it was wondrous none the less. It was great without being overdone, and offered a few laughs along the way (as any FF game). The characters were more than believable and in-depth.I hope they plan to make a sequel, but not in the normal sense - number two should be just as the games completely different, yet surprisingly familiar.Great movie, if you haven't seen it, do so. Recently, one of the few movies that hasn't disappointed me no, quite the opposite. "},{"Title":"Everything promised, and more.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As one of the recent slew (I mean that in the best way possible) of computer animated films, Final Fantasy Spirits Within is a masterpiece. As a subtle, yet compelling and integrated, spin-off (I mean that in the best way possible, as well) of a video game series, it is excellent, leaving enough to the imagination and yet filled with inside jokes and references. As a science fiction movie, Final Fantasy is one of the best I've seen in the past two decades. Not since Alien have I seen alien creatures as new, creative and well thought-out as those in Final Fantasy. Overall, I can honestly say Final Fantasy is one of the best science fiction movies ever. Every detail (both visually and plotwise) is amazing, and the overall effect is even better than the sum of its parts. I only wish i could see it again, for the first time. As for more traditional considerations (writing, direction, script, etc.) I'm sure some film grad will point out problems, but then, that's inevitable. To a layman like me, the writing was top-notch, and the script especially pleasing. The one-liners were good, and at a perfect frequency. The viewer is never bogged with too much plot or explanation at any given time. Unlike some sci-fi movies with particularly scientific or convoluted plots, no characters are found to say things that they wouldn't in real life, simply to explain what is happening. I rated this film a nine, but as I'm writing this review, I'm struck with the thought that perhaps I underrated it. This movie is deffinately a nine, probably an eight for some, but for most would be a ten. Thoroughly enjoyable. I recommend Final Fantasy The Spirits Within to anyone, but especially to fans of science fiction, final fantasy, animation, or movies in general, which, I would assume, covers just about everyone. "},{"Title":"MADKARMA gives it a thumbs up","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This one will blow you away if you like special fx. The whole movie is one big special fx, no live footage was used in this film anywhere. ants, shrek, jurasic park eat your hart out. You need to go see the movie if you want the future of computer animated films to be stimulated.. The best 3Dfilm we can expect in a long timeMADKARMA gives it a thumbs up 10 / 10  "},{"Title":"to the maker","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is the best movie of all time better then star wars better then armageddon better then red planet better then all science fiction movies that i have ever seen. effects better then all the effects that i have seen. this movie is a must have i'm an expert in science fiction movies and this one really got in my feelings i cried of emotion to see so much high tech, this comment is very important because this could lead you to make more movies like this one, This one is a super-movie please make final fantasy II and come out with something so that he gets back his love and make it a final endless fantasy. "},{"Title":"Spirituality in partnership with Technology","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Everyone who sees this film talks about its amazing graphics which were impressive.  What I found interesting was its joining of the spiritual beliefs about the spirit (the soul) of people and how we are all part of the spirit and soul of the earth itself...very in touch with the teachings of Buddha and very sophisticated for this type of film.  I went there to view the technology alone and was pleasantly surprised by the content.  Well Done!!! "},{"Title":"For what it was, a full-length animated film, absolutely amazing!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  I expected nothing but eye candy and was pleasantly surprised by the rest.  The attention to detail was amazing -- freckles, wrinkles, veins on the backs of hands, simulated hand-held camera -- I could go on for almost as long as the movie itself.People who went in expecting a normal action flick will be disappointed. Why?  Because that is NOT what this movie is.  It's not even trying to be one.  It is a full length animated movie.  You cannot expect the same things from such a film.The story itself was reasonably entertaining, even if there wasn't much background, explaining some of it (why only 8 spirits, etc).The only thing that I felt was substandard was the voice synching.  It doesn't make much sense to me that they would spend so much time and money on this truly wonderful project and then not do something (relatively) easier properly.All in all, I would highly recommend this movie.  I have seen it twice in the theater so far and it was as enjoyable the second time around. "},{"Title":"The problem with critics","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Most critics have agreed that Final Fantasy is a feast for the eyes, and an impressive achievement in terms of computer generate imagery.  And rightly so, this movie is nothing short of amazing when it comes to the animation.  But I have noticed that many critics have blasted the film for having a poor script and confusing plot.  I think this is the perfect example of why American critics have usually been less than kind toward anime in general.  The real problem is not that the stories are confusing or poorly written, but that these critics don't get it!  Almost all of the stories in anime features are Japanese in origin, and follow a basic pattern of Man vs. Nature, or Man's struggle with technology, or other stories about our most essential needs or problems.  And for some reason, American Critics can't seem to get it through their head that these stories are supposed to be simple because they present complex issues in a metaphorical context.  So to all the critics out there, try to open your mind and have less of an ethnocentric view of the world.  Final Fantasy is an interesting exploration of man's conflict with, and dependence on, nature and is worth seeing for more than just the fantastic animation. "}{"Title":"This is nothing hollywood.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched the movie today. I was amazed how much computers can do nowadays, even though it is still not powerful enough to solve most of our problems. Anyway, what attracted me was not only the unbelievable graphics, but the ideas. I must say that this movie is not COMMERCIAL enough to make a fortune, nor too HEROIC to excite audience who is used to Hollywood movies. It is about the problem which we have to deal with long time ago, the damages we might have caused to the Earth. Of course,  in the movie Phantoms are the EVILs that destroyed the human races, but do not forget that human tried to solve the situation with violence without looking for the reasons and the solution. This caused more damages to Earth than the Phantoms. This movie has the pattern of Final Fantasy series.After watching all Hollywood movies, this is the one for someone who needs something different for a change. I don't think this one will be a big hit in American, but certainly it is to me. Regardless the impact of the computer animation, or sound effects, it is worthwhile watching. I believe that is one of the must-see movies this year. I think Shrek, too, is the one. ^^. "},{"Title":"Good plot, excellent visuals, but....","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Bad dialogue.  It's *the* problem to the Final Fantasy The Spirits Within.I've seen/read reviews that say the plot is either too complicated or just basic sci-fi.  Well folks, it can't be both.  The problem is the bad dialogue makes people lose interest!  Many reviewers simply didn't (want to) pay attention to the plot, and summed it up that way.I don't need to mention the visuals... it's been described in great lengths. But the plot is what actually makes the movie worth watching - as long as one doesn't get bogged down by the (so-called) speaking parts.Many people complain about dumb action flics, but yet don't give FF's interesting and introspective story a chance.  If this was considered anime (Japanese animation), many people would accept the bad dubbing, and see the movie for its strengths.In conclusion, I thought it was a pretty good movie, and one to see on the big screen.  It would have been great if not for the dialogue.  I hope people will see that there is substance to the movie, despite its glaring flaw.Personally, I think the problem would be solved with Japanese voice-actors and subtitling, since audiences were okay with Mandarin in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon!  I pray the DVD will have a Japanese audio option!  "},{"Title":"Definitely worth the price of admission!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Whether or not you liked the plot is unimportant.  This movie is a major artistic achievement for computer graphics!  Everything, from the smallest to the largest, (scenery, characters, monsters, etc.) was major eye candy! The story was fairly straightforward, the characters interesting.  Even the action scenes were good!  I do so hope the makers produce more films like this. "},{"Title":"VERY VERY GOOD MOVIE!!!!!!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you havent seen this film, what are you waiting for???  Go and see it. It is one of the most emotional films I have seen, and if your a fan of the games, this movie follows the games in a storyline kinda way.  Its animation is more realistic looking then live action!!!  Also, the main Character, AKI, kicks some major ass while saving the earth from the evil known as the phantoms.  This movie is great, and it is one of my favorites.  The feeling you get from leaving your theater when you see this...is.....like this world is another world.  Thats the feeling I got.   "},{"Title":"Raise the bar in CG based movies.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Raise the bar in CG based movies. By doing so the minor flaw stand out much more. Hopefully they will get the lip-sync perfect next time. That said that it's a classic Japanies story about how we all all connected to our planet. Enjoyed it quite a lot don't understand the bad reviews what were you expecting real life? It's a cartoon!!  "},{"Title":"Wow! This movie had such a wonderful story with a little known truth.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I have ever seen. It combined the theory of Gyan with a outstanding cast and plot. The computer generated graphics were superb. It was almost hard to believe it was all a cartoon. I personally rate it a 10 out of 10! See it today! "},{"Title":"Revolutionary and remarkable - a movie to experience.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within may be a major milestone on the path 21st century film will take. It will be remembered as the first movie that almost - but not quite - fooled us with its realism.This is a technical masterpiece and a remarkable achievement.Square is pioneering a truly beautiful form of art. "},{"Title":"Well worth the wait despite influence from FF7 and The Muppet Show","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It hasn't been 24 hours yet since I've seen this movie, and I'm still a little speechless about it.  This was one of the most richly filmed and gorgeous movies I've ever seen.  The amount of detail that the production team put in this movie is out of this world from the fluttering garbage in the opening screen to the 60,000+ individual strands of hair on Aki's head. It definitely stayed true to the video game roots, but perhaps too much. It reminded me all to much of Final Fantasy 7.  And I was a little disappointed with the mouth animation.  Their mouths moved more like a muppet with not enough movement for certain sounds, especially where the letter 'o' is concerned.  But for the most part, I had to keep reminding myself throughout the movie that this was just an animation, essentially, a cartoon for adults if you will.  It was amazing, and stunning.  It was definitely worth the wait after years to see this movie and if a sequel goes into production I will be first in line to see it when it hits theatres. "},{"Title":"A must see to check out the latest technology","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is an absolutely amazing example of the latest computer graphics technology.  If you have any interest in computers of cgi you must see it just for that. The story in itself solid enough for any sci-fi/fantasy buff.  There are no real surprizes, but it is written well enough to hold your interest. One thing may be a problem that limits your enjoyment of the film.  I noticed being a bit distracted by the disconnection between the characters and their voices.  The animation is lifelike enough that you, like me, may be wondering why the voices do not match the faces. Some actors have wondered if this technology may take their jobs.  I do not think they have to worry much.  I would worry if I were a stunt person, though.  As the technology progresses, more of the elaborate stunts will be more cheaply done on computer.   "},{"Title":"Good, once you realise how understated it is","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I liked it. I found the ending bitter sweet, but liked the movie overall.I think it is important to realise that large sections of this movie are understated. The dialogue sometimes comes across as a little twee, and I found the music a bit too like a movie theme (it occasionally had too much expression). I had no problem following the plot, including the bits that are implied. Which may just mean I have my own self-consistent fantasy that matches the movie, but hey. -)The ending doesn't make much sense unless you figure out one or two things that are subtly implied in the graphical effects and in previous scenes.It was really interesting to note which bits looked real, which bits hyper-real, and which bits artistic. I think Square were worried about overdoing movement in the faces, and erred on the side of caution. I think that all the emotion you want is there, but only in the still frames - you don't have the time to appreciate their subtlety at full frame rate. I would have to rate the animation as being as subtle as parts of the story line. The more esoteric the movement, the better executed it was. I guess they paid more attention to that movement, and so the more boring stuff is slightly stiff, or scripted.It is obvious that the physics engine used by Square doesn't cover all eventualities, and there is a fair bit of art in the movement of the characters. Even when things aren't quite right, it's a breathtaking achievement.The lip sync is perfect, but the lips themselves don't move naturally. I guess there was some sort of limitation to the methods used at Square.Overall, I came away feeling that I had seen something beautiful in spirit and execution. This feeling overwhelms any other quibbles I might have.9/10 "}{"Title":"An awesome though unfortunately new agey film.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I do not look as deeply into games and movies as a lot of people seem to. Nonetheless I found my Final Fantasy The Spirits Within to be a thoroughly enjoyable experience.I have played all of the numbered Final Fantasy games, just to give you some background on me.The characters were easy to like, the visuals were utterly fantastic (Squaresoft is always ahead of everyone on those!), and the movie left me feeling happy and fulfilled. I'm not sure if this will be the case for most people though.Go and check out this movie! Right now it is perhaps my favorite of all time. Just don't buy the New Age stuff - sorry Dr. Sid - It IS a fairy tale, not truth. ) "},{"Title":"See this movie.  It's worth it.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie on opening day and I'm going to see it again tomorrow. While that may not mean much to you, it does to me as I've NEVER seen any movie in a theatre more than once.  Yes, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is that good a movie that I want to see it again on the big screen.The story is great and it is original.  I watch a lot of TV and I've not seen any other story come close to what FFTSW is about.  I thoroughly enjoyed the story as I'm sure any intelligent and open-minded person would. It has an intense atmosphere deep with emotion.  I admit - I even jumped in my seat a couple times during certain scenes.  Of course with all good scripts, it contains light-hearted humour to balance things out.I've followed the Final Fantasy series for years now, ever since Final Fantasy VII came out.  Yes, the movie is based on a video game, but don't let that deter you.  Each game tells a compelling story that is different from all the rest.  FFTSW is no exception to the rule with its own original set of characters taking part in a wonderful story.  Movies that have their roots in video games seem to have this black cloud hanging over their head that makes people think the movie will, quite frankly, suck.  It is my honest opinion that FFTSW breaks this trend.Graphics.  This is probably what most people are talking about.  I don't believe there is a single person out there who will criticize them.  FFTSW features the most advanced CG animation ever.  So realistic is it that there are places where I have trouble telling if it's a real person or not - and I have a trained eye in computer animation.  I remember seeing the very first screenshot of the movie a year ago.  I was like so?  Who is it?  And then I read the caption that it was a computer generated image.  That was amazing. I just wish I could have found out about the CG after I had seen the movie. It would have been interesting to realize it then.So there's my comments.  I loved the story, naturally I loved the graphics. The characters were incredible as well.  I would (and am) recommending this movie to anyone and everyone.  Tastes of course differ from person to person and there are people out there who criticize the story.  I can't see why, I thought it was beautiful.  But even if you're not interested in the story, then go see it for the graphics.  Be one of the people to see the first movie to break new ground with its awesome CG.  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is the first movie to photo-realistically create a human on the computer. "},{"Title":"astounding with execution problems.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've never quite seen anything like this. And may not again, if it doesn't pull in the bucks. The beautiful landscapes, and glowing red alien phantoms, even the little details like the manner in which the cannon fires and the flames lick at the side of the walls, made my jaw drop. The acting was somewhat inconsistent, and at times a little unbearable but it blew away most of the acting in the 4th Alien movie, and Wing Commander by a long stretch.Frankly I find much of the critiques of plot to be a little thin. The plot was somewhat familiar ground, but the screenplay was well put together. Its the execution of some of the key scenes which fall a little flat. The characters are in a sci-fi movie, and as Bowfinger put it in the Steve Martin picture Bowfinger he runs away from the aliens, he runs towards the aliens... What sci-fi movie of recent memory gave us rock solid characters? The one's are injected with just enough life that they serve their purpose well enough.Regardless of all this, the visuals and the details far outweigh the problems. "},{"Title":"The best film so far this summer!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy is a wonderful work of art.  It really takes off on all levels. With a reported $140million budget, as much as Pearl Harbor, im glad the filmmakers used it to make a great film rather than a place it safe piece of s***. Michael Bay take notes on how a $140million budgeted movie should be. I really hope it does well at the box office, great risk taking films like these need to get their due. Final Fantasy is so far the best movie of Summer 2001!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Thousands of man hours were spent in Honolulu to produce this breathtaking work of art.  The virtual people that inhabit this movie are stunning; their eyes glow with life, their hair sways in the wind and glistens as the virtual lightsource envelopes them. Final Fantasy is poetic celluloid.  "},{"Title":"Technically unrivalled, with a deep, meaningful story.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  &#145;Final Fantasy The Spirits Within' feels like a sci/fi short story adapted to the big screen, or a sci/fi comic that has come to life. There are heavy fantasy elements in the story as well that are very reminiscent of anime work such as &#145;Princess Mononoke'. The whole idea of Gaia and the human spirit is Eastern in feel, and gives the film a sort of mystical quality. The Eastern mythological plot, however, is mainly the vehicle for both conveying a deeper meaning and for showcasing the awe-inspiring CGI work.This film contains the best computer animation that has ever been produced anywhere in the world. The attention to detail is mind-boggling, and you'll often find yourself not paying attention to the story because you're so fascinated by looking at the imagery in front of you. Obviously, the most talked about aspect of the CG work is the character design and animation. What we have here is a technical breakthrough in animating &#145;hyper-realistic' humans. Can you tell that the characters are, indeed, not real? Absolutely. You won't be fooled for a second. However, it is not the intention of the movie to do so. The characters were never meant to simulate live humans, replace them, or leap above them in the art of acting. These characters are meant to exist within the same dimension as the computer generated imagery, and in that regard they perform the task flawlessly, surpassing in quality and complexity any computer generated film released thus far.The voice acting in the film, realized by Ming-Na, Donald Sutherland, James Woods, Ving Rhames, Steve Buscemi, and Peri Gilpin, ranges from good to excellent. While never Oscar winning material, the acting is well done for an action film, and Sutherland's performance in particular is quite captivating. The dialogue is, for the most part, good. One must remember that this is dialogue meant for an animated film, not for live action. And while it is well realized in most areas, some minor roughness and stiffness is also present. Composer Elliot Goldenthal has done a tremendous job with the score, and this aspect of the film truly shines. The music is emotive, powerful, and provoking. Never obtrusive, and always effective, the soundtrack is of top quality.Technically unrivalled, with a deep, meaningful story, &#145;Final Fantasy The Spirits Within' is a landmark film.*** ½ (out of a possible 4) "},{"Title":"Arguably one of the best movies ever","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have been a huge fan of the Final Fantasy series for a long time now. I remember playing Final Fantasy VI, VII, VIII, and IX almost on a daily basis. Now here comes a movie. Now, I will admit that the story-telling is not on par with the stories in the games, but so what? The average FF game could be beaten in about thirty hours. Do you really think that Sakaguchi could satisfy everyone's complaint about the story by making the movie thirty hours long? Hell no! I admire how I still like the story with the movie lasting only about two hours. That's more than enough for me. Final Fantasy is a fantastic and astonishing movie from start to finish. I remember watching Ebert and Roper talk so highly about Aki's hair and I must agree (hell, cute anime chicks always appealed to me). I'm very happy with the voice acting and the voices to each actor (Alec Baldwin as Ben Affleck and Steve Buscemi as Edward Norton). Yes, Dr. Sid is without a doubt the most realistic of all the characters, but you have to admire all of them. Especially Aki, who is viewed a lot like the women we see in Final Fantasy games. Strong willed and brave who still is a bit vulnerable. Her appearance does remind fans of other FF girls like Tifa (FF VII), Riona (FF VIII), and Dagger (FF IX), but that's one thing we love about the series. I'm still trying to find that hidden chocobo (the bird creature who has appeared in every Final Fantasy since number II in Japan) and I love the soundtrack. I was a little skeptical with Elliot Goldenthal being the one to do the music, but after hearing I concluded that it fits the movie perfectly. I say go out and see this movie. Hell, you have to. Don't expect a brilliant story, but expect a movie experience that will leave you breathless. "},{"Title":"See it more than once!!!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy is an awesome visual experience!!! The first time viewer should sit back and enjoy the ride. Second time viewers can enjoy the dynamic plot and characters.It's a surreal experience!!  "},{"Title":"Extreme animations and great action!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a kick-ass movie! Great story that combines action and some love perfectly! I haven't felt this way after a film since starship troopers when I walked out of the theater that time i also had neck-hair standing right up, shivering legs and no nails left. If you love computer-animated graphics as much as I do this is the movie you can't miss. The artists have made such a great job that you often forget that the characters are animated.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much, which I wasn't expecting to at all. The trailer made it look like an Aliens rip-off, but it's not really comparable. And, I am familiar with the game which isn't very impressive. However, this movie is. The new greatest cinematic achievement of all time has to be Dr Aki's hair. I couldn't stop watching it. But, the coolest thing was how real these characters seemed. Next to the phantoms in certain scenes, these guys looked alive. All of the actors do a wonderful job giving voice to these characters. Don't listen to reviews that say it's hard to follow, its not at all like your usually illogical anime. And, I'm not spoiling anything when I say the ending was fitting. I really appreciate endings like that. This movie is better -way better than anything so far (in animation and this summer). You should see this if you love animation, sci-fi, fantasy, or movies.  "}{"Title":"The most beautiful movie ever made.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy has a meaning for me. I played the computer games ever since they appeared on the Super Nintendo. I still rank Final Fantasy 3 as the best, most thought out game ever made. The amount of imagination and pure emotion that goes into making the FF games is astounding.Now the movie. I was highly anticipating it (as you can understand) and i was fortunate enough to catch a press screening one month before it gets released over here. I was amazed. From start to finish i sat there with goosebumps all over my body. The effects are simply the best you have ever seen. No doubt whatsoever.As with all Final Fantasy games the storyline is the most important thing, because .. well you play it for like 70 hours. With the movie it's a different deal. 70 hours of gameplay are cranked into a small 2 hours of film. Not an easy thing to accomplish. Basically the lead character is Aki Ross. A beautifull and inteligent docter who has been infected with an alien lifeform. These aliens stranded on earth after a meteor crashed 43 years ago. Present day is 2065 and the world is in complete chaos. The aliens, or spirits because they are all invisible, have manifested themself on earth and whenever they spot a living entity they rob it of it's spririt. With a team of renegades Aki tries to save the world.And that's always the deal with Final Fantasy games. And that pleases me so much. The story of Final Fantasy Spirits Within is just as awesome as any good FF game, it stays true to the original principle and never tries to be something different. The only let down for me is that in the last 30 minutes everything goes a little too fast. Everything happens all of a sudden and it's over pretty quick. Plus you don't get to see a lot of the civilians on earth. You never get a clear idea of how many people are suffering from the aliens, and for example if Holland still exists. )But nonetheless this is without a doubt the most beautifull movie you have ever seen. With special effects that will leave you gobsmacked in your chair and begging for more. A storyline which is as emotional as exhilirating and a true feast for every Sci-Fi fan out there. GO SEE IT NOW! "},{"Title":"EXCELENT","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Me bein and avid fan of the Video Game seris, couldnt wait to see this movie. And it was not a dissaportment, the CG is amazing, the storyline, while sometimes flawed, is serious and epic. The movie deals with very serious subjects such as the meaning of life. And for people thinking about not seeing it just be cause they've never played the games, GO SEE IT. I have heard of alot of people feeling 'lost' in the stoyline because they think taht they are missing somthing from the games. They aren't, in Final Fantasy Tradition, The storyline is totally original and has no connections to any of the previous games. "},{"Title":"True to the game. Two experience levels up!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy was a very enjoyable movie that was TRUE TO THE GAME!  How many game made movies have we seen turn into trash as soon as they hit the big screen?  Let me name a few Super Mario Brothers, Street Fighter, Mortal Kombat 1 and 2, etc.  Need I go on?  Thank you Square Pictures for showing our non-gamers or non-RPGrs just what you guys are made of.  I know it sounds weird, but some people just don't know a thing about the Final Fantasy series. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but it's not everyone's cup of tea.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen Final Fantasy twice so far, the first showing being better than the first, even though I was able to understand the story better the second time around.  I give it a 10 myself.  Most of those who are critical of the movie disliked the storyline.  Spirits Within has a Japanese anime feel. The story is heavily influenced with Japanese mysticism (the Gaia spirit theory), something the casual moviegoer may not understand or like. These themes are prevalent in the last few installments of the videogame series. Being an avid FF gamer, I found the storyline to be deep and meaningful. While some little things aren't fully explained, that is part of what the FF series is.  It makes you think, and some details are left alone enabling the viewer to interpret the story in their own way.I'd advise parents to leave their children at home if they plan to see the movie (definitely worth at least one viewing).  My 12-year old brother was literally squirming in his seat during the middle third of the movie.  For kids, it's like watching the Senate Conference from Star Wars Episode I (arguably the most boring part) for almost an hour's time total.  Kids who have knowledge of the games and can sort of understand the spiritualism would probably be okay.  I only heard one swear the entire movie and there is a a very short scene with a tiny bit of blood, otherwise there's no gore. "},{"Title":"a glorious landmark in cinema","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  All i keep hearing about is how weak the story is and how cold and emotionally dead the characters are, and how bad they're developed.  Maybe i was watching a different movie.  I perhaps sidestepped into Pearl Harbor again.  But i didn't, and thank God for that.  The movie i am referring to is Final Fantasy The Spirits Within.  A film that i believe will be an important one, for its visual grace and fine attention to characters. A true milestone. This is a movie that creates an atmosphere for the players to interact in, and makes it a believable treat for the eyes.  I didn't find the characters to be callous or underdeveloped, as some critics did, but a facsinating marriage of animation and humanistic feelings.  I found myself stunned while watching this. Dr. Aki Ross is the woman at the center of this very involved story. She has dream sequences that break into the story, and keep the pace going. She believes these dreams hold the key to mankind's survival from an alien race.  On her side is Dr. Sid, an old man who keeps Aki under his wing. And a group of soldiers called Deep Eyes, led by Gray Edwards, who has a tangled past with Aki.  Together, they try to find the solution to preserving the earth and rid it of the alien infestation by finding the Eight Spirits.  On the other side of the equation is General Hein, who doesn't believe in the Spirits, and goes about his own way that might ultimately destroy the planet. This was a unique movie-going experience for me, and consider this to be an achievement in the film medium, a truly beautiful movie.  i highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys and appreciates the imagination. "},{"Title":"incredible movie","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  FFSW is an absolutely incredible movie.  the animation is lifelike, at times perfect, and is never in the way.  the story is pretty standard sci-fi stuff, but good, and the characters are well acted and supported.  i found myself easily drawn into the movie, and judging from the silent theater from open to close, others were as well.  i had a blast. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film and Worth Seeing Multiple Times","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first heard rumours about a Final Fantasy movie 5-6 years ago, I was beyond excitement.  And now having seen the finished product, it was well worth the agonising waitBackground Being a fan of the Final Fantasy series (played I,IV,V,VI,VII & IX)I feel that I knew what to expect out of the storyline since it was written and directed by the creators of the series; in depth characters as well as a deep storyline (which often involves saving the planet from a tyrannical force), which involves adventure, love, a terrible loss to main characters; a great soundtrack (for the video game series it's Nobuo Uematsu) and since Final Fantasy IV (not having played II or III, I don't know) an engineer/scientist named Cid/Sid.  Suffice-it-to say, I knew what I was getting into when I saw this movie.The Movie & Other Tid-Bits (spoilers not included) First of all, the PG-13 rating should give the audience an idea that the movie isn't going to be a light hearted romp about showing off lush sceneries, but is in fact a fairly dark movie showing a devastated Earth, human suffering and death included. There is very little foul language, just two s**t's, a couple damn's and a hell or two. So just be advised that the movie has its rating for a reason, if it was a live action movie, I wouldn't doubt that it would have an R rating.Now that that's out of the way; Final Fantasy The Spirits Within plays like a good old fashion science-fiction movie alien invaders vs. the human race and in the Alien fashion, our hero is a woman.  Final Fantasy (FF) does relate to other films such as Apocalypse Now, Star Trek, The Rock and Titan A.E. just to name a couple. But FF is an original enough movie that the audience (In my own opinion) does not feel like they're watching a mush of different movies clumped together.In the case of all the CG characters, there are many moments of awe, but very few times in the movie that the characters don't look real enough. Dr. Sid, in my opinion was the most realistic out of all the main characters, also helped by Donald Sutherland who seemed to embody Dr. Sid. What really impressed me was all of the individual mannerisms each character had, the subtle eyebrow movements and the movement of their eyes projected a feeling of genuine humanity.(Spoiler of Sorts) One of my favourite parts in the film, was when Dr. Sid compared his teams research with that of Galileo and the punishment for unpopular ideas. In this scene, Dr. Sid destroys his personal diary out of fear that any notes or records in relation to the existence of Gaia could put him or any of his colleagues into prison, which would halt there search for Spirits with compatible wave lengths. I feel that this helps define Dr. Sid as a human being and not out to change the way society thinks or to be looked on as a hero.Well, what can I say now that hasn't been said by the some-odd hundred people before me except that Final Fantasy The Spirits Within was an excellent film and worth seeing multiple times; as well as to be purchased when it's released on DVD. (Apologies for any grammatical errors in this text).  "},{"Title":"Untouchable.  Ignore the nay-sayers.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, I see a lot of people trashing the movie, but these people that blast Final Fantasy are unappreciative and undeserving. These are the same people who stuff their faces with McDonalds and praise movies like Good Will Hunting.1) Visually speaking, Final Fantasy can not be compared to Titan AE nor Toy Story. We are dealing with high art. It's like trying to draw parallels between Michaelangelo and Hanna Barbara. Absurd amounts of detail were paid to every conceivable graphical element in the film.  Pay attention to the light and shadows.  It is not a cartoon.  The visuals are not like anything anyone has ever seen in a video game or a movie. Also, comparing The Spirits Within to other video game movies is pitiful.  No intelligent gamer would ever debate that the themes, scope, and integrity of the Final Fantasy lineage queue up with Mortal Kombat or Tomb Raider. It is not fair to bring that sort of bastardized, paralogical as far as video game movies go theorizing to Final Fantasy.2) The story is beautiful.  The theater was completely silent when the film ended.  We are not used to seeing tragedies anymore.  Don't listen to the people who say nay. It is a tragedy so surreal, breathtaking, and awe inspiring.3) The characters are deep.  They are poignant.  They are memorable and illuminescent.  Look at James Woods' character's Freudian desires, for example.  He yearns to be the hero, but his drive to shoot the biggest gun ultimately destroys everything he requires to grant him that title.4) Forget about the sad people who are uncomfortable with the fact that the film is groundbreaking, decades ahead of its time, and so imaginative it kills them to know they don't have the talent to produce a single second of the film.  For those who want enlightenment, I'll take the initiative to find suitable, reliable, comparisons.  Take the elegance of Princess Mononoke, the dazzling beauty of Crouching Tiger, and the bold imagination of the Matrix, and you're still only half way on your undeniably incomprehensible journey towards seeing Final Fantasy for the immaculate film it is.  "},{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As any Final Fantasy fan might expect, the accomplished Hironobu Sakaguchi and his counterparts at Square outdid themselves yet again with the richly textured and artfully scened Spirits Within.  Aside from some close-up, not-quite-right mouth movement, I forgot I was watching CG, and actually had to remind myself that this is not real.  In keeping with the Final Fantasy tradition, there were compellingly creepy monsters, a heinously evil villain, and of course, someone named Sid.  The movie's soundtrack left MUCH to be desired, however, as the musical genius of composer Nobuo Uematsu, a staple of the Final Fantasy game series, was glaringly absent.  Replacing it was a sparse and unmemorable score by Elliot Goldenthal.  Square more than made up for any musical oversights with their visual achievements.  See this movie and marvel at the things they're doing with computers these days. "},{"Title":"Well worth the wait!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Even though I've never played one Final Fantasy game by the director, his latest creation blew me away!  The CG world is amazing -- and the story is great too -- it has drama, action, a mean protagonist, some humor, and love that binds it all together!  Critics are saying the plot stinks or is too predictable, but they fail to miss the point - it's FUN to watch and NOT CONFUSING with MESSAGES that are pretty deep (if you want to discuss them after the movie) that deal with love of mankind, Earth, etc...Well, when you want to escape out of the real world we live in, this movie is where you should go if you're into movies - please give it a chance.  "}{"Title":"True to the game. Two experience levels up!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy was a very enjoyable movie that was TRUE TO THE GAME!  How many game made movies have we seen turn into trash as soon as they hit the big screen?  Let me name a few Super Mario Brothers, Street Fighter, Mortal Kombat 1 and 2, etc.  Need I go on?  Thank you Square Pictures for showing our non-gamers or non-RPGrs just what you guys are made of.  I know it sounds weird, but some people just don't know a thing about the Final Fantasy series. "},{"Title":"Stunning Animation, Reasonable Story=Good Entertainment","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have read a great amount about this movie, a lot of it ragging on the story. I will be the first to admit that the plot is not the most amazing thing, however it is also not terrible. The biggest problem that I could see was time constraints. Fleshed out, the story would have been far more enjoyable, but the movie would have had to have been extended another hour. 2 hours(especially compared to the games, 30-60 hours) is simply not enough time. The animation itself was an amazing step forward. While there were some holes(especially in the cases of certain supporting actors, who don't seem to have had as much time put into them), overall it had the ability to suspend disbelief, and allow one to get into the movie. While FF TSW takes some extra thought to get the plot, it is a movie that is worth seeing and forming your own opinion on. If nothing else, it is definitely an interesting look at the future of film. "},{"Title":"Good story, good acting, great visual effects!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I read some negative reviews and kind of expected a let down when I went to see the movie.  Lo and behold, this turned out to be one of the best films I've ever seen in a theater!The story is quite straight forward, if you have the faintest idea of what the Gaia theory is about.  The explanations they gave in the movie was clear to me, I do not know why people are confused.  The movie's allusion to the Gaia theory is simply a reminder to us to take care of our planet, because it also has a spirit!I thought the synthetic actors, or rather their animators, did a top-notch job.  Except a few scenes, I would say the landscape, spacecraft, instruments just seemed so real, that this could be the norm of future films.  As far as the characters are concerned, they are lifelike to the point you can forget they are not real people.  I was quite immersed in the action and storyline, so I didn't mind that they were not perfectly like real humans all the time.  After all, we already KNOW they are not.This film is, to me, a milestone in film making.  Just like Terminator 2 introduced high-end computer graphics, the Matrix introduced bullet time, FFSW will be remembered for demonstrating to film makers endless possibilities to tell their stories.I was in complete awe throughout the whole movie, and I hope everyone goes to see it! "},{"Title":"Once again, the critics prove they don't get it","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Much as I try to avoid reading the comments by the almighty 'critics' before seeing a movie, I get so inundated it seems almost impossible.  Such is the case with Final Fantasy, where critics with way to much affection for witty hacks and not enough actual ability to critique wax angry about how the characters weren't lively enough or Aki's character did not enough resemble a leading lady.I mean, come on.  Of course-- see the movie just for the technological achievement if for no other reason--  but do not join the ranks of the 'professionals' and attack the film because you weren't properly pleased with the non-linear plot structure or the way they ended the film.Because as anyone who has watched more than one Anime will readily tell you, the films do not follow the traditional Hollywood format.  Good guys do not always win, the end is not always bright and promising-- and the Hero-- yes folks, the capital H Hero, very often dies.And Final Fantasy is no exception to its genre in that respect-- the ending is not warm and fuzzy, the characters are not warm and fuzzy, you will not walk back to your car feeling all warm and fuzzy.  I just wish that for once the critical elite could differentiate between not liking a movie-- and not understanding it. "},{"Title":"Wow what great animation!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was a great movie! I think that everyone should see it mainly because it is very new and even though its all in animation, the animation looks so life-like. At sometime through the movie you stop seeing it as an animated movie, it starts to look very real. I can't express how great it looks on the big screen but I'll try, it looks very smooth like a person should look, the hair considered to be impossible to animate is actually very great, and the facial expression look exactly how they should if they were real. You have to go see this movie, it will be great! "},{"Title":"Incredibly stunning film","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Before I get into the actual movie, I'd like to comment on some of the reviews that I see in the papers, where many critics start off their reviews by noting that the movie is really in no way related to the video games. Well first off, obviously these people have never played any of the games enough to know that none of them are related to each other in a sequential way with related story lines and the same characters.  The 9 games have been marked by recurring characters like Moogles, Chocobos, and guys named Cid. And, certainly mythological references  in summon monsters and weapon names have cropped up throughout, but as far the games being part of a decology, (or whatever you would call a 10 parter when Final Fantasy X comes out), thats never been the case.  But, you can't expect that in this film, you delve too deep into obscure names and magic and you risk losing any mainstream audience.  And, for my money, this movie actually reminded me a lot of VII.But, on to the movie.  Visually, it's incredible.  You'll see scenes where you can actually lose yourself and forget that you're seeing computer animation and not real people.  It was beyond anything I could have ever imagined when I first heard this movie was being made, and I have high standards from Square.  The realism in the imperfections in the characters is incredible, dilating pupils, moving eyelashes, skin imperfections, everything brought to life.  And when I read that Sakaguchi said this was only a third of what he thinks he can do in realism, and that they actually had to compromise on a lot of minor details, it makes me anxious to see what the next one may look like 2 or 3 years from now.As far as the story, well, I'd be remiss if I didn't say it leaves a little to be desired, simply because you can't help but compare it to the games if you've played them.  For someone who's never played them, that wouldn't really be a problem though.  It does adhere to the Final Fantasy theme of what begins as a small personal quest and ends up as a fight to save the world.  But, I think it lacks the depth of plot and character development you find in one of the games.  I think you have to cut Square some slack though, it was their first attempt to shoe horn the regular 15 or 20 hours of plot they normally get into under 2 hours.  It does leave a very concise film with characters you can connect with, something we could use more of these days with 3 hour epics with characters you couldn't care less about. But, I do hope that next time out they're able to achieve a little more depth in the 2 hours, and I'm sure they will, they've never disappointed. Overall, 8 or 9 out of 10, I'll need to see it again to be sure. "},{"Title":"Great story and visuals...","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  An excellent movie in every aspect.  Wonderful acting, great animation, and an engaging story.  I have been waiting almost three years to see this movie, and it still managed to exceed my expectations.  Like other users have said, the story manages to have emotion without being sappy.  I loved the characters.  Each one had a unique personality which was wonderfully expressed through some superb voice acting.  Hands down the best videogame film ever (yeah, that is not saying much).  Some great and imaginative plot twists as well. "},{"Title":"An Inevitability","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film isn't so much a piece of new cinema history as it is an inevitability.  Ever since the first computer generated image hit the screen some 20 years ago, Hollywood has been progressing towards this film.  But like so many films that exist for the sake of demonstrating special-effects, we are left with a good looking corpse.  Final Fantasy is a marvel to gaze at, but tortorous to listen to.To get to the one thing that no one seems to want to discuss about Final Fantasy outside of its effects, I mention the story.  It's dismal.  (Spoilers) The story involves a horde of alien invaders who have some bad mojo on their backs.  Seems they destroyed their planet, a chunk of which has impacted on Earth, and their negative essence is threatening all of humanity and the Gaia of Earth itself.  There's that word, Gaia.  It's the most repeated word throughout the film and the entire film revolves around it.  These aliens are in fact ghost, but we can apparently shot them with guns, who steal a humans life away by touch.  Our lead heroine, Aki, is in search of the 8 spirits of Earth's Gaia in an attempt to create a repelent against the alien ghost.  Yes, this film is THAT silly.The inherent silliness in the plot may have been overcome through a convincing screenplay, but such is not the case.  While $145 million dollars has been spent on this failed endeavour, a whole $6.50 seems to have been spent to write it.  There's not a memorable line of dialogue anywhere, nor any interesting characters either.  Most of the characters are meerly types lifted from dozens of other films.  The film hits a deadend at about the halfway point, once everything has been thoroughly explained.  We get entrenched in one boring action sequence after another and the wow factor of the film wears off at about the same time.  And now about those visuals.Is this film an amazing feat of animation?  Yes.  But so what?  Hasn't the novelty of special effects worn off yet?  Special effects have simply become a stale game of oneupsmanship.  Their abilities are endless and therefore I can't see why to get excited when they continue to wrap this endless technology around such awful stories.  Final Fantasy's visuals will hold an audience for only so long.  After a while I stopped watching the effects and just started listening to what was being said and the film quickly fell to pieces.As much as I dislike this film I hold some hope that a more talented writer will be invited into the arena and be allowed to craft a suitable story for such endless visual imagination.  Had they succeeded there, Final Fantasy would have been remembered as more than just a technological benchmark.  As it is, it will probably go down as the Tron for the next century.  A forgettable and heartless piece of computer experimentation. "},{"Title":"Fantasy, Finally.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After 10 minutes my eyes started to hurt.  Realizing I had not blinked yet, I decided to allow myself to during a fade to black.  Why didn't I blink? I couldn't.  I almost cannot make myself believe that it is possible for man to create such things with the power of the mind.Never have I experienced such rich and dynamic scenery in a movie.Never have I seen such realism in character movement or facial expressions.Since the birth of impressionism, our society has been without a truly revolutionary form of visual art.  Digital art, though still in it's infancy, provides our inspirationally-deficient race with humility, ironically through the same media that is thought to be the driving force beneath our ultimate dehumanization. Computers.  The movie industry has reached a crossroads where the only limitation on visual imagery is the human mind.Final Fantasy is not a finality, but a beginning.10/10 "},{"Title":"Overall Rating","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a great movie i EVER SEEN........Reasons are1)The Storyline is GooD and interesting.2)The Animation looks like real life movies and the Graphics is betterin than other animation movies.3)The story consist of emotions like--Exciting,romantic,comedy,sad & happy.4)The SoundTracks of the movie gives you the feeling of romance and lets you experience the scenes of the movie.Graphics--;ExcellentSound Effect--Very GoodStoryline--ExcellentRated--10/10Mostly to win awards like Best Animation pictures,Graphics,Soundtrack Etc =) "}{"Title":"Squaresoft has done it!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  FF The Spirits Within IS and by far, the most spectacular-looking sci-fi movie you've ever seen. I'm not relating this as an opinion, I speak the truth, anyone who argues has come to the point in life where they'll never be impressed by anything. When you're that numb, who are you as a filmgoer? You're taking up space.Does that mean the film doesn't have it's reservations? Nope, far from it. As sci-fi, well, it's a tad pedestrian. It borrows elements from familiar concepts in other sci-fi flicks, but it borrows the good stuff. The film becomes less sci-fi as it becomes more hi-tech-fi after a while. It dwells from sci-fi and reaches pseudo-spirituality after a while, but that's forgivable, I've played too many RPGs to dismiss it for that reason alone.It's RPG colors show from time to time, trying to add layers and layers of elements within it's slim running time. It builds up more crises and these don't allow for much character development sure. But don't let this stop you, the film is a good time, and it's exciting to a tee. The visuals are almost overwhelming for the fact that you'll NEVER cease to be impressed with what they done with the entire thing.If you call yourself a gaming fanboy, take it upon yourself to see this flick. This is where you're gaming dollar went, and it's beautiful. If you're not anywhere close to being a gaming fanboy, just show up and be blown away by what's on the screen. You've missed out on some major gaming apparently, and to have this glorious achievement creep on everyone, is something to be reckoned with.Don't let a dislike for Playstation, or video games keep you from seeing potentially the greatest motion picture stride yet. Check it out... IN A THEATER. I couldn't stress that enough. "},{"Title":"Quite simply astonishing","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm quite a fan of mainstream sci-fi movies, but even so I have to say this is one of the most breathtaking movies ever made. This is not because of the story, dialog, music, or other factors which normally contribute to a film.First, visually, it clearly pushes CGI limits to the next level, way beyond what we've come to expect from such films as Shrek and Toy Story. Second, the realism of the picture creates a future environment that we have never seen before in a cinema, and will probably lead to many imitations in the same way Star Wars, the Matrix or Terminator 2 have. Most importantly, however, is that the audience becomes used to the CGI environment of the film and quickly accepts the stylization, meaning that in essence the CGI element has worked.As a prototype and leader, I'm hugely impressed with this movie and can't wait to read more of the technical background. Be sure to read the latest Cinefex for info. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film that captures the essense of the Final Fantasy saga","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ever since its introduction a little less than fifteen years ago, Final Fantasy has been the most popular gaming series in the world. Originally debuted on the NES system in 1987, the FF series has gone on to sell over 25 million copies of its famous gaming franchise and is regarded as the most popular and respected game series of all time. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within continues this saga, but this time on Film. Fans of Final Fantasy will quickly adapt to Final Fantasy The Spirits Within and feel as if they were sumerged into the game series itself. With absolutely unequaled visual splendor, FF The Spirits Within is without a doubt the most visually beatiful computer generated film to date. Significantly surpassing even the amazing Toy Story 1 & 2. The art direction is something that needs to be seen to be believed and is extremely appropriate. The plot is taken straight from the the game series and comes to life beautifully. Fans of the series will also become very familiar with the characters in this film coupled with beautifully done harmonics that are awe inspiring. Not wanting to give too much away, I will say that the film's Story is very well done and as you watch this film, it feels much like a dream as if the Final Fantasy world actually exists, seamingly capturing the FF Universe perfectly. If you have followed the Final Fantasy series, this film is a must see and if you are not familiar with FF, this will be the perfect introduction to this Legendary saga for young and old alike.  "},{"Title":"A Bookmark in Human Achievement","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Besides being the first ever good movie based off a video game license ever, this is 2 hours of true fantasy made reality.  The only thing slightly not perfect is the mouth synched to speech problem... however even this area is leaps and bounds ahead of anything achieved to date.  A single solitary tear rolled down my cheek during the in-space scene between the Dr. Akee (sp?) and Captain Gray... truly marvelous and capturing emotion.  I was surprised to find the story somewhat believable and actually thought provoking (typical of the best of the FF video game series).My one hope is that non-nerds and older generations don't come away from this saying, But their mouths didn't really match the words sometimes and miss the point of the most ambitious modern art project to date.  We'll see what my mom thinks. "},{"Title":"The Most Visually Stunning Movie of the Year!!!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Those of you who enjoy intelligent, thought-provoking sci-fi fiction should definitely go see this film. Although it borrows at times from previous sci-fi movies, there are many unique elements to the plot and the story-telling is unparalleled. Technologically the movie is ground-breaking and has single handedly pioneered the use of hyper-realistic computer imagery in movies. This method for making films introduces a lot more possibilities for what can be done in movies than we ever had before and allows us to do things on the big screen that had never previously been conceived of. In closing, not only is this movie an intriguing sci-fi/action thrill ride but its also visually breath-taking and well worth the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"Fans of the games shant be disappointed","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a fervent fan of the Final Fantasy game series, I naturally could hardly contain my excitement when I first saw the trailer for Final Fantasy The Spirits Within.  I affirmed that this summer would be a good one simply because of the release of this film. But as opening day drew closer, and as I found out more about the plot of the film, I began to worry that the movie would be nothing like the series in any way, shape, or form. I took solace in the fact that Hironobu Sakaguchi, the producer of the series, was directing the film and that the animation looked utterly astounding, but previews and press suggested that the movie would be nothing but typical, soulless sci-fi/action garbage, another video game movie that would be lampooned by critics and hated by the public, á la the hilariously bad cinematic incarnations of Super Mario Bros., Street Fighter, and Mortal Kombat. My excitement was tainted by a permeating fear that one way or another I was setting myself up for a dire disappointment.But upon finally seeing the movie, my fears were completely and thoroughly quelled. I had never seen such breathtaking computer animation. I was simply astonished at the realism and detail of the film, especially in the fully animated human characters, who in some shots looked no different than actual people and maintained only a slight rigidity and artificiality that is characteristic of computer animated humans. The voice acting was for the most part good (the actors did their best with a mediocre script), especially Donald Sutherland as the grandfatherly scientist Dr. Sid, James Woods as the short-tempered, menacing General Hein, and Ming-Na as the steadfast heroine, Dr. Aki Ross. If not for the stunning animation and my loyalty to the games, I might not think so highly of this film as the writing lacks continuity and some lines were really just downright awful. Moviegoers who aren't so impressed by groundbreaking animation (Square Pictures actually had to develop new technology to animate this movie) may not like Final Fantasy The Spirits Within so much.For fans of the games worried that the movie will abandon, or worse yet, betray the consistently remarkable series upon which it is based, I can assure you that your disappointment will be nominal, if you are disappointed at all. Final Fantasy The Spirits Within does not directly draw from the series' deep, fantastical mythology, so you won't find any chocobos, moogles, crystals, or big black dragons named Bahamut, but it is very reminiscent of the series, especially Final Fantasy 7, in a thematic and artistic sense. Many elements are uncannily similar to the concepts of mako energy and the lifestream in FF7, and the movie has the same eerie darkness as the polluted megalopolis of Midgar, where the entire first disc of FF7 takes place.In terms of characters, not many of them are similar to characters from any of the games except the wonderfully evil villain, General Hein, and of course, Dr. Sid (even though his name is spelled with an S and not a C). Hein is like a synthesis of Final Fantasy 8's detestable punk Seifer Almasy and Final Fantasy 6's maniacal, power-hungry clown, Kefka, only far less goofy. The movie has other FF6- and FF8-like artistic and thematic elements as well, but it is most similar to FF7, which, as a friend pointed out to me, makes perfect sense, because the movie's screenplay was written by the same author that wrote FF7, and he wrote both scripts around the same time.So go see Final Fantasy The Spirits Within; it shan't disappoint dedicated fans of the games nor those of you who are scratching your heads and saying, `Final What-asy?' At the very least, you'll be astounded by the animation.  "},{"Title":"A new standard in CG movies.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OK... so the script was not that great. But has any japanimation script been thats great? if you are 11-15, yeah. i still liked this movie better than Shrek, by far. What this movie does is set the new standard for how CG movies look. for all you final fantasy nerds this is not like the cheesy game you all love so much. Now as soon as we get american writers to write the movies it will all be good. i also liked how they didnt kid up the movie like Episode 1 (star wars). all in all this movie is worth seeing in the threater. i still feel ripped off about shrek. (see my nice short review. wanst this better than all the other windbags that try to seem smart by rambling worthless garbage?) "},{"Title":"Amazing !!!!!!!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy absolutely blows your mind, never before we had a chance to see a sci-fi world so detailed and perfect, this movie beats hands down all Star Wars including Fantom Menace. It's a first of a kind, all other computer creations like Toy Story, Antz, even Shrek (which i personally enjoyed) are nothing but cartoons compared to FF, which stepped beyond the familiar limits of computer animation, it's a motion picture in every sense and more exciting than any motion picture because such an incredible level of visual performance can not be reached by usual methods of filming...i wonder if actors who saw FF felt a bit of worried about not so distant future when no actors will be needed to create most beautiful, romantic, thrilling, u name it, movies - and all inside pc box...FF marks the beginning of the new age in movie industry..i guess i have to go and see it 2nd time.... "},{"Title":"I didn't know a movie could be this good!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy does everything right. A trailer that doesn't give away any part of the story, an action plot that doesn't get refocused on a cheesy love interest, and stunning concepts and visuals to boot. This movie was not only a giant leap for computer animation, but a fantastic voyage through the world of science fiction. I encourage everyone to see it, keeping in mind this movie is not particularly for children or crying babies (which happened to be all over my theatre). "},{"Title":"This Movie was Great","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There is nothing bad about this movie.  It had a great story, great plot, and last but not least the graphics were awesome.  This movie is great even for those who haven't played any of the games.  This movie is great for FINAL FANTASY fans and those who have never even heard of FINAL FANTASY. After you see it once you want to see it again.  I was sitting on the edge of my seat the whole movie. What I am looking forward to is when they released it on video and DVD because, when they do that, they are going to make a third version for Playstation 2 that is interactive.  I think if you haven't seen this movie yet, you have to see it. "}{"Title":"Excellent example of CG!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Best CG I have ever seen, Photo Realistic Textures, lighting, Animation, and special effects were all awesome!This move IS ART! Great Job Square!-David Kimball Artifact-Entertainment "},{"Title":"You've got to see it...many times!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you're looking for an action/adventure story, with amazing special effects, this is it!  The animation is so realistic that it makes Shrek look like a 1930's cartoon.  Truly worth going to see again and again.  I'll likely go about three times, then buy the DVD when it comes out. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, but not for everyone.....","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is more a film that would cater to those with a little more patience, as well as expecting an intelligent presentation, despite its origins.  If you can follow films like Dune (the 1984 version directed by David Lynch), Star Trek The Motion Picture, and 2001 A Space Oddysey, you will be able to follow and understand this film easily.  For those who want white knuckle shoot'em up action, you will not enjoy the film.  Unlike Tomb Raider, the story in Final Fantasy, The Spirits Within actually has a point for every violent thing that happens.  Also, for those who assume that this movie is as bland as the videogame series, please do not comment any further.  Obviously, a person who makes a comment like that about a highly acclaimed series has never played any of the Final Fantasy games before, since it was made famous for the intricate story and plot coupled with highly advanced character development that each installment has shown time and time again.  Do not make comments about a film based on a stereotype.  This film is also not something purely for kids, another stereotypical comment that has been made here, as evidenced by the PG-13 rating, as well as introducing complex aspects in the story that would make it more suitable for mature audiences.  The film is also refreshing in its storytelling as it breaks from the Hollywood mainstream norm, introducing a particular Japanese influence in its presentation.  Some may find this objectionable, however.  Music score is also another breathtaking element, written by Elliot Goldenthal and performed by the prestigious London Symphony Orchestra.  The sound design, created by Skywalker Sound, is one of the best I've heard, and ties with SounDelux as providing some of the best sound designs I've heard.  As for computer graphics, this is some of the best CGI you will ever see, beating out the best that even Pixar has to offer.  An interesting side note  The Final Fantasy movie is also a bit of a demonstration and a resume for Square in their intent to compete with other digital effects houses in the motion picture business.  With the quality of the CG in this movie, Square has not only raised the bar for computer animation, but has also made themselves instant forces to be reckoned with in the digital effects industry.  All in all, one of the best films I've seen, and *THE* best videogame-based motion picture ever made.  I've seen the film with sound delivered via Sony Dynamic Digital Sound (SDDS).  Presentation available in SDDS, DTS, and Dolby Digital.  Film was presented in the Academy Flat aspect ratio (1.781).  Would've been nice to see a film like this, though, presented in scope PanaVision.  (2.351)  - Reinhart "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, Let's get the fact that I'm an animation, sci-fi, and gaming geek out of the way.  I just really loved this movie.  More or less right up my alley.While I'd have to say it's not as much of a classic like Aliens, it has an awesome storyline and believable characters that just add to the fact that this movie is visually stunning.  Like Princess Mononoke, Nausicaa of the Valley of Wind, and a few others, it's a must-have for any fan of the medium.   Anyone familiar with anime (Japanese animation) storylines will recognize the twin themes of hope/loss that runs throughout this movie.  Aki Ross (Ming-Na)& Captain Grey (Alec Baldwin), Dr. Sid (Donald Sutherland's voice in a Donald Pleasance look-alike) are the hope/ spirituality that seeks to save the Earth without destroying it.  James Woods is the General  that represents loss/vengeance and is willing to go to the extreme to defeat the enemy.  The voice casting director did a great job getting the right people for the job.  It's just a shame that I believe in the U.S. this film won't make nearly as much as it should.  The evolution of the technology form early cutscenes in games to this film... four years of effort have definitely paid off for Square.  Just absolutely incredible.  I can't wait for their next effort. "},{"Title":"Bold movie that excites as well as indulges...","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I consider the movie bold in that it computerized the entire movie.  I consider it exciting in that the action sequences are very fluid and realistic.  And it indulges your visual senses.  This movie is a delight to see and it MUST be seen in a good theater for the full effect.  The story is a tad thin, but it is more than sufficient enough to provide substance for this one and three-quarter hour long movie.  If you enjoy movies as a form of entertainment, then you will not be disappointed with this eye candy of a movie. "},{"Title":"A complete overview","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The first reason that I wanted to see the movie was because of the graphics.  All of the previews in the world won't let you know how real they make it look.  This was definitely a major break through in computer animation.  The exactness of every hair and each movement was more realistic than anything than I have ever seen.  About 15 min. into the movie I didn't even see the animation; only real live people walking around and talking. The only better you could get is to hook up a computer to your head and interact with the movie. Second, the plot, so I had found, was very thought through and had no deviations or cheap sub-plot sidetracks to keep your attention on the movie.  Everything had to do with what was at hand and it kept you at the edge of your seat.  Many would disagree, but I think that this movie has out done Star Wars.  Nothing was over or under used, and everything was spaced out enough so it was easy to follow what had happened, but there was to many possible endings for you to guess what would happen next.  Each character stays with who they are right to the very end. I highly recommend the movie, but there is no guaranty that you'll like the movie.  But if you like action packed Sci-Fi movies then you're bound to like this one.  There was one thing that I hadn't accounted for though, and that is it has a little of everything, and just enough of everything to make it one of the best pictures that you will ever see. You have to see it to believe.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievable 3D Models and Renderings.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was unbelievable!  The 3D Models were so elaborate that you forget that the movie was computer generated.  They went so far as to make strands of Aki's hair sway in the wind.  Not only were the textures and animations superb, but the plot was excellent as well.  This movie makes the Toy Story models look primitive.  If you enjoyed the videogames then I definitely recommend seeing this movie.  I can only imagine how long it took to render the film from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous movie","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw the movie and I thought it was great, but there were several drawbacks as I expected. First and foremost, the movie was SUPERBLY GORGEOUS (I mean breathtakingly jaw dropping beauty) with every little detail included in everything found within the movie. Every little gadget was given an incredible amount of detail and imagination. This movie is definitely a step into a new reality. The sound had to be one of the best aspects of the movie. Elliots music fit in so well with the story and raised it to new heights of excitement at times. The cast was terrific too with Steve Buscemi playing the best character in my opinion. The downsides to this movie would be the impossible recreation of true human emotions and expressions. Sometimes, they didn't even look like they were crying or they would look funny when they say something. The speech was also slightly lacking.  More unique and smart dialogue would've made the movie so much more engaging as well as fun. This movie had the best cast (in my opinion) which is why it's a shame that the dialogue was not up to snuff. Another thing was the shortness of the movie. Nearly ALL GOOD movies are over 2 hours long (matrix, gladiator, saving private ryan, Aliens, mask of zorro etc) and this one was a tad short which didn't provide for any emotional connections to the characters (like armageddon or space cowboys for instance). Too much info was missing and the characters just remained a mystery you couldn't care too much for. The plot was also jumbled or slightly convoluted at best. If they had explained it more or created an epilogue of some sort, the plot would've been more understandable. All in all, this movie was a BLAST!! Try to see it in a good theatre with loud sound (the one I went to had the crappiest sound system) and appreciate all the hard work these animators put into this. Definitely buy the special DVD when it arrives in a few months. 8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Everything I hoped it to be.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've waited a couple of years for this film to hit theaters and I have to say I was impressed from start to finish.  Having known anything about the final fantasy line of games will have no bearing on your interpretation or experience through this movie, don't let that divert you from seeing this. It's a sci-fi about a fantasy world, so at least expect that much.  I've played almost all of the final fantasy games, although there were no ties to those games, a couple of my friends who have never even seen a final fantasy game gave it a 10/10 as did I.  I'll be back in there a couple more times before it leaves theaters, no doubt. "},{"Title":"A superb visionary experience","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In the opening scene, I SWORE that the mountains were real, that the sun was real, that everything (except Aki, the main character) was real. And Aki was pretty close. In fact, almost all of the characters look real. Some actions look a little forced and unnatural, but in terms of graphical euphoria, this is the animated feature that has come the closest to reality by far.The story is a different story. You've seen this story before. BUT, you haven't seen it from animated characters this well before. Even if you have a good idea of what's gonna happen next, you won't care, because the fake actors act incredibly real. I thought emotion would be hard for the animators to create so realistically.The music is nothing short of fantastic and fits the movie well.Overall, everything is beautiful, and you have to see it more than once to fully see how beautiful it is. "}{"Title":"it was well worth the wait","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've been waiting eagerly for FF to come out for half a year, and i must say that i was not dissappointed at all. Superb graphics, without a doubt. Anyone who says otherwise needs to have his/her brain checked. However, i found that the part when the base is attacked a little too grim/dark. FF, while thoroughly enjoyable, was somewhat dark, though not as dark as, say, End of Days or Mimic. But, aside from that, it makes a really good show to catch during the summer. The plot could be tweaked up a bit, but overall it was very original, since it involved technology that dealt with living persons' life forces, or, their spirits. Also, just like Titan AE, FF is really not meant to be a kiddie show, since it deals with emotions and tragedy, besides action. But don't get me wrong, FF is a great movie. A must see during the summer.Anyone who totally trash talks this movie deserves to die. "},{"Title":"Movie With A Meaning","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is not your run of the mill sci-fi flick that many people predicted it to be. It is not only the most visually stunning movie made but uses the sci-fi genre to express many different themes that could not otherwise be expressed. "},{"Title":"Mediocre plot, but fantastic visuals","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, for those who want to know if they should see Final Fantasy, the answer is a strong yes.  No matter what a critic or I may say here should turn you away from seeing this movie.  It is a definitive piece of movie history in the making.  The realism of the animation here is great.  Not to take away anything from Pixar of course, but the intent of Square to produce a film not tailored to  children with cartoonish characters is a turning point in film making.  No longer is the computer graphics the special effects of a film (the explosions, the monsters, the gore) but the film itself.Go see it.Now, that I got that question answered, let's get down to the nitty gritty. I'll hit the good points before the bad.  For one thing, probably the most entertaining thing you'll see rendered in Final Fantasy is the futuristic technology.  From the intricately designed translucent computer displays, to the gelatinous blobs the soldiers land in sans parachutes, it shows the imagination and artistry of the designers -- not to mention the engineering that went into it.Another great piece of eye candy you'll see throughout the movie is the phantoms, or what is known as the aliens.  These are semitransparent luminous creatures that wouldn't be so spectacular if they were regular old opaque creepies, but something about making things look like gummy bears on acid really ups the cool factor.Of course, the most hyped and anticipated visual in Final Fantasy is the human characters themselves.  Here, we begin to cross over to the bad points of the movie &#150;- but let's not jump to conclusions.  I must say that the characters look real so real you can swear they were real people&#133; sometimes. The animators did a great job, just great.  I've head Chris Lee, the producer, say that their intent was not to create a totally realistic depiction of people, but rather a stylized representation.  That I think is just an excuse.  There are points where there seem to be a spark in the eyes of the characters that you can almost not deny as real.However, there are other times where unfortunately, Aki, the heroin looks like a muppet from the Dark Crystal.  At times, her lips move awkwardly and her face looks like a great rendering of a synthetic mask.  You'll notice this especially during the scenes that actually require acting.  One of these scenes is when Aki and her romantic interest are stranded together in a lift.  For some reason all of her gestures look exaggerated and &#150; yes &#150; muppet-like.  Her animators overacted.  I guess when you can control every nuance of a character that can happen.It is hard to maintain your suspense of disbelief when you're not sure whether to believe the characters as real or just a stylized representation. That said, everything else from the soldiers (in full gear) and the armored flying ships to the landscapes and the special effects (can I call them that?) are extraordinarily realistic.Speaking of overacting, let me just quickly mention the score.  Yes, even it overacted.  When you watch it, listen for the moment in the opening action sequence where the soldier is being pulled out of harms way by his comrades. For some reason, the score raises to such a crescendo that you wonder whether the movie has just hit its highest climax.  After, that it did seem to tone down to appropriate levels.  I guess the conductor had a little too much caffeine that day.Anyway, let's cut to the plot.  Hey, if anyone's played Final Fantasy, they know that there's always a message, often very heavy handed.  It's no different than the movie, except you don't have a month to move through the plot playing your Playstation at all hours of the night.  The result is, everything is crammed in an hour and a half.  It seems exposition comes with every moment, but trails off at the very end (I'll get to that later).In fact, that may be one of the main elements that contribute to a major drawback to this movie it seems like Final Fantasy is about twenty minutes too long.  Within all the action scenes and wonderful eye candy visuals, for some reason you'll wonder why the end hasn't come yet.  It drags and the only reason I can think of is the screenplay.major spoiler below Too many times we cut to Aki saying Did you hear what I said&#133; and she explains the reason why she's working on something critical.  Exposition, exposition, exposition.  Then there's the false endings that add to the sense of the plot dragging out.  By false endings I mean the scenes that seem to draw from endings from every other action movie made.  There are scenes that would typically mark the end of a movie that in Final Fantasy are just minor plot points the hero on her death bed, the death of other good guys, the big exploding bad guy.These plot points lead up to a climax that is very disappointing in comparison.  In fact, the climax leaves the audience wondering.Through this whole film, you are force fed the details and reasons why things are done and sought after; then at the end, the fate of the entire world can be accomplished by one sacrificial action that the audience had no idea needs to be done.  No one told the audience, for all we know it wasn't mentioned, but somehow &#150; somehow -- the characters knew exactly what needed to be done.  Oh well.Final Fantasy asks you to think deeply about life, but not too deeply that you realize you are being asked to ignore holes in the plot and care for two-dimensional characters.For those die-hard fans of the Final Fantasy video game, sorry folks no chocobos, dragoons, GF's, moogles or whatever else you can think of.  The only hints of the game here is the moral message about Gaia and the name of Aki's mentor, Dr. Sid.Regardless, I'm sure the game geeks will see it anyways, if not just to gripe about it.  For the rest of you, go see it for the visuals.Just try your best not to get distracted by the  visuals of the human characters.  "},{"Title":"Opened today","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, I need to reiterate Hardcore Final Fantasy fans may have a hard time accepting this as a true extension of the games. The reason? It's not an extension of the games. While it would be closest to FF7 and FF8, the story has nothing to do with endless battles, or summoning monsters to assist the characters in their quest.This movie has some slight references to the Final Fantasy series. One character is named Dr Sid, which could be a tribute to their repetitious use of Cid, and they refer to the earth spirit as Gaia. This could be the first step in a Final Fantasy series, and I would hope that the next one includes more of the things that make the games popular.From an artist's standpoint, I was awestruck by the visuals, and like someone mentioned before, forgot that the movie was entirely computer generated. I was sometimes brought back to reality by a few minor miscues. Generally, these were just a mouth not looking correct while speaking, or stiff movements. These moments would pass by very quickly, and I'd be back in my trance.I would like to know what is now considered an original story, as well as state that none of us made an original post either. "},{"Title":"Great movie, period.  A little complex though...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  NOTICE THIS MOVIE IS NOT FOR EVERYONE! The visuals are stunning, but the plot can be confusing to some.  If you couldn't follow 2001 or Contact, you won't do much better here, although it isn't as cryptic as 2001.  I really did not care about the love interest messing anything up and thought it was a welcome addition to the movie.  There are plot twists, unexplained portions, and other anomalies that many did not welcome.  I for one could follow this movie, but I can see where some could get easily confused and frustrated.  Sony is advertising this movie as action, but it's really a complex drama/action, much along the lines of Contact and (of course) 2001.If you are ready for such a movie, catch it in theaters while you still can.  You'll be in for a wild ride that makes Toy Story look like Pong (remember the ball that bounced back and fourth across the tv?).  Truly an amazing movie.  I can't wait for Square's next move.NOTE This really isn't a Final Fantasy movie.  It bears the name, but I could not find resembelence except for cameo apearences by monsters from FF7 and FF8. "},{"Title":"It's worth it","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have mixed emotions about Final Fantasy The Spirits Within.  I, along with many, many others have waited with childlike anticipation for this film.  We all wanted it to be so much, for we knew it could be, backed by the tried and trusted company that has produced the undisputed (at least by me) best one's and zero's to ever hit a console.Through all the reviews I've read, I've noted they sway back and forth, noting negative points on the movie, yet always reinforcing it with another positive one.  This is because FF TSW is definitely worth seeing, yet it is not without blemish. However, the negative points do not ruin the movie.The next Final Fantasy movie is either already in the works, or will be before this year ends.  I believe they will read user input, learn from their mistakes, and create a truly memorable epic tale.  Anyone who is familiar with Square's productions will affirm they hold the experience and capability; I only hope the first film receives enough support for this to become a reality.Do not be concerned that you will not understand it because you have not played the games, nothing more than the title (and the name Sid/Cid) was borrowed from the series.  Sure you can draw parallels from some of the characters in the film to some FF video game characters, but not any more so than you could any other film.Go out and see this movie, despite its shortcomings, it is still very worth it. "},{"Title":"Simply astounding!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have always been a fan of computer-animated film, and thus fairly harsh as a critic. But I've been waiting for this film with the eagerness of a child the night before christmas...First of all, I've played through all but the first three Final Fantasy games. This made the fact that the film takes place in the distant future, quite hard to accept.  Even the name itself states fantasy, which to me is defined by the works of Robert Jordan and Stephen Donaldson. Yet there are certainly futuristic elements in FF8, which according to me is one of the greatest RPGs of all time. And as the hype grew and expectations rose, I could only wait and hope. The verdict The movie is an absolute masterpiece!This is the first movie since Jurrasic Park to make  me shake my head is disbelief, thinking This should  not be possible, not yet!.  Oh sure, I'm a special effects junkie, but lets face it. There hasn't been many ground-breaking innovations in area since JP and T2 (although Matrix made a cool contribution). But to take on the task of making life-like, computer animated humans (and I mean, make them look as real as possible) is simply beyond our capabilities,  or so I thought.Square has managed to pull this off in a way I could  never imagine. Incredible attention to detail, breath-taking environments, awesome camera work (uhm, POV?), and believe it or not, the english voice acting is top-notch!  (This coming from a hardcore anime fan , japanese fansubs is all I would dare to put my hands on, but these are great voices!) All this wrapped up in an easy-to-grasp, classic tale of good vs. evil, and a strong tale at that... I admit it actually moved me at times (but I'm a sucker for this). Hey, you know what? Do yourself a favor and just see it, it's the greatest achivement in animated film to this date. "},{"Title":"The Best movie I've seen in a long time","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  into scifi, thats all you need to be to enjoy the movie, even if your not go see it for the amazing graphics. you'll end up forgetting your watching for the beautiful scenery and pay attention to the excellent storyline. "},{"Title":"Three years of waiting and it was worth every second.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A couple years ago a 1/2 second film of a woman's eye blinking was released, and I remember watching it for at least 5 minutes everyday. Since I consider myself to be a Final Fantasy fan, (playing every single one released in America) I was excited when I heard they were making a film (especially one that was entirely CG), but worried if it would contain all the elements of the game, and appeal to us video game freaks. I was happy to see it did. Although the movie is very fast paced and summed up in 90 minutes rather than 40 hours, all the emotions a gamer feels while playing any Final Fantasy game are there; the goosebumps, the same type of humor, the feeling of being lost etc. Some changes were made to appeal to viewers that weren't aware of the Final Fantasy games (all nine of them). Earth was the setting rather than a nameless planet, and Final Fantasy's original creatures, moogles and chocobos, were no where in sight. As far as the computer generated... everything goes, it was better than I expected (and my expectations were high). The lighting effects were simply stunning (just watch James Wood's character's jacket when he walks), the detail on the character's faces were amazing, especially Dr. Cid. On a bad note, Peri Gilpin and Steve Buschemi were a little off on the nailing the voice overs, but it won't ruin your viewing experience. Overall, it was a darn good film that I will surely see more than once in the theaters. FF fan or not, you will enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Fellow IMDb users are missing the point...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of those movies everyone simply needs to see.  Even if you don't like the plot, just put in some earplugs and watch in silence.The movie is simply beautiful.  The visuals go far beyond anything that has come before.  The film is so beautifully 'drawn' that you don't even want to blink, lest you miss 2 or 3 frames.To quibble about the motion of the characters, or the off-sync of the lips, is to completely miss the point.  Square took an idea, and decided to see how far they could take it with a huge budget and as many talented people as they could find.The result is a film like no other. 9/10. "}{"Title":"just like the games, only (real)","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you have ever played a final fantasy video game you must see this film.  If you haven't you will be very disappointed that you spent hundreds of hours in front of a television without seeing the unification of ever FF storyline in a film.  Beyond the amazing CG (did I mention it was amazing) you will be drawn in by the creative and non-American story line.  I don't want to give a thing away, but if you've played the games, see the film immediately.  If you haven't played the games, you'll want to after seeing this film.  Millions of people have purchased the games, so please god let all of them see this film at least a half dozen times.  I saw it on opening day with only a half filled audience, that's embarrassing.  This deserves to be the top grossing film of the summer, not Shrek.  Shrek did nothing new, it was cute, but what isn't coming out of Hollywood these days.  Support new filmmaking as well as your brain and see this film. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking Visuals & A Superb Story","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  INSTRUCTIONS Pick the theater with the best sound and the biggest screen. Sit center and as close as you can take it. Be carried away into this incredible world.Once you get over the difficulty of lip-synching CGI characters, you will forget that these 'actors' only exist digitally. The remarkable rendering of skin, hair, and gravity will make you wonder if a whole new genre of movie making has just been born. The imagined creatures and spaceships of the movie were spectacular. Elegant. Creepy. Fully realized. The sound effects and atmosphere sounds were incredibly crisp and real... more real than film!Enough about the effects. The story is straightforward and simple, but not without it's surprises and awakenings. The real actors who supplied the voice and the emotion did a great job of keeping it true to life, unlike many animated flicks that try to get the actors to sound like Saturday morning cartoons. Even with the digital wizardry, actors have nothing to fear. This cast truly delivered a theatrical performance that swept the audience away into the future.I can't wait to go see it again! "},{"Title":"This movie deserves your attention","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  all im going to say is this movie kicked total A**, im not going to say anything about it seein as how it would ruin the great story line that sakaguchi has put into this film, if you loved the video games like me then you should know what type of things to see, just dont be surprised because he has left a lot of the video game out of the movie, but still adds in the fantasy settings, but if youve never played the games then this is the perfect time for you to experience Final Fantasy, believe me this is a must see movie.  "},{"Title":"Have you ever had a dream so beautiful, that you wished you never had to wake up?","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have seen many good movies over the years.  I have seen many great movies over the years.  I have seen only a few that are so truly excellent that they have redefined my view of movies, and forced me to re-evaluate every other movie I have seen.  Final Fantasy is one of those movies.There are people who like to dislike things.  Those sorts of people will complain that the characterization is weak, the story is predictable, the animation isn't perfect, etc.  And I guess there are times that it is good we have those people around.  I'm just not going to talk to them when it comes to this movie.  Final Fantasy is a gorgeous movie.  If you've seen trailers or screenshots you've only seen the beginning.  There are moments that will simply take your breath away, when you'll forget to chew the popcorn in your mouth.  And if you like to complain about thin plots, think about this Star Wars is no more than a retelling of the classic good vs. evil.  In the same light, Final Fantasy is a retelling of the triumph of hope over despair, compassion over destruction.  But it is told with a visual style that is simply impossible to describe.At the end, as the movie went silent for a moment, you could have heard a pin drop in the theater.  And as the lights come on and you look around, your heart breaks for a moment as you realize you have woken from a beautiful dream, a vision unlike any other. "},{"Title":"Great movie, lives up to the name Final Fantasy","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just saw FF Spirits Within tonight at a preview screening and I thought it was excellent.  I've been a fan of the Final Fantasy RPG series since 93', and I have to say I'm very pleased with how the movie turned out.  The storyline is great and the characters and environments looked so realistic sometimes, that I forgot that I was watching an animated film.  The voice acting is top-notch as well.  I felt such a rush seeing it, that I wish I could see it again right now.  While the story is an original one, it's similar to that of FF7 and a bit of FF8.  I urge disgruntled Final Fantasy purists to see this film with an open mind and enjoy the experience.  I congratulate Square on its first big-screen production and hope to see more in the future.  I gave Spirits Within a perfect 10.The only downside of the movie is the absence of Nobuo Uematsu's music (the composer for the entire videogame series).  I stayed till the very end hoping to hear a snippet of the Prelude or Prologue themes, but there weren't any.  The remaining members of the audience who stayed for the same reason were disappointed at that, too.   "},{"Title":"Lean back, watch, be impressed.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ever since I saw the first stunningly detailed images of Aki and her co-players I longed to see the movie. Because this time I wouldn't see an well-formed actress as heroine but a rather normal girl. Normal when you disregard the fact that she is a fully rendered computer creation. Every detail of life, every wrinkle and pimple was 3d-modeled. As was everything else. The pure visual impact of this is breathtaking, and after half of the movie you will have forgotten that you're watching a virtual reality. And what a reality In the year 2065 human life is captured in glasshouses, hiding out from evil phantoms bringing death to every living being. From here the story develops into the classic conflict, fight the enemies with all power or try to understand the reasons why they are here. The story contains everything of which good stories are made of, it's emotional without being too sweet, it's exiting though you can well guess the end and it contains the action I was hoping to see in Episode I. It's a brilliant adoption of a computer game, much better then 'Tomb Raider' and I think even people who never played the game will find something to enjoy in this movie, emotion, story, action or just the fantastic scenery. I just pity that I couldn't see the movie twice in a row to absorb all the impressions coming down from the screen. "},{"Title":"Beautiful effects....nothing more","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" As a big fan of the Final Fantasy series which plots are always so interesting I couldn't wait to go to see the animation movie at the theater which I have been waiting for so long.Visual effects are beautiful and...there is nothing more I could find positive about it. The plot seems confused, the characters not interesting and just too typical. I couldn't help feeling that the story was written for the visual effects since nothing much happen in this animation. The worst point about this animation is that it used the name Final Fantasy which, no matter how I see, is just an attempt to use the franchise game to lure people to the theater.I give it a 4/10 for the effects. I would have rate the animation 5/10 if the title was different.Final Fantasy game franchise fans  do not waste your time. Other audience may enjoy it though even though I am skeptic about it. "},{"Title":"Lousy movie....","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I invited a couple of friends of mine to see this film and was sorry I ever did. Boringest, dullest, excuse for just all out CG feature. Dull beyond belief. Unbelievably dull! No wonder the animation company (japanese, I think) based in Hawaii folded so fast they didn't even have a chance to blink an eye! And the story! Gaaaaaaaawwwwwwwwdddddddddddddd........I looked around the rows of people and damn if that wasn't the most silent audience I have ever seen in my life for a movie. It was anything but 'entertaining'. The kiss of death for a movie......I kept falling in and out of sleep......if you want to induce sleep this is the perfect remedy for it........ "},{"Title":"Visually stunning and exciting animated epic","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" WOW! That's my reaction to the brilliant, fascinating, and captivating computer-generated animated film Final Fantasy The Spirits Within. This is a groundbreaking milestone in the history of animation and it answers a question as old as time Can we really animate realistic human beings? The answer is, I am happy to report, yes.Even if you've seen all the Pixar or Dreamworks movies, you've never seen anything like Final Fantasy. The animation is dark and realistic, and it feels more like a live-action film than a cartoon. Granted, you can tell this movie is animated, but only just barely. During some scenes, I was thoroughly and utterly convinced I was watching a real movie. The story is a hodgepodge of Eastern and Western philosophy, but I liked it.The voicework is matched incredibly to the characters by actors like Alec Baldwin, Donald Sutherland, James Woods, Ving Rhames, and Steve Buscemi. The most complete performances come from Sutherland and Ming-Na, who voices Aki. Woods is creepy and dependable as the villain, and the other performers add dimension to their characters.Overall, Final Fantasy is a great piece of work, and it should signal a new direction for animation. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Technically impressive but no Pixar-beater - 67%","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If you're of a certain age and a certain disposition then you will, like me, consider Final Fantasy VII to be one of the greatest video games in history. A sprawling role-playing game with a fantastic story told out in glorious 3D detail the likes of which had never been seen before (and now prop up every RPG released since). The only possible criticism one could have was that it went all for too long and if it's the seventh game in the series, it's not exactly very final. When news reached me of a Final Fantasy movie, I had high hopes despite video game-movie cross-overs being famously difficult to pull off. Imagine my disappointment on discovering that Final Fantasy The Spirits Within would only be set within the Final Fantasy universe and have nothing to do with one of my favourite games. And yes, no Tifa either.Instead, we have Dr Aki Ross (voiced by Ming-Na) and Dr Sid (Donald Sutherland) roaming the Earth looking for seven spirits which will help them in the fight against the invading alien forces. These invisible beasties pretty much own the planet so any help is better than nothing. Not everyone thinks that Dr Sid's spirits are the answer, especially megalomaniac general Hein (James Woods) and his nasty space-weapon Zeus. Ross and Sid race against time to find the last remaining spirits together with a bunch of sympathetic soldiers led by Ross's one-time boyfriend Gray Edwards (Alec Baldwin) before humanity is completely destroyed.Despite not being able to see a Chocobo in sight (though they are in somewhere, apparently), this is typical Final Fantasy. Basically, lots of apocalyptic special effects and powerful weapons that defy logic. Yep, if you loved all those Materia that summoned people like Satan to kill those mutant plants then you'll love this. This is so over-the-top that in the end, you get bored of it all. The ending actually reminded me of Kubrick's 2001 A Space Oddessy in that it dazzles you with visuals and explains nothing. Trouble here is that this film dazzles you with visuals from the get-go. This is, without question, the best animated film of all time. People look like people instead of computer sprites - Aki's hair in full flow is so lifelike that it hurts your head to think about it. But while the quality of animation will continue to set standards for years to come, it still isn't as entertaining as something like The Incredibles. And the fact that the story is a stand-alone instead of a recognisable game follow-up also hurts the picture.As a technical accomplishment, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within is a winner. With great vocal performances from all the actors, this really is one of the best animated productions I think I'll ever see. But as a piece of entertainment, it can't cut the mustard. The story feels muddled and the film has a downbeat nature, betraying its cutesy video game origins. The other problem I had is similar to the one I had in Spiderman 2 - because you know the action is animated, the thrill you're supposed to get rarely comes and when it does, it doesn't last. It's such a shame that despite the impressive high-tech display, there is only a average movie beneath the surface. The film didn't deserve to be a commercial flop - all that effort had to be repaid somehow - but film goers can be a harsh crowd sometimes. Give it a chance and it might surprise you. Perhaps if they'd stuck to the game more closely, it would have been a different matter. "}{"Title":"Worth seeing as a movie","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I really do think it is a pity that this movie bombed so much. While it is certainly not the greatest film it definitely deserves more respect than it seems to get. So instead of continuing to attempt to take the FF series in a new direction we have Square Pictures now milking the FF7 fandom with Advent Children. People seem to get pived at the fact that there's no swords or magic or friggen yellow birds running around in this movie. Frankly, I'm glad there isn't. That's what the games are FOR. Why go watch a movie about this crap when you can play any of the 11 versions? That said, there are subtle Final Fantasy elements that still seep through (the spirits, the name Cid,etc) This movie is a very well constructed piece of art, with a story interesting enough to keep your attention (assuming you actually pay it). It does have it's flaws though. The direction is not as solid as it probably could be, and it could stand an extra scenario or two to help develop the crew member characters better so we can actually remember their names or care about them more. And whoever they assigned to animate Cid should have been assigned to Aki, because even though she has the most screen time of anyone (and Cid may well be the least) his facial animations were brilliant and realistic while Aki had a tendency to feel, like most people say, a puppet. If you want to see jap-pop kids swinging swords and riding birds, don't watch this movie. If you want to see cut and paste sci-fi so you can over criticize every last MST3k detail, don't watch this movie. However if you would like to see a movie, then watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Wonderful Animation Movie","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I give this Animation Movie 9/10.Not only for me it's a classical Animation Movie now but it's kind of movie who open the door toward the Future.All in this animation movie is Wonderful. It's not just a technical movie showing what computer and artist can do. But they are a real good story behind too.The 3D animation is Fantastic but again just that was not sufficient. Story is very original too. It's not a GIJoe animated! I find Japanese very good about animation and also about story. They are often original and it's something very rare today.Hollywood just want make money fast and don't care about originality. Hopefully they are people who don't think like them. It's fresh air in this domain.So bravo to everybody who contribuate to create this wonderful and classical animation movie. A real nice gift to give or to received! "},{"Title":"Just a bad movie","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Although I would disagree with the earlier response that the FF games were the best eve (I myself having bought a PS1 just to play FFVII mind you) I have to give the best role playing game credit to Baldur's Gate. I mean, yes sure you got to watch the movie and you get emotionally enthralled in the many scenes of the games (like when Aeris dies in FFVII) but Baldur's Gate captured the elements of role playing perfectly, allowing you to actually play a role you set up yourself and interact with other characters who have their own agendas. But onto the movie now that I've said my peace on that. FF The Spirits Within had extraordinary eye candy but was immensely bad in every other aspect. The characters had no development that I could see, preferring to just stick to the main plot line and maybe a clichéd romance between the two main protagonists, but that's all there is. The movie's storyline is lacking much too, choosing to adopt every cliché' available for that kind of film (think Armageddon as a video game). And yah, for an FF fan, you found yourself wanting more, like all the stuff I mentioned above and also more FF references. I was surprised that it didn't include monsters that looked like Chocobos and moogles or had references to other FF games like an Auction House. And at the end of the credits it would have been a world better to be able to hear the prelude themes from the game, either one would do. Honestly speaking as a man who has collected every FF game there is for the PS1 and 2 this movie I'm never ever going to buy. "},{"Title":"I was truely AMASED!!!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie surprised me beyond belief. I was expecting a very beautiful CG movie with a plot similar to Lost In Space. Nothing spectacular, but at least enjoyable. But what I got was&#133; well&#133; how to put this&#133;1) Making actual human realistic looking characters entirely out of CG looks bad, fake, and embarrassing. For god's sake, it's like hiring a bunch of reeeeeeeeeeeeealy stiff actors and having someone else do the voicing for them. And what was with the Ben Affleck clone? I mean, come on. That guy made Ben look good and that's pretty bad. All I can say is this was a total mistake to even make. Shrek and Monsters Inc. are suited for CG not actual humans, learn it live it. God! 2) The movie was reeeeeeeealy good about slowly itching into the plot so that the problems occurred with time and I actually understood them, and knew enough with the world to care. The characters did not just jump into mindless action that made me bored as hell from the very beginning. N O T. It did the opposite. It started out as if it was already the middle of the movie, I was lost and didn't care one bit what would happen, in my opinion the talk with the old professor would have made a better beginning.3) BOORING PLOT. Um. I do believe this was the first time I rented a movie and only watched the first 30 min of it.  In conclusion, this is not just a bad movie. This is a movie that should not have been made. And all of the people who liked it. shame shame SHAME on you!!! (oh. and one last thing. CG SUCKED because they will suck no matter what whey those idiots try to apply it to humans). Uggg. Just use real humans next time.   "},{"Title":"Nice animation shame they lost the script","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  To say that this film is bad does not show the true depth for how dissapointed i was watching this film.it was so well ainimated that i was really very impressed with the trailer. but when it came to the story and the dialogue i felt like i had just rented Transformers The Movie. and so had the writers of this film.Oh dear "},{"Title":"Techno-obsessed filmmakers","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  They had no storytelling limitations and came up with a bang bang movie.It is nothing else than a long computer game intro. It would have fared better as an interactive game. Pointless and disappointing. "},{"Title":"Snooze Alarm...","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, with such a good cast of voice characters, I decided to give this cartoon a go. Big mistake. Considering I like sci-fi, the story is the worst boring hokey pokey ever. It also reeks of religious overtones. Yuck! It's like a slow death. I found myself begging for it to end. Extremely painful. But if you want a quality cartoon, go see Toy Story and you'll have more fun.  "},{"Title":"Great digital animation--and little else","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The plot is confusing--something about spirits of a dead race invading Earth or something like that...but no one is seeing this for the plot.  People are going to see if digital animation can make life-like human beings.  The answer is--sort of.  The human characters walk, talk and move fine but you're always aware that they aren't real.  They look just the slightest bit fake.  That's not good, because you don't give a damn about a bunch of computer-generated images.  Also some of the voices just don't match the characters (especially Steve Buscemi).  The plot, like I said, makes little sense but it ends up being a predictable fight between the bunch of good guys (all the cliches are intact with this group--the square-jawed hero, the feisty heroine, the wise-cracking jerk, the strong female and the token black guy) and the bad guy (some military general very badly voiced by James Woods).  What kept me in my seat was the incredible animation (the attacking spirits are pretty gruesome for a PG film) and the really hot hero (yes, I know he's not real but boy is he cute!) very well voiced by Alec Baldwin.  So see it for the animation--just ignore the plot. "},{"Title":"The 2nd animated wonder of 2001 (the first and still better was Shrek), still an excellent work by Sony","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy is a work that is a hybrid of live action and animation, mainly because it's neither.  It's a really cool creation that has been shown in Imax before and now it comes to the regular screens.  And while the movie isn't 3-D, it might as well have (or should be some day).  The film may be cliched at times (didn't I see something sort of similar with this in Antz or in Atlantis or something, I mean the betrayal plot), but that shouldn't matter, and it won't matter, once you just look at the screen in awe.  Someday this might be all film is- cyber animation.  A little sad to see the old sort animation leave, but when these visuals are this imaginative, creative and absorbing, why carp?  The voice talent is also a plus with Min-Na Wen, James Woods, Alec Baldwin, Donald Sutherland, Ving Rhames, and a good touch of comic relief in the sci-fi world, Steve Buscemi.  A "},{"Title":"Hardly Epic, Plot weak eye candy. A disgrace..","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is truly unfortunate that after all these years of waiting for a Final Fantasy movie, they choose to make one that really has nothing to do with the franchise. This may be a slick looking movie with a typical uninvolving plot for a motion picture action film, but the most important element is that is doesn't deserve to bear the Final Fantasy title. Final Fantasy deals with a mystical land of magic and demons, an epic with chracters based on love, jealousy and other human emotions. Sony Playstation strayed from the original theme of Final Fantasy, and kids these days seem to really only to know of the Playstation titles, an loosely based sequel. Now what do you get whan you loosey base a movie upon an already loosely based next generation console translations of the original game? Nothing likely to resemble the franchise it exploits whatsoever. "}{"Title":"If you want to see a GOOD movie...DON'T watch this one","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Unfortunately, the voting scale does not go BELOW 1...but quite frankly, this movie was an absolute disgrace to all that is great about Japanese animation and their unique story lines. Not only did the movie have absolutely NOTHING to do with the Final Fantasy universe (aside from the Gaia concept, and MAYBE a minute amount of personality from some of the characters). If you want to see ground-breaking animation without the mannequin-esquire acting...watch Final Fantasy VII Advent Children...the REDEEMER of the sorry waste of money that is known as Final Fantasy Spirits Within. Now I wouldn't have such a problem with the title had they eliminated Final Fantasy...then it would just be an ordinary sci-fi movie with NO plot, sub-par acting, and of course a pathetic attempt at drama. People who have liked this movie tend to have horrible taste in movies...only watch sci-fi or fantasy films for the visuals, rather than story...well I am sorry to burst your bubble but quite frankly TASTE is of the essence, and this movie has none of that. If you have money to burn, or you just get kicks out of watching plastic looking figures talk...watch this movie or toy story...(the characters on toy story actually seem to express emotion). If you have a life...DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE! P.S. - If you wish to keep your sanity, and you love yourself and/or family and friends...do not watch or show them this film...unless of course you want to cure your insomnia or you wish to die of boredom "},{"Title":"It's not a Final Fantasy...","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I must say that to compare this movie to Final Fantasy games makes me cry. This movie has NOTHING to do with any original FF Games. It won't even feel like Final Fantasy, so this movie should have only name Spirits within.Movie is boring, characters don't have a life and script is same as regular action movie in nowadays. Boring! Everyone is just fearless patriots that sacrifices themselves when time arrives. REALLY Boring!! There's millions of that kind of movies. And not only that. I think Final Fantasy Spirits within is the worst this kinda movie! So shortly It's not a movie. It's not a Final Fantasy... What is this then?! "},{"Title":"Nope. Just couldn't live up to the games.","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Before the release of this, there was a lot of hype for this, and this an example why you shouldn't believe the hype. At the same time another one that shows that special effects, like CGI or Matrix like scenes(this one doesn't have any of those! what a relief!) don't necessarily make a good film, it also is another example of game to movies that don't get any credit at all. It did put a bit of realism than regular animation, and it did have a decent cast like Donald Sutherland, Aled Baldwin, Steve Buscemi, Ving Rhames, and it had catchy soundtracks(loved L~Arc~En~Ciel's song)but, it lacked everything the game was. It lacked the theme, and it was more of a sci-fi, than of fantasy, in my own personal opinion, it looked more like Starship Troopers, minus the bugs plus ghosts, in other words it didn't look like Final Fantasy at all. To me it didn't have to be based on any of the games, it should have all the elements and the qualities the game had, then it would've turned out great. "},{"Title":"Quite boring!","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I rented Final Fantasy The Spirits Within at Block Buster... and I can't remember the last time a movie got me so bored! I expected it to be good and then I find this piece of crap on the tape. AWFUL made movie with bad animations! "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I hated this movie. I though it was awful. I never played the game so I don't know if it's anything like this, but it goes to show you that as a general rule video games should not be made into movies.The animation is fantastic, though the creators didn't make an effort to give the characters facial expressions. Dialogue, screenwriting and plot leave a lot to be desired. Okay, everything to be desired. Big name voice actors can't save the film from a dreary, unimaginative plod from one hackneyed plot point to another.Synopsis follows, don't read it if you are going to see this turkeyIn the near future, human beings have been nearly wiped out by phantoms - noncorperal beings of pure energy that destroy human life force on contact. Humanity is reduced to living in cities protected by energy shields. A stereotypically reckless military general wants to use a superweapon (Zeus Cannon) to destroy the creatures. Stereotypically wise scientists are trying to fight the creatures through a resurrection of the Earth's spirit. I give it 2 out of 10. A lot of money but very little imagination went into this project.  "},{"Title":"Over rated, Predictable, and just plain bad.","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My freind and I went out to see this movie a few years ago (long story. I had totally forgotten the movie untill I saw it was on some movie channel). Having seed the trailers, the animation looked incredible. But if only the rest of the movie was that good. The plot is entirely predicatble, in exactly what was going to happen (spoilers!) Earth has been mostly destroyed by evil alien ghosts (zzzz) and now, the people have two main choices 1. Use the new super big laser cannon firing Zues space station, or follow some old scientist's find-the-spirits. I made a horror movie for a drama class that had a better plot. The same goes for the acting, with the exception of Steve Buscemi, who (I thought) was pretty funny. I understood all the message, and subtletie, and that. But the entire movie was just too predictable to be enjoyed. Also, one note, they made the villain (the bad guy that wanted to let the spirits into New York) cooler than the hero (Dr. who-gives-a-care-about-her-name?). Just as an inquiry. Who's idea was that? 1/5. If they started making new episodes of MST3K, this should be at the top of the list of movies to make fun of. I don't care about my spelling.(end of spoilers) "},{"Title":"The art of dramatizing?","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The art of dramatizing&#133; &#133;or when did the happy end die?DON'T READ UNLESS YOU KNOW THE END OF THE MOVIE OR WANT TO BE  PREPARED!!!The story of FINAL FANTASY THE SPIRITS WITHIN appears to be constructed like a James Cameron Aliens movie. A bunch of two dimensional but still likable characters, vaguely introduced is thrown into the battle. Except for Aki, all die a more or less heroic death. So far the few-fight-the-many plot works. After the destruction of the Zeus Cannon, Aki and Gray have to face apocalypse and the movies grand final should be at hand.But no. Gray sacrifices himself in an heroic act to save Aki and the rest of the world. This was the worst forced-drama scene I've ever witnessed. It would have been quite easy and thrilling to think of a way to save the world and live, or even to die and be resurrected by the emerging spirits. The movie confronts us with Gray's untimely death and it isn't even logical.  The connection between Aki and the alien Gaia is, which causes him to die makes no sense, it's dumb. So they unnecessarily kill one of the most, or let's say more lovable characters of the movie in a desperate chase of writers block and turn the saving of the planet in a sad end.To this point, I liked he movie very much. But this clumsy, kitschy end ruined it completely. I haven't seen such a depressing conclusion of story for a long time. Since FINAL FANTASY THE SPIRITS WITHIN is no Tales from the Crypt story, no gloomy Jeepers Creepers horror movie but a fantasy adventure, I was very disappointed.Let's hope it WAS the FINAL fantasy of Hironobu Sakaguchi (Story), Al Reinert and Jeff Vintar (Screenplay) or whoever did this and they don't bother us with their depressively failed attempts to create pathos any more.  "},{"Title":"I hope this is the Final Fantasy","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is without a doubt the most monotonous and boring film to ever hit the theatres in the longest while. To call this revolutionary and entertaining is asinine. How exactly does technological gain in a movie replace the story? It doesn't and it will never. The people behind this monstrosity really need to pull that stick out of their you-know-whats and learn that the story MAKES the movie. Speaking of, they decided since they were going to spend $100 M or whatever absurd amount on the CGI, they only have about 3 days or so to write a script. So why not just take every sci-fi film to date that's made a buck and recycle them? That takes absolutely no effort, correct?I hope production companies take this movie as a lesson. Not every game will make a successful transition from console to the big screen. Especially not a game series that relies solely on its graphics for sales.2/10 "},{"Title":"Boring tripe best left in the game console","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For something that had hyped up its innovative CGI for so long through game sites, I'm not a least bit surprised it failed so miserably on all levels. It's quite simple. If you want to want to entertain the audience, you need to add a certain amount of thrill factor in the movie. Too bad none of the crew members knew what that meant. Maybe its just a clash of cultures, but I've read a lot of fans from Japan which disliked this movie also. Shrugs.FFTSW is all style (bland at best), and no substance to speak of.  "},{"Title":"Duller than watching paint dry","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Real life actors in danger of being replaced by CGI? Give me a break. What we have here is a collection of wooden emotional and cliched characters running around with a mind-numbingly stupid plot that was stretched beyond belief while reproducing scenes from other sci-fi movies. Wow! What pure garbage!Thumbs down. "}{"Title":"Lives Up to the Name Video Game Movie","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As you all probably know, video game movies in the past, well, were complete wastes of money. Mario Brothers, haven't seen it, but heard it was bad. Street Fighter, same. Mortal Kombat 1&2, good fight scenes, horrible plot. Tomb Raider, well, whenever I talk about how bad it is, people basically say True, but at least Angelina Jolie gets naked in it. Well, she does, but you only see her back. Resident Evil, havent seen it, heard good things (surprisingly). Now we get to a little movie called Final Fantasy. I'm a fan of the games. They should have dropped the Final Fantasy part, and just called it The Spirits Within. The movie is actually insulting to the games. It has one of the worst story lines I've ever seen in a movie. It does have good graphics, but is that all a CG movie is about? NO! The games all have to do with magic, evil, and a group of about 7 people trying to save the world. The movieNo magic, Little Evil, Not many people.Spoilers---------This movie was just plain horrible. Theres a phantom race taking over Earth. Theres this guy, I forget what he has to do with the movie, but he's a bad guy. He's on the screen maybe 5 minutes. In the end, he's on a spacecraft, and he decides that he doesnt want to live, so he crashes it into Earth. Wow, that shouldve made IMDb's most embarassing death poll. I think. I know that something happened to his ship cause he was suicidal.Then, somehow, the spirit of the planet the phantoms came from comes out of no where and starts killing everyone. Ooooo-k. And all this time I didnt think that planets were alive. So how do they stop it? They dig down to the Earth's core and find the Earth's soul. By this time, I was so bored, I was actually eating my popcorn box. Not the popcorn, the box itself. I'm telling you this cause some of these things may be wrong.  So anyways... They find the Earth's soul (riiight) and it kills, or  fights off (movie wasnt that clear) the other soul. I WAS NOT STONED WHEN I SAW IT!!!. IT WAS REALLY LIKE THAT!!!  "},{"Title":"Utter rubbish","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have seen children cartoons with way poorer animations done better with at least some form of coherent storyline. Where do I begin? First of all since when is CGI a movie itself? Why not just make a silent film and keep it short like some of the great animators have done. If you're going to make a movie, you need a story. If you're going to write a story, try not to let ego get ahead of yourself and make it so spectacularly confusing and convoluted it ultimately becomes a sleep-inducing bore.3/10 "},{"Title":"Pure waste of time","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Talk about a movie of brazen dialogues! This is pretty much an hour and a half of CGI commercials and hacks from every single successful sci-fi movie ever produced. I guess they did a good job going with a complete CGI movie rather then have real actors. Otherwise, if real actors spouted the nonsense from the actual movie, we would have not only a dumb flick, but one really badly acted flick! "},{"Title":"Worst Film Ever","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  That was the worst movie I've ever seen in my life.  The plot was so full of holes.  The nature of these phantoms was never even close to explained, nor was it explained why they were so malicious.  The movie lacked in character development, it lacked in plot, as the plot it had, made no sense whatsoever.  The movie made me angry....so angry I wanted to hit someone or something when I came out of it.  The rage at having paid $6.50 to see that horrible, horrible movie was overwhelming, and it's still fuming.  I hope that no one else experiences the gut wrenching plot vaccum that is, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within. "},{"Title":"Japanase technology, American recycling (dvd)","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Oups ! I have forgotten this DVD but after watching it, i could have left it on the shelve. Sure for a 100% computer generated animation, it's beautiful and even today, the movie hasn't been matched (see « Tintin » for example). For a person existing only from 0 and 1, Aki is a stunning numerical woman who acts better than living ones (Kirsten Stewart for example). But, that's all! The movie is a melting-pot of already seen sci-fi movies, especially Aliens. The story is an unintelligible quest, filled with pseudo science. After a good start, this is only a shoot-them up that happens in a bleak earth. In a way, the movie really shows us the future of movies ! "},{"Title":"Directed for a specific audience.","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have to be perfectly honest with you fellow IMDb reviewers. I went to the movies with a girl I was getting lucky with. We went to watch this movie because it had a long duration and because I had to warm things up with her. She ended up liking it very much and I almost fell asleep. But don't get me wrong, the movie isn't bad at all. It has a charming lead female character, an interesting plot, spectacular f/x, and it tries to follow perfect the best of the video game.The problem in my opinion with this movie is that it looks a lot like the video games. The animation is really great but it isn't something you haven't seen before. It feels like a video game, and it lacks of that special punch some movies of these kind need.I recommend it strictly for fans of the video game. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was some serious eye-candy. Other than that, however, it was a waste of time. Too bad good movie making has gone out of style. It preached and nagged about gaia/mother earth to the point of making me sick. Go push your religion down someone else's throat. I'm sick of it. Anyway, that seemed to be the whole point of the movie was to convince me that the earth is some sort of living being. its a huge rock covered with water and air, okay? Volcanos are destructive to the environment and all life around them. Does that mean gaia is a wrist-cutting, self-mutilator? In that case, she needs rehab and counselling. In short, this movie sucked! ...but it looked good doing it. "},{"Title":"Good but only Good.","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Spirits Within is a wonderfully pleasant film. The plot does intrigue, you can empathise with the characters, the animation looks lush and there are some choice lines and quotes to be had.But there is a but.As an ardent Final Fantasy fan, I was thrilled when I heard there was to be a film. After playing through the games I had fallen in love with their unique style. Each title they brought out was different in its own right but still a Final Fantasy game.And that's where I feel this film lacks. Sure, there are one or two references and nod's of recognition to the games but it is not enough. I went to the cinema wanting to see a film based upon the Final Fantasy games and their worlds. I was disappointed. Suffice to say, even though I enjoyed the film over all to watch I don't think it deserves the title Final Fantasy.Just 'The Spirits Within' "},{"Title":"Just a bit...","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I admit, I love the movie.But I would prefer watching the Japanese version than English version.The movie is like the second version of Final Fantasy 8 except the movie is full FMV.But I expected Square-Enix's Final Fantasy 7 - Advent Children would be better than this since I love fighting scenes while I only watch shotgun at some transparent orange thingy.Recently when I watch it, I think the effects in the movie is like the other version of Star Wars without Jedi.I then found out that I prefer watching the movie twice and the interactive in the DVD is kind of a side dish.You get tired watching this. Many dull scene but the main interest in the movie is Aki's hair. "},{"Title":"Single problem with this movie","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a great vehicle for Final Fantasy...though I would have liked to have seen something closer to the franchise, all in all the story worked, it fit the genre that Squaresoft follows with the franchise.How you rate the movie depends on two factors...are you a fan of the video games and are you a fan of animation. If you like the series, you will like this movie. If not but you like animation, it will have appeal as the animation is top shelf. If you are one of those that answers no to both, you might as well pass on this one.That said, the real problem, the only one in my opinion, is that this movie used animated characters. Though incredible work in it's execution, the characters still seemed unreal. Almost spooky at some points, not as natural as they should have been to carry this vehicle.The choice to animate the main characters instead of casting the actual actors that did the voices is what killed this movie. The actors themselves were top shelf, and the entire package would have worked much better with them in it...and this works. Star Wars 1 and 2, Sky Captain and other movies prove that people like animated movies with live actors. This would have made this movie one of the best made in my opinion.But that is the problem. Because it is impossible to get past the strange animation of the main characters you are left with a feeling like you could not allow yourself to be swept up by the engaging story or fantastic visuals, and you are left lacking a feeling of satisfaction.It would be a dream that this movie would be remade with live actors, but for now it is only a dream, and a distant one at that considering how badly the movie did in the box office. Too bad...the story, effects and visuals are stunning to say the least.Final Fantasy, The Spirits Within delivers a well polished package with a major flaw, and that flaw is hard to recover from. 8 out of 10 ignoring the animated characters. "}{"Title":"pmg my eyes are gonna melt again","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" i first saw this movie at a friends house (i think it was a friends house) on a big screen TV with a kick ass stereo and we were, um, celebrating our slack by, um, achieving some new views (hehe thats pretty good one there) and I gotta say that this movie rocks.i've prolly watched it like 50 million thousand times by now, in various states of, um, consciousness and i like it every time i see it. Great voicing, complicated and barely coherent (or cohesive plot), and some of the most eye-popping jaw-dropping toad-licking visuals i done ever seen. I swear i thought my damn eyes were gonna pop outta my head sometimes, and once i think they even did, but we managed to find it and pop it back in before anyone stepped on it or one of the cats ate it or anything ya know what i'm sayin "},{"Title":"This is quite possibly the best computer animated movies of all times.","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie definitely broke the boundaries for computer animation. From Japan comes this movie based off of the famous Final Fantasy games from Squaresoft. Sony outdid themselves this time, with the stunning animation and gripping musical soundtrack. Movies later to come (as from all the talk on this being like a comic book, which to a point it seems) like this one are spiderman, hellboy, international men of mystery, incredible hulk, and others. They are based off of comics, where this one isn't. This is based off of the games, and thus has similar plot lines. If you can't sit through an extensively complex plot line that most Americans can't appreciate, then don't bother. Yet if you enjoy sitting and playing a Final Fantasy game and attempting to understand the plot line, then you're set. This blows Shreck out of the water with its animation. And even possibly to an extent the new movie The Polar Express due to FFSW was created in 2001, and PE was created in 2004. They have similar talent, and there is a 3 year time span. For those who want to watch a gripping movie with beautiful animation, gorgeous soundtrack, and interesting plot line, then this is a movie for all FF gaming fans out there. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking excellent movie","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After re-watching the movie 3 years after it was originally released, I'm still floored by the quality of the animation in FFTSW. There are many scenes which are so close to being photorealistic that you forget you're watching a movie completely developed inside a computer.I have to laugh whenever I see reviews that complain The movie isn't like the game - my response is GOOD! I have NEVER played the FF games, nor do I have any interest in them, and I suspect that many of the people who watch the movie are similarly disinterested in a video game connection.The main problem with the movie may be that the plot is a bit too complex for the average theatregoer and they probably came away confused. I really enjoyed it though, so despite poor box office performance, it's a DVD in my collection that I enjoy watching with the sound cracked up!  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within has amazing, stunning visuals that you must see to believe and you sometimes forget that the characters and the world are actually CGI. But im sure others have already told you people all about that. I'm here to tell you about the other stuff.  I have read certain people's reviews and they say it does not hold true to the FF name but not including demons, or magic or whatever.  If you want to see a movie with that in it go rent D&D or something! Besides, I think that that sort of thing would turn a lot of movie goers away from the film.It does stay true to the FF name. It includes all sorts of stuff about Gaia and spirits and stuff, so it is definately similar to the RPG Final Fantasy. Heck, there is even a Cid in it! Just like in all the games!BTW, am I the only one who DID like the story? I didn't think that it was bad.  Sure it seems like another Human vs. Alien movie, but it adds more with you asking,  why are they transparent? and Why do their weapons not do much? Which is answered later. Plus, I think that Gen. Hein made a really cool badguy. The only plot loophole I see is why the human's weapons even do anything at all? Sometimes the monsters melt or explode or whatever, but the weapons shouldn't do anything because they are a certain G word which I won't say, to keep from spoiling the movie.Anyway, the ending was ok... I mean, it could have been better because it is not very climatic.Overall, it is definately worth seeing. I don't know about you but the audience in the theater I was in was really into it.  They gasped and laughed and all that stuff. So it is a must see for anyone. Fan or not.P.S. - The funniest line is the last line said in the movie, by Dr. Cid. It is not mean't to be funny but it is so weird and so out of place that it just makes you laugh. "},{"Title":"Low Expectations - Exceeded","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being a FF fan I had already read a lot about the movie and it's plot, characters, setting, etc. I didn't like the sound of it, and walking in the theater I had low expectations. And during the first 1/10 of the movie I was disappointed, but kept faith in Square and their capibilities. What I received was the most visually stunning movie I have ever seen, and a well directed, well told story with all aspects of genres represented. Square had no trouble giving the audience a bit of everything, enough to please the masses, and enough to please the hardcore fans. The effects and human models are so real, save maybe one or two characters, but everything else is so perfect, it's hard not to enjoy what you're watching. You will most likely forget you're watching computer generated models. I didn't see how a company used to making storylines 40 hours long could make a good story with only under two hours, but they do, and they do it well. Excellent summer movie, go see it, because it's something like you've never seen before. "},{"Title":"A new era of movie making has arrived","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was simply breathtaking.  Elaborating would simply be preaching to the choir.  The story and the message of the movie were very in tune with the game series.  The only complaint I could possibly offer was that the score should have been written by the original composer who did the game series, Nobuo Uematsu.  For me personally, that was the other important half of the games - the premise and the music.  I was disappointed he was not brought aboard for the project.  Otherwise, excellent movie. "},{"Title":"It's really something to behold.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the few movies that I have been happy to pay full ticket price for. It is truly a visual spectacle. The characters look very lifelike, but you can still tell they aren't, which is perfectly fine by me - it just adds to the fantasy aspect of the film. The dialogue is witty, the scenery unbelievable, and the film is totally and utterly all-encompassing - it will suck you in. Don't listen to what the critics say about it being weak and all that - this is a movie you have to see at least once to see how good movies of this kind can be. I assure you that you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie With An Excellent Story","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Fantasy The Spirits Within contains everything what you expect from a great movie. It has action, romance and epic battle between good and evil. And most important - it is BEAUTIFUL. Actually it is more beautiful than any real (meaning, a film with real people and real scenery) film. But still, this doesn't mean you'd notice this film is made with computer (unless you are a 3D-animator) - it is too realistic for that. Unfortunately, movie did contain some actions and phrases that are found in almost every U.S. Action film. But on another hand it also had some new and fresh ideas (most of these ideas are new ways to express visually something, like the phantoms). Finally, FFTSW is a beautiful Sci-Fi movie with something old, something new and it is totally cool! "},{"Title":"Traditional Final Fantasy.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After being a loyal fan to Final Fantasy Series, I have waited so long in order to watch Final Fantasy. Again, people don't need to play the game to know about this movie. As a game to a movie, Final Fantasy has its reputation as a game as to Tomb Raider. Unlike Tomb Raider straight on plotline, Final Fantasy delivers what we never see. It offers fine characters that just make sense and feel so real. The plot looks bad at first as you think they explained it, but they didn't. As the movie continues, viewers are offered with an abundance of information about the plot, and ideas. The movie is well done since during the movie, other unknown information is added causing a viewer such as uhh me to think on ahead.There were dramatic times in the movie and action packed scenes along with tidbits of suspense and relationships. This movie is one of a kind.It should be given a lot of thought more than just thinking, It's a video game,At first though, I expected it to be like Tomb Raider. It surpassed Tomb Raider and what I've expected. "},{"Title":"This movie is awe-inspiring, breathtaking and a breakthrough!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For those who are fans of the video game series, Final Fantasy, this movie is the ultimate satisfaction. No movie this year will beat its visuals and cinema. The story is new and unique and non-fans will love it as well. All of the critics who think it's all graphics and no story are missing the point. These characters are so real that you may lose sight of the fact that they're not.From the facial expressions, the motion-captured movements and the voice acting, no other computer-generated movie or game will surpass this for a long while. This has to be seen many times over to get all of its essence in. It's beautiful, inspiring, and contains some humor, particularly that of the character played by Steve Buscemi. This is just the beginning, folks. The line of reality and fantasy has begun to blur... "}{"Title":"The next cinematic revolution. Period.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Whatever you may have expected Final Fantasy to look like You were right. Apart from being the most-realistic looking animation movie ever made, it also creates a visual style so fast, energetic, creative and in its detail nothing short of perfect that you leave the theater completely dazzled, closing your eyes for the next couple of hours to keep the pictures from slipping out of your memory. Combining a well-tailored action story in best Hollywood style (greatest apocalyptical scifi since Aliens, by the way) with all the trademarks of Japanese Anime genius, Final Fantasy is the perfect synergy of two cinematic cultures, combining philosophy and entertainment until they become one. One is not often given the chance to witness something like this. You had The Matrix, now you have Final Fantasy. The next cinematic revolution. Period. "},{"Title":"The Worst Video Game-to-Film Adaptation... THAT'S Saying Something!","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Oh man... where to begin... I might as well get the good things out of the way  first. So here are the pros Steve Buscemi's voice and good CGI. That's it. Now  for the cons. The first and most easily distinguishable problem with the movie is  that IT ISN'T FINAL FANTASY! It seriously shares nothing with any game in the  series. Even the character that should have been named Cid is named Sid.There are no references to moogles, chocobos, anything. It seems the filmmakers just took the futuristic stuff they saw in FF7 and 8 and made it into a  totally different movie. At least the Super Mario Bros. movie had the courtesy to  have something that actually makes it feel like the material it's based on.The CGI is great, but there's a problem it looks almost exactly like real life.  Wouldn't it have made sense just to do live-action then? Hyper-realistic movies  like these are going to bring a well-deserved end to CGI. I hope.Anywho, the voice acting isn't terrible, but it isn't great either. There's nothing  special here, so if you have never heard the words Final or Fantasy together  in a sentence, you might get something out of this. However, diehards or even  series casuals will balk at how little this film resembles to the games.Final Grade D+ "},{"Title":"Excellent Animation, but not a Final Fantasy story...","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well... i feel a little compassion for this movie. Start with the criticThe good points -The Animation... without a doubt is the BEST 3D animation of the world, it CAN'T BE BETTER!!!! the guys of Square are the greatest animators.-Excelent music of Lara Fabian (the principal theme) and of L'Arc en Ciel (an amazing Japanese band!).-Character design, mechas and more... they are AMAZING!!! REALLY COOL!.The BAD points-The story... not sucks, but its not have the quality of the games. WHY make an ordinary Sci-Fi movie, when you (YOU, Sakaguchi) can make storys like Final Fantasy VII and Final Fantasy X ???. The movie turns a little bored for moments... and not have the emotion, or simply... THE FANTASY of the real Final Fantasy storys... sorry, its not good.-Stereo typical characters... the brave hero, the fool little guy, the black beast.-ITS DOESN'T have a bad guy! (at least NOT like Sephiroth or Ultimecia)-I Don't SEE A SWORD ON THE MOVIE.I will give a 7/10 only for the animation, this movie is not the great thing... keep playing the Final Fantasy games.  "},{"Title":"Stillborn","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This animation experiment is weird and unendurable. All the (then) power of computer animation was harnessed to bring you phony actors that look like composites of other actors (Does Ben Affleck know his chin is making movies without him? Tom Cruise's eyebrows?) and a milieu that looks just like earthbound sets you could make with wood and nails. Exactly what is the point of having the power to create & depict things that have never been seen before, when you decide instead use those tools to represent reality? The effort ends before it even gets started. Why would I ever want a computer to duplicate filmic reality for me? I already have reality for that. Hollywood has been 'averaging' movies together for decades, and now they can 'average' actors together. Weighing even heavier on those bad choices, the script is an incoherent lifeless morass of inaction and spiritual mumbo-jumbo.The number of nerds with bad critical values who convinced themselves this was good with observations like Wow look they have realistic pores. and The characters have over 10,000 hairs is horrifying. They still resemble the most wooden actors ever seen previously. There's no way this should receive a 6.9 rating On top of that the plot and script are burdened by complete incomprehensibility. We walked out at about the forty minute mark. It felt like 2 hours. "},{"Title":"Titled Wrong","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie would have been alright if it wasn't classed as a final fantasy movie. The story has nothing to do with the final fantasy series. (games) It may well of been fantasy but there wasn't anything even in resemblance to the games. Being that there wasn't magic or physical battling or fighting and was only gun shooting. All and all should not of been titled Final Fantasy. Bit of magic and fighting would of been good. . . .. i haven't got anything else to say but i have to fill up these lines to submit my comment. Everyone has there own opinions and this is mine i just say a big mistake on the makers behalf. they could of at least followed on from a game story like they did in FFVIII Advent Children. "},{"Title":"VERY Disappointing!","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Final fantasy spirites within was a very good movie graphically but in general it wasn't very good because final fantasy fans know this very very well THAT IT HAD ABOSOLUTLEY NOTHING TO DO WITH THE GAME!! It takes in the future or something on some sort of space craft? I don't know I watched It and I didn't enjoy it at all the creators basically destroyed the final fantasy and it was very disappointing they spent loads money on a terrible movie that could have been done a whole lot better but instead came out witha piece of crap this movie i don't recommend for anyone unless you don't really and you like sci-fi a lot and your in to final fantasy and expect it to be just like it which it should have been but came out totally different and not what I believe a lot of final fantasy fans had hoped for. "},{"Title":"Utter drivel!!","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I don't know how I managed to sit through this film. It disappointed me on every single level. If it was just called Spirit's Within it would have been a tolerable film. However, calling it Final Fantasy just to draw in the crowds was a really bad idea. The creators really set themselves up to fail. What in the film was even remotely final fantasy?!!! No cool main character, no big swords, no summons (what's the deal with that?!!!), no long hired baddie (who was that non-entity who thought he was evil?) and no point!!! The whole point of a final fantasy is that you have an evil dude (Sephiroth, Ultimecia, Kuja, Seymour, Shuyin), sometimes they are misunderstood or had a horrid past (Sephiroth, Kuja, Shuyin) and they decide, one way or another, to destroy the world. Thus, as the daring, if oft reluctant, hero (Cloud, Squall, Zidane, Tidus, Yuna), the main character has to prevent said destruction by recruiting a crack team of warriors and friends and fighting, solving puzzles and wandering around many cities that are more colourful than grey, decaying ruins. I feel I wasted a couple of hours of my life watching it. Please, save yourselves and don't follow that impulse to think well it's Final Fantasy, it must be worth the effort. "},{"Title":"Final Fantasy The Spirits Within","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" As far as I am aware, this was probably the first film to use the new form of CGI called Performance Capture, just like The Polar Express and Beowulf. Based on the long running Japanese computer game franchise, the story set in 2065 sees Dr. Aki Ross (Mulan's Ming-Na) is having many nightmares that she sees as messages, and also her body is infected with alien particles. So she needs to save herself and, seeing the nightmares as messages, planet Earth from the invasion from the alien life-forms known as Phantoms. The only way to stop them is to find seven spirits to destroy the Phantoms, and she accompanied by mentor Dr. Sid (Donald Sutherland) and the squad led by Captain Gray Edwards (Alec Baldwin), oh, and General Hein (James Woods) is being a bastard, and may have caused some of the problems. Also starring Pulp Fiction's Ving Rhames as Ryan, Reservoir Dogs' Steve Buscemi as Neil, Peri Gilpin as Jane, Volcano's Keith David as Council Member #1 and Great Expectations' Jean Simmons as Council Member #2. The story may not be much, and the lip movement isn't that convincing, but in terms of animation and imagination, this film does do relatively well. Worth watching! "}]