[{"Title":"Something to redress the balance !!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whilst everyone is naturally entitled to their own opinion, I was rather shocked to read the large number of negative comments about this film on the site.  A redress is therefore  more than necessary ! Compared to a lot of the violent rubbish we get in the cinema today, here is a film without violence, beautifully made,  and concentrating on L O V E !  Naturally the story is all the more intense as we know that one of the protagonists's days are numbered, and why not indeed ? A parallel may be drawn with the film LOVE STORY but in AUTUMN  IN  NY, the dialogues are much less crude and closer to reality. The film is technically, plastically, very beautiful ( I m very sensitive to Autumn leaves ) and this film ranks with the best in the autumn ' genre ', ie, All that Heaven allows, featuring Rock Hudson & Jane Wyman, and The Trouble with Harry by Alfred Hitchcock. Rarely is autumn sunlight put to such good use as in this film. The subtle autumn light of New York accompanies the autumn of Charlotte's own short life towards the winter's snow and her voyage into eternity. Too much emphasis is placed on the difference in age between the two protagonists as well as supposed flaws in their characters. Who cares ? Love is Love ! Why should't a play-boy discover true love ? I think it is wonderful. Let's face it, true love is the only thing in the whole wide world that all peoples can agree on ! This film is reminiscent of the great American weepies of the 40's such as Waterloo Bridge or Random Harvest,  but with present-day film quality as an extra a bonus. Unfortunately, these kind of romantic melodramas seem to have lost favour with the public today, which is a great great shame, as romance and love are eternal themes which will never die. I think the film will stand the test of time and hopefully at a future time when violence and evil sentiment on the cinema screen will be less sought after than today will come onto its own. Indeed a second viewing of the film allowed me to appreciate even more the plastic beauty of the film which I missed the first time round as I was worried how it was going to end. In addition to that I was even more impresses the second time round by the performance to the two actors. So long live beauty and romance as portrayed in this film and let's hope there'll be more to come in the cinema of the future.  "},{"Title":"I really liked it","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has many weaknesses, but there is something really superior about it nonetheless.  On the negative side, everything people are saying is true; the dialogue is clunky, the plot is predictable, and the chemistry is weak. On the other hand, the charisma of both the leads is amazing and I really fell in love with Winona Ryder's character.  I think the makers of this film were resigned to the the fact that as far as writing was concerned, they weren't breaking any new ground.  What they did instead was dress up the standard love story with great actors, nice clothes, and pretty settings. Despite the gloss, there is a story here that everyone can identify with at some level.  The result, in my opinion, is something magical that I can't pin down.  I think it's a success. "},{"Title":"A nice surprise","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although a little boring at some points Autumn In New York managed to truly emotionally entertain and interest me. Even after seeing it I am still discovering the hidden meanings it tries to give us. Ironically despite being a romantic drama the romance between the main actors is the biggest downer of this movie. I must have missed the part when Winona Ryder's character's age is revealed, but she just doesn't pass as a 21 year old. I thought she was supposed to be like 26 or something. Not that there's a big difference in age, but she was a bit  misscast, despite her child like face. On the other side she was really attractive in this movie and constantly reminded me of this cute girl I know. Gere looks and feels pretty old, but he's a believable 48 year old playboy.  The movie is hence held together by good dialogues and nice and memorable scenes. There's also a great line Gere says to Winona after he cheats on her and realizes he screwed up Can you let me love you? I've read some pretty different explanations of this movie, but basically I think it's about Gere's character slowly discovering he's been missing a great deal of life, he's never loved.  So after accidentally falling in love with Charlotte he can't bear the though of her dying and tries everything in his power to prevent her death(this might have something to do with his previous life where he was always the one with power, whilst the women weren't). But he has to realize that in Charlotte's case he's completely powerless and there's where the point of the movie lies. He chose true love (despite knowing that Charlotte was going to die soon) over the life he thought he was happy with. It might sound ridiculous but I kind o envy the guy. I too would rather truly love a woman, if only for a short period of time, than spend a life with a woman I didn't love. I would be a happier man, even after that true love would, for some reason or another, leave me, because I'd know I loved, even if it didn't last. I was pretty surprised at most of the bad reviews and comments, but on the other side I couldn't help but to agree with most of them. It is a crude love story and it is somewhat predictable and boring, but it was overlooked for the most important reason it tries to tell us. Despite being an unconventional and hardly believable love story Autumn In New York is a movie that in the end managed to show me you have to take even the biggest sacrifices to find true love. Sad and Beautiful.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I heard, but not good","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has been savaged by critics and it's easy to see why.  The story is oooollllllddddd (young girl dying of an incurable disease) and some of the dialogue is beyond belief.  But it is well-acted (Ryder and Gere give two of their best performances) and it looks beautiful.  Basically the acting and photography kept me in my seat.  Take those things away and it would probably be unwatchable.  So, not too bad but not good either. "},{"Title":"Muted, subtle, and rewarding","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slow and somber, muted and subtle, Autumn in New York isn't like most movies.Set against a backdrop of pastels and shades, this sad yet engaging story about doomed love is full of symbolism and metaphor revolving around renewal and decay, second chances and confronting one's past, and hearts on the mend both spiritually and physically.Winona Ryder plays Charlotte Fielding, a young woman blessed with simple good looks but stuck with a faulty heart that threatens to limit her days. Richard Gere plays Will, an older man whose years of toil in the restaurant business are starting to pay off.Will suffers from an ailment of a different kind, an inability to stay true to his woman, something that tends to hurt others more than himself. As it turns out Will once even dated Charlotte's mother only to cruelly jilt her by seducing her best friend.Ever the womanizer, Will can't help himself, and when they meet one night, he hatches a plot to woo Charlotte. Already giddy at his very sight, Charlotte is easily swept off her feet and is soon in love.Alas, Will hasn't changed much. When Charlotte intuitively discovers that he's been cheating, their relationship hits the rocks. Only this time Will does feel bad and finally tries to break out of his pattern of deceit.Meanwhile, his notoriety as a restaurant owner turns into something of a two-edged sword as the daughter from the woman he seduced then spots his photo on a magazine cover and tracks him down.What follows is Will's efforts to not only put the pieces back together but create a future that both he and Charlotte can share. The trouble is, it could also mean some very radical surgery that Charlotte may not survive.Although set in New York, it could just as easily have played out in a small northern British Columbia town as the six degrees of separation rule very much applies. In fact, it's Charlotte's grandmother who introduces the two, despite knowing all to well how Will treated her daughter.Don't expect any car chases, fireball explosions, or over the top special effects. But do expect a movie that is splendidly shot in hues of orange and yellow, green and grey, and opts for opaques and shadow over bright and blinding. And while the pacing is as slow as molasses, Autumn in New York nonetheless seeps deep into the psyche and remains there all season long. "},{"Title":"Great movie.  Winona and Gere are excellent.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw the movie and I liked it. Both Gere and Winona gave excellent performances. The actors and cinematography are beautiful.  Nice shots of NYC.  Chen uses shadings and reflections beautifully.I don't care what the critics say, I thought it was a great movie. Winona is as beautiful as ever and gives one of her best performances. Her face is so radiant and hauntingly beautiful. I can't get her out of my mind. Too bad her nude scene was cut from the film. It would have been her first.Go see it if you like Winona or Gere. I give it 3 stars. "},{"Title":"For those who like adore tear-generating love stories, this one is perfect for an Autumn evening in front of the fire","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Will (Richard Gere) is a New York City restaurateur and ladies man, in his middle forties. His life's motto is definitely love 'em and leave 'em and have fun in between. So, when he meets Charlotte (Winona Ryder), a beautiful young lady half his age, he is surprised at how smitten he is with her. Wanting to make a connection, he hires her to make a hat for his date to a charity function. When she shows up at his apartment on the evening of the affair, he informs her that his date is sick. Would she, Charlotte, take her place? She agrees and they have a lovely evening together, one that lasts all night. Love is in the air, all right. But, Charlotte confides in Will that she has a dire medical condition, one that is threatening her life. What will their future hold? This is really a nice film for those who like to sigh and cry over a set of star-crossed lovers. Gere is great as the aging lothario and Ryder positively enchanting as the spunky and lovely young lady in his life. The rest of the cast members, including Anthony LaPaglia, Sherry Stringfield, and Elaine Stritch, are great. Then, too, the film is replete with lovely costumes, sets and scenery, making for a very beautiful watch. If you have a hankering for romances, even and especially ones that elicit tears, you should get this film without delay. On an autumn evening, with a fire blazing and mugs of hot chocolate on hand, you will feel very satisfied when the story is spent. "},{"Title":"A bad movie is the only beautiful thing that truly nourishes.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE non-stop laugh-out-loud smash comedy of the summer.  MGM really botched the advertising campaign on this one.  I didn't realize that a screenwriter with the delightfully demented sense of humor of the creators of Airplane was making a spoof of romantic weepers.  The lines were truly inspired comic gags.  A small sampling Food is the only beautiful thing that truly nourishes. I can smell the rain.  When did I learn to do that? What About Love?!? You are my family!!  you are my family (incoherent sobbing)  What do we do, Will, with this moment that we're in? Again, I state that this is just a small sampling of the plethora of howlers that exist in this film.  Add to this the nonsensical secondary characters, the beautiful cinematography and two romantic leads that have all of the sexual chemistry of a drawer full of office supplies and you have the greatest gift to aficionados of bad movies everywhere.  Believe me, a screenwriter has to work very hard to make Winona Ryder look bad.  I do believe that she is one of the greatest actresses of her generation, however her abilities are not shown here.  Aside from looking great she is given little to do, but deliver unintentionally hilarious lines with as much sincerity as she can muster.  Truly a must-see in the pantheons of cinematic mis-steps. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but not for the critics...","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The critics may trash Autumn In New York because of the fact that MGM decided not to screen the movie to those who make career of tarnishing other people's works.  However, Autumn... is a 'good' romantic drama with terrific performances by Richard Gere and Winona Ryder.  Some people may criticize the film due to its abundance of cliches throughout the movie, but it would be almost impossible to not have any cliches in a romantic drama such as Autumn....  This one certainly is a winner in my heart.The film is wonderfully directed by Joan Chen and it was beautifully shot by the cinematographer, Changwei Gu.New York never looked so beautiful! "},{"Title":"Drink a pot of coffee first....","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...and you MAY be able to stay awake during this one.  While not exactly an original concept, this movie had the potential to at least elicit some heartfelt tears from the female portion of the audience.  Unfortunately the only thing sad about this movie was the terribly written script, the paper-thin characters and the unbelievably SLOW pace at which the story moved along.  (Possible spoilers)I am personally a fan of both the tear-jerker genre of movies and of the handsome Richard Gere.  Not only could Mr. Gere's presence not save this one for me, but he was one of the reasons that I strongly disliked the film.  His character was completely dispicable, he had absolutely no chemistry with his leading lady and his performance was so wooden that one wondered if he was being held on the set against his will.  I can't possibly be the only one who just didn't buy into their whole romance.  One second, Will was telling Charlotte that their relationship had absolutely no future.  The next second she was telling him she was terminally ill....then, magically, he decides he can't live without her.  How's that for brilliant screen writing?  Let's not forget the fact the he sleeps with someone else while the love of his life is down stairs in the very same house.  My heart just leaps at the thought of their true love.  Yeah, right.  I found myself hoping that whatever Charlotte had was contageous so she could take Will with her when she died and put him out of his misery.  The movie had 2 chances to redeem itself, by exploring the possibility that Will's feelings for Charlotte were a product of deep feelings he had for her dead mother, and by delving into Will's desire to forge a relationship with his long absent daughter.  These elements were either ignored or poorly explored and added absolutely nothing to the final product. With the exception of the cinematographers, every one involved in this snoozer should be ashamed...especially Mr. Gere and Ms. Ryder, both talented performers.  What were they thinking when they picked this script? Keep Autumn in New York in mind for those sleepless nights...this one will send you to dreamland in minutes.    "}{"Title":"Who cares, just DIE already.","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me sum up what I learned from this movie If you're an aging, philandering jerk, you can restore your relationship with the daughter you abandoned by seducing a terminally-ill girl half your age, cheating on her, then grieving over her unavoidable death. If that sounds like real life to you, you're gonna LOVE this movie.Ryder plays an early-20-something girl who falls for a 48-year-old restaurant owner. The lead characters fall in love, but their relationship is strictly 2-dimensional. We're never given any clue about what is actually attracting these two people to each other. Her terminal illness is also totally unbelievable; Ryder's character has quite normal capabilities for the most part, until she suddenly gasps or unexpectedly falls over unconscious at crucial moments. The plot is totally disjointed, with very little understandable cause and effect established between various actions and reactions.Gere is a decent actor, at least when he plays his usual stock character (the rich, self-centered playboy). He has some stupid lines to deliver, but he manages to be the only believable thing in the movie. But that only allowed me to hate his character with a passion. He's not just a womanizer, he's a big enough jerk to --now, try to get all this-- have quickie sex with an old girlfriend at his best friend's house, during a children's Halloween party, which he is attending with his current, dying girlfriend, whom he says he loves more deeply than anyone else he has ever known. After lying about the tryst, Gere finally tells Ryder that he HAD to have sex with another woman because he was scared. Oh please! The screenwriter must be equally a jerk, because he obviously thinks we will actually LIKE this creep. After that kind of behavior, not only do I fail to like him, I can't care at all what happens to him.Of course, Ryder's poor little sick girl quickly melts and forgives him, and believes him when he whispers to her he loves her. Frankly, at that point in the film I was thinking, She deserves whatever she gets. Neither one of these people have a clue what love is. For some reason, by the end of the film, Ryder's sickness and death makes things okay between the restaurateur and his estranged daughter. Why? How? Who knows! Who CARES; I was just grateful the film was over! "},{"Title":"Warning!! To All Men out There!","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't say that I didn't warn you....but if you have anything better to do like go for a root canal or a vasectomy, then do that! But don't go anywhere near the video store today. Even if your wife or girlfriend promises you that Special Treat if you bring home Autumn in New York, don't do it. It's one of those rare films that every man in this world fears he has to watch to show his girl that he has some sensitivity. I am not against those typical chick flicks. There have been many enjoyable ones over the years - most starring Meg Ryan, Tom Hanks, Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler, or Dustin Hoffman. But this piece of garbage is totally unwatchable. How tired are us guys watching aged, over-the hill rich guys making it with cutesy pubescent teens? This story has been done and redone so many times on the screen, it's not original, funny, identifiable, sympathetic, or emotional. There is no surprise or even happy ending. And as for the chemistry between Richard Gere and Wynona Ryder....a big fat ZERO. The dialogue between the two was so lame as to be embarrassing. It appeared that both characters were reading from the teleprompter and couldn't wait to get the thing over with and collect their paycheck. I was at least hoping that the character, Charlotte, would get arrested for shop-lifting at Bloomingdale's just to add some spice to the movie. And speaking of spice...the love scenes were as bland and cold as re-frozen ice cream. And the scene with Will cheating on his babe Charlotte made no sense at all and was just a useless distraction. Somebody here wrote that the movie at least had some great scenes of N.Y. From what I can tell, it appeared that the movie was filmed in Hollywood and used phony N.Y. backdrop shots behind the actors. I just got no feel for the City or it's people. And one last criticism, is there helicopter service between Cleveland and New York? This whole story seemed like a big fraud to me. At least it's out of the theaters and not cheating any of us guys out of $18.00 for 2 tickets. "},{"Title":"The stench of truth--ewww!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"28 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Autumn In New York has delectable shots of brown and golden leaves fluttering down in the winds from craggy old tree branches, covering wet sidewalks and surrounding two movie stars staring into each other's eyes. But these stars (Richard Gere and Winona Ryder) are distinctly un-New York, and the filmmakers keep everything mushy, flip and coy. Ryder looks lovely, but she giggles too much in between her incredulous comments REALLY?!...WOW!...AM-MAAZING! Gere, laughing with his mouth closed, gives a bloated performance, scrunching his face while tearing up at his black, beady eyes. Anthony LaPaglia is much better in a smallish role as Gere's best friend, Elaine Strich is amusingly jaded as Ryder's disapproving grandmother (although her line about only being able to afford pistachio nuts is ludicrous when she lives in such beautiful New York digs), but this romance cops a corny plea from Love Story, and how long ago was that? The fact that some reviewers actually fell for this is, like, AM-MAAZING! *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Not Perfect But Worth Seeing","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though the script of Autumn in New York as written has a few cliches and could have used a good revision or two, the film is a beautifully photographed romance which succeeds through the efforts of a fine cast. Winona Ryder is particularly good as the vulnerable Charlotte and Gere is fine as the lothario who finds redemption through the real love. This film is rather like a period romance without the period.  I would have liked to have seen a little more character development but the film moved me, nonetheless. In general, I recommend seeing it for those who like this type of romance. Be sure to bring a supply of handkerchiefs.  "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gere shows a vulnerability I have never seen him portray before. Ryder is perfect for this role and plays it wonderfully with a wide-eyed innocence and childlike sensitivity.I would highly recommend this film to couples and mature adults. "},{"Title":"Who could not love Charlotte?","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Winona Ryder is awesome.  Who could not love her or her character Charlotte in this movie?  The movie is mostly a slow-to-medium paced drama, but the last few scenes, when her life is in limbo, it is very suspenseful.  I'd read mixed or negative reviews, but I was extremely surprised at how good the movie is.  But then again, my bias towards Winona may have played a big part.  If you don't particularly care for her (and who couldn't), the movie may not seem as good.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Breakfast in Autumn","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lovely brunette is  dying young...Love Story! you shout. But no, the film that Autumn in New York tells us it is interested in is Breakfast at Tiffany's a 1961 romance also set in New York, for which the Mancini/Mercer classic Moon River was written. Breakfast bent Truman Capote's great modern novella fairly out of shape, but the references here are to things invented for the film--there's no doubt it is the film that is referenced.Perhaps the earliest allusion is a view of Bow Bridge which crosses a creek-like section of the Lake in Central Park (recall the imagery of the song.) I won't kill the thrill of the hunt by mentioning more than one more allusion. Some are fairly obvious and undeniable, they all are visual--you can't just watch this movie with your ears!!!Both movies are about the man being rescued from loveless intimacy, and the woman learning not to fear. Their love is across a great divide--wealth and education in Breakfast, age in Autumn in New York.Perhaps the deepest allusion is the bird imagery associated with the heroines (which did in fact originate with Capote.) Audrey's bird image is afraid of being caged, Winona's is afraid of being held to earth.This film is being derided as poorly-written when in fact anyone who watches it with eyes wide open--do film critics wear dark glasses?--will discover that it is a beautiful thing as intricate as one of its heroine's creations. Its greatest appeal is that the most mundane scenes--like an introduction at a dinner table--are raised to the level of art with great cleverness and originality (Who has seen a lovers' first meeting like this?) and sealed in an even fragrant ambiance from which they can never be separated in memory. Indeed it is the great Capote's characters and situations that are strange and implausible, Allison Burnett's are everyday and all of us.One curious thing about the writing the words of this work don't sound right unless you are getting what is happening visually. Visual people experience the effect when they just close their eyes during this film. It's a strange thing to stumble onto, but not inexplicable the more sense and nuance communicated through the eyes the less demanded from the words. Ultimately the words should only need to ring true. That Burnett's words do ring true is evidenced by the fact that people walk out of the film having accidentally memorized verbatim the crucial moments of dialog.If anyone should be interested in learning the visual language of art, it's a natural thing, and you are built for it like a fish for swimming. I say from personal experience the best thing is to have an art museum or a library of art books that you can visit frequently. Don't spend a second looking at anything that doesn't interest you, but always leave by revisiting what you liked. You will soon be broadband-ready and learning from all you see. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I ever paid to see","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having 2 small children, my wife and I get to see 1-2 movies per year, and to think I wasted one of them on this trash! Love story...my butt. If you are the type of woman that believes that you can change a man with 49 years of womanizing, this is for you. If you can forgive a man, for cheating on you AND your mother, in the span of a 3 minute conversation, go see it. If you enjoy a story about this incredibly rare disease that lets you live a normal life, except for a few predictably placed fainting spells, then let me hold the door for you. If you want suspense, they even crammed in a useless character, with a predictable tie to the main character, to appease you.However, if you want to actually like the characters in the film, and feel sorry for them when bad things happen, stay away. After the first 40 minutes, I was hoping someone would die, to make it interesting.I can't say enough bad things about this movie. Richard and Winona must have needed the cash, because this was just plain awful.  "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slow moving romantic comedy/drama featuring Winona Ryder as Charlotte Fielding, a beautiful young women who falls for an older and richer man played by guess who, Richard Gere. It's actually what you could call a typical Gere movie! But Charlotte is sick and we don't know if she'll live much longer. About the acting. Richard Gere is Richard Gere in this movie. I don't know about other reviewers, but it seems to me that he always delivers the same kind of performance. Beautiful Winona is good but not excellent in this one. After seeing her superb performance in «Girl, Interrupted», I was a little bit disappointed.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Trite, clichéd and looooong","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Should be called Walking in New York.  Scene after scene, Gere walks and walks and walks, probably working in the Damn, he's sexy angle.Even the actors couldn't save this movie (not to say that Gere is a shining example of acting prowess). It was full of one-liners that one would only expect in cheap, tawdry romance novels, but never on-screen in a major motion picture release. Unless... Gere says with an expectant look on his face when he explains to Charlotte (Ryder) that his date for a benefit party had canceled on him and he's not going because he doesn't want to go alone. The line is delivered with the same stinted, cookie-cutter way it was written. So perhaps I should be singing kudos to the actors for delivering exactly what the script dictated empty emotions and lost, plaintively hollow words. The story was lacking and clichéd to the point that I couldn't even have any sympathy for the plight of the characters. Charlotte was a caricature of a fey faerie, not a stretch for Ryder, and Will was a caricature of a rags to riches playboy, not a stretch for Gere.The *only* thing that kept me sitting in the theatre were the air conditioning and comfortable seats and the occasional bit of lovely cinematography. There weren't many images that were Wow, but there were a few, and that somehow made the $4.50 I spent on the movie *almost* worthwhile. "}{"Title":"is it so bad it's good?","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" oh my gosh. i wonder if the glowing reviews of this film have been posted by people taking the pee eye s s. this film is a shocker, however, if you can enjoy watching truly awful, clichéd, fantastical films, you can probably have a good laugh at the expense of the misguided team who put it together. one wonders if they genuinely believed in what they were doing or whether it was merely a cynical attempt to exploit their chosen market.it's a while since i've seen it, but its awfulness lives on.particularly the awfulness of the young woman's 'hat' creations and the ridiculousness of those around her declaiming her 'talent'. she also makes the healthiest looking corpse i've ever seen. "},{"Title":"It's one of the best movies","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Autumn in New York is one of my favorite movies. It is a beautiful love story with a tragic end. Once you watch the movie you somehow fall in love with it. The story might seem odd because of the age difference between the two lovers. But then love is something which sees no age. Richard Gere seems perfect for the role Will Keane and so does Winona Ryder as Charlotte Fielding. The chemistry between the two may not be the same as the way it was between Richard Gere and Julia Roberts in Pretty Woman and Runaway Bride. But then the story is much different here. So in a way the casting seems right. I am a big fan of Richard Gere and every movie of his seems to be different. Frankly speaking if you gonna watch the movie trying to find logic and reason in everything then my guess is that you won't enjoy the movie. Just leave all reasoning and watch the movie for love, then I'm sure you will love it. "},{"Title":"BEST ROMANCE MOVIE I ever seen besides Titanic","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Autumn in New York is one of my favorite movies.  During the movie, from the beginning to end, I didn't eat anything, didn't use the restroom, and I didn't even make any noise because the movie was so interesting.  I didn't want to miss a moment of it.  Whoever dislike the movie or give a very low score to this movie, I can tell that he or she is so immature and never fall in love before.  The following will explain why I love Autumn in New York so much.At first we know that Gere is a playboy and Ryder is a terminally ill young lady.  Of course, the ages between these two really doesn't match, but love doesn't mean age.  Love is something that you can't compare with age, race, or nationality.  You may fall in love at any second when the fate comes no matter how old he or she is.Gere is a playboy and playboys usually won't ask someone to give him a chance to love you and that's what I like about the movie when he realized that he had finally found someone who he loves.  When Gere realized that he had hurt Ryder's heart by having sex with another woman, he went to her house to apologize and express how regret he is.  You can see and tell how Gere really cares about Ryder when he tries to find a doctor by asking his daughter (which he never care about and never take a responsibility as being a father) if she can help him.  It is so embarrassing to ask someone to help you after you hurt that one's feeling, but Gere doesn't care about it because he loves Ryder so much and he would do anything to save her life.  I cried during the last part of the movie .Ryder is a young lady and she knew how long her life would last so that's why she wants to have an experience about love before she die.  Ryder really loves Gere too because she's really jealous on Gere after he had sex with other woman. The last part of the movie really makes me cry.Autumn in New York expressed how people will regret after they made their mistake and it also expressed how people should cherish their lovers.  I guaranteed that I would buy a DVD of Autumn in New York and keep it as part of my treasure too.  I loved both actor and actress, Richard Gere and Winona Ryder.What a great art work! "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as its rated here, no way","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie primarily because I like Winona Ryder. At first I was not very excited to discover the movie was for the most part a remake of LOVE STORY. Of course there are a few new twists but one can't deny many parallels. That wasn't that big of a deal but I must say the first half of the movie is rather uneventful with the two stars not really seeming to generate much legitimate chemistry. However, for me at least, things started to pick up considerably from the point the man is caught cheating. From there on the scenes are more dramatic and the cast responded to the increase in intensity. There is also some very artistic photography during the second half.....one scene in particular I found striking. This would be after Winona's character refused to have surgery and was sitting out in the cold on the balcony with Gere's character staring helpless through the window behind her. Very beautiful with the snow and unique composition of the shot. I would like to make a painting of that moment. Having the guy revisit his past via the arrival of his ignored daughter was a very nice touch. Suddenly it became a film about searching for redemption which was fairly well portrayed. Gere is pretty good here but I did find myself sorta wishing that someone with slightly better acting chops had been offered this role. He wasn't terrible though and the part was sort of tailored for his image. At least I got the fact that the Gere character was a man lost and desperately needing to connect with real people and his own real needs.I gave it an eight but truly it deserved maybe a 7.5 I did enjoy it though and there were some very touching scenes later in the film. And gosh, Winona was just so freaking lovely....what a face she has...wow!!!Anyhow,this is a tragic love story with a bit of depth and some truly beautiful people. The actress playing the daughter was very lovely to look at also I must add. "},{"Title":"The more you see it the better","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Autumn in New York in theaters with my sister and neither of us really liked it then.  Winona Ryder and Richard Gere just didn't seem to have that much chemistry. Anyway, about a year later my mom rented it and wanted us to watch it with her and you know what? It was better the second time than the first! I've seen it twice since and for some reason it's just better! Don't judge it the first time you see it! I'd give it a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Complex Movie about Control, Commitment and Accountability","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Will (Richard Gere), a handsome, successful New York restauranter, has managed to evade martial commitment for his 48 years.  Despite (or, perhaps, because) of his womanizing, he has managed to remain friends with his former paramours, including the mother of one, Dolly (Elaine Stritch).  Dolly's daughter and son-in-law have died, leaving Dolly to raise her granddaughter, Charlotte (Winona Ryder). Encountering an article on Will and his restaurant, Charlotte has Dolly take her and her friends to Will's restaurant for her 22nd birthday party.  Charlotte also arranges for Dolly to introduce her to the handsome, available and (much older) Will.Will, predictably sets Charlotte up for seduction.  What the always self-assured, always in control, Will cannot know is that Charlotte will never do what he expects her to do.  And Charlotte has a secret, a secret that allows her to draw Will into her web.  Charlotte is about to teach Will a tremendous lesson in life about control, commitment and responsibility.AUTUMN IN NEW YORK is somewhat overplotted and slow at times.  But, director Joan Chen has elicited effective performances from her cast, particularly Ryder (eccentric), Gere (introspective) and newcomer Vera Farmiga (nurturing).  The luminous Farmiga, with heart-shaped face and blue-blue eyes, dominates every scene in which she appears.  AUTUMN's glorious cinematography present New York in a manner so flattering I wouldn't have thought it possible.  The film's ending pulls no punches, and seems wholly in a manner with its themes.SPOILERS AHEAD, PRIMARILY FOR THOSE WHOM DISAGREE OR JUST DIDN'T `GET IT.'When Charlotte tells Will she is dying, she says, `That's the only way we'd work.'  Charlotte NEVER does what Will expects.  She's always one step ahead of him, even when he cheats on her with Lynn (Jill Hennessey).  Will and Charlotte's relationship IS awkward; it is SUPPOSED to be.  Will has ALWAYS had women on HIS terms.  However, he CANNOT have Charlotte on his terms; because, for the first time in his life, Will realizes his is not in control; God will take Charlotte from him in HIS good time.  Had Will met his daughter, Lisa (Vera Farmiga), at ANY other time, he would have, no doubt, rejected her.  Will learned he is NOT in control and that he IS accountable, just in time.  Was it necessary for Charlotte to die for him to learn this?  Perhaps not; however, it was an HONEST decisions by the writers to kill Charlotte off, so that Will could assume the role of the devoted grandfather. Had Charlotte not died, I don't believe Will would have ever fully realized none of us are EVER fully in control. Charlotte knew her destiny; that's why she returned Will's watch when she did.  Charlotte `froze time' for Will that beautiful autumn, so that Will could realize whom he really could be.I think most people were disappointed with AUTUMN IN NEW YORK because they expected a `traditional' May-December romance.  Especially, since the `child abuse' scandals and sensationalism of the 80s, the movies have a terrible time with May-December romances.  Funny, every week, TV's NORTHERN EXPOSURE showed a passionate, successful romance between a `twenty-something' and a `sixty-something.'  Maybe it's time for Hollywood, like Will, to `grow up.' "},{"Title":"The curtain opens on a new era of films","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you would normally prefer to see an art exhibit or dance performance than go to a movie, leave the ballet tickets in the drawer and catch this film. This may be the most visually intelligent American film you will ever see, perhaps because underneath it really is a Chinese film, woven with timeless esthetic principle by director Joan Chen and cinematographer Changwei Gu.Professional reviewers whose intelligence is primarily verbal are catching on to elements of the visual and dance language of this film (that the lovers rarely touch, the prominence of the man's white hair) which they then ridicule because they cannot hear the symphony. These artists and the public deserve better.Your enjoyment of this film will not be hurt if you look for the oriental and thematic color schemes, the way everything is keyed to season, the way nature is brought into interior scenes and the literary meaning it holds, the use of visual irony and premonition, the minimal set of visual and sound motifs that are used with subtlety and variety, the Tharp-like dance-acting between the lovers, the way touching is used as an icon to heighten scenes like the first kiss and the reconciliation and to make other scenes chilling in their personal isolation. Most of all, notice the preeminence given to wordless expression (you cannot even follow this movie without using your eyes) such that all its pivotal scenes are centered on a silence, suspended out of time, Michael Jordan in mid leap.From Audubon to Whistler, Frank Lloyd Wright to the calligraphic drip-trails of Pollack, the manifest destiny of American art has been to go East. The Chinese-American century will look back on this film as a landmark. "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is very underrated. Yes, the plot has a disease of the week aspect. But illness is featured in this movie in a way that seems admirable to me it informs the character of Will's involvement with Charlotte and lends that involvement the seriousness necessary for it to have a profound impact on him. I found the performances--though not flawless-to be rich and rewarding. And in fact, this is a movie with many small rewarding moments. The Autumnal scenery is also lovely, on a straightforward level as well as a symbolic one (i.e., Autumn as late in a person's life). It's unfortunate that this movie has found so little appreciation among reviewers (professional and unprofessional). It's well worth seeing and appreciating. "},{"Title":"A poetic movie full of lofty feelings","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" AUTUMN IN NEW YORK is a poetic movie full of lofty feelings, especially recommended to all these lonely souls wanting to float in the sea of romantic emotions thank to its peculiar style echoing Pre-Raphaelite and Decadent poetry. Maybe, if it hadn't been for my favorite star, the beautiful WINONA RYDER, too marvelous for words, delicious weaver of celluloid dreams, completely ignored by the star- system in recent years, this melancholy movie could have passed unnoticed.I guess it's no longer a mystery how Noni has the ability to bewitch the audience. She's more deserving and experienced than other overrated and expressionless stars accustomed to bring out second-rate movies every two months with the same vehemence of a machine-gun. This is the reason why the present work can be held in due consideration thank to Winona Ryder's commendable performance. She can make us breathe the impalpable, bitter flavor of a delicate love story in the same way the great screen actresses of the past could do, like only a few stars today can do. On the other hand, let me try to draw a veil over her partner's overacting performance.In my opinion the supposed inconsistency (due to many negative reviews) of this piece of work full of pathetic scenes of sentimental value, which has garnered only a lukewarm response from audiences and critics can be actually due to the obviousness of the plot, based on a romantic love story between a womanizer and an ailing girl. Even if the script could have been written in the nineteenth century by some feuilleton writer like, for instance, the prolific Italian writer Carolina Invernizio (1858-1916), author of the Kiss of a dead woman, the movie gives off a scent of fresh modernity. It can be preferred as a relaxing alternative to some alleged masterpieces of those directors suffering by a sort of Tarantinian syndrome, like, for instance, Robert Rodriguez, author of the hyper-violent movies From dusk till dawn and Sin City. "},{"Title":"Talking about love...","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't send this film all the way to the bottom.First of all, it is a love movie. Maybe we can hate love movies, but they always stick that loving feeling in us. It usually happens with romantic comedies like Love Actually and Nothing Hill. Or charming movies like one of my favorites about love, a movie I find underrated and not felt (get it?) Simply Irresistible. Anyway, it's that feeling, hard to explain; you can't reject love. I felt as I watched Autumn in New York. Although this is not comedy; this is drama. I'll explain later.Second of all, Winona Ryder stars in the movie. She's an excellent actress, and has never disappointed me. She tends to excel in every role she plays. I'm sorry if anyone thinks differently, but this film is no exception. She creates the perfect way of talking for a 22-year old character, giving the right expressions, whether dramatic or comedic, during the entire film. She's in the position a pop singer said (I hate to say it, but I found it perfect) Not a girl, not yet a woman. Beautiful woman, great acting. Talking about acting; supporting roles are perfect for these movies. And in this one, they're a strong point. LaPaglia is relaxed and calmed. He is as charming as ever, and understands that his character it's not so important, respecting his position. Elaine Stritch also understands this, but she steals the show anyway. I guess she couldn't help it. And well, Richard Gere started his career when he was pretty old. That's interesting. I don't want to question his qualities as an actor. He's good. But talking about him takes me to the Third of all explanation.This is drama, I said. Well, I mean that it isn't enough to make pretty expressions and to have pretty faces. I'm talking about Gere, in first place, and about his chemistry with Ryder too. Gere has the charm and the smile, but lacks the serious and deep facial expression a dramatic performance requires. His deception, or sad face, looks more like a disappointing face he would do in a comedy (of course, romantic also). This also ruins his chemistry with Ryder, who makes an effort to play a dramatic role. There's a lot of power (Ryder) against little power (Gere) in the few powerful scenes. But the difference should be established. This is drama, and although it's not good, it is well done. It's encouraging that the film tries to be real, and it should be; because that would make a difference from the usual deal. The characters are real because they stick to their personalities. Will (Gere) is a womanizer and he can't help it. But when he starts seeing Charlotte (Ryder), reality wins; because he's not going to give her the precious spot. He won't resist at the time of having sex with another woman, to generate anger in Charlotte, and opening the route of true love. This concept is missed in the movie. We wanted to happen, but not that fast. Velocity reduces belief; and we can't believe the love they're feeling. Still we stick to it.She loves poetry. He loves food, not poetry. They are not the same; they just try too. In one scene, Charlotte is lying ill on a hospital; she hardly sees. Will sits next to her and whispers a poem. She's delighted and tells him Look how I have changed you. "}{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie!The actors do an excellent job of their roles, and the script fits them perfectly. This is the kind of movie where you watch the dialogs in great detail - and you find everything superbly natural. Winona plays the role of a young girl (the kind who knows she's pretty) almost to perfection - the coyness, the evasive-provocative replies, everything.I understand the script is similar to that of 'Love Story'. Well, that's a movie I haven't seen, so I can't comment on that, but (for me) the story did manage to keep an adequate level of uncertainty right to the end.The pace of the whole movie is just right - it doesn't 'run ahead' of the viewer at all, although, yes, you need to be in a reasonably right kind of mood to enjoy it completely. As I have.  "},{"Title":"From a couple of seventy somethings","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I are 70 plus, and we enjoyed the movie very much.  It is disappointing to read the poor reviews this movie is receiving.  The photography was magnificent and New York is shown as it can be, beautiful. One thought we had while viewing it was Paris, eat your heart out. The story line was not bad either.  We recommend it to older folks like us who are tired of movies sprinkled with the F word. "},{"Title":"Okay, this was BAD","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, who's going to believe that a 50 year old like Richard Gere is going to stop his playboy ways for Winona Ryder? Especially when she's terminally ill. I think everyone's sick of seeing very old men hooking up with very young women. It's totally unbelievable. Plus, the plot was one of the most cliche, corny things I've ever seen. Not very interesting at all. And what was up with that sex scene? Was it from the goldfish's point of view? Very weird. "},{"Title":"simply awful","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film never pulled me in.  It couldn't.  Gere is unbelievable.  Winona, while quite lovely, is not a good match for Gere.  They did not work as an on-screen couple at all.  The story was too fragmented with Gere's character's past too difficult to pull in easily.  They shouldn't have even tried.  I thought the dialogue to be way too canned and flippant.  Several scenes made me want to gag because of their attempt to be picturesque or beautiful, but instead they were egregiously sappy.  Don't waste your time with this film.  I'd give it a zero of ten if I could. "},{"Title":"You'll fall in love with Winona's character","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've been reading user comments about how awful this movie is, how poorly the script was written, etc.I'd generally agree. But I see a different twist to it. I got out of the theater with a sense that life isn't so complicated. I think it was great to go watch a movie which that showed things real simple. If you want complex plots and dialogs go watch a different movie.I completely loved Winona's acting and character. She's so beatyful and just to watch her smile like that was worth the whole movie.Excelent work! "},{"Title":"nauseating","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  what a weak script.  there was no direction to go in because the script was so bad.  not that story was necessarily that bad - not too original, but it could've been alright.  as it is it was boring, choppy and cliche.  BAD BAD BAD movie.  i knew it would be bad but it was a choice between either autumn in new york or hollow man and i just couldn't stomache hollow man. i thought it looked bad and the acting was mediocre at best. waste.   "},{"Title":"Death in Full Make Up.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a disaster.Wynona Ryder and Richard Gere create as much on screen heat as a mid November ice rink in Alaska.The plot didn't develop the characters at a pace that let the audience care about what happens to the leads and there were too many people laughing in the theater when I don't think Joan Chen intended.Regis Philbin called this movie a woman's flick which I think is a thinly veiled insult/protection statement in the hopes that Richard Gere and Wynona Ryder will appear on his woman's talk show. This is not a woman's flick, it's a lousy flick.One redeeming feature is the filming of New York. Beautiful. Reminiscent of the work of Woody Allen/Carlo Di Palma. "},{"Title":"May-December romance heebie jeebies","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  May-December romance gives me the heebie jeebies under any circumstance, but it was worse here. Geer, nearing 50, plays an aging and yet ageless lothario who newest target is an extremely young Ryder. He's got the same smugness and bravado we've come to know and be nauseated by in films 20 or more years old. His charm here does little to calm our fears that he'll damage yet another innocent soul to satisfy immediate needs. It's not to happen this time. She's different. She's hip and wise and extra sincere. There's also love involved, but we don't buy it for a minute because there's no chemistry between the characters. They have little if anything in common. Love seems suddenly to appear, without build-up or explanation. When his character is miraculously changed because of it, it seems arbitrary.There is also a disturbing hint of a father-daughter kind of love between them - the script suggests that Geer was romantically involved with her mother - and that adds to the overall uneasiness we feel witnessing this distasteful affair. "},{"Title":"Not a complete disaster and a let down for the integrity of critics","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems these days that most critics will do anything to a movie just for the sake of appearing all-knowing, echelonistic and fastidious. Indeed, if it was not for my growing dislike for the absolute quixotic nature of critics (most of my friends don't even bother reading taglines anymore. They go by word of mouth), I would not feel compelled to defend this movie. In my honest opinion this movie is not half bad. I would not buy it or even recommend it but I most certainly would not lambast it. Let us take a tiny dissection of some of the criticisms leveled towards this movie.The chemistry is terrible Well NO not really. What is being mistaken for lack of chemistry is a detachment which is perfect for the tone of the movie. Both main characters have mental asides. Winona's character is hiding something and Gere's character feels this. Add this to his emotional dilemma (he has never really given a rat's ass about anyone before and you could see why the characters are not doing cartwheels in bed.The movie is cheesy What do you call titanic? City of Angels? Do you think these bodies of work are original. This may come as a shock to you but there is no such thing as an absolutely original idea. Every idea or concept borrows ingredients from another avenue. Look at the matrix.The script is redundant The dialogue is horrible but then again, so was the dialogue in Mission Impossible.I don't expect this mediocre movie to change the world or even make a serious impact on culture or what have you. I just don't appreciate a regular old run of the mill cheesy Hollywood flick such as this one being crucified when others are left to fly and are called the best movie of the year. Something is wrong. I do not like this. It does not make any sense. "},{"Title":"dull Love Story rehash","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Autumn in New York' is strictly for the masochists among us who have been yearning these past 30 years for a tedious May/December update of `Love Story.'  The theme of this film seems to be that there is nothing like a romantic fling with a beautiful-but-tragically-doomed young heroine to turn an unprincipled womanizer into a Man of Virtue.Winona Ryder plays a 22-year old woman, dying of a rare heart condition, who starts up an affair with a 48-year old restaurateur played by Richard Gere (it would appear that the filmmakers have seen fit to shave a few years off both their ages).  The film deals with the absurdity of Gere's seemingly ageless, Dorian Gray-like good looks (a fact moviegoers have been noting for years) in rather an ingenious way.  Rather than ignoring them, it brings them center stage, to the point where it seems like virtually every man, woman and child at some point or other sees fit to remark on them.  This happens so often that the film begins to take on the air of a vanity production designed for the actor's own personal benefit. Even as a tearjerker this film isn't very effective.  Neither Ryder nor Geer are particularly likable in these roles.  In their first scenes, especially, both characters seem way too cloying and coy to engage the audience's sympathy.  Without that initial foundation so crucial in a romantic film, we watch the drama unfold more as dispassionate observers than fully engaged participants &#150; a death knell for any film of this type.  Geer's Will Keane is not only impossibly good looking but his position as a bon vivant of the Manhattan social scene &#150; he even has his picture adorning the cover of New York Magazine &#150; hurtles him into that rarefied atmosphere which makes audience empathy impossible.  We don't believe for a minute that he is the cad he is supposed to be in the earlier part of the film &#150; and we find his transformation to doting lover equally incredible.  As the dying heroine, Charlotte Fielding is so bland and uninteresting that she finally makes Ali MacGraw look like the Harvard student she was meant to be in the earlier film but could never convince us she was.Three-handkerchief weepies have never exactly been my cup of tea, but even diehard fans of the genre are likely to find both their tear ducts and their tissues distressingly dry at the end of this film.  "}{"Title":"No chemistry in this movie - avoid at all costs","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some reviewers pegged this as a three-hanky film. I agree - but only for the crying that comes after you realize you've wasted your time and money. I was incredibly disappointed that there was no chemistry between Richard Gere and Winona Ryder. Further, the plot was exceptionally insipid. I get the sense the movie was made just to fill contractual obligations. I hope never to see these two otherwise fine actors in such a piece of schlock again. Avoid this movie at all costs and rent Little Women and Pretty Women instead. "},{"Title":"Ineffective drama (spoilers)","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in New York pre-9/11, and featuring some brighter imagery of New York than might appear today, Autumn In New York has plenty of potential as a story and in many ways appears well edited and constructed. The specific problem with this is an uninteresting script and a crippling lack of chemistry between the principal characters.Will Keane (Richard Gere) is an aging, womanizing Manhattan restauranteur who falls in love with Charlotte(Winona Ryder), an outgoing beautiful twenty-something who is the daughter of a woman he once knew. She inspires him to get in touch with his neglected daughter (Vera Farmiga), but the relationship falters when it's reveals Charlotte has a terminal heart condition and has not got very long to live...The script uses the terminal illness hook as a means to explore the true nature of sex and romantic love. Although it is continually implied that Will sleeps around, it is never actually seen on-screen until he declares his love for Charlotte. Charlotte's illness and the fact she could pass away at any time, encourages the couple to enjoy every minute they have together. Unfortunately this part of the film is never really sustained with any real momentum.The initial problem is the script, which does not really offer the characters any strong, emotive or memorable lines that would make the story come to life. The second problem is the lack of chemistry between the two leads. Richard Gere is well suited to his role, and has demonstrated he can play a romantic lead with dramatic dimensions (An Officer and A Gentleman). However, a lackluster performance means he disappoints here. Similarly with Winona Ryder, whose ethereal beauty cannot disguise her limited acting ability. Because of this, we have no empathy with her character and the film loses much of it's power as a result. Decent supporting actors Anthony LaPaglia, Elaine Stritch and J.K Simmons are wasted in one-note parts.At least the film gets the setting right. New York is wonderfully shot around, capturing the autumnal beauty of Central Park and the softly sweeping grandeur of the massive skyscrapers. That aside, however, this picture is a lifeless waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Oh, puh-leeez","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Typical, predictable, seen-it-all-before story about a guy who gets involved with a terminally-ill girl.Richard Gere is supposed to be Mr. Wonderful in this Love Story rip-off with Winona Ryder as the sick chick. Many ideas from the latter movie are regurgitated here including the ice rink and hospital deathbed scenes.Things stay safe and sterile from the first hour of 'charming' date sequences, like the moment when a giggling Winona puts on one of the hats she made (it looks like a bent-up coat hanger), all the way to the end of this Joan Chen-directed date flick when Winnie faints for the twentieth time, sparking Dick to once again exclaim another exasperated Jeeeez!.Lame. Stick with Love Story (1970). "},{"Title":"Death in New York.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Autumn in New York (2000) Dir Joan Chen / Cast Richard Gere, Winona Ryder, Elaine Stritch, Anthony LaPaglia, Vera Farmiga Autumn represents death and Winona Ryder is the subject. She plays a young virgin with a complicated illness celebrating her birthday in the restaurant of a womanizer played by Richard Gere. Their first phone conversation consists of Gere telling Ryder to fashion a hat for his date, which just happens to be her. They get involved despite their age difference then he grows to really care about her and searches drastically for a surgeon to operate on her. Perhaps he should have searched for a screenwriter to render this depressing exercise a little easier to intake. Hardly uplifting and quite predictable with Ryder's fate being quite obvious. Director Joan Chen allows beautiful shots of New York. Gere succeeds as a man struggling to mend his brokenness by mending another. Ryder as a virgin just doesn't sell. What's worse is that she and Gere lack chemistry. Elaine Stritch as Ryder's grandmother does her best with a standard role. Anthony LaPaglia appears briefly as a surgeon. Vera Farmiga appears in a useless subplot as Gere's daughter whom he has actually never met. The whole movie needs a surgeon beginning with the screenplay. Insincere tear jerker disguised as a meaningful drama where the screenplay is as dead as autumn. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Autumn in New York is filled with stares.","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Autumn in New York is a 2000 film from MGM. It is a love story and is currently available on NetFlix Instant Download Streaming. The director is Joan Chen. And the writer is Allison Burnett. The actors include Richard Gere, Winona Ryder, Anthony LaPaglia, Elaine Stritch, Vera Famiga, Shery Stringfield, Jill Hennessy, J.K. Simmons, Sam Trammell, Mary Beth Hurt, Kali Rocha, Steven Randazzo, Toby Poser, George Spielvogel III, Ranjit Chowdry, Audrey Quock, Tawny Cypress, Gabriel Portuondo, Laurent Schwaar, Patrick Price, Ted Koch, Alvin H. Enbender, Daniella Van Graas, Rachel Nichols, Steven Ravid, Ron Emanuel, Dan Camins and John Guidera. The story revolves around the two main characters played by Richard Gere and Wynona Ryder. He is too old for her and she is dying from a cardiac tumor. They stare at one another for what seems like hours. So I only was able to give it 4 stars. Dale Haufrect "},{"Title":"Collecting antiques","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Autumn in New York stars Richard Gere as a middle aged man who falls for the the considerably younger Charolette Fielding, played by Winona Ryder. Fielding's your typical free-spirited pixie, who just happens to be dying, a death which will teach Gere several lessons about love, loss and commitment.Whilst Autumn is a giant bag of clichés, Ryder's enchanting. Beautiful but fragile, and reminiscent of a young Audrey Hepburn, she single-handedly saves the film. Autumn in New York was the first major Hollywood film to be directed by a woman of Asian origin.7/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Ryder Switches Gere's","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In nicely photographed New York City, womanizing restaurant owner Richard Gere (as Will Keane) meets wiry hat designer Winona Ryder (as Charlotte Fielding) and the result is true love. But first, the couple must overcome an age difference. Then, there is the possibility of sex with an old flame. This is where a character's innate lie detector test comes in handy. Lastly, a rare disease threatens break up the blissfully happy couple. The attractive co-stars age difference is neither interesting nor unusual. The tragedies they suffer are likewise boring. There were opportunities to do something different and exciting with this old love storyline, but we remain on familiar ground.***** Autumn in New York (8/11/00) Joan Chen ~ Richard Gere, Winona Ryder, Vera Farmiga, Elaine Stritch "},{"Title":"Spoiler","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well it's a movie about a woman dying in scorbutus (Ryder) and her guy (Gere) basically watching her die with these pathetic sad eyes, without buying any vitamin c or anything and it's not like he didn't have any drugstore around the corner. It's always better to make a tear-jerker movie about a sad couple who spend their days crying and hoping that maybe vitamin-c itself is coming to the door saying here I am, eat me. We'll it ain't gonna happen folks. It's a story about a woman who did not eat enough vegetables. As you mama said, eat your vegetables. The result is that you live a miserable life in a luxury apartment in New York doing nothing but worrying about things that don't matter and wondering around spending your pointless life. "},{"Title":"Melodramatic At Best","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Autumn in New York is a romantic drama film that stars Richard Gere, Winona Ryder,Anthony LaPaglia,Elaine Stritch and Vera Farmiga.It was written by Allison Burnett.The screenplay was about a successful middle- aged restaurateur and womanizer who falls in love with a sweet young woman who is terminally ill.It was directed by Joan Chen.An man gets an unexpected lesson in love and life from a much younger woman in this romantic drama. Will Keane is a wealthy 50-year-old restaurant tycoon who has a knack for wooing beautiful women, but is unable to commit to a lasting relationship. On day Will meets a beautiful woman in her early-20s named Charlotte Fielding; he turns on the charm in an effort to impress her, and soon the two are having an affair. But what Will thought would be a brief, casual fling proves to have far deeper repercussions when he learns that Charlotte is suffering from a serious illness and does not have long to live. The movie is a clichéd,formulaic and predictable melodrama.Also,it was weak and unmemorable.Even the presence of Richard Gere and Winona Ryder could not save this film.Also,their lack of chemistry only increased the many flaws this film has.They look unrealistic being a couple due to their 20+ year age difference.The only good thing about it is it generate genuine emotions in some scenes.Nothing more. "},{"Title":"Any Two Other Lead Actors Couldn't Have Done It This Well.","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nor could they have cast anybody better than Elaine Stritch.Beautiful in every way -- the cinematography, the music, the patience of the direction. You could feel the ease Gere and Ryder felt. They were allowed their best selves. The portrayal was wholly believable. There was exquisite nuance and not an iota of artifice, not even one.This was an experience in true life portrayal; genuine, and somehow dug down to where we all really live, especially Gere's transformation, Ryder's delicacy in one particular scene, and Stritch's hallmark capacity for authenticity.The actor playing Gere's best friend was just as commendable, the actress playing the daughter, and the feel about the medical rush. I haven't checked yet who did the casting or cinematography or music or direction, but this movie is put together with world-class people.There is an element of deep reality throughout that rings true. "}{"Title":"Marred by casting and direction errors","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Winona Ryder gives this movie the 50% it has -- her performance was nuanced and she hit almost exactly the right tone.But Richard Gere was badly miscast opposite her. This role required a total transformation of the spirit -- a goofy, pleasure-seeking arrested adolescent relentlessly stepping into the depths of grief as his life morphs from an endless party into a bleak disaster. Richard Gere's smooth, relaxed style was unable to carry the weight of this transformation, showing us little of the feelings that passed behind his blank facade.The direction and design missed tons of opportunities to make the visual tone and rhythm support the arc of the story. Instead of starting out with bright, busy colors and a noisy, bustling tone mirroring the playboy's lifestyle, progressing to lovely sunlit vistas in the flowering of the affair, then slowly fading to the stationary, monochromatic starkness of the lovers' fate, it struck the same atmosphere throughout of gentle mumbling amid browns and grays. The soundtrack of detached, sophisticated jazz ballads also did a bad job of conveying the story's wrenching emotional transformation.This wasn't the worst movie I've ever seen, but it had the potential to be so much more than it was, and its many errors distracted so much from the potential of its story that it ultimately held me back from enjoying it much. This would be an excellent candidate for a remake by a more ambitiously emotive team. There are plenty of young actresses who could do this role well. The trick would be finding a leading man who can match her performance. "},{"Title":"A very long 100 minutes","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I seem to find a way to enjoy most movies. I'm not overly critical and only look for the good in movies. Unfortunately when you get a movie that is an absolute 'snorefest' it is hard to find many positives. While I was trying to stay awake I found the Gere/Ryder relationship hard to swallow. In fact I was rather disturbed by it. In some movies I have been known to get a bit emotional, but with this movie's supposed emotional ending I really couldn't have cared either way (although it was very predictable). In fact I was quite happy as it meant that the movie must be ending.Now I'm not a fan of Romance movies on a whole, but this was bad even for a romance movie. Do not pay anything to see this and only watch it if it is your last option.     "},{"Title":"Much better than some mean-spirted reviews would indicate.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  some SPOILERS - It was most fun just watching Ryder, who just last month was convicted of theft and destruction of merchandise. It helps us realize actors are no better or worse than the rest of humanity. I'm just disappointed she isn't doing any jail time.Regardless, Ryder is a fine actress, Gere does well in his usual womanizer role, as he does here. I have to disagree witha few who say Ryder and gere have no chemistry. I found their relationship as believable as most on-screen relationships. The story is pretty simple, Gere plays a restauranteur and womanizer who knows he can get almost any young, pretty woman, and he regularly does. In his dark past, he has a daughter in her 20s whom he had essentially abandoned during her growing up.Ryder plays a 23-year-old who makes eye contact during her birthday party at his restaurant, they have a date, he finds out she is dying, cheats on her on the roof of building with old girlfriend, he searches for a doctor who will do surgery on this impossible case. Makes contact with his grown daughter and admits his wrongs. Surgery fails, girlfriend dies anyway. Reconciles with daughter.Not a bad film, the moral is that through the love of a dying young woman, young enough to be his daughter, he learns the value of caring for someone rather than just see how many affairs he can have, and in the process gains his own daughter. The DVD is fine, nothing special, in fact has no extras.  Worth a look for anyone who likes a good human interest story.  "},{"Title":"21??","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the things i really couldnt get around was casting Wynona Rider as a 21 year old? The rest of the movie uterly predicatble. Ok acting, beautiful scenery, but all in just an ok movie. Not great just okay. Frankly if it wasnt for the obvious millions they spent it could have been done far cheaper and direct to video. "},{"Title":"Not much redeeming value. . .(some spoilers)","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I knew this film wouldn't be too good when I saw it, but I figured, Might as well. . . To be fair, the acting of the leads and supporting roles is on a moderate to good level, and the story did create a few genuine moments of sadness.  However, the story has been done a million times before. . .Love Story, Sweet November, A Walk to Remember, and so forth. All Autumn in New York did was put the age difference spin on it, as well as the quasi-incestual component which other commenters have mentioned. *Minor Spoilers ahead* The ending is, of course, utterly predictable, and it really felt like a movie and its suffering audience were simply being put out of their collective miseries. And on a final note, I just want to complain about the preponderance of New York movies.  Sure, some are set there because some feature of the city is necessary for the plot (Wall Street in The Family Man, Madison Avenue in Splash, Central Park as an improvised road in Die Hard 3, and so forth), but that was not the case in this movie, aside from forming a basis for the rather uncreative title.  Maybe someday, studios will realize that there are a few other good-sized cities in the US other than NYC, LA and Chicago.  If this movie had been called, for instance, St. Louis Twilight, I might have been more willing to see it.  And not to kick a city while it's down, so to speak, but I think we've all seen enough of the Big Apple.           "},{"Title":"Beautiful but a turkey","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This film  received such bad reviews that it stuck in my mind so when it came out on video I thought I'd give it a go just to see if it really lived up to it's reviewers' disappointment. It did. Richard Gere portrayed what I would consider to be a dirty old man albeit a very handsome one. While Winona Ryder plays this sickly,thin little girl-child he seduces.This film was terrible for so many reasons I can't list them all. Firstly Gere's character falls for this girl after seeing her across a crowed room (cliche?). She is supposed to be intelligent as well as beautiful but all she seems to say is 'wow' and 'amazing'. Not exactly deep and meaningful you'll agree.Secondly Ryder's supposedly clever and creative character forgives him for cheating on her. Why would you waste your last few months on a man she can't trust?Gere and Ryder, although they don't really have the best on-screen chemistry give fair performances despite the wishy washy script.I found the whole thing rather distasteful, particularly as it becomes apparent that Gere had also dated Charlotte's mother. In other words just when you're trying to forget he's old enough to be her father it pops in to your head that he could  actually be. Add to that the fact that she's dying and the whole thing became vulgar, unconvincing and extremely embarrassing for all involved.It is, however beautifully shot and showcases New York's sight, architecture and ambience to perfection. This doesn't make up for a crass script and week plot.SPOILER ALERT When she does finally die it felt like a relief as by then the love story was so cheesy and unbearably vile it felt like she was being released from his tainted clutches.The trailer for this movie is impressive but don't be fooled. A good solid weepy it ain't. It's one of those films where all the best bits are in the trailer. Give me Pretty Woman or Little Women any day over this trivial, nauseating nonsense. "},{"Title":"After seeing this, I thought Douglas Sirk was still alive","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why we're expected to care about a middle-aged, misogynist womaniser's affair with a twenty-one year old woman with a heart condition is anybody's guess. Especially when the older man is played in his usual somnambulistic fashion by Richard Gere. He's never been the warmest of performers, but his stone-cold turn in this could send anyone to an early grave. Winona Ryder plays the girl, and has to convince us that her character could see anything in Gere's self-centred egotist in the first place. It's an uphill struggle, because there's no evident chemistry between the two. The dialogue must shoulder most of the blame. Does anyone actually talk the way these two do, even with the spectre of sudden death hanging over them? It's a bit like watching an updated Douglas Sirk melodrama.Winona Ryder's character is called on to collapse at the plot's convenience, but otherwise there's not much to signal that her life might be in the balance. We aren't told specifically what's wrong with her, but it's one of those mysterious diseases that only one surgeon in the world can correct, because all the others are too chicken to risk performing surgery. It's also the kind of disease that always seems to provoke a desire in the sufferer to go ice-skating, never a good idea if you're prone to blackouts.On the plus side, Winona's always worth watching, the supporting cast (which includes Anthony La Paglia, Sherry Stringfield and Vera Farmiga of 15 Minutes) are good, and Joan Chen makes full use of the New York locations. "},{"Title":"CU Cilm Critic Takes on Autumn in New York","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every so often, a movie comes along that the entire nation seems to enjoy. Critics shower it with praise, it's full of great cinematography, has an excellent script, and if it's lucky, it picks up an Oscar nomination along the way. In many cases, this will be the film that I end up despising.  On the other hand, the opposite can be true.  Sometimes, a bad movie will be released.  The critics will destroy it.  It will be full of terrible dialogue, shabby acting, and undeveloped characters.  Of course, it goes without saying that this movie will rely on every film cliche in the proverbial book.  For some reason, however, I will enjoy it. `Autumn in New York,' starring Richard Gere and Winona Ryder, is a prime example of this unexplained phenomenon.  Gere stars as Will Keane, the womanizing owner of one of New York's classier gourmet restaurants.  Soon after the movie opens, Will falls for a younger woman (Ryder) who happens to be the daughter of an old friend.  After the age difference turns out to be inconsequential, Charlotte's revelation that she is terminally ill makes it clear that they have been forced into a doomed relationship from the start. This, compounded by Gere's hesitancy to abandon his Don Juan-ish ways make for turbulence throughout their time together.  A quasi-interesting subplot is thrown in concerning Keane's estranged daughter, and it serves to keep `Autumn' from falling into too many formulaic romance plots.There are so many reasons not to like `Autumn in New York.'  The first is obvious; no matter what lengths director Joan Chen goes to in order to keep the film original, she can't help but pour it into an overused mold. `Autumn' is a sappy movie about your standard ill-fated-from-the-start romance.  It wears its heart on its sleeve and begs you to be nice because, after all, it's about beautiful things like true love and a person's ability to improve himself.  People should watch it and cry because it's the kind of movie that is supposed to make people cry.  The script itself was a different issue altogether.  The dialogue sounded like it had been written by someone who had recently taken a very bad creative writing class.`I can smell the rain.  When did I learn to do that?' `Food is the only beautiful thing that truly nourishes.' Also, it seems that either Ryder's part was originally written for Drew Barrymore, or Drew's been giving Winona acting lessons recently.However, I should stop complaining, because I genuinely enjoyed this movie. First of all, we should give Joan Chen a few tries before we start tearing her works of art to shreds.  `Autumn' is the first English-language film Chen has attempted, so it appears that she's still getting her feet wet, and I can appreciate that.  Second of all, in spite of the movie's unoriginal nature, some aspects made it impossible not to enjoy.  What sticks in my mind are some of the most amazing visuals I have seen on the big screen in a very long time.  Chen's mastery of aesthetic cinematography is incredible. It seems that NYC's pigeon population has been completely replaced by doves. Why?  Because doves are pretty, that's why.  Many of the scenes seemed to be paintings brought to life. Be it a night scene in a Manhattan alleyway or a flyby of the Brooklyn Bridge, each shot is tailored perfectly to compose a balanced and artistic blend of actors and scenery, without once resorting to the standby shot of the New York skyline. Joan Chen does amazing things with even a few strands of glass beads. The characters, as stereotypical as they were, made me care about them, which is rare.  I was most impressed my J.K. Simmons' character, a surgeon called upon to help Ryder's character during the movie's second half.  Simmons, with no more than twenty lines, undoubtedly gave the best performance during the movie's entire 107 minutes, and I look forward to seeing him in larger roles. `Autumn in New York' is a painting.  It's a ballet or a classical choral piece.  It's a piece of beautiful art, if not a good story.  It forces us to think about things we don't always want to think about, but probably should. As I said, there are many reasons to brush it aside as Hollywood fluff, but there are more reasons to appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Exceptionally Predictable","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very disappointing.  First of all, I did not think that Winona Ryder and Richard Gere had much chemistry.  Second of all, it was the most predictable movie I have seen in a while.  Granted, it had some redeeming parts, and it did prove to be a tear-jerker, but overall it is not a movie I would see again.  I would not recommend this movie, I think it is a waste of money.  It is too predictable. "},{"Title":"Nothing but scenery","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everyone says the scenery of this film is beautiful; unfortunately, the two principals are so marginally interesting they feel part of the scenery.  Winona's habit of speaking lines out of the corner of her mouth while batting her eyes is effective only in dark comedies (HEATHERS, BEETLEJUICE) where it plays as irony.  Gere is a pretty boy (or pretty geezer, at this late date) who has coasted on his looks; the brakes have now been firmly applied and his career looks to be stalled.  Not surprisingly, Ryder and Gere have no chemistry, but what can you expect when you combine milk of magnesia with water?The plot is a replay of this simple structure cute moment-fight-medical emergency (which brings them back together again).  The characters don't even seem to like each other, until Gere sleeps with a woman on a rooftop during a Halloween party (!) and Ryder discloses that she has a terminal (yet nebulous) heart disease. Lovable people, huh? The movie then predictably descends to soap box.  Usually, no matter how bad the film, I try not to ruin it for other people by groaning, moaning, or throwing candy on the screen. But I had to leave, twice, because I was laughing so hard.  I spent the last half hour with my collar pulled up to my nose.A question  why do Ryder and Gere ride to a fundraiser together in the same limo but exit it separately, on two different takes? "}{"Title":"This movie was boring to say the least, and too predictable.","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I waited almost a year for this Movie, and I found it to be a big disappointment...The story line was too predictable, and the plot was boring...too much emphasis on her dying and not enough on their relationship... I was not impressed... "},{"Title":"A disappointing film","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A disappointing turn out from such fine actors as Winona Ryder and Richard Gere.  While Gere seems to be playing himself (yet again), Ryder never seems to bond with her character, she seems forced and not at all comfortable. Adding to this the radical change in the character itself a third of the way into the movie looks and feels wrong.The movie had great potential but never quite makes it off the ground.  "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie made!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From scanning the previous comments it would appear that the movie wasn't worth sitting through. Not necessarily so, only a few movies have I ever seen that I can't sit through, and this wasn't one of them.The story isn't new, but I wasn't expecting that. The acting was up to the class of the main people involved, no problems there. The script wasn't anything exciting but wasn't bad either. The main fault I found with this picture was (and it could have just been the cinema I was in, but...) a lot of the time, it was out of focus. I thought it might just be the cinema I was in, but sometimes the image was in focus, so I'm not so sure...Overall something to see if you've seen all the other movies that are on, not bad, the acting helps there, but nothing special. 6/10. "},{"Title":"It fails to reach the heart","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Autumn In New York neither opened my heart or my tear ducts. Unfortunately the film did not move me in the way I expect the Writer and Director intend it to. The same old plot used many times in the past, Love Story. It was predictable after the first fifteen minutes. Richard Gere floundered in dialogue which was unbearably boring. Winona Ryder has proven she's better in 'period' pieces, Little Women. The film lacked energy, even though it was about dying. The actors all seemed bored in their 'fluffy' dialogue. Even the fantastic location of New York didn't lift this piece up. It looked more washed out than the average persons eyes who would be watching this movie. At the risk of being called a 'chauvinist pig', this film is obviously for a female audience, as it was written and directed by females and this shows in the weak male dialogue. If rating by star value 'Autumn In New York' would definitely be a half star.  "},{"Title":"Boring, boring, boring","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, to be honest, I left the movie after 45 minutes, so I do not know if it becomes any better in the end, but I deeply doubt it.The story is no story, but it is just a bore. The characters stay absolutely unbelievable and flat, and so you do not care about what is happening.Well, the actors are quite nice, and so I will give 1 point for that.And as always, I swear myself to consult the IMDB comments next time BEFORE I go to a movie. If I only had done so! "},{"Title":"lame, really lame !","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  absolutely lame story about two losers !no convincing character display and the audience is just thrown into accepting that a young woman could fall for a known womaniser, never mind it's the beady-eyed roman-nosed Gere.the first 'fall' was bad enough; but the second time around, AFTER once bitten (you'd think) twice shy was too much and made me squirm in my seat.the only thing going for this movie was the title and the lovely scenery that you can expect from it. "},{"Title":"Ryder annoying, Gere wooden, plot lacking","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's difficult to express in words how poor this movie was. From what I've been told, it was a love story. However, you never watch anybody actually fall in love. One scene it's Gere's and Ryder's first date, the next scene they're madly in love. The viewer is given no legitimate reason for the attraction, let alone deep emotional attachment. It's all totally unconvincing. Gere's performance is relatively flat until the final third of the film. Ryder performance is all over the map and her character is just downright annoying.Throw in a terminal illness, bad hats, an odd subplot about a fling Gere's character had 30 years ago, a long abandoned daughter and an unfaithful encounter on a roof top and what you end up with is big steaming mess of a movie.The ending is supposed to be sad, but my girlfriend and I left the theatre giggling at the ridiculousness of the whole thing.  "},{"Title":"Cheeeeesy","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was always proud to say that I never left a movie theater without having seen the end credits but this incredible cheesy movie had me running for cover after just 15 minutes. Okay, I have to admit that Winona Ryder really was cute and acting as great as usual, but it was just to heartbreaking to watch her fighting against this poorly written script.. I give this movie two out of ten and both are for Winona but I wouldn't even send my worst enemy into this movie. "},{"Title":"preposterous","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This required too much suspension of disbelief about the Winona Ryder character's medical condition.  Not just her appearance, but her breezy, lighthearted attitude.  I realize it's just a movie, but I was so distracted by the above that I couldn't really recommend this movie.  It did have a few good laughs, though. "},{"Title":"Zzzzz!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Autumn in New York is characterized by poor acting, weak character development and a plot that plods along without even the slightest hint of mercy for the movie-goer.Save your money!!!  "}{"Title":"I have never been so bored","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am usually a sucker for sappy romance movies, even the ones that usually get bad reviews, so I ignored the critics and went anyway.  First of all, I don't understand why Ryder's character was instantly so captivated by Gere's character.  They're introduced when she has her birthday at his restaurant and suddenly they're in love, and she's hoping that he'll call and ask her to make one of those tacky hats?Why she continued to be with him after he did something so tacky as do another woman while they're attending the same party is so lame.  I've seen difference in ages in pairings and that normally does not bother me, but they made so much of the age difference that it was a turnoff.  I am forty eight not forty nine!  Well, who cares?After the first twenty minutes of the film when she announced her impending death, it just moved so slowly.  Nothing happened.... a few slow motion love scenes and every minute waiting for the blessed event of dying to happen.Why they couldn't have filled up nearly two hours with more substance baffles me.  When they had a few minutes to kill, they had waiting room scenes, and Ryder run her fingers back and forth over the gaudy mobile that was in her room.  I give the movie a 1 out of a score of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies I've Ever Seen.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I became stubborn and decided to see this movie despite the negative reviews people gave this movie.  I fully regret this decision.  I nearly walked out after 20 minutes after listening to the banal, flat out awful dialogue. Although I do say that the movie went from terrible to not so intolerable whenever the characters kept their mouth shuts and allowed the audience to view the nice (and somewhat exaggerated) shots of New York.  I now fully appreciate the work of actual talented film makers and not this kind of crap that managed to get made.  What a waste of 50 million dollars and a waste of my 5 dollars. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to its promise.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie looks very beautiful and romantic but Gere wasn't convincing, nor did he and Ryder make a convincing couple.  Interesting story with the added twist of an abandoned daughter, but it just didn't evoke or inspire much response, sorry to say. "},{"Title":"Just a tear jerker.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really wanted to love this movie, and some parts of it were terrific, like the scenery.  The part where they're walking in the park with all the autumn leaves falling around them was breathtaking.  Even when they recited poetry to each other, it seemed like they had real chemistry.  But the movie was just a tear jerker.  Most movie with an ending like this one, leaves this undescribable feeling that keeps you thinking about it for days.  This one didn't.  It felt as though the characters Will Keane and Charlotte rushed into there relationship way to quickly and they could have spaced the movie out just a bit more.  An hour and 45 minutes was just to short of a time to fit all the romance and heartbreak in.      "},{"Title":"Yuck, blechhh, get the message?","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of all the movies that I've seen over the last 12 months, there has only been a handful that made me regret paying for. Autumn in New York brought me one step further. I almost decided to leave half way through but decided to stay in case things turned around plus I thought it would have been unfair to review a movie that I only saw half of.Richard Gere plays a successful restaurant owner that has a reputation of being a bit of a womanizer. Winona Ryder plays a young woman that Gere pursues (and gets) only to find out that this young woman is dying. As you guessed, Gere falls in love with her and does everything in his power to save her. There's a bunch of stuff mixed in there but you get the gist of the plot line.What made me almost want to leave? There are some amazingly cheesy lines. I've seen quite a few romance type movies and have to admit that I do like them but this movie had some really bad lines. A few times there were scenes that just made me shake my head and wonder if Hollywood execs ever did any test screenings. In my opinion, they should have redone the writing for the first half of the movie. You wonder why I say the first half? The second half deals with Ryder's character's health declining so the focus of the movie moves from romance to drama. The movie gets slightly better but not much. I guess the decision to not have any interviews before the release date was a good one&#133;from a business perspective but from an audience perspective, I feel like I've been suckered in. I've seen Richard Gere and Winona Ryder in much better movies and if I were their agents, I'd screen scripts a little better. It was painful watching them deliver some really, really bad lines. This one was not worth the price of admission. For you Gere and Ryder fans out there, see this as a matinee or wait until it comes out in the dollar theatres. This way, you won't feel AS cheated out of your money. The only thing I liked was the cinematography. There are some nice shots of New York but other than that, not much else. Sorry folks, this was not a very entertaining movie.  "},{"Title":"Tugs at the heartstrings","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just saw this movie today, and without giving too much away, the story does tug at your heartstrings. I just read a few comments by other authors. One in particular was very negative. Hard to understand this point of view, because this was a believable story. These days we are shown too much of the movie in the trailers; therefore we have an idea of what we're going to see. I did enjoy the wonderful autumn colours of the trees in New York. Also enjoyed the acting of Richard Gere and Winona Rider. Yes! We come up against the old story of the older man and the younger woman, and to many this is unacceptable ... but this story is different; understandable and acceptable, because of the plot. Elaine Stritch, a veteran actress makes her part a memorable one; likewise Richard and Winona. I enjoyed the camera work in this movie. I could smell the autumn leaves as they swirled in Central Park, and I could feel the cold crisp air in the winter scenes. I enjoyed my visit to New York in Autumn while sitting in my seat in a movie theatre in Canada.  "},{"Title":"Totally and completely BORING.  Not even a good chick flick.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie with my husband and my best friend. We came real close to leaving in the middle.  We writhed, sighed, and stared at the ceiling. I kept telling them to hold on, it was sure to get better.  It didn't. It was like they were trying to copy the classic movie Love Story but made a joke of it instead.  "},{"Title":"Frozen in New York.  Good acting tries to thaw DOA story.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A predictable love story, without the love.  I didn't believe the trite setup for a minute.   Even with good acting, the story seem forced and hallow, and the characters unsympathetic.   "},{"Title":"For Harlequin Junkies","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Autumn in New York is a movie which shamelessly targets the hankie toting romantic. Full of idealism of fairy-tale proportions, it struggles to develop a story of two lovers who, surprise surprise, fall IN love in New York city. It is a perfect movie for those seeking a renewed faith in the male species, but I warn you it may not appeal to all 30+ female viewers. Unlike the classic remake The Thomas Crowne Affair of last year, where women could sing the praises of 40+ women, this movie seems to reaffirm the societal conception that younger is better. Although watching the womanising Will finally fall in love is still gratifying in a conventional way. It is an excellent movie for anyone who has ever read and thoroughly enjoyed a Harelequinesque pocket novel, but a poor choice for those who realize a terminally disease does not give rise to a beautiful youthful glow.Sherisse Pham, 20 "},{"Title":"No hankies needed for this one!","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  No hankies needed for this one - unless you're crying over wasting the price of a ticket.  There is absolutely no chemistry between Richard Gere and Winona Ryder and even less of a storyline.  I was looking forward to a good romantic movie but was disappointed to find that I just didn't care about the characters.  Give me a good love story, much less one where one of the main characters dies, and I'm good for at least 2 or 3 hankies. Unfortunately, I really didn't care about this one.  I was just glad when it was over. "}{"Title":"Autumn takes a fall...","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Where do I begin on this movie ? Do I start with how two wonderful actors tried to make a lot out of a very weak script ? Or, do I dwell more on the wonderful photography, and the unique special feeling that only a cool crisp day in Central Park can bring ? I found that Autumn started with such wonderful promise, and then after an hour the bottom just dropped out. I'm sure the powers that be in charge of this production would most certainly re-shoot the last 30 minutes or so if they had the opportunity. This film had the potential of a rocket and the finish of a paper airplane. "},{"Title":"An emotional movie that encapsulates the romance of Hollywood's Golden Age!!!","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gere and Ryder do not give their best performance in this movie.  Each has played better roles in the past.  Despite this, however, this is definitely the most emotional movie either has done.  Though the plot is predictable, it doesn't detract from the story at all.  If nothing else, it adds a bit more dimension to the movie. I disagree with others that this is a chick-flick.  I believe anyone that believes in romance will enjoy it.  While the movie is marketed towards all segments of the population, romantics will probably get the most out of it. "},{"Title":"HAD GOOD ACTORS - NEEDED GOOD WRITING AND DIRECTING","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was hoping this would be an intelligently-written film as I enjoy both of the lead actors.  Richard Gere is absolutely as charming as when I first laid eyes on him in Waiting For Mr. Goodbar.  Winona Ryder, although not my favorite, was made up beautifully but needs to grow out her hair to be her most beautiful.  Whoever picked out the white evening dress for her big formal evening out with Gere should be fired.  With all the talented designers around, how did that cheap-looking rag make it to the screen?The story jumped into the romance WAY too quickly and didn't let it percolate. Mainly, the movie needed a writer and a director.  Both let us down badly.Gere and Ryder did the best they could with what they were given. "},{"Title":"The most interesting part was the guy sleeping behind me.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this with a couple of girlfriends, thinking it would be a good chick-flick. Well, a chick-flick it was. I should mention that it was not as bad as I thought it was going to be. While the story was sappy, which I love, I found that I could not believe the romance between Gere and Ryder. I felt that the chemistry was not right, and the characters were unbelieveable. Never was I allowed to become part of the story, which is necessary in a romance like this. "},{"Title":"No good","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry, I thought the movie was terrible.  There were subplots that had no relevence and were not developed.  The list of stupid lines that were spoken could go on and on and on.  The plot was unoriginal and Winona Ryder portrayed Charlotte as a teenage idiot.  The only thing that I liked was the fact that the movie did not end as I thought it was going to.  Other than that, walking out of the movie was an option from about the fifteen minute mark on.  I'm sure the people in the theater that were enjoying the movie would have preferred that...oh well.  My opinion they should invent a negative star rating for this movie. "},{"Title":"Harmless love","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Autumn in New York is a harmless movie about a woman, Charlotte, who is dying of a heart problem.  She mets an older man (Gere) and they fall in love. The chemistry between Ryder and Gere wasn't really there for me.  I never truly believed these two were meant to be together, and except for a few funny lines I didn't really enjoy their time together.  However, like I said, it's a harmless movie with some beautiful shots of New York and Central Park in particular.    "},{"Title":"Lots of potential, but doesn't work","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For some reason, this movie just didn't work for me.  Sure I'm a guy, but I enjoy taking a girl to see a chick-flick.  But this movie is far from the quality of 'Return to Me,' a superior film that came out earlier this summer. Two stars, Richard Gere and Winona Ryder, had a good plot to work with, but there was no chemistry.  I did not believe their relationship for one second. ****POSSIBLE SPOILERS****** Gere is a 48-year old womanizer that sleeps with almost every pretty girl he meets.  He then supposedly falls in love with Ryder after a brief encounter and then a date (of course, they sleep together).  Call me old fashion, but true love does not stem from this kind of situation.  Throw in your required conflict (actually there are two in this movie) with the two stars and you have somewhat of a movie.  The conflict should be a lot more dramatic than it is, but because of lack of chemistry between the leads, I just couldn't get too involved.  Of course I felt sorry for the character with the biggest problem.  I am glad the story ended the way it did, though, or else it would have been even cornier. It seemed the whole movie focused on developing the wrong things of the stories.  It's just not put together well.  Spend your time watching a better flick.  "},{"Title":"Love Story It's Not!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This desperate attempt to recreate the 1970 classic love saga falls short at drawing tears from audiences.  An early flaw in the characters' relationship prevents any sensation of chemistry.  While the film has potential, you will leave the theater feeling that the story went nowhere. "},{"Title":"Kinda boring, slow, didn't feel like characters connected","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is just an average film. Maybe a 4 or 5 score out of 10.  Seemed slow. The love didn't seem real.  It doesn't really make you feel any emotions other than bored.  Not much of a story development.  Just seemed to be a movie where they wanted to put a popular older actor and popular younger actress together.   "},{"Title":"Zzzzzz.... What a stinker!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so incredibly horrible that after seeing it, I stood outside and warned people not to waste their money on it. It was so bad, and so boring that I actually found myself saying Please just go ahead and die!.  At one point one of the characters delivers a line like What would I have done if I'd never met you? and I almost shouted YOU WOULD BE DEAD AND I'D BE AT HOME!!! I expected much better, especially from Winona Ryder; I'm usually a fan of hers. However, she frankly stinks in this movie. Richard Gere does nothing to make it better. It is *very* hard to believe that his character is 48.I was expecting a wonderful chick flick (I went with my mommy) along the lines of Return to Me, but instead was assaulted with artsy drivel. There seemed to be quite a few shots of diagonal beads and reflections through sweaty glass that did absolutely nothing to make the movie enjoyable. There were no memorable lines, no good supporting characters (the gay-male-friend had potential, but we didn't get to see him for more than 30 seconds.), and it didn't even come close to making me cry.****SPOILER****I clapped when she died. And what was with that doctor? No professional would act that way.... I don't get it.The music was great, though. Since City of Angels I've been a big fan of Gabriel Yared. Very pretty... Get the soundtrack if you're interested, but don't bother seeing the film. "}{"Title":"Good, but will it get any better?","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to the movie, really wanting to enjoy it. I wanted a good cry. A good, but sad movie is what I had in mind. It started off funny and interesting, but after awhile, I kept waiting for another twist in the story, and nothing else was happening. Then, I found myself just waiting for what would inevitably happen.  A better, more interesting ending would have definitely bumped this movie up from 4 to 6 or 7 stars I think.Oh yeah, the ratio of women to men in the theater was about 30 to 1. Kind of funny.  "},{"Title":"What were we, the viewers, supposed to think?","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whenever I go to see ANY movie, I always walk away with one complaint - that the happy endings are so predictable, it almost isn't worth it to spend $7.50 unless the 1 hour and 45 minutes BEFORE the 15-minute sappy ending are spent making the viewer really THINK about the plot. I very much anticipated seeing Autumn in New York on its opening day primarily because Richard Gere very rarely disappoints an audience. And so, I was stunned when, halfway through the film, Gere's character, Will Keane, did a complete 180 from the fun-loving guy that he often portrays. The previews promised that this would be the movie that would make you remember what it felt like to fall in love. Well, if this is anyone's real definition of love, then I truly feel sorry for them. What were we, the viewers, supposed to find romantic in the fact that an aging playboy took advantage of a young, beautiful, dying woman? Were we supposed to shed tears of joy when she pitifully took him back after proclaiming that he wasn't good enough? The only thing it proved was her lack of self-esteem. In the end, she was the only person I felt remorse for - remorse for the fact that she spent her last few months on earth wasting her time with a guy who would cheat on her in a heartbeat just because nobody was stopping him. What was the purpose of even including his long-lost daughter in the plot - so she could help him find a doctor to try to save his girlfriend's life? That was the only noble thing he did during the entire movie. I was very disappointed by this film; I went to the theater expecting to see something incredibly romantic, and instead, I walked away feeling like yet ANOTHER movie had portrayed young women as shallow and naive. The best thing about it were the beautiful shots of New York City - at least they didn't come across as artificial and fake, unlike Gere's character. I had come to expect better from him. What was he thinking in choosing this role? Winona Ryder played her part very well, but when viewers walk away feeling pity for your character, you know you've wasted your time on a dud of a movie. "},{"Title":"You won't laugh or cry, but you will kiss six bucks goodbye.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The photography, editing and Elaine Strich's performance are the only high points in this regrettably forgettable movie.  The main characters are too flat and there is no one for the audience to identify with.  Richard and Winona certainly have the talent to create believable characters, so one wonders if the problem is with the director or the script.  An alternate title The Kid and Creep "},{"Title":"Definite chick flick, but not as bad as you've heard","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie because I'm a huge Winona Ryder fan. I thought the movie was not great but not terrible either. Some people may not like the May-December aspect of it (Gere's character has a daughter older than Ryder), but the issue is certainly not ignored by the film and is a major theme. Some of the dialogue is sappy, on-the-nose, and cliched, but with this type of movie, that sort of thing is expected and acceptable. Like many love stories, I wasn't convinced of why these two got together anyway. Gere is depicted as a chronic womanizer, and Ryder apparently wants ANY romance because of her terminal heart condition. Ryder's character was underwritten (what does she do for a living? apparently, she strings beads and makes hats) and at 28, Winona is having a harder and harder time pulling off a uber-naive role like this. If you like tearjerker romances, or are a fan of Ryder or Gere, you could do worse, although this is certainly no Love Story or Steel Magnolias. (Winona trivia this is the second time she's played a character named Charlotte; the first was ten years ago in Mermaids.) "},{"Title":"Ottoman in New York","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'SOME SPOILERS AHEAD' --- don't act like you care. Sleepy-footed poppycock about a womanizer who gets reformed by the most pathetic hat-maker in New York City.Furniture has more personality than either Bologna Ryder or Richard Steer, both of whom are neither believable or likable in this sappy date movie which, in more ways than one, copies events right out of 'Love Story' (1970), including the ice-skating and death bed scenes.Bologna shows up at Steer's doorstep looking like she just escaped from the mental ward and Steer is a slobbering mess. Both actors try way too hard to be spontaneous and charming, but the result is what you'd expect from some of the worst acting you've seen in quite awhile, not to mention a lame script. Sorry, but when Bologna croaked, I didn't give a rat's ass.The best things about this flick are some beautiful scenery, the pretty title, and the fact that as long as this bumbling movie is, you know it will finally end so you won't have to hang yourself from the big tree in the backyard. Directed by John Chung. "},{"Title":"Richard Gere and Winona Ryder sizzle on the silver screen","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is really recommended for the broken hearted as well as the still hearted..basically those who have been or are in love..the storyline may be a little predictable..but the set locations...the casting..screenplay...they are all close to perfection.. Richard Gere..well...he's cool and suave as we remember him in Pretty Woman,but his character in this motion picture makes the viewer feel for him and not just for Charlotte(Ms Ryder's character)..and their chemistry is definitely on full reaction mode...subtle...but seriously gentle for the heart and mind.. and the song that plays when the movie fades to black and the credits roll..Jenifer Paige's Beautiful...that really describes the whole movie..it was really so beautiful..i was really shocked that Joan Chen directed this gem..she did a good if not excellent job..a MUST see for all viewers interested in the romance/drama genre.. "},{"Title":"How to enjoy this film","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" No major spoilers.I agree with most reviewers; the chemistry between the leads was not good, and that lowers the film from a higher review. They were not helped by the rather limping dialog during their scenes together.However, what I discovered after watching is that this film is NOT about a love affair between a young woman and an older man--this film is about how a man who has been selfish his whole life learns to change.As a Richard Gere vehicle, this film is excellent. His journey throughout the film is believable and well-acted. I commend his performance--there are many small moments throughout the film when I found myself struck by how wonderful he was, and how subtly he could portray an emotion or a change in his character. For Gere's performance alone, I recommend this film. And I should mention that I am not usually a Gere fan. For this film however, I am.In addition, the supporting cast for this film is stellar. Their lines are amazing, their portrayals brilliant, and I remember their names while I cannot right now think of the name of Ryder's character....If you'd like to enjoy this film, think of it not as a love story, but as the journey of man who, at 48, finds he still has much to learn. And finds people who will help to teach him. "},{"Title":"Bad bad bad","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, I had very high expectations from this movie, because I like Geere, and in all the movies I've seen with him, he always did something to touch my heart. Rider is not one of my favorites, but anyway, I expected a lot more than what I've seen in this movie. First of all, the chemistry between the two is not there. You can feel they are just two actors with their roles and nothing more. Then the story is not necessarily old, but has no passion in it. Didn't touch me, didn't make me feel I am there, didn't squeeze any tear from me, as a similar movie did, Sweet November, for example. The story line seems to be just without any salt or pepper. Like a child without imagination tells this to another child. There are no sparkles and most of all, it is so PREDICTABLE. I could say that each time she is having fun, she must get a heart crisis after this. It was TOO OBVIOUS. I like movies that keep me in the dark until the end, movies that are not predictable, movies that can make me feel there. This one didn't reach any of these things. I was disappointed by the story itself, the makeup, the intrigue, after all, I was disappointed by mostly anything. That's it.I recommend any of you, do not watch Sweet November BEFORE this movie, because otherwise Autumn in NY will seem like a silly low budget remake.1 out of 10 from me. And I rarely rate this low. "},{"Title":"Old man meets younger woman.","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Will and Charlotte keep on saying that they are wrong for each other because he is old and she is young and she is sick. I didn't feel any chemistry in this whole movie. I was waiting for her to die and that's what I don't like about this movie. I wished that it could have been a surprise that she was sick near the end. That would have made the movie slightly better.The other thing I didn't like was that he dated her mother before he dated her. That's just too creepy and I wouldn't want sloppy seconds from my mother. He should have just skipped both of them and went for the grandmother. That would have made the movie much more interesting.The Charlotte character is pathetic. She still loves Will after he sleeps with other women. Charlotte is sick and might die and she can't even find anyone who respects her enough to be there. What a lame and very boring story.There are two movies that are love stories and are sad and are way better than this. I would say My Life and The Notebook are more enjoyable than this. "},{"Title":"Visually beautiful....","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" after reading earlier comments; yes we have seen the story, etc.; but this is still a nice romantic film with a beautiful score. Suspend your disbelief for an hour and a half- you will not regret it.Yes, Richard Gere is the aging playboy, falls for Winona Ryder (who looks stunning, by the way). I am a cynic and still loved this film.There is a great cameo with Elaine Stritch as an aging NY stage actress, envying Gere his looks ...One day you're rich as an Arab, the next you're lucky you can afford pistachio nuts...; This film is a visual piece; do not dissect the facts, just enjoy the scenes of NY in autumn, Halloween and Jill Hennessey also in a cameo- looking like Holly Golightly (Capote's character). While the underlying story about Ryder's illness is sad, this film approaches it visually, and it is worth watching.Anyone who cannot appreciate NY or Boston must visit the city in autumn, or during an ice storm. Visually incredible. "}{"Title":"A real tearjerker!","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Winona Ryder, at the height of her stellar career stars opposite the equally dashing Richard Gere in this weepy drama. Ryder's character is a terminally ill girl who catches Gere's eye one Autumn evening in New York City. The result of their instant attraction is a tempestuous affair that leaves Ryder's Charlotte more lovelorn that ecstatic. Gere's character is very manipulative, nonchalant, egotistical and heartbreaking but luckily the charm of Ryder's delicate Charlotte that digs a hole into his life and impacts him forever. Nevermind the age difference, the romance is very believable and this film with truly touch your heart. Anthony LaPaglia, Elaine Stritch, and Vera Farmiga all give riveting co-starring performances. Directed by Joan Chen. It works, it just works. "},{"Title":"Autumn in New York? Ha! More like Tedi-umn in New York!","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is worth little so I'll try to be brief.G has a problem here his face makes it look like he can't act. Ms. Ryder looks, of course, lovely. She ain't the problem.But why would I (of all people) be interested in watching this more or less one-dimensional womanizer? I'm not. I can't stand looking at her (flat) character drooling over him, pertty though she looks doing it.Even that doesn't kill the film, though; the painful, painful ordinariness does. Though some traces of someone actually thinking may be detected, the film, especially the scripty, reeks of incredible dullness. Something could've been saved with other means, but no. The cinematography, for example, insists on redefining the word bland - and I do mean the bad bland. They could've at least shown the leaves more.And now for something seemingly irrelevant. My summary is a bad joke - if someone failed to notice that. I'm occasionally amused here by someone toying cleverly with a given film's title in the fashion of A Boring River Runs Through It while being hilariously clumsy (although some of them are jokes themselves, of course). Perhaps the title amuses only myself, but that's worth it. In fact, why the hell would it even matter? At any rate, how smug of me. Had I not chosen that title my alternate would've been Tired and tiring - in reference to the film, not this comment, appropriate though that might have been as well. Yes, I do realise this is the longest paragraph. In fact, it's pointless too. Why is it even there? I don't like the way it reads (I appear arrogant), and the joke would've been better without my explaining it. The leaves remark would have been a better ending, too. Come to think of it, skip this paragraph. "},{"Title":"If Emily Dickinson wrote a modern script","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a classic tragic/romantic cliched story of two people who meet under impossible circumstances, fall in love under impossible circumstances, and have too many issues to deal with to make their relationship work. But I still enjoyed it. Star power is plenty with Winona & Richard and some great supporting roles from Sherry Stringfield (of ER fame) and the semi-bald shrink guy from Law & Order, but be prepared to watch it by yourself if you're a woman, and prepare yourself for the Steel Magnolias treatment if you're a man. I suggest for couples to really sit through this @ least once then talk about it. Builds character, and touches your heart, and definitely expands your horizons ) "},{"Title":"Watch Ghost Instead","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aumtumn in New York is so boring, I turned off the movie midway in order to watch tv! Yes, it's that boring and predictable. Please watch Ghost instead. Ghost is a much better romance movie, the chemistry between Demi Moore & Patrick Swayze is much more believable, and Ghost takes place in New York as well! Another commenter said Richard Gere keeps looking at the camera like he is a teenage heart throb, hahaha, & yes, I must agree with that. It is very hard for me to believe the chemistry between Richard Gere and Winona Ryder, not that there's anything wrong with age difference couples, but the chemistry between Gere & Ryder is not there, & not to mention, it doesn't help when he looks like her grandpa you know? The plus I have to give Autumn in New York is the beautiful scenery, but that certainly isn't enough to keep me watching a movie. Again, please go watch Ghost instead. You'll thank yourself! "},{"Title":"Hideous","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I had the extreme misfortune to watch this piece of rubbish. It is the WORST movie I have ever seen (2nd worst - Highlander 2). I'm not a big fan of the genre, but I do appreciate a good love story (which this most certainly is not). At no point in the movie did I develop any empathy or sympathy for the two characters. Richard Gere plays a sleazy old man, who'll sleep with anything with a pulse. Winona Ryder's character is extremely naive and for reasons completely unknown to anyone, falls for him.Furthermore, she forgives him after he cheats on her. When I watched this film in a theatre, a group of middle aged people seated in front of me were calling out 'isn't she dead yet?' Fortunately she did die soon after. I agree with several other comments that the movie was shot in beautiful surroundings. This should never be any sort of excuse for a terrible film though. 0/10  "},{"Title":"Die, Die My Darling!","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  That an exploitive piece of junk like this could even get greenlighted is amazing evidence that Hollywood thinks there's still a reasonable demigraphic for this kind of sappy tripe.  I can't imagine that something like this did any substantial business at the boxoffice, so hopefully it will be the death knell for it's kind.  Nasty stuff. "},{"Title":"Bad!!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is very bad. The 'romance' between the two character is so poorly developed. Do you really think I believe them to fall in love a the first sight? No! To have an older man falling in love with such a young girl makes me feel sick. Anyway putting that aside, the film is really so bad because the pace is so slow, the plot is so predictable, and Richard Gere showing the same facial expression for the entire length of the film. He smiles at the camera as if he is a teenage heartthrob! That alone is so disgusting! Maybe some women would find him attractive, but smiling at the camera like that doesn't do the trick.Avoid this film!! "},{"Title":"potential ruined by atrocious movie","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a enthusiast of romantic movies, but even I can see when a romantic movie is good or when it's a loser.this one is way beyond a loser because of 1 thing  everything in this movie (let it be the story, the acting, the images) feel so forced and clichéd that it becomes more of a parody of a romantic movie than a romantic movie on its own. What Richard Gere did in this piece of junk, I don't know!! Last night I was thinking how The Mothman Prohpecies could be better, but I was only thinking how this movie could have been ever made!!Seriously, Joan Chen, who appeared in Twin Peaks, shouldn't be allowed to direct or use a camera. Romantic movies should be intimate, not ridiculous like this piece of absolute crap. Avoid at all cost!! "},{"Title":"A very long 100 minutes","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I seem to find a way to enjoy most movies. I'm not overly critical and only look for the good in movies. Unfortunately when you get a movie that is an absolute snorefest it is hard to find many positives. While I was trying to stay awake I found the Gere/Ryder relationship hard to swallow. In fact I was rather disturbed by it. In some movies I have been known to get a bit emotional, but with this movie's supposed emotional ending I really couldn't have cared either way (although it was very predictable). In fact I was quite happy as it meant that the movie must be ending.Now I'm not a fan of Romance movies on a whole, but this was bad even for a romance movie. Do not pay anything to see this and only watch it if it is your last option.     "},{"Title":"I Think You Might be missing the point...","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I read the comments here I can't help but think that everyone is missing the point.  One of the things that all of us have a problem with in life is looking deep in our souls and trying to understand what makes our lives the way they are.  Especially if we are unhappy and so very afraid of trying to change.  Watching that unfold on the screen can be painful even if it isn't your life. Most people's usual response is to want to trash the film that they are watching. Motion pictures viewed live and in your face in a dark theatre have an impact that can hit you  on a very personal level. This film is not about the relationship between Gere and Ryder's characters, but about Gere's character's life.  It is about how he is coming to realize that he is very dissatisfied with the the person who he has become. Out of the blue he sees a young woman that reminds him of someone that he used to know.  It turns out, in fact, that she is the daughter of the only woman that he has ever loved. Will Keane finds himself in the midst of a second chance which he can not quite grasp as being so.  It becomes apparent as the film progresses that he did love Charlotte's mother and that with Charlotte he can go back and start over again.  Something that is extremely scary and makes him vulnerable as a human being.  It causes him to attempt to fight the realization of what is happening.  Especially since this time the potential for getting hurt is extremely high.   I won't say that this picture is perfect, it does have its flaws.  There are things about it that are predictable and somewhat formulaic.  As this may be, the writer and the director of this film are both at the beginning of their respective careers, so to speak, and are still learning. Joan Chen has a remarkable eye and a good feel for how to display the human spirit on the screen.  I can already identify in Allison Burnett a writer with great ability.  There is an under current and unspoken parts to this story that play in front of you just as the action between the characters does.  The trick is being able to see it.  Obviously the rest of the audience that commented here did not.        "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Waited for this to come out on video which was a mistake as it worked well enough for me. Particularly good to see Winona Ryder back on song after the horrors of Lost Souls. I thought she was luminous and the chemistry with Richard Gere - very far from my favourite actor - seemed good. Scenery was stunning and the whole movie had an escapist feel which I'm a sucker for. Reminded me a little of the wonderfulAlways for some reason - same romantic idealism. So ignore the critics. It's well worth watching. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know the reviews were bad but I don't think this is a bad movie. The photography is nice even if it is New York City.  And I liked how it ended because the whole movie is about time and how we are caught up in the idea of time and money. New York being the financial capital of the world was appropriate.  I don't care for Gere but he did a fair job of a bad character.  Winona was exquisite as usual.  "},{"Title":"Thoroughly awful","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love love stories (emphasis on story -- there should be one) and tear-jerkers (but both leads shouldn't be total jerks).  Winona Ryder falling for Richard Gere? Sound absurd?  It is.  And it is so utterly clicheed and boring, it receives my vote as worst movie thus far in the new millennium.  Any other candidates? "},{"Title":"What a waste.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I always try to achieve some sort of balance...so when I'm about to completely bash a movie, I find it necessary to say something good about it first.  Okay, this movie is very pretty.  As far as shot composition, it is unique.  Between the beautiful trees and skylines of New York City at twilight, along with the array of gourmet food, this movie seems very cinematographically good.  But all of it is a complete and utter waste (I guess this is a good transition to start talking about the bad).  Waste of good talent.  Good for the director...and cinematographer.  But what were they thinking when they chose this script and storyline for their film?  And what were these reputable actors thinking when they signed onto this project? Why does Hollywood make a habit out of packaging melodramas in this form?  All this movie does is reinforce horrible Hollywood stereotypes--i.e. the double standard.  It's all right for a man to be sexually promiscuous...but once a woman does it, she's considered a whore.  This story wouldn't have been made if the roles had been reversed.  See, we think that just because we put Richard Gere into the title male gigolo role, everything's all right.  He's passed off as a cute, loveable character who does utterly detestable things.  We shouldn't connect to this character.  He's loathsome.  Sub-human.  Yet, somehow, the movie wants us to believe that this romance is the best thing for both of the characters involved.  And, when Gere's character cheats on Ryder's character...everything, of course, will be smoothed out by the cliched conversation It's who I am...I can't help it....  Oh, I forgive you for being a loser and a cheater. If you see this movie, put it on mute and enjoy the nice scenery. But, I would rather recommend that please, for the love of God, don't fall victim to this tragic slop of a film.  "},{"Title":"The humanity! Please get a script before shooting","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hey, in my opinion Richard Gere and Winona Rider are pretty good actors. Why didn't the producers hire a good screen writer to go with them? This plot was so contrived and boring I defy any crew to make a better version than this without rewriting the entire script. I am a pretty sentimental guy and generally *like* good chick-flicks. But this one had me yawning when I should have been weeping. What a waste. "},{"Title":"A film about transcendence","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is a lot to hate about this film, most of it unjustified.  This film has been a lightning rod for venomous criticism, but despite its unpopularity, it is a good film.  The reasons it put people off follow.  First, it is a tearjerker and those are decidedly out of style.  Today's audiences don't seem to have much tolerance for dying characters unless they are being blown up in an action flick, hacked up in a horror flick, dying of some politically correct disease, or a member of an endangered species.  Second, both Winona Ryder and Richard Gere gave unaccustomed performances, quite different from any they had given before.  Since most audiences liked the way they were before, this change was an unpleasant shock.  Finally, the age difference was off-putting, making Gere seem much older and Ryder seem much younger than we are used to.For all the blistering criticism leveled against this film, it is a well-crafted story about the changes that love can foster in people's lives.  Joan Chen's direction provides a sensitive look at the relationship between these star-crossed lovers, with some enchanting looks at New York City as the romantic backdrop.  Although her pacing is a bit slow, the portrayal of the relationship, and particularly the effect it was having on Will (Gere) is probing and delicately done.This film is about transcendence, both for the characters and for the actors that portrayed them.  Each of the characters grew and changed during the film, while both of the actors expanded beyond their previous limitations.  I was delighted to see Winona Ryder break out of her dour, grave type and give a breezy and effervescent performance.  If you put all her previous appearances together you would not have seen as many smiles as you see in the first ten minutes of this film.  It seems that Ryder has always played overly serious and mature characters.  She went through her teens and twenties without ever having a chance to act like a kid.  As it turns out, this part reveals that she has much greater range than anyone originally thought she did.  I hope this is a preview of things to come as she makes an attractive romantic figure.Richard Gere also continues a transformation of his image with this film.  He started down this path in `Runaway Bride' with Julia Roberts, playing a more insecure male lead than his normal macho portrayal.  In this film, he actually becomes introspective and tortured, which is very unfamiliar territory for him.  Despite the fact that his fans are probably retching, this role represents a very courageous attempt on his part to move out of type and expand as an actor.  He does a wonderful job, giving a mature and complex performance that I didn't think he had in him.This is not a great film, but it is a good one.  I rated it a 7/10.  I believe it is particularly important as a redefining moment in the careers of two excellent actors, which has broadened their reach and deepened their skills.  Not every film is about whether the audience likes it, although I did.  It is good drama, which goes beyond the schmaltzy romance to reveal the deep inner workings of the human heart during tragedy and adversity.  In that regard, it is a success. "},{"Title":"My pick for worst movie of 2000.","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I used to be a big Winona Ryder fan, but could not stand to sit through this stinker. The lovely autumn New York scenery could not save it. There is no convincing chemistry between Richard Gere (a total jerk in this one) and Ryder. The movie was released in theaters before critics could review it. Now I see why.  "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are only 2 reasons to watch this movie.1. You are a Winona Ryder fan.  Her acting is the only thing worth complimenting in this film.   She does a very good job with her character.2. You need a sedative to help you sleep.   The plot of this movie gives a brand new definition to the word predictable.   The pace was s       l          o          w.       Better make sure you have a comfortable pillow for this one, because you will fall asleep.  Other than the two main characters, there is no character development of any kind. If you are a Richard Gere fan, as my wife is, don't bother with this one.   I gave the movie a 2 because of Ryder's performance.   My wife, who can't remember a Gere film that she didn't absolutely love, would have only given it a 1.In short, this film is not even worth cheap night at the video store.  IMO, do yourself a favor, and skip this one. "},{"Title":"Failing Chemistry","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The number one rule for a romantic film is that there must be on-screen chemistry between the lead actor and actress.  (We're told that Richard Gere and Debra Winger couldn't stand each other on the set of An Officer and a Gentlemen, but the sparks fly on screen.) Unfortunately, Gere doesn't have anything approaching that chemistry with Winona Ryder in this film.  On second thought, I'm not sure that chemistry would have made any difference. The film is too predictable.  Gere plays a 48-year old New York restaurateur who falls in love with the 22-year old Ryder's character, a hat designer.    We discover early in the film that she has a terminal illness.  This is actually the best part of the film, because the information is introduced realistically and non-dramatically.Of course despite being terminal, she looks the picture of health.  Of course she collapses during a moment when she appears to be happier than she's ever been.  And of course he is rich, so he can spare no expense in seeking a cure for her.  I saw `Autumn in New York' on a flight between Denver and Baltimore.  Before the film ended I turned to the stranger sitting next to me and said, `I haven't seen this film, but I can tell you how it's going to end.'  `How, he said?'  No spoiler here, but dead or alive, in real life or on film, what chance really is there for a romance between a 48-year-old and 22-year-old?  "},{"Title":"This movie almost made ME terminally ill...","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh, I had such high hopes for this film.  I love Winona Ryder and really, who cannot watch Richard Gere for 90 minutes?  Sadly this film leaves you feeling well...ill.  To begin, where were the beautiful New York city autumn scenes?  It might as well been titled Autumn in Topeka.  Then there was the mysterious ill-fated heart condition.  Could the diagnosis been anymore vague?  I believe the actors did the best they could with this paper thin story line but even the likes of Gere and Ryder could not have saved this one.  Not even rental material in my book. "}{"Title":"The Telegraph","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The telegraph is a wonderful device invented by Samuel F.B. Morse for the purpose of sending messages over long distances almost instantaneously via a system of wires.  Over time, the word telegraph has come into use as a verb as well, as when someone telegraphs a message.Autumn in New York is a movie that telegraphs its plot, its mid-section, its ending, and even its contrived subplot to the viewer within the first 20-25 minutes.  Will the aging bachelor decide its finally time to end his playboy lifestyle and settle down with the beautiful but ailing young woman?  Will they overcome their age difference? (He is mid-40's, she is early-20's) Will they reconcile after she catches him in a lie and calls him on it?  Is the mysterious woman glimpsed near the beginning of the film a former lover, as Ryder fears; or is it, in fact, Gere's estranged daughter?  Will Ryder succumb to her life-threatening disease or will the miracle-worker surgeon save the day?  Ever heard of Love Story?If you are unable to guess the answers to these questions, you are a godsend to the makers of this movie.  If you are like me, and have correctly guessed the answers to the questions above, save your money and see a romance with a little originality and believability.  (And when you do, tell me what it is, because I haven't seen a good romance since Dr. Zhivago.) "},{"Title":"Good Performances, Tough Issues","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  	An unlikely romance lies at the heart of `Autumn In New York,' a visually poetic film directed by Joan Chen and starring Richard Gere and Winona Ryder as the couple who defy the odds of a difference in age and the knowledge that time is not on their side to pursue that most elusive butterfly, love.  Gere is Will, a successful restaurant owner who, at 48, falls for the much younger Charlotte (Ryder).  Whether or not it can or will work is the question; Will has a history with Charlotte's late mother, the fact of which her grandmother, Dolly (Elaine Stritch), fails to inform her, not that it would have had a direct influence on the romance in any case.  For who among us can define love or explain it?  And who can really explain how and why these two come together in the first place?  Will is a notorious womanizer, while Charlotte has a singular issue of her own with which to deal.  When it comes right down to it, and with everything considered, all bets should be off.  but it's autumn, not only in New York, but in the lives of Will and Charlotte as well. 	Cinematically, New York City has rarely looked more beautiful; this is not the city of `West Side Story,' but a lyrical land of myriad colors and picturesque vistas.  Beyond the chill of the season there is an alluring warmth to the surroundings that contrast splendidly with the more dire, unsettling events unfolding within the story.  The performances of Gere and Ryder are outstanding, but just how successfully these characters will connect with an audience is open to question.  Whether or not you will be able to sympathize or identify with them will depend heavily on your own personal state of mind and frame of reference.  To like Will, one must be willing and able to forgive much; it's a tough character not to pass judgment on.  Unlike `Scrooge' you get the feeling that Christmas may not last throughout the year with Will, despite the  life-altering circumstances he ultimately encounters.  Charlotte on the other hand, is an endearing character; she makes no pretense of her situation, which she deals with in an open and honest manner.  And the winsome Ryder, who can say so much with her eyes alone, will capture even the most astute cynic with a single, penetrating glance.  It may be difficult to understand some of the choices she makes, but in the end it becomes a matter of walking a mile in the other person's shoes.  You can speculate as to how you would handle a given situation, but the truth of the matter is, no one knows until it actually happens to them. 	The supporting cast includes Anthony LaPaglia (John), Sherry Stringfield (Sarah) and Vera Farmiga (Lisa).  With `Autumn In New York,' Chen has delivered a thoughtful, visually stunning film, a romance that is somewhat different than the usual fare.  There is an unexpected lack of emotional impact, which can only be attributed to Gere's character (not to be confused with his performance), but this is an exceptionally well made movie; how it will be received, however, is in the final analysis going to be quite simply a matter of personal taste.  I rate this one 7/10. "},{"Title":"hardest i've ever laughed in a movie!","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i was expecting it to be a cute love story, but it was soooo baaaddd!  It was just horrible.  At first I just noticed how horrible the writing was. Like the characters would just bust out with the stupidest lines ever.  by the end the everything was so bad it was hilarious.  i have never laughed that hard for that long in a movie.  it was supposed to be all serious and dramatic at the end but for the last (literally) 15 minutes I was laughing uncontrollably.  It wasn't even laughing after a point.  it was just uncontrollably shaking and gasping for air to breath!  Everyone else in the theatre were elderly couples who were hugging and crying but IT WAS SO BAD that I couldn't stop laughing. I made the comment on the way home that it was like the writers of Clueless got together and tried to make a serious love story in New York!  And the shots were ridiculas!  Way way too overly dramatic.  and they tried for all of these heavily stylized shots that came off as absurd! I can't even write how utterly stupid it was. Everything in the plot totally obvious, the acting was shameful, the writing didn't even make any sense and the camera angles and shots were soooo funny!  "},{"Title":"Tear Jerker? Nahhh","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am the first when it comes to sappy.  I was overdue for a good sob fest and couldn't wait to get to Autumn.. What happened?  My eyes were just as dry when I left.  Maybe I expected too much, but these two did not have it together.  The scenery was beautiful and it made me want to be there. However, Gere and Ryder just bored me.  I love to feel the chemistry between characters and love to feel my heart flutter when they finally kiss, especially with the build up.  But it just didn't happen for me.  There didn't seem to be enough character development with either one, and the movie was filled with old cliche's like But what about us...what about love?... Duh..It seemed to me that Gere and Ryder were trying very hard to fake the emotions on screen for the viewer's sake, but they wasted their time for me. What was the point of putting these two together?SPOILER!!!! They should have switched the roles of his daughter and Ryder. Or maybe they should have really had a plot twist..Ryder really could have been his daughter.However...the ladies behind me LOVED it.  Go figure.... "},{"Title":"Chemistry...NOT","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry but when I go to a movie I want to be part of the Love I want to feel the pain I want to be part of the movie...I only FELT PAIN.....I mean hey what kind of guy would I be if I wasn't attracted to Winona but I just didn't feel He was ...need I say more "},{"Title":"Beautiful shots of New York, story is, well...","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a sucker for good cinematography, and did the technical crew for Autumn in New York deliver the goods with their beautiful exterior shots of New York. Hats off to them.The story is...well, let's say it's not nothing we've never seen before. I really can't stand the older men/younger women romances. Richard Gere and Winona Ryder, while both are good and competent actors, generate no sparks here. Winona Ryder is almost twenty-nine. Can't she start acting in films where she plays a character within her own age range? A decent supporting cast is given next to nothing to do (I wish I could've seen more of the grandmother).  As mentioned here by other reviewers, Autumn in New York is almost a direct rip-off of Love Story, right down to the ice-skating scene in Central Park, where she then is rushed to the hospital. And Richard Gere's character is a pushy slimeball.I give the movie a 3/10, because of the exterior shots, the autumn and winter feeling and scenery, and because I am a fan of Winona Ryder. And one last thing...why wasn't this film released in September, October, or November when this is truly an Autumn movie instead of in August? "},{"Title":"This is one of the five worst films of the year.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Joan Chen is quite possibly the worst director ever to make a major studio picture.  Although the credit for the writing of this waste of film goes to Allison Burnett, Joan Chen does just as poor a job with it.  Will someone please take away Allison Burnett's word processor/type writer so we will not EVER be subjected to such garbage again?  Joan Chen must also be dealt with.  I think she should be locked in a room with this movie and Mission to Mars playing on endless loop for three days just so she understands what torture it is when you direct a badly written C movie and people squander their money to see it.Also does she just love Seagulls or What?  I mean there were at least 20 slow-motion establishment shots with seagulls flapping through the frame.  If I wanted to watch the discovery channel, I WOULD.  The Plot of this film has more holes than George DUBYA Bush's Social Security reform plan.  It is riddled with bad dialogue, and plot points which make absolutely NO SENSE.  On top of that JOAN, Slow Motion does NOT equal EMOTION.  The only emotion you evoked was anger at the fact that I paid 9 dollars to be tortured for 113 long minutes.  Richard Gere puts in one of the worst performances of his career and Winona Ryder is just as bad as she usually is.  Obviously, she lost whatever she had in 'Girl, Interrupted'. Maybe that something was Angelina Jolie? This one should have been called, 'Life, Interrupted' or maybe 'Needles in your eyes, Uninterrupted' or 'Good Movie, NOT!'Don't see this, it will only make you wish you were doing something more fun, like twidling your thumbs.1 of 10 -- because they don't allow me to give out 0. "},{"Title":"The worst film I have seen this year","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like romances as a rule but this movie was just plain icky. The direction is terrible, the writing even worse. You get the idea that this is really Richard Gere we are watching not a character(badly acted). Winona is beautiful, but the part sucks and she does not help any. She has a bad case of Ali Magraw Syndrome)*. I was tempted to give this at least 1/2 a star because she is pretty and so in NYC but it was just too terrible. For a romantic story to work, especially at a tragic one like this, you must like the people involved.SPOILER WARNING!!!! The Richard Gere chatacter is a true a**hole. You first find this out when, because he is nervous about commitment, he sleeps with someone else when on a date with Winona! Then when he realises his mistake he is forgiven very quickly and they sleep together right then and there. And if that is not bad enough against the very elequently expressed wishes of Winona and behind her back he makes an arrangement with a heart surgeon and forges a remade living will. And when she finds out she says, OK, I know that this is not what I want but if want it, sure. He is self centered, mean, childish. She is stupid and childish. BAD STUFF. Plus a really bad soundtrack and silly direction. Stay away from this one! *Ali McGraw Syndrome A term coined by Roger Ebert when the heroine get more and more beautiful as death approches.  "},{"Title":"I don't think so","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Too bad. The direction and cinematography were good. But the story was not believable and did not touch my heart at all. There was no chemistry between the leads. Not good casting for either of them. This is a miss. "},{"Title":"I decided to at least try it...","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...even after reading all the bad reviews, even though I intensely dislike both the main actors, even though I dislike the entire May/December romance genre....I simply couldn't resist the title Aumumn in New York. Manymanymany movies that take place in New York City use the city itself as a character. And occasionally, when New York is made a character in its own right, it becomes the Best Actor (or Actress, if you're so inclined.) And that's what happened here.It makes for a wonderful song, beautiful scenery and a romantic idea, but aside from how wonderfully New York played its leading role, the story placed in it sucks.There was a lovely scene in Central Park among all those gorgeous, brilliant-yellow leaves, some poignant landscape scenes of The City In The Fog and Snow, and the tune listed as Elegy for Charlotte on the soundtrack is worth the entire CD.Surely, in the future, a reasonably talented movie-maker will take this wonderful title and leading character and give them both a good movie. I can't believe somebody hasn't already. I hope they do, soon; the faster I can forget this one, the better. "}{"Title":"loving Winona means having to say you're sorry...sorry you watched this!","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Once upon a time I followed Winona Ryder's career pretty religiously, having fallen in love with her portrayals of quirky-vulnerable misfits in movies like Welcome Home Roxy Carmichael. Well, Autumn In New York is the last of her movies I bothered to see in theatres - heck, the last movie I've seen of hers, period, although I figure I'll get around to the rest sometime. The quality of the projects she's been offered in recent years has seriously declined, so I'm in no hurry to catch up! I am NOT a Richard Gere fan; I'm unimpressed by his acting and immune to his supposed attractiveness. I know it's become commonplace to see an old guy with a much younger woman, but I found the age difference between Gere and Ryder was just...icky. Made worse by the fact that Ryder acts even younger than her years - I assume the filmmakers wanted her to act childlike to convey innocent purity of soul/sweetness of heart? I mean, she's doing arts & crafts on a sparkly mobile to hang in her bedroom! With lots and lots of glitter. Oh, the tragedy of losing such a creative force of Light And Goodness. She could've accomplished great things (with glitter). She makes her own hats too. Damn you cruel fates for taking her away! By the way, Ryder and Gere have no chemistry.But let's focus on the awful script. The premise is unoriginal, the outcome predictable. Perfect, pure, dying heroine transforms selfish cad with the power of love - teaching him to care about someone besides himself. But he loses her! But he's a better man! How bittersweet. How shamelessly manipulative. How dull.Naturally this isn't *really* about the girl who's dying. She's just a plot device to help Richard Gere down the path from Womanizing Heel to Selfless Hero. Her character is a saintly cliché, not a fully fleshed out and real person. Well, the whole thing's clichéd. How many times have we seen this type of thing in movies and whatnot? The stereotypical Guy Who Can't Commit until he meets someone so perfectly wonderfully winsome (and young and gorgeous) that he finally falls in love. Awww. Of course he knows she's terminally ill, so he won't have to commit for long! Haha. Actually, he gets all desperate to find a cure to save her life, so you know it's True Love, really truly! Is this sort of thing supposed to be wish-fulfillment for lonely women everywhere? Convince them to stick with their own cheating, lying, scumbag boyfriends? Yes, I'll try to change my man...even if it kills me! I'm glad to say, the day I saw this, even the middle aged and elderly women in the audience weren't buying it. A few walked out of the theatre early, they were so un-moved! Romantic tearjerkers have their place, I suppose, but Autumn In New York must be one of the worst of it's kind. No tears here... except in mourning Winona Ryder's career. "},{"Title":"Just doesn't feel good..","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have watched the movie a couple of times on the cable, mainly because I'm an avid fan of Richard Gere.The story-line has interesting subplots, which sadly don't evolve further,eg- Charlotte's reaction to what Will did to her mum, why does she return the watchwhat does it signify or why does she take it in the first placeare examples of how sub-plots are nipped into the bud, as the story enfolds.The intimate scenes aren't electric, or I wonder if they had subtlety as their underlying theme.The background score is heavenly, and so is the scenery,esp.the falling leaves, Central Park. Unfortunately,there's a certain element of depression,moroseness inherent in the storyline from the inception,the photographythough wonderful,all of which exude coldness,just doesn't feel good when you watch the movie- a queasy feeling when some innocent is about to be executed.I wish they had ended it on a happier note, with the cardiac surgeon successfully performing the surgery.The end,where they portray Charlotte's reflection is quite poignant.Only one query-Did it mean that the rest of his life, he'll be true to her memories, and not indulge in his former activities? What say thou? feedback will be appreciated. "},{"Title":"Prissy, twee - like the rest of these kinds","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Unfortunately, my wife, who is considerably younger than me, likes seeing Richard Gere in just about everything he has done. What she and other younger women see in this actor on the screen defies my most applied and reasoned thinking. Indeed, I challenged one of my young female ex-students and demanded to know what it was he had that I had not she replied `do you really want to know?' I thought it wiser to leave it at that, as, obviously, she might have hurt my fragile ego.What I do have in clearer comprehension is why a man of my age = Richard Gere's more or less, and just about the same in greying hairs, would just love to fall into the arms of such lovely ladies like Winona Ryder (sigh), Julia Roberts (aaaah), Debra Winger (last night!!!!!!!), Jodie Foster (mmmmmm), Lena Olin (woooeeee), Julia Ormond (oo-oo-ooh), Laura Linney (uuuuh), Julia Roberts - again, not to mention two at one go - Kim Basinger (nice) and Uma Thurman (lovely) -, leaving us to suppose that it will soon be Debra Winger's turn again any day now, unless somebody comes up with a story for Halle Berry (sigh and sigh again), for example, or somebody very `latino' like Salma Hayek (!!??!!??!!!!!) or Jennifer López (who?????) to pair up with this insatiable on-screen lover.Having had to put up with oh-so-twee things like `Runaway Bride' (1999), `First Knight' (1995) (qv), `Mr. Jones' (1993), `Pretty Woman' (1990) and `Officer and a Gentleman, An' (1982), as well as more or less acceptable things like `Primal Fear' (1996) and `Sommersby' (1993), you can readily understand that I am a little more than bored by this actor on my screen.Unfortunately Producers and Directors of all kinds and purposes have missed me out of all their considerations, and thus I can guarantee you that my frail form is not about to grace your screens together with some lovely sexy piece of Hollywood stardom. More's the pity ............... and no more than just wishful thinking.However varied these romantic little snippets might be, however varied the young ladies concerned may be, Richard Gere carries on being a one-paced actor with very limited possibilities, and the stories involved are no more than prissy at best and downright regurgitated offal for the hungry box-office at worse. In that respect, `Autumn in New York' is no different from the rest of these films, in which we have to include that beautiful British Blighter Hugh Grant who is bent on doing the same rounds as Gere, but about three or four laps behind. Excuse the unintentioned pun, please.But not all is bad these films have very positive things going for them. Basically these trivialities keep the masses amused, because no effort is involved, and a lot of happy couples go off to bed rapt by such enamorating excitement, and so happy, content, wrapped in their world of make-believe, to awake the following morning refreshed and waiting for more.My voice is but a remote cry in the wilderness, unbehest by most, which is a good idea I would not want to mess up the economical order of things, would I?  "},{"Title":"so bad it's genuinely hilarious","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If it had been on artistic merit alone, I'd have given this film a 1, but for all the laughs I've had from it, I'll give it a 7. It has the funniest sex scene ever committed to film, and don't get me started on the there's only one doctor who can save Winona stuff... "},{"Title":"Could have been great, if only.. (**SPOILERS**)","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  **SPOILERS**First let me say the following I watched the movie in pieces because I was busy, but I CAN comment on what I did see..I love Winona Ryder in everything she's been in, or at least everything I've seen her in. As for Richard Gere, I really dislike him because he seems to love himself way too much (don't tell me you don't envision him telling himself how sexy and irresistible he is while he poses in the mirror like a GQ model), but he honestly has an (annoying) appeal I can't quite put my finger on.. So, I love Ryder and I love/hate Gere.Now, on to the movie..It's an original and unusual pairing of actors, I'll give it that; But, the romance angle just doesn't wash. Sweet, gentle, vulnerable Charlotte seems like a starry-eyed young woman with THE love crush of her life on an older man (which is understandable since she's at death's door)--While independent, in-your-face-womanizer-who-makes-women-weak-in-the-knees, power-hungry, go-getter Will looks rather sleazy for taking advantage of her in her mental and physical state. This isn't to say he doesn't care for her in a deep way, but it still comes off as selfish and a bit sick. To be clear, it isn't so much the AGE difference between the two that sours the movie, but the EMOTIONAL difference. And if they'd bonded on the intellectual-philosophical level, I may believe in their relationship even a little, but Will is too Gere to bond in any way other than cheap philosophy-plated pillow-talk.Will's and Charlotte's last scene didn't even lead me to believe it was their last scene and was barely noticeable. I REALLY wanted to care and felt sad that I couldn't, so I could only sympathize for the situation itself.Charlotte wasn't Will's daughter, but she easily COULD have been; And the scene with Will's grandson and daughter--who looks OLDER than Charlotte, mind you--further points out this fact, completely destroying any last ditch attempt by the viewer to forget Will's and Charlotte's creepy, near-incest-like relationship in favor of sweet, gut-wrenching sympathy for their doomed and tragic love. Who wants to end a movie viewing with nothing purely human to take from it? On the whole, it left me oscillating between feeling uncomfortable and sympathetic, never settling on either emotion.In my opinion, it would've done better to REALLY have Will as Charlotte's father (dropping the romance angle COMPLETELY, of course!). They still would've had a painfully limited amount of time to bond and eventually lose out to her death--a much less-used plot than the newly-connected-soulmates-working-against-time one. And even the 'Christmas tree on the balcony' scene would've made your heart wrench in sympathy--WITHOUT comparisons to incest popping up in your mind (Wouldn't we have enjoyed it more if it had been this way?). And, most of all, it would've given us a chance to see if Gere can do something other than older-guy-who's-finds-new-young-mistress, 'cause that shtick's gotten old.On a side note, I love the music in this movie (Anyone else notice the soundtrack portion with the chorus is very reminiscent of Gladiator?). Throughout the portion of the movie prior to the weak climax, the 'heart-string' music and the beautiful autumn scenery enveloped me in a bittersweet lovey-dovey atmosphere that sedated me like a cup of tea to make me temporarily forget about this romance mismatch and instead sympathize for the situation alone.Another mention.. Elaine Stritch (who I've never heard of before this film, believe it or not, though I did see her guest star on 3rd Rock From The Sun and play in a recurrent role on The Cosby Show) was great as Charlotte's grandmother and I would've loved to see more interaction between the two--Which, again, would've been possible if they'd gone the father-daughter route with Charlotte and Will since it would've focused more on family. I know Ryder can do it, but I want to see if GERE has any heart to show us, don't you?On a report card scale, I give it a sad C(It could've been at least a B+..) "},{"Title":"No chemistry between the lead actors","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is boring and awful. I was annoyed at seeing older man falling in love with an younger women. Gere's character mentions many times that he's older, which makes me feel like the screenwriters tried to make the audience feel more acceptable for Gere's characters passion. There simply isn't any chemistry between Gere and Ryder and they both are  miscast.The film looks dull and cinematography is boring also.* star out of ***** "},{"Title":"How bad could it be?  Even worse than you think.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The plot was weak and full of unresolved threads floating everywhere (Why didn't she wear the hat that she took such care creating? What is this inspecific heart disease that allows her to die gracefully and without any apparent pain?) There is more chemistry in the leftovers in my refrigerator than between Ryder and Gere, and you can see the outcome of the plot a mile away.  Don't blame it all on the script, either.  Gere is no heavyweight, anyway, but Ryder surely could've done something to improve her ridiculously bad character.  There are many, MANY better terminal-illness-themed movies, if that's your thing. The best thing I can say about this film is that the scenery is lovely. I went to see it with my mother and grandmother as something we could all agree on - and we did.  We all want those hours of our lives back. "},{"Title":"Autumn in three dimensions","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As an example of how differently scenes in this tri-dimensional masterpiece can be valued by different dimensions of the viewer's mind, I take the example of the truth detector scene which takes place in the back of a New York taxi--but which really might as well, for its metaphysical significance, be taking place in the containing envelope of the cosmos.When we first encounter it with our verbal mind, it impresses as a rather unpretty plot contrivance that we are willing to let pass.But opera is the essence of drama (as some will be sorry to hear)--that is how it began in Athens, larger than life, declaimed in singing. In the operatic view anything that builds up to Ryder's evocation of loneliness later in the scene is the apron of a perfect thing and ought to be respected as such.But no. When we perceive the dance language of the film it is unmasked as a perfect thing in itself-- there is no moment in ballet more perfect than Charlotte recoiling from her lover's heart.In later viewings when know fully what is happening, this scene is excruciating in its betrayal, thirty pieces of silver hitting the floor of the temple.Autumn in New York is in fact the first complete integration of painting, drama, and dance-acting--something cinema made possible but waited until now to do. It can in all fairness be compared in the history of culture to Monteverdi's first opera.Critics that complain that this film is thinly written do not realize that its visual merit is essentially Da Vinci at 24 frames per second. With Da Vinci gunning down the audience with 24 images per second there is no need for full writing, they couldn't hear it, there is no room in the dance-acting for more words anyway. "},{"Title":"SO BORING","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this movie, there's only one thing that is good. It's beautiful autumn scene of New York. Unfortunately, the autumn isn't big part of the movie and rests of this movie are awful. I mean HORRIBLE. Joan Chen's directing is so cheesy that you can even tell what happens next before the next scene starts. ( Watching this film, it was obvious that Joan had watched so many B-rated romance movies) So many cliches of the romance films(like star-crossed love, a woman who has serious disease, a Casanova who is lonesome and finally gets a true relationship)are here. Richard Gere tries to make himself a good-looking, mature, cool guy, but his intention goes all wrong. He just seems to be a CHEESY. Also, Winona Rider tries to be so cute that everything about her in the film is just overacting. This film needed more natural tone for everything. Overacting, bad directing, really bad script. Renting fee for this movie is wasting the money.  "},{"Title":"the best movie i've seen","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's one of the best movies i've ever seen. it's romantical side is great, it's not something we see every day in a movie, it's got some special something inside. and the end is a total opposite of the expected - i was so touched that i dropped a few tears (i still can't believe it!!!). a recomendation to all those who still haven't seen it what are you waiting for? "}{"Title":"Estrogen-based materialism wrapped in tragically-correct chocolate.","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps Autumn in New York professes to be a romance movie with an alternative twist, or perhaps it simply wishes to appeal to feminine romantic sensibilities to the exclusion of masculine viewers, but either way, it doesn't say much for the standards of its makers. Indeed, it is worth noting that our little heart-on-her-sleeve protagonist, even in her desperate bid for true love, is savvy enough to be sure to target a real catch and date upwards &#x96; considerably so. The film cannot escape the clichés of all anti-male biases that exist among female writers portraying modern love &#x96; i.e. guys are irresponsible and should be chastised when they display an aversion to attachment &#x96; they must be punished when they wander or cheat - because they invariably do &#x96; or when they just want to be free, (how dare they?) and most of all, no matter how women love to complain about men, they will persistently dream of being swept off their feet by the most beautiful and glitzy-rich among them, as they stage foggy erotic fantasies of wealth wrapped in obligatory tragedy. Precious Manhattanites with great penthouse apartments and seven figure lifestyles suffer too, wouldn't you know&#x85;So does everyone else on earth, of course, even if the Hoi Polloi haven't got the great view to reflect on it. If this a glimpse into someone's idea of what women might want as a conflict and resolution fantasies - an alternative to Hollywood's male driven macho escapist dreams - it is easy to see why smart men and women may prefer to stick with the unpredictable twists of our mundane reality; this may explain why this film did not meet with success. The fires of hell and the pain of solitude seem like heaven compared to this shallow and materialistic estrogen-driven daydream - Iron John to the rescue, please! "},{"Title":"Can I give this is a Zero?","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a waste of extraordinary talent and a beautiful venue.  This movie is devoid of plot or characterization.  It's one long bad improv sketch.  Anthony LaPaglia, Elaine Stritch, Winona Ryder, Richard Gere, and a number of others are very talented actors, but you would never know it by this foolish excuse for a film. "},{"Title":"A new art form for painting and ballet lovers","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Attentive viewing of this fascinating film will reveal that it is in an unnamed form, one subtle enough to have been sent down from the new millennium a drama whose language of natural movement and gesture is so full that it is readable as ballet, accompanied by a non-acoustical music of color and visual art played through the refinement of its cinematography and color design.When we try watching this film as ballet we discover that its creators have been there before us. They have chosen for the male lead an actor whose skill and artistic sense in natural movement is extraordinary, who dominates the dance. (The ballet is stronger than the drama for being entirely certain that it is about Will.) Scenes and plot devices that seem dramatically troublesome (e.g., the skating rink, the lie-detector) are seen to be spectacularly justified by their balletic effect. A scene that is dramatically minor (the bathroom scene) becomes the film's very heart. One's sensitivity to the choreography of hands, which is used in several scenes, becomes so enhanced that the lovemaking scene, which formerly seemed one of the weakest parts of the film, becomes astonishing. The surprising reliance on word painting in the scene of the ballroom dance, becomes understood as both necessary and inspired.When an actor is closely framed in the camera a small portion of background behind him becomes his color aura as well as fully half of the audience's lighting experience of the scene. Of such stuff is woven the color symphony that is the real soundtrack of this film. In its power to enhance, comment and foreshadow, color is fully the equal of music, yet its very rhythmlessness allows it to accept the rhythms of unstructured natural movement in a way that music cannot.Best appreciation of this film would be with a difficult-to-hold balance in our appreciation of its three channels drama, natural-movement, and color. We all start with the drama channel, and then perhaps later, overemphasize the other channels as we go looking for them. None of the channels can stand alone. Important portions of the storyline (especially the climax and denoument) are essentially handed over to the dance or color symphony--viewers who perceive only the drama channel understandably leave disappointed.In American films this seems a work of the most ground-breaking originality, but then perhaps what we are enjoying here is an art form already pioneered in China. English might need a borrow-word.Anyone touched by painting and ballet should not miss this film. "},{"Title":"Extreme ick factor taints any chemistry","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Will Keane (Richard Gere) is a womanizing restaurateur on the cover of a magazine. Charlotte Fielding (Winona Ryder) has her 22th birthday party at his restaurant. She makes weird little hats. Her grandmother (Elaine Stritch) knows him as an old friend of her mom. He starts flirting with her and maneuvers her to a date. After their first night together, he tells her that he can offer her nothing, and she tells him that she has a terminal heart tumor. Meanwhile there is a mystery woman Lisa Tyler (Vera Farmiga) around.There is a high ick factor especially since the movie hints at him and her mother having a thing in the past. She's playing a giggly little girl. She's literally giggling about him dancing with her mother. He's the weaselly Don Juan type. She's so young that she can't see that he was just trying to seduce her that first time around. She's so clueless that she's shocked by her mother's past with him. It's not romantic. It's just sleazy. Next to Gere, Winona Ryder is like a fawning teenager. And why do they have to keep talking about her mother? I understand that there is a May to December romance that gets turned upside down. It's not as poetic as the movie supposes. The chemistry is all wrong. If she doesn't start off as terminal, then it might make the movie more poetic. The dialog is fairly weak and there is limited tension in the story. I don't know what drives the movie if we rule out happily ever after right off the bat. "},{"Title":"I just don't get what most people expected from this movie to be?","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yesterday I saw Autumn in New York on the TV. Today I have checked IMDb rating for this movie and was shocked. I just can't understand the low rating for this movie, and the many negative reviews. I think that this movie is as good as any drama with 'general' script. A great drama it's a relatively rare thing. And mostly we settle for average type of dramas, with either average script or an average acting. The script is not bad, but it's not an original one either. The acting in Autumn in New York is great. There is nothing to expect and nothing to be surprised about. The plot is strict and clear from the beginning of the movie and without any deviation in the middle or the end, so you can guess the whole movie 10 minutes from the start. But that's a drama, not a thriller. So the clearness of the plot is not a bug, the main thing is the actors trying to portray the feelings of their characters, and pass them to the viewer. I think that Richard Gere and Wynona Ryder did their job well. And if you expected a tear dropping experience but didn't get it, I believe that it's not meant to be a tear dropping experience ( not every drama should be, even if the plot may suggest that). "},{"Title":"This was awful!","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My husband and I saw this in the theater when it came out, and it was so terrible we nearly left! Much as I like Gere and Ryder, they have no chemistry whatsoever, and never mind that the age difference made me slightly nauseous, the fact that he had had a relationship with her mother just made it really twisted. I never really learned to feel sympathy for his character, or for the love that they supposedly shared; I never felt connected to them at all, and I really didn't much care that she died. Richard Gere is far better when paired with a female character/actress who is as flamboyant as he is reserved (think Julia Roberts). As for Autumn in New York, Long, Dreary, Highly Annoying Winter in New York would have been a better title. "},{"Title":"Found this laying around the house forgot i even had it and decided to give it a watch well it tries hard it misses the mark WARNING!!!!! SPOILERS!!!","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Found this laying around the house forgot i even had it and decided to give it a watch while it tries hard it misses the mark for a lot of reasons. number 1 Richard Gere and Winona Ryder lack chemistry at times it worked but for the most part it didn't work. the pacing is actually good and it was quite watchable but it was very predictable through out although the ending was kinda sad i knew it was coming. the two leads are very good but as i said for the most part they don't have any chemistry between them. the direction is fine i just found it terribly uneven and kinda corny at times. still at least it was watchable. The Acting is actually very good Richard Gere as always does fine here sometimes i didn't like his character he makes a lot of dumb mistakes but i liked him for the most part he is a great actor. Winona Ryder is very cute and does fine here i liked her character and felt very sorry for her character. Anthony Lapagila does fine here in his limited role. i wish he had a bigger role though.Vera Formiga does very well here also in her limited role. Overall i suppose it's worth one watch it's nothing special though ** out of 5  "},{"Title":"A so-so movie with so-so acting","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In all fairness, Winona did a pretty good job of acting. She was warm, intelligent and genuine. But then again, she usually portrays a warm, intelligent and genuine type. But Richard Gere (who I also usually like) just didn't fit the part. It was like a square peg in a round hole. Either his acting wasn't up to par, or the chemistry just wasn't there.Another problem was the directing. It seemed choppy at times, as if the director couldn't figure out how to get from one scene to the next.Whatever the case, it's not a movie I'll watch again. It was okay, but barely good.  "},{"Title":"Gere & Ryder not a match","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the main reason I did not enjoy this very much is because of the two main characters.  I just don't see Gere & Ryder as a couple!  I really did try to stretch my imagination, but I see Gere & his ex at the party as a couple instead without any stretch at all.  The storyline is not realistic. Why would Ryder, given the fact that she knows she has limited time to live, take back Gere, who has cheated on her?  I couldn't get into this film, much as I love Richard Gere. "},{"Title":"We just had this movie on TV - it's not that bad","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  of course, this movie is predictable, there's no genuine story, the acting is somewhat erratic, sometimes almost admirable and sometimes almost helpless. Wynona Rider at times is sweet, at times awkward. Richard Gere is at times convincing, at times only routine helps him through a scene. Inbetween I was surprised that Hollywood accepted some of the more daring shots, like the sex scene behind glass (I mean the arty touch). I still liked the movie, some scenes, some unexpected flawless pieces. And I liked Vera Farmiga's sublime eyes. I had never heard of her before. But she seemed like an actress that can create denseness and the impression of authentic emotion.   "}{"Title":"music is well ,but emotion seems a little pale","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  do you burst into tears when you watching it ?actually ,i don't,i like the music ,but it only give me the sense to fell the beauty of the photos ,but the true moving movie always combine the music and emotion perfectly together.the movie is lack of that  "},{"Title":"a beautiful movie","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was surprisingly beautifully shot. The script wasn't bad although there were a few cheesy moments. But you didn't really notice because the camera work and direction were so lovely. It was a good story - I found this film to be a surprising gem because I normally don't like 'chick flick' films or love stories. I wondered whether the director being Oriental had anything to do with the way it was shot because I thought there were definite Eastern influences in the compositions and images. It was gorgeous but not ostentatious. Tasteful, beautiful, refreshing. "},{"Title":"Defense Of The Impossible","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most of the previous reviews are right. This is a horribly predictable tear jerker. But most of the previous reviews are also wrong, because it's an HONEST tear-jerker walking on old and over-used stamping grounds. It doesn't matter that we know the ending long before the movie reached its second half hour. It doesn't matter that it's been trying to repeat 'Love Story' before the century dies.  It's too sweet, too predictable, too much cut from the drawing board..., and yet... Joan Chen somehow manages to put her finger on what moves us all To be loved. Bugger the consequences, the wisdom of time, the black knowledge of experience..., silly love is the answer before sense as well as death sets in. And who has the right to contradict that? Logic? Experience with a thousand other movies? I don't know. Nobody has the right to know. We need the pink horizon of last hopes. This movie points at it without an intelligent excuse. I like this movie - even though I know it isn't a 'good' movie by established standards. Both Gere and Ryder are working perfectly within the narrow boundaries of what's required. If we want to hear it is another matter. This never will be a classic. But it's a movie to like for what it's trying to do. Take a leap into the predictable and discover why it can't be killed by even the smartest contradiction.Even the oldest and tackiest story should be allowed to be told, as long as the storyteller loves the story more than the payment.Ulrich Fehlauer  "},{"Title":"Central Park looks so beautiful......","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Valentine week brought along the standard parade of love movies, including Autumn in New York, which didn't exactly have me beating down the doors of cinemas when it was first released. Remembering all the bad reviews I read at that time, I thought nevertheless that it would be no harm watching it on TV on a Sunday night.It didn't turn out too badly. I had visited NY quite a few times and, in the last time four months ago, spent quite a bit of time in Central Park. So, throughout the movie, my wife and I were caught exclaiming Oh, we were there!, Isn't that fall color beautiful etc. The cinematography is indeed quite redeeming.The story at least has a simplicity that makes it quite acceptable. It could be much worse had it been more pretentious. As for acting, Gere fulfilled his customary role of the male version Barbie, albeit rather dully. Within Ryder's limited repertoire, which did not generate much expectation anyway, she managed reasonably.All told, this was not a complete waste of time. It was rather disgusting, however, to hear Ryder say second of all, which is among the most revolting example of the American's rape of the English language. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I snuck into this film after my film ended because my mom was watching it. I did not pay for the movie ticket, but I feel that I should be paid for watching it. A cheap-romance novel would be more interesting than this movie. Its not the actor's faults, but just a horrible script and terrible idea for a movie. Give this one a pass "},{"Title":"I took a nap.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was soooooo boring I fell asleep. There's no chemistry between the two actors so the attraction is totally unbelievable. But it was hot & I was in Vegas in July. I went to the movie because my best friend thought it sounded cute and I wanted the air conditioning. i should have gone back to the hotel. This was a royal waste of $10. "},{"Title":"Bad, Just Real Bad","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't want to see it in the first place.  Then my mom made me go see it with her.  We both thought it stunk.  Richard Gere and Winona Ryder star.  It's about this New York restaurant guy who falls for a younger woman.  Yes, she's like half his age.  But that's okay because age is only a number.  Yet never in my dreams would I have seen Richard Gere and Winona Ryder fall in love onscreen.  That just doesn't make much sense to me.  But does it have to?  I mean all Richard's and Winona's fans went out to see the movie.  I'm sure they thought it stunk too.  They are just to afraid to admit it does.  Okay, maybe it just wasn't my type of movie.  But I almost fell asleep in this movie, and that is never a good sign.  I wasted money and 2 hours of my life.  Now I must go cry. "},{"Title":"Okay, so it wasn't the worst film ever....","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't like Winona Ryder.  I don't like Richard Gere.  So, in a twisted way, I thought I might find this film interesting.  Weepie?  Not really. We know what is going to happen to Charlotte (Ryder), and by the end of the film, I admit I was glad.Watchable, but no chemistry.  Every kissing scene is like a badly played panto moment - she's eating his face off while he stands there, lips closed, unmoved.  It irritated me.As others have commented, it is cinematically gorgeous though, and made for a good afternoon flick. "},{"Title":"A lesson of love....","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie shows yet another aspect of the complicated subject of love and what it can do to people.One has to like the deep study of love's very complicated psychological makeups to truly understand the message of this film.It barely delivers on this premise though due to the weak script and screenplay.Still a good eye candy treat looking at the beauty of the lead actors.Not for everybody to like though becouse it requires deep interest in love psychology and also requires that you really are a big fan of Gere.Still turns out as an average movie for it's genre (love-drama) and fails to be better due to the screenplay/script problem......   "},{"Title":"Can't wait to turn 48","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful single white female, 22, seeks manipulative scumbag deadbeat, 48 going on 14, for meaningful relationship.I've never seen a movie with such an utterly disgusting romantic male lead. The only reason to cry at this movie is out of pity for Winona's pathetic character, whose mystery illness apparently affects her brain as well as her heart.  I'm all for forgiveness, but Gere's Will has zero redeeming qualities, and his unabashed deceptive and disrespectful behavior toward Charlotte does not relent, even after his supposed redemption. Nonetheless, and no doubt to the delight of morally bankrupt Peter Pans who prey on women half their age, his behavior proves too charming to resist.Do yourself a favor, and spend the two hours you would have invested in this abomination doing something more enjoyable, like pounding nails into your kneecaps.  (Of course, then you'd miss all that great cinematography.) "}{"Title":"If you love someone ...","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"                                   (To Adela Pozder, in Sarajevo). The film works if you love someone. The cinema is a spectacle. Going to he cinema is to participate of a mass-phenomenon. Not all the films can be La Strada nor A Bout de Souffle. We are absolutely unable to remember a plot, a theater, a city; as Proust wrote, we only remember moments, emotions. I love European cinema. I hate commercial films. Winona Ryder remembers me the destruction of a classic - Dracula - performed by Francis Ford Coppola. Richard Gere was the worst king David, and the worst Lancelot in the History of cinema But I can't hate Autumn in New York. This film works only if you love someone. The rest is art, not life. "},{"Title":"Very Average Film","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best way to describe this movie is average.  The acting is good but nothing special, the story has been done time and again.  If it is supposed to be a tear-jerker, it doesn't even quite reach that height. I have wasted time on much worse movies but this one is nothing special. "},{"Title":"The movie lacked chemistry...","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I rented Autumn In New York because I heard about the beautiful the scenery and how great the movie was . I found myself very disappointed after about 15 minutes.I should have just stuck with the coming attractions .It had great potential, but lacked the chemistry it needed between Gere and Ryder.I thought of him more as a father figure to her.Also during the course of  movie I couldn't help but be annoyed at Ryders voice.Was she speaking like that on purpose? A relationship was  not even built up  before it was ended it.If you want to see this movie wait for it to come out of TV.  "},{"Title":"Suspend disbelief - it's a fable","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised at this film. It has good production values, for one thing. At first I fretted that Richard Gere had been miscast as the shallow playboy, but as the film progressed, he seemed just right for the story. The plot is eighty-five percent predictable. It could have been nauseating, but in fact it was not. The film is being criticized for being unrealistic but isn't suspension of disbelief what we do for art? I liked it and would recommend. There are a few affectingly sad parts, and others which were not so obvious. A few plot twists add interest to this film. For an American movie it's reasonably thoughtful and compassionate, and this is no small thing. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed the movie but why Wynona?","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We enjoyed the movie very much Richard Gere is just a lot of fun to watch. The movie was good but predictable. Always love to see the NY city backgrounds especially through the seasons. If you asked 10,000 people to pick the female co-star I doubt one would pick Wynona. Don't she was cast right for this movie. I love her work and think she is one of the top actresses we have today, but not in this kind of role. She did a good job, but anyone of dozens of others would have been more fit and make the movie a great deal more money.  "},{"Title":"The best film, I 've ever seen...","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm very tired of stupid people, of those who has nothing in their life but eating and sleeping. Autumn in NY is one of the best film ever made(objective). Unfortunately there few people in the world who can understand the greatest things and differ them from mud. It isn't necessary to discuss pictures, music and films if they are perfect. And those who does it , usually want to humble it. I don't wonder that Die hard e.g. has greater rating the  Autumn in NY. It's an usual thing in our times. I can't speak about Gere and Winona acting, because it's perfect. IF you haven't seen the movie before, you definitely missed something, of course if you're a real human. Good luck everyone and take care. "},{"Title":"Avoid like the plague","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember when this film was released. I felt mildly nauseous upon seeing the trailer. Winona and Richard, I thought. Two washed up stars hoping for a miracle in the romantic comedy genre. I figured it would be staid, fairly ho-hum. Cut to six years later and it's showing on the domestic TV channel. The wife and I need something fairly easy to watch so I stick it on. I was surprised. Not pleasantly. So much worse was it than I had expected that I actually sat up in my springy chair. Ryder, 29 at the time of shooting, plays a 22 year old girl meant to be all naive, who says 'wow' a lot and is basically more excruciatingly annoying than ever before - I always found her empty and irritating but Jesus, this brings new depth to that well! I reached my limit when she responded, 15 or 20 mins into the film, to Gere's invite to dinner by spluttering, without any subtlety or timing 'are you kidding, I'd go in a heartbeat' and then proceeded to start hiccuping in a false, contrived way. This was clearly supposed to be charming like Hawn in Private Benjamin or Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffany's but made me want to curve an imitation silver toaster into her little skull. Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Love Story redux - and that ain't a good thing!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  AUTUMN IN NEW YORK (2000) *  Richard Gere, Winona Ryder, Anthony LaPaglia, Elaine Stritch,Vera Farmiga, Sherry Stringfield, Jill Hennesy.   Laughably bad romantic drama a la `Love Story' with  May/December relationship between egotistical, womanizingpretty boy restaurateur Gere (real stretch huh?) and dying, yearsyounger eclectic hat designer (!) Ryder with a serious heartproblem only prolonged by laughable dialogue, no real screenchemistry between the leads and some moments of pure  ridiculousness.  (Dir Joan Chen) "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoiler!! What an insipid piece of crap is this movie. What IS it about Richard Gere that he insists on making these dreary, predictable, snail's-pace romances? (See Intersection-no, not really. Equally as bad!)   This one was doomed from the beginning-the ex-boyfriend of the dying girl's dead mother, in love now with the dying girl, afraid to love her so he screws an old girlfriend, goes around the world to find the only doc to save her...Please! I wanted to vomit and still do just thinking about it. Weak plot, weak dialogue, weak acting (as you would expect from Richard Gere and Winona Ryder, two of the most overrated actors of their time). And why does everyone in Hollywood think dying people are twinkly-eyed and rosy cheeked? (Again, please also refer to Steel Magnolias and Moulin Rouge for prime examples). Go visit a hospice, fellas. So all this tragedy made Richard find his humanity? Baloney. I bet in the end he was even hitting on his daughter in the boat. Please, under no circumstances subject yourself to this. I'd prefer an afternoon on the rack than to sit through this again. It would be less painful.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie, i saw it 4 times in 2 weeks","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Richard, Wynona, Anthony, Sherry and the twins Daniella and Deanna Cantermen were great. Richard was a gigalo that never knew what real love was until he met a younger beautiful woman with a disease. The couple were wonderful and heart warming. My wife, parents, and inlaws cried throughout 3/4 of the movie. Anthony was stunning with his charm and sensibility to help a friend in need. Sherry was a wonderful mother, and a caring friend. The twins in the movie Daniella and Deanna were wounderful. They were in the park scene at the beginning of the movie and in the bedroom scene in the middle of the movie with Wynona telling them a bedtime story. Daniella and Deanna were wonderful. They brightened up the scene. They are adorable. They are in three movies, and a variety of commercials. Their biggest commercial is the Thomases English Muffin commercial. These children bring a sparkle to the big screne. They were born to be stars. overall the movie was wonderful. I would suggest you to see it. The acting was heartwarming. A good love story makes you think about what you have now and make good use of it because it isn't always going to be there. "}{"Title":"Critics be damned. This film works.","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Autumn in New York is a melodramatic, highly romanticized, and somewhat predictable old guy, young babe love story. However, Chen does a masterful job of choreographing the technical and artistic with the story making it easy to buy into this film which keeps the Kodak moments to a minimum, fast forwards past the fluff, and sticks to it's purpose of developing characters and story.Many seem to have forgotten that romantic melodrama is a genre, not a liability. When times were tough (egWWII), this genre was Hollywood's most popular and offered blessed escapism for a needy public. Critics and naysayers be damned. Within its genre, Autumn... is one of the year's best. "},{"Title":"Excellent study in human relationships","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was a modern day Love Story only with a lot more heart and soul. Both Richard Gere and Winona Ryder gave Academy Award performances. Although the originality of the plot was a bit predictable, the in-depth study of the workings of our modern day romances was excellent.  A true Renaissance woman and a modern day bachelor, yet love is possible, and we can all learn from it.  A MUST SEE for the romantic at heart. "},{"Title":"jerk meets girl","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Basically an older player, Gere, spends the movie lying to a dying young woman, Ryder, as well as cheating on her and refusing to listen to her, and she smacks her lips after gobbling it up.  What is scary about this movie is that it makes it seem normal for a relationship to be completely controlled, no, dominated, by the male counterpart.  In the beginning of the film they make it seem like he is using her and she has no control or will over being half the relationship.  Supposedly this is because she is 22 years old, but except for her token it's my decision plea, the directors seemed to overlook the fact that a mature, dying, 22 year old woman is much more mature than a an insincere (insecure) old fool who wastes everybody's time. Anyway, when besides the nineteen-fifties has anyone really cared about the older-man, younger-woman thing?I found myself laughing through the entire movie, although everyone else seemed to find it normal, but hey, this IS Delaware after all. ****spoilers ahead****After ditching Ryder at a party and disappearing with an old girlfriend, he lies gere-sincere to her when pressed about his activities. Just before she is about to die, and through no intention of his own, she learns that he did in fact spend the entire party sleeping with his ex, supposedly because he was scared of his intense feelings for Ryder (huh?). (think I heard that one in high school).  As to be expected, she refuses to see him, but when she returns to her place at nite, she finds him sitting inside waiting for her.  Really creepy stalker stuff; I had a boyfriend like that once.  The thing is, the movie makes it seem normal for guys to do that.  It is not normal to stalk people when they do not want to see you! Even worse, although Ryder yells at him and tells him to leave, and although she keeps screaming at him to go, he continues to sit there like he owns her.  They finally end up back in bed.  Basically that scene sums up the whole movie every jerk's fantasy.  Gere lies to her to get a date with her, Gere lies to her when they're dating, Gere lies to her up until the nite before she dies.  I suppose that's the requisite character change that makes a plot a good plot.  Well, I feel that if a pathetic character changes into a less pathetic character, it's one of degree and not kind, and who really cares about that.  I would recommend going to see this movie if you want something to gawk at, or to remind yourself how stupidly stereotypical movies are these days.  "},{"Title":"What a Load of Baloney","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dear of dear, what a pretentious piece of garbage this movie is.So called womanizer, played by Richard Gere, falls in love with a young cutie played by Winona Ryder, but she happens to be terminally ill, blah, blah, blah.As their relationship develops she becomes much so less cute and ever so more more whining, and he becomes even more horny like for instance him bonking with another woman on the balcony of his best friend's house when Winona is downstairs....But nevertheless Gere unsuccessfully tries to persuade us he really does love her, though apart from his flowing locks many would find this actor wholly unattractive and in fact quite repulsive.Climax Will the hired hand heart surgeon save her in the end, hence Resurection;or should this film really be called Love Story II????? Who knows, but who cares!!!!As 1 mark for Elaine Stritch, 1 mark for some nice shots of Autumnal New York, and 1 mark for some half decent albeit manic depressive music but otherwise, this picture is generally drivel, and once again Hollywood is trying to lecture us upon how we should behave which I find offensive.3/10. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Meal","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are two kinds of films worth watching. The first, which I prefer, attempts to do something intelligent, often failing -- but the failures are interesting and noble. The second worthy kind are films that attempt something simple, but execute perfectly. The first of these is literate and lasting, like poetry -- the second, less intellectual, appeals directly, and temporally to the senses, like good food.Here we have the second case. This movie is extremely well crafted, and part of that first class crafting is to remark on this complementary nature of poetry and food in the two characters. This film is serious in relentlessly, seamlessly focusing all elements on the simple effect it attempts, and is so polished it takes my breath away. Compare this film to Theory of Flight.Heck, compare Gere here to his trite outing in Runaway Bride. And Winona charms and glows as brightly as Audrey Hepburn in her prime -- this after the dreadful Girl, Interrupted, or the even worse Looking for Richard. Someone put a lot of attention into burnishing this product. I wish I knew the story of how it was made. I do not know Joan Chen's work, but I'll be looking for her in the future. "},{"Title":"Save us from any more Wynona","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has one and only one saving grace--Elaine Stritch. One day you are as rich as an Arab... indeed! She is the only life and vitality in this film. Gere is stiff, and Wynona Ryder has as much life as a pair of shoes.The scenes in Central Park are lovely but did we pay money to do what we can see for ourselves?Why don't more people put Elaine Stritch in films? Otherwise don't waste your eyesight on this bilge.One other item... How do you make a film called Autumn in New York, and NOT include Frank Sinatra's version??? That was a huge disappointment. "},{"Title":"Hmmm....its not the best but its up there.","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  love stories depend heavily on eliciting emotion, and since doing that requires that we feel a emotional connection to the characters, how well this movie did really depends on how believable it was.  Since I was watching this knowing its not one of the top 10 loves stories of all time, I lowered my standards a bit.  this movie should be criticized in its own context, not how much Titanic or Romeo and Juliet did better then this.***SPOILER*** Wynona Ryder's character was very well played but certain scenes made me do a double take, like when she immediately forgave him after cheating on her.  That seemed a bit rushed, but I dont weigh that scene too heavily because of course their relationship was written as more cynical and realistic.  She knew who he was and what he did, so its sort of believable that she suspected he might cheat on her from the beginning.  Richard Gere's character had an uphill battle from the start.  Having to convince us that there was a good guy somewhere under all that sex and sleeziness.  I think him as an actor played his part very well, although a bit overdramatic at times.  The character didn't do so well.  Many of his lines were cheesy and straight out of a top 100 things to say to your girlfriend after you cheat on her book or rather top 100 things guys always say.  Also I am a bit biased being that I am in love with Wynona Ryder =). (yes asians think shes hot too)  so I give this a 7/10, somewhere above just another good date movie. "},{"Title":"the date/soap opera film of the week","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film should appeal to some love struck women and some couples, but overall, this film is just another film to stick on to the everlasting genre that is known as the date/romance flick.  Not great, but there are a few incentives.  One is the good scene work using New York city as an almost character to the leads.  And the other is Winona Ryder, who always brings a good (and adorable) force to the screen not brought by too many other actresses.  Besides that, the film is a little dumb.  B- "},{"Title":"This was a genuinely bad movie.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the previews, I was really looking forward to this movie. Boy, was I disappointed. I expected that something with Richard Gere and Winona Ryder in it could be a good movie. Even the plot sounded intriguing...To be honest, I thought this was going to be Oscar material. I was dead wrong. The only good scene in this movie, was when Gere first saw Ryder from a distance in the hotel resturaunt. After that scene the movie slowly slid down hill, and landed in a muddy ditch by the time the credits rolled. Some of the things that came out of Winona's mouth during the movie made me wonder if her character was going crazy? I can smell the rain? I think Joan Chen tried a little too hard for a romance. All the romantic scenes became sappy scenes. She dies at the end, and that's all you need to know. Do you know what this movie seriously needs? Better actors and a better director! Avoid this one at all costs folks. My rating 0.5 out of 10 (the 0.5 for the Autumn scenes and the Resturaunt scene) "},{"Title":"Worst ever","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the worst pictures ever. By the end of the movie when she finally dies you wish she would have died in the first 5 min. of the movie. No chemistry between the two stars. Richard Gere always has the same stupid look on his face as he does in every film he is in. Winona should stick to her day job...shoplifting. These two are so dull on screen that all through the movie your just wishing Charlotte would go ahead and die and put us all out of our misery. The movie in itself is so predictable and has been done many times (ie Love Story). Winona is just silly and Richard is just stupid. They are no Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan.... "}]