[{"Title":"Hate is not strong enough word for this piece of crap!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoiler Alert WHIPPED (2000) 1/2  Amanda Peet, Brian Van Holt, Jonathan Abrahams, Zorie Barber, Judah Domke.  (Dir Peter M. Cohen) Amanda Peet is a star on the rise and has proven to show true comic potential as previously displayed earlier this year in `The Whole Nine Yards' where she held her own with co-stars Bruce Willis and Matthew Perry with her own natural charm not belied by her prettiness.  However in this debacle of the dating game wars between the sexes she is left to her own defenses in arguably the worst 'comedy' of the year and maybe the worst film of the year period.Four immature moron buddies - Brad (Van Holt), a brogadaccio Wall Street slickster; Zeke (Abrahams), a downtown artiste wannabe; Jonathan (Abrahams) a seemingly closeted homosexual with apparently no occupation except his extracurricular mastabatory schedule; and Eric (Domke) the pudgy, married doofus - who meet for Sunday brunch in a downtown Manhattan greasy spoon to pontificate on their sexual prowess and the degradations thereof.  Each tries to trump the other (all by the way having nothing in common except being egotistical jerk-offs) with their weekly exploits and embellishments that give bull***t a new meaning.Then one week the three bachelors find what they each think is the perfect woman and declaring she's the one; this must be love.  If you can't see the sub-sitcom level approach leading to the ultimate plot device of them all loving the same woman then you're about as smart as a piece of furniture (or in this case one of the male leads here).That woman is Mia (Peet) who also isn't terribly bright or lacking any scruples when the trio stumble onto her apartment one fateful weeknight and bicker about who's going to stay.  Somehow the foursome agree to continue dating one another only to escalate the testosterone stupidity several dozen notches which leads to a friendship showdown and.oh never mind!  The `twist' at the end is that Mia turns out to be a player in her own right and the `lesson' is supposed to be that she uses them just as they have used women before. The film is such a mess and amateur filmmaking at its worst.  The script is just riddled with expletives at the highest decibel with the four idiot buddies screaming at one another and just plain nasty overall.  There's absolutely nothing funny about this attempt at a male `Sex and The City' approach with nothing clever, original (its bare-bones format is a la `Diner' which is likening `Citizen Kane' to `Porky's' which is `Citizen Kane' compared to this crap!) or memorable except Ms. Peet deserves better as do we all.To quote Roger Ebert on his notorious panning of Rob Reiner's`North' `I HATED HATED HATED THIS MOVIE!!'  "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Final Score 0 (out of 10)***Possible scene specific spoilers (but who the hell cares)***Yes, that's right zero.  And I rarely give 1's. Even for the lamest of movies I look for things like music, cinematography, imagination, it's humor, even a good pace to be as objective about the score as possible. Looking at it within it's own genera or subgenera. But there is absolutely nothing redeeming here. I can't remember another time a movie actually sent me pacing up and down the room when it was over. The only reason I made it to the end was because I couldn't seem to change the channel - I sat there simply aghast, watching to see what insultingly stupid bit it would come up with next. It was like watching a snake digest a rat. But let's have some fun and pull this baby apart, shall we. First of all, There is nothing technical about Whipped that works. The visuals are all sitcom style. The cut scenes all just pictures of the street traffic going by at night over and over. The music and score, not only doesn't contribute anything to the movie - it's obnoxious. Not to mention it doesn't have anything to contribute to anyway. The acting is as cardboard as it comes, all around and that goes for Amanda Peet (clearly the star that got this train wreck green-lighted) too. These guys, supposedly good friends, have no more chemistry or sense of purpose then if director Peter M. Cohen had rounded them up at a bus station minutes before shooting.On the creative side, there isn't an original bone in it's body. It has no imagination. It shows us nothing we haven't seen a thousand times before. The whole premise, or twist, of this movie is based on male-bashing and the idea that an empowered women can play men just as they get played. Anybody, that thinks this is somehow a twist or is in any way original has obviously never turned on a TV before. Twisted, shallow women are common. Male-bashing is the norm. It's not stealing from anything specifically, it's worse it's stealing from clichés. I can't imagine a women making a movie that depicted other women based so much on stereotypes and with this sense of contempt. Makes me want to go rent In the Company of Men - or better yet, There's Something About Mary. This movie wants to be a edgier version of There's Something About Mary so bad you can see the sweat. The movie has no insights into women, men, dating, sex, or really anything. Cohen is simply content to regurgitate myths he has been indoctrinated with from other sexist movies. On the other end, the movie doesn't work as a satire either, because even though it is ripe with exaggerations one could view as satirical it doesn't have that grounding in reality that satires need. It doesn't even know what it's satirizing. Then there's the dialogue, which is little more then the characters screaming obscenities at each other.  Example Character 1 F**k you Character 2 Oh yeah, well f**k you (repeat)And the bottom line, the thing that could excuse all the other discretions There are a lot of movies without plots, without good acting, with morally repulsive characters and obscenity laced dialogue that have been funny and thus, been good. Whipped ain't funny. Not for a second. It has no comic skills or timing. The situations are all completely phony, not based in any shred of truth, especially enough to wring laughs out of us. The characters all broadly drawn so they will SEEM relatable to the lowest of the lowest common denominator. Just look at the marquee scene, cult classic hair gel scene. One of our bumbling anti-heroes opens the medicine cabinet and sees Mena (Peet)'s vibrator. For some reason light shines down on it as if he's found the holy grail. Why Cohen thinks men react this way to vibrators I do not know. While he rubs it on himself, he drops it in the toilet and then attempts to fish it out with his bare hands when, oh my, Mena walks in on him. Oh, my sides. But strangely enough, people actually like this movie. Of course, people also like Friends and reality dating shows so I shouldn't be surprised. All of this has a common thread however. Whipped is big evidence to me that there is just a huge pocket of people in America that will laugh at any joke just because it is about sex. They will like any show or movie (or think they like it) just because it is about dating or relationships. It's lack of any quality has no baring on these people. Just as people are indoctrinated to want whiter teeth and thinner bodies to sell toothbrushes and weight loss programs, they are also indoctrinated to blindly lap up anything dating/relationship related to sell them cheap, empty, effortless TV, movies and any number of products.  The only consilation will be that when I die, because I saw this movie, I've got a credit to get 80 minutes of my life back.   "},{"Title":"not very good.....","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'll be blunt and to the point.  This film is not good at all.  The film buff part of me hated the acting, script, story, direction and almost all of the editing.  Amanda Peet has proven that she can act, as she was a high point of 'The Whole Nine Yards'.  So she should have avoided this movie with a ten foot pole.  However, the infantile part of me found this film to be very funny.  If you can forget about how underpar the production quality is, and if you find smut jokes funny, then you should be all right.  And for those of you who can't get off your pedestal, thats your choice.  My inner child hasen't died, and I laughed a fair bit.  Even then, only a 3 out of ten, because as a movie, it really does stink. "},{"Title":"The worst film of all time.","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It just seems bizarre that someone read this script, and thought, This is funny! I mean, it's so hilarious it just has to be made! Who was this person? Is he or she the person really responsible for this? Are they the one's who owe me for my time, more so than the director/writer?This film stinks in most every way possible. There's no one shred of good dialogue, and not one likable character. And the story...I prefer the 2nd worst movie ever, Hulk Hogan's No Hold's Barred to this by quite a considerable degree. It seems almost Shakespearen in comparison.The ending is padded out with several minutes of outtakes, and it's still under 80 minutes. The outtakes include cast members laughing at the 'hilarious' mistakes they've made, and things that went wrong on the set of this 'comedy.' Glad to see someone laughing in someway, with some connection to this 'film.'Nothing in this film is funny. Nothing. It just goes on, and on. It's truly that lame. I love films that are so bad they're good. This is so bad it's...something, but I don't know what, and hopefully will never find out.Amanda Peet doesn't suck outright, and is in fact the only half good thing about this wannabe film. But, that really means little.Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Quite good actually","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had never heard of this film until I came across it by accident when browsing IMDB. I saw it had gotten many awful reviews containing very colorful expletives on how much it stunk. Of course this meant I had to see it. I was pleasantly surprised as Whipped is actually rather a good movie. I watched it with a group of friends and we laughed more than we had at many recent highly acclaimed Hollywood fluff comedies. This is an independent film and as such portrays its subject matter (sex and dating) without the usual Hollywood fakery. I distinctly suspect that people's opinion of this film will depend very much on their experience of life. If you've never dated or partied much you won't get this movie because you won't have met people like these characters. If you have, you'll recognize many of the situations that portrayed here in comedic fashion. The ending was also good, as it did not portray women as unreal, helpless, virginal romantics in contrast to many Hollywood movies.  "},{"Title":"When the Teenagers of `American Pie' Grow up&#133;","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Brad (Brian Van Holt), Zeke (Zorie Barber) and Jonathan (Jonathan Abrahams) are best friends. They use to meet each other once a week together with their married friend Eric (Judah Domke) to tell theirs dates, affairs and sex experiences along the week. Brad and Zeke are greater lovers and Jonathan loves to self-masturbate. One day, each one of them tells the others that have met the perfect girl. Indeed, they come to realize that the girl is the same, Mia (Amanda Peet). A great dispute among them will shake their friendship. A funny surprising end will conclude the plot. This is a film that looks like that is based on the teenagers of `American Pie', when they have grown up. The `low level' and scatological jokes, the concept of relationship with a woman, the focus on sex,  the entire screenplay seems to be `inspired' in `American Pie'. However, it has many funny moments and will certainly entertain the fans of movies like&#133;'American Pie'. My vote is six. "},{"Title":"Good until the end","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (Possible Spoilers Ahead)This was actually a good romantic/date comedy (one of the better ones I've seen this year) and it was good because of It's 5 leads.  But the one I liked the most (until maybe the last scene) was Amanda Peet.  She has a charm that is all her own, like cameron Diaz had in There's Something About Mary.  And she is pretty good through the whole movie, until the last scene, where she shows her true colors as a woman with all the integrity of all 4 lead women in Sex and the City.  The only difference being that in Sex and the City It's a chick show because it focuses on the women and there needs.  This film is actually mainly a guy film that they can relate to, except that the end can kinda give a guy some low-self esteem (especially after the outcome).  But still, the film is overall genuineley funny with good scenes (the vibrator scene is a classic) and for couples.  It just, well, it might make you feel a little uneasy with your woman afterwards.  By first time Writer and Director (he has produced a film before though) Peter M. Cohen.  B "},{"Title":"!!!laugh it up!!!!","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WARNING - this is a chick-flick The setting is NYC.  Four friends;  3 self-proclaimed, lady-killers and 1 married slob gather for brunch every Sunday to trade sexual exploits. Their perfect little world begins to unravel when they all separately meet and fall for the same woman, Mia (Amanda Peet).  This is definitely a B movie - the plot is thin, but the one-liners and sexual banter are a hoot. Amanda Peet has great comic timing (if you haven't seen The Whole Nine Yards, do it) and Brian Van Holt, Amanda's real-life boyfriend, is a total hottie (what a great ass).  Remember the last 8 mins of Something about Mary...don't get up till the lights come on. "},{"Title":"Not the cream (DVD)","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie tells the dating stories of male friends in New York. They happen to go out with the same girl, raising the tension between them. Even if it's a comedy rather than a drama, the movie drags too much. The directing is not up to the task the four adventures are rather cut than blend together. Except the shy and expert wankker, the characters aren't interesting but highly unbelievable. Amanda is the only good thing here because she seems natural and brings her usual smile and kindness. The fan of the big apple would be happy too because there's a lot of exterior stuff. There are funny moments (the dreams, the fights) but it was not enough to convince me, all the more that i watched the American version without subtitles and i couldn't understand the dialogs. "},{"Title":"Not Impressed.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  NOTE Since the spoiler policy is so strict, here's a warning  while I don't think I'm giving anything away, I will be talking about the plot, though only in broad strokes. I was actually quite disappointed by this flick. The story was a fairly standard, role-reversal-type plot that made the supposed justice of the final twist totally unimpressive. Amanda Peet, who was presented as the high point of the film, had maybe 2 minutes out 90 to really show her talent. And I was especially disappointed by how seemingly unimaginative the 4 main male characters were. How many more times do we need to see the hapless married guy who lives vicariously through his still-swinging single friends? Overall, it had the feel of a college student film with better production.  "}{"Title":"Ha to Blah","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whipped is at it's best when it focuses on the three guys and their scamming. Their dialogue and situations are, at times, very funny. However, once Amanda Peet's character comes into the picture, the film loses its momentum. The story is predictable, the situations are boring, and the film strains to get laughs. It ends predictably but offers a few more laughs. Whipped is a rental, at best. It's a good party flick, some good laughs, no need to pay close attention, and decent spaces of blah to talk or run out to get more beer. (6 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Don't expect American Pie","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you expected another version of American Pie, you are wrong. It is a good latenight movie to chill out, and with much hidden, hard to recognize jokes. (Like the pineapple-juice story in the cosmopolitan, and Eric sits later in the diner and drinks pineapple juice) And at the last part there draws a path to a major twist for the end.I found it funny to watch and found some of my friends(male) in it. It is a little piece of art and it works out fine. It has a small number of locations and i believe a small budget, no sightseeing movie.  "},{"Title":"Lacks Romance And Comedy","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A poorly written script with no likeable characters. As for it being a comedy, I forgot to laugh. It's about 2 conceited friends who scam to get women in too bed with them (no sex scenes) and another friend(who is semi-discustingly weird)who sometimes also scams but mainly is considered as being the guy who masterbates. The 3 friends separately meet and fall for the same woman (Amanda Peet). Somehow this is done without really any romance. The 3 guys stop being friends as they separately dated her. She scammed them out of their friendship because they scammed women. -- A bad movie "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is great. I have no idea why this has only been rated 4.4. I always recommend this film. It isn't a masterpiece but it is definitely entertaining all the way through and made me laugh out loud more than once. Don't let the low rating fool you, it is absolutely worth the watch. It is reminiscent of a Kevin Smith film. The stories the guys tell are actually quite hilarious. There is a perspective of both men and women. Bravo I say, Bravo. Don't be shy watch the thing! Baby baby baby, what's it gonna be. Oh baby baby baby, is it him or is it me. Don't make me waste my time, Don't make me lose my mind baby. If i told you baby that i was in love with you. oh baby baby baby if we got married, would that be cool. "},{"Title":"Uninteresting and Unappealing","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie on a lark and was still disappointed. The beginning seemed OK as it set the background - 4 guys sharing their sexual exploits over Sunday brunch - an all male Sex in the City basically. However, the bland dialogue that was obviously meant to be funny but fell short every time and a predictable course bored me. After about 20 minutes I desperately wanted to change the channel. Why didn't I? I naively hoped for the movie to redeem itself. The actors were not bad actors but everything was so blah I almost fell asleep five times. The characters were not charismatic, charming, or even interesting in that off- putting I hope they get what's coming to them way. Blah movie, blah writing, blah ending makes for a blah rating. The only reason I give it a five is because the actors were not bad themselves. Am I boring you with this review? Do I sound repetitive by using bland and bore so many times? The movie is like reading this review over and over for an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Save Your Time...","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Every Sunday, a trio of buds get together at a NYC diner to boast about their sexual conquests of the night before. Sometimes they're joined by a newlywed ex-comrade and hoochie hunter who hangs on them like a puling barnacle. They're unabashed horn dogs/corn dogs and Mia, who witnesses them on the prowl, decides that they need to be taught a lesson, dammit. Ergo, she'll date and dump - why not? All three of them! Gasp. What a wild idea. What a radical, naughty gal. Women now have the right to date and sleep around as much as they want to. As much as men do, even! There is one solitary laughable element in Whipped - namely the fact that not once, during the amigo's detailed discussions of their bodily functions and the tantric talents of the bed partners they trash, do the other customers in the diner turn around and say, Dude, we're trying to EAT here. Indeed, a heh-heh gag has an older lady eagerly weigh in on the useful sexual properties of certain beverages. A big fat Kermit the Frog Sheesh to that.It's truly unfortunate that a buddy movie with a great setting, a smart, cute heroine and three possible pairings had to have such a cop-out ending.P.S. - 30 whip-oosh sound effects to the screenwriter for use of the phrase You go, girl. It was tired in 2000, and it's tired now.Save your time and watch some Sex and the City reruns... "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Personally, while I'm able to appreciate really good movies, I also have a strange ability to somewhat enjoy even the most crappiest of crap. You know, those times when you just want to sit there and watch some horrible cookie-cutter action movie to kill time. This is the only movie that I can remember actually shutting off in the middle, and I have absolutely NO intention of going back to finish it. The plot was so contrived and predictable, I was calling out what the next scene would be easily (and I'm usually not very good at this). The actors were horrible, I've seen better acting in middle school plays. Even the scene cuts were bad, the flow was all wrong.This movie is like a parody that forgot the funny. "},{"Title":"Three Men And A Babe Who Deserves A Much, Much Better Movie.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (Contains spoilers, but the movie is so bad that you may not make it to the end anyway.)Whipped is about a group of friends in the big city, it involves sex, it stars Amanda Peet and it's hard to watch - in that respect, it's a lot like Body Shots without the violent rape. Whipped is also what writer-producer-director Peter M. Cohen should be for bringing the world this fiasco.In it, three obnoxious and unbearable single friends, in addition to always being on the pull (though one of them usually spends his time talking to the hand), spend their Sundays hanging out with their mutual obnoxious and unbearable married friend and talking about their sex lives. The single guys later each meet Miss Right, and later find out that they're all dating the same woman; it's a tribute to Miss Peet that you can understand why they fancy her - not only is she lovely, but she's the most (and arguably only) appealing character in the movie. SPOILER ALERT... SPOILER ALERT... SPOILER ALERT...Even in the twist ending where she tells HER friends she was playing with the men all along, basically giving them a taste of their own medicine - which, incidentally, was not far off from what I suspected (the fourth guy talks about his wife but we never see her, and I figured that she was his wife and he was setting them up) - instead of thinking that she's just the same as them, it's difficult not to think that those jerks well and truly had it coming. SPOILER ALERT OVER... SPOILER ALERT OVER... SPOILER ALERT OVER...Plus, her vibrator joke in the outtakes during the credits is far funnier than the one in the movie (unless you really think rummaging around in a urine-filled toiler bowl for a buzzing vibrator is the height of humour). Or anything else in the movie, for that matter. Relentlessly crude, filled with facile emotions and not even up to the standard of the worst-ever Friends clone, this is a movie only Miss Haversham could love. Another time-waster redeemed only by Amanda Peet (see also Simply Irresistible and The Whole Nine Yards). "},{"Title":"Felt like a funny sitcom about dating - not a great work of art.","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well I don't think this movie was trying to win any great awards, but it succeeded in making me laugh.  It felt like I was watching an sitcom of Sienfeld or Friends with more adult/dating themes.  It had a slapstick Dumb and Dumber kind of humor.  I bought it at the video store without any expectations, and it had me laughing out loud )Everyone else is giving negative comments expecting this movie to be some amazing work of original art, well I personally do not think that was the objective in this light comedy. "},{"Title":"Great movie. Best Friends got played by one chick","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Saw this on Stars on night on cable. Its about 3 best friends that went to college together and resides in New York City. But anyways they always got together and talked about each others stories about what chick they meet and whom got laid,, you know the usuall guy AkA Player talk. But one day all 3-best friends meet a woman name was MIA and she was the woman of there dreams and to find out that each of the 3 guys were dating here at the same time and each got WHIPPED on her. I will not spoil it, but if you ever seen two can play this game,, then I think you will like this movie. Enjoy. I rate it *** out of 4.  "}{"Title":"Great movie. Best Friends got played by one chick","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Saw this on Stars one night on cable. Its about 3 best friends that went to college together and resides in New York City. But anyways they always got together and a local restaurant and talked about each others stories about what chick they meet and whom got laid,, you know the usuall guy AkA Player talk. But one day all 3-best friends meet a woman which her name was MIA and she was the woman of there dreams and to find out that each of the 3 guys were dating here at the same time and each got WHIPPED on her in the 1st week. I will not spoil it, but if you ever seen two can play this game,, then I think you will like this movie. Enjoy. I rate it *** out of 4.  "},{"Title":"Sooooo BAD.","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First and foremost, Zorie Barber (Zeke), might be one of the worst actors I have ever seen. As a character that's supposed to be a hip, Village writer into the martial arts and proud of being mysterious, why is he so hyper, over-dramatic, and plain horrible? Did he know anything about his character before they started filming? Did the director? Don't the martial arts teach discipline? Aside from that, this film misses the target with its lame jokes and seen-it-already gross-out humor. Hand in toilet? <i>Trainspotting</i>. Masturbation? Hmm. <i>Fast Times at Ridgemont High</i>, <i>American Pie</i>, the list goes on.. .Bad dialogue In one sequence, Eric says it's none of my business <i>but</i> . ... and 30 seconds later Mia says why is this any of your business? Bad editing At least five minutes worth of film are wasted on NYC traffic shots. <hr>It's also impossible to believe that the four main male characters would be a tight-knit group of friends in any world. I can't comment on what makes everyone laugh, but if you enjoy low-brow, basic bathroom humor and insults, by all means, enjoy. If you want something a little smarter but on the same lines, see  <i>Boomerang</i>. If you want a solid what-goes-around romantic comedy, go for <i>The Tao Of Steve</i>. But anyone who thinks <i>Whipped</i> is witty and an accurate portrayal dating, well, I cannot agree at all. "},{"Title":"Painful to watch","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I like movies about morally corrupt characters, but this was too much.  The acting wasn't great, but that wasn't the real problem.  The issue was the sinking feeling I got in the pit of my stomach about 20 minutes into the film.  These characters were hollow.  They had almost no depth, and what little they did have was devoted to the cruelty they displayed to each other in the guise of friendship.  Exploring the darker sides of a set of characters can be fascinating, but you have to give those characters actual personalities or they are just cardboard cutouts.  These characters were cardboard and the picture they gave was just ugly. "},{"Title":"a hilarious perspective of dating","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A hilarious and insightful perspective of the dating world is portrayed in this off beat comedy by first time writer/director Peter M. Cohen.  The story unfolds as the four male protagonists meet weekly at the local diner to confer about their dating woes. We meet Brad a good-looking, wall-street playboy with a quick-wit and sharp tongue; Zeek a cynical, sensitive writer; Jonathan a sexually perplexed nice guy with an affinity for hand creams and masturbation; and Eric the married guy, who cherishes his weekly encounters with his single friends in hope for some enlightenment to his boring and banal married existence.  The trials and tribulations of the men's single lives in New York are amusingly expressed, mirroring that of Sex in the City and HBO's new comedy The Mind of Married Man, and bring an astute light to scamming. The story takes a twist as the three singletons meet Mia--wittily played by Amanda Peet-and all fall for her. She seduces them each with her uncanny ability to conform to the personalities' they exhibit. When they come to realize they have all met and fallen in love with the same woman, they chose her over their friendship. Whipped is a realistic portrayal of the dating world, one that the critic's failed to recognize. In plain language, they missed the point. The protagonist's here are caricatures of real people. The exaggerations are hysterical, mixing satire and humility, and are not to be taken as seriously as the critic's disparagement suggests. See this movie, you'll laugh from start to finish.  "},{"Title":"Stay Away!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you're an Amanda Peet fan (and who isn't?), you might have been considering viewing this one. Don't. It's a mess.The characters are SO unlikable that it's impossible to find it comedic. I started hitting the fast forward in hopes of finding some comedy but there just isn't any.If you haven't seen an Amanda Peet film, check out The Whole Nine Yards. "},{"Title":"Who's Your Daddy?","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was hilarious! I'll admit, I was skeptical for the first 30 or so minutes...I was thinking Oh, another sexual farce...or something attempting to be a sexual farce (a la Body Shots, yuck). But it was oh so funny....As the story progressed, so did the gross humor, awkwardness, and general disdain and pity for the four male characters. Amanda Peet has always had a way of whipping her leading men into shape, and she didn't disappoint in this movie.Before I saw it, all I heard was Bad movie, but so worth it for the ending. I say, Pretty funny movie, and more than worth it for the ending! "},{"Title":"Don't let the rating fool you!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I hadn't laughed this hard for a movie in a really long time.  The garbage that Hollywood has been putting out lately drives me up a wall!  This one was definetely fresh and witty.  If you look at the demographic figures for the ratings, only a few women have voted!  I don't want to ruin the movie for you but I'm sure that every guy who saw this ran to their computers to rate it and gave it a poor score, why?  Because the movie puts men in their place, that's why.  If more women vote for this movie because of its actual humor value and not because it is damaging to men...it could easily be a 7 rated movie! "},{"Title":"A very good film.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious! I watched it with my friend and we just had to see it again. This movie is not for you movie-goers who will only watch the films that are nominated for Academy Awards (you know who you are.)I won't recap it because you have seen that from all the other reviews.Whipped is a light-hearted comedy that had me laughing throughout. It doesn't take itself too seriously and should be watched with your friends, not your girlfriend. It won't win any awards, but it just has to be watched to be appreciated. True, some of the jokes are toilet humor, but that is not necessarily a bad thing. Everyone can use some of it sometimes. Some people need to lighten up and see Whipped for what it is, not what it isn't.****1/4 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Nice surprise","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this, but I have to admit I was rolling on the ground laughing a few times during this film. If you are not grossly offended in the first ten minutes, this might be a film for you. Ditto if you are the type that would enjoy watching Amanda Peet shuffling cards for an hour and a half. It's certainly not a momentous work of comedy, but given the low-budget indy genesis this is masterful. To level the playing field for comparison, imagine all of the studio films with their budgets slashed by a factor of 100 or so and see what you get! Kudos to Peter Cohen and his network for seeing this through. I look forward to his next effort. "},{"Title":"Want to see this film? In a word - don't.","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this movie last night, and I HAD to put a warning out for anybody else considering to see this film.  In a word - don't.  I seriously feel like this is something that a screenwriting student would have written in a Quentin Tarantino/Eddie Murphy phase, i.e. every other word was a curse word.  I don't have a problem with profuse cursing, as in Good Will Hunting, provided it helps to delve more into the characters.  In this case it was just hollow banter with the attempt to draw an occassional *gasp* or laughter from the audience.  The three lead characters are all their own unique stereotype, the wall street jerk, the coffee house jerk, and the I'm-Not-Gay-Just-In-Touch-With-My-Feminine-Side slightly-less-of-a-jerk. You just don't give a damn about any of them!  They are all shallow, unredemable losers who you WANT to see lose.  For those who dare, this film does have a couple funny moments, the very beginning, and the very end. The toilet/vibrator scene is funny in a sick kinda Uh, yeah way.  Really though, I would only recommend this film to my worst of enemies.  "}{"Title":"it sucked","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hands down the worst movie I have ever seen. I thought nothing would ever dethrone Last Action Hero, but this does easily. The movie is about 3 single guys who meet on Sundays to discuss their sexual escapades from the weekend. A fourth guy - who is married and - that used to be a part of the group shows up and talks about what he and his wife do. Nothing works in this movie. The jokes are not funny but they are repeated throughout the movie. The big kicker at the end of the movie is laughable. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Define misogyny","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whipped is one of the most awful films of all time.  It is a mean, hateful piece of garbage that had me forcing myself to stay in the theater more than any other movie of 2000, besides maybe The Grinch.  It is not, as people have called it, an insightful portrait of modern relationships. That would be a little film called High Fidelity.  Whereas that movie was honest and sympathetic, Whipped is hostile, cynical, misanthropic cinematic poison.  Avoid this like so many plagues, unless you want to see how truly bad a comedy can get. "},{"Title":"Desperate or Depraved","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For months preceding the release of this movie you saw it advertised in all sorts of print media, so I patiently waited for its video release to see what all the hype was about.  After it was over I had to apologize to my roommate for occupying the VCR for the last hour and a half to watch such a horrible movie.  It essentially fails because it is a character based movie about unredeemable characters.  With the possible exception of Amanda Peet (whose only redeemable quality is that she is Amanda Peet) you cannot stand any of them.  The film relies on its dialogue which is sophomoric, moronic, and crude.  The only slightly amusing character is Eric, whose portrayal of the sole married member of a group of friends is dead on.  The final twist, designed to make you laugh at the three main characters, only instead inspires the same kind of resentment towards Peet.  All in all, only rent if you are desperate or possess a dark sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe how much people are trashing this movie!  People go to these movies expecting an Oscar worthy movie and obviously take everything a little bit to seriously!  Although it's no award winner it was a great movie. . . Also honest, some people (not everyone) actually act like this (quite a sad thing) and I thought it was written well and Amanda was amazing as usual!  Great movie, WAY TOO UNDERRATED! "},{"Title":"Juvenile Junk","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is not funny.  It is not entertaining.  It does not contain one single second of originality or intelligence, nor does it lead you to take the slightest interest in the characters or situation.  Added to that it's about as juvenile a movie as anything in recent memory.  It's as if a group of 14 or 15 year old high school kids who had never actually met or had any type of relationship with a real girl had sat down and wrote a movie based on their incorrect fantasies about what being an adult man would be like. This movie is boring, obnoxiously mind-numbing, and at times offensive and disgusting.  At most, it contains one or two moments that make you laugh. Also, it seems twice as long as its 85 minute running time. "},{"Title":"What was THAT?!?","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie lacked... everything story, acting, surprise, ingenuity and a soul.  Fifteen minutes in, I was staring at the screen saying, How could all of these guys get together and consider themselves friends (even without the girl)?  Another fifteen minutes in, I was praying for as much Amanda Peet as possible.  When a bad movie quietly rears it's ugly head, eye candy is a nice consolation.  But there wasn't much of that!  Cheated on all fronts! "},{"Title":"82 words on Whipped","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whipped is 82 minutes long.  This review is 82 words long.  Three unlikable New York Lotharios, ruthless scammers, end up wooing the same woman, played by Amanda Peet, with disastrous results.  That applies to the story and the film.  Too sophomoric to be misogynistic, flaccid and ridiculous, Whipped mixes the philosophies of shock jock Tom Lykis with Penthouse letter fantasies.  Though technically proficient it's dated, grating, poorly written, mean, and obvious.  People don't act like this. People don't talk like this.  Really. "},{"Title":"Pathetic, humorless and not a single sympathetic character.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing Amanda Peet in another good role after recently renting The Whole Nine Yards--easily worth the rental, by the way--but this wasn't it.I remembered that the trailer for Whipped was somewhat funny and the plot about three oversexed New Yorker twenty somethings all falling for and getting manipulated by the charming Ms. Peet was worth a shot. So, I convinced two friends one afternoon to come see this movie with me. This review is my penance.In the first act we have the three lead studs, recounting their conquests in a diner. What should have been funny, or at least telling, comes out rather pathetic. Was there any redeeming quality about the three men and their encounters that we were supposed to get out of this?And while I don't mind movies that are cheerfully vulgar, I kept wondering why no one in the diner turned around when the studs talk loudly about sexual and scatalogical details. They do this every week at the same diner? You would think someone would complain. Oh, wait, I forgot two other diners do notice in one scene. But this is just a setup for a punchline. Everyone else in the diner is deaf.The second act has the three studs all falling for Mia and then developing brain rot, failing to ask each other or her about what's really happening between the four of them. And I kept asking myself, as the studs keep acting like they have been, what redeeming qualities does she see in them to stick with them longer than one date? Does she start out with brain rot? I kept hoping for Eric's character, the married buddy, to become something more than simply the annoying punching bag in this act. His role is clearly to dispense advice on being married. But why do they even bother to talk to him when they won't talk to each other? And his advice? Sheeesh!The third act resolves what plot there is but by this time I was looking at my watch. My friends told me they were still waiting for something genuinely funny to happen and I had to agree. The Scene That Explains All was adequate and managed to explain all of the questions and mysterious dialogue bits throughout the movie but we were just checking them off a list. (Oh, okay, that's why Brad had that happen and Jonathan says this and...)What laughs we made were from the stupidity of the plot than at anything amusing. Even the outtakes during the credits weren't very funny. Ultimately I was left with nothing except a desire to warn people away from this movie.Rating 3 "},{"Title":"If this is dating, then I won't be a part of it, thank yew!","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It appears the writer, director managed to hoodwink the money people into distributing this tasteless piece of garbage. I normally don't pan a film, but this was embarrassing and completely disgusting. The dialogue was a stream of foul words, over & over. Amanda Peet is gorgeous, and I do understand the motive behind the plot. However, I've never sat with my girlfriends and discussed such sexual behavior to the nth degree, and never would I, esp. in a restaurant. Its as if the writer tried to encompass every dirty thing he could think of, and then pretend to spin a story around it, to validate this drivel. Its been a sad & sorry summer, for sure. "},{"Title":"It's a good STUDENT film but...","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bad acting. Bad writing.  This was a poorly written film.  It's too bad because it had some potential.  It's not even close to American Pie or Something about Mary as previous comments might have you believe. Rent it at dollar night from you local video store if you're kind of bored.   "}{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This move was like watching a train wreck in slow  motion--only that the trains are on different tracks. You know the trains are going to hit, but it's a train wreck so you keep watching, hoping that something is going to  happen to make the trains collide. I've watched a lot of movies, but I've never actually felt that a portion of my life had been stolen away from watching one. I can't recommend any circumstances under which one  should watch this movie. You could be in prison, doing life, and this could be the only movie you're allowed to watch. Even then I'd leave the TV off. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and outrageous satire","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Peter M. Cohen has a winner satire on the mating game, twisted around and turned inside out.  The critical bashing of the movie in mainstream media publications as offensive and raunchy only serves to underscore its intensity as a refreshing and concentrated dissection of people's sexual pursuits and passions. It is in the tradition of what I call reality based satire following in the footsteps of In The Company of Men, Chasing Amy, Your Friends and Neighbors and Two Girls and a Guy.  Cohen's dialogue is hilarious and I was continually intrigued by how perfectly he captured the real pace of today's conversations.  Brian Van Holt, Zorie Barber, and Jonathan Abrahams are three distinct, unrelenting sex-obsessed predators who along with the foil of their recently married buddy (superbly played by Judah Domke) are turned upside down on their own terms by a female predator (Amanda Peet).  Underneath the satiric surface lurks a romantic comedy far more satisfying than most sugar-coated studio products.  "},{"Title":"Moronic Raunch -- should be rated x","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie will be a hit with those that enjoy sophomoronic, mindless, explicit bragging about sexual exploits and F... in almost every sentence. Like a good plot?  Like comedy?  Like romance or other human values?  Stay away from Whipped.  It was so bad I left after about half an hour.   I saw two kids slip in that looked to be about 10 -- very harmful -- this deserves an X. "},{"Title":"Amazingly honest, raunchy dialogue; thoroughly developed characters and much cleverly insightful writing...wickedly, childish fun for grownups!?!","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amazingly true dialogue, thoroughly developed characters who we all know and love to hate, raunchy and wicked good fun. Peter M. Cohen is a clever, funny writer and film-maker and the casting is wonderfully rich...kudos to Jodi Collins, the Casting Director who are often unsung heroes in the indie film making world, along with kudos to a brilliant editing job!  A truly pro and wonderful team all the way around.A film much along the tone of Sex and the City.... but different!?!  Really open and true to the way we relate..., no matter what we deny!  A definite worth see.And as always, a brilliant and perfectly simple & charming job done by the lead of the female cast, the wonderfully wicked and talented Amanda Peet as Mia...with a lovely cameo played by her actress best friend, Leslie Cohen (no relation to the director!)Also, shining compliments to Jonathan Abrahams as Jonathan and Judah Domke as Eric, the married guy.Fun, fun, fun. "},{"Title":"A Fun Flick","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recently had the chance to view this movie at a screening on UCLA campus. I must say that I laughed almost the entire movie.  Even as a woman, some of the one-liners delivered by the ego-centric male characters had me laughing into the next scene.  This movie pokes fun at the many male stereotypes - and we all know one of each!  It allows the female lead to gain control and reverses the perception of male/female interaction on the dating front. Very refeshing.  After all of the heavy and dark films out there, this is a movie that kept me light and bright throughout.  Hard to believe that the writer could come up with such a creative dialogue that maintained from start to end.  Have fun with this movie and enjoy the laugh.  Some people who've commented with nasty negative feedback are really missing the whole point of this movie.  Lighten up people; did some woman scorn you?  "},{"Title":"WHIPPED ROCKS!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A MUST SEE! I saw WHIPPED at a press screening and it was hilarious. We're talking nonstop laughs. It makes SOMETHING ABOUT MARY seem like a meandering drama.  Amanda Peet screams star quality with her winning combination of beauty, brains, and serious acting ability. Peter Cohen, the director, has made a cutting edge film that shows the raw inside of men's egos in the urban dating world. For all of it's comedy, Whipped succeeds with it's intelligence. Which is so rare for a first time director, especially with a romantic comedy. He is a major talent.  Judah Domke, Brian Van Holt, Jonathan Abrahams, and Zorie Barber round out the cast with depth and  very strong performances as the would be slick lady's men. You've got to see these guys go to work and get caught in Peet's web. Check out the trailer on whipped.com, it's worth the 3 minute download.  "},{"Title":"Whipped Rocks!","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was hysterical.  I haven't laughed this hard in a long time.  I mean, it's not Good Will Hunting, but was it supposed to be?  I actually went into the advanced screening expecting a lot less and was pleasantly surprised.  The comedy hits hard and is fairly constant.  Amanda Peet is hot and awesome.   The entire audience that I screened it with seemed to be enjoying the film as much as I did.  "},{"Title":"A Hit at the AFM!","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After viewing Whipped at a distributor's screening at the AFM the other night, I have to say that I was thoroughly impressed. The audience was laughing all the way through.  Unfortunately, every territory was already sold, so I did not have the opportunity to purchase the film, but I truly believe that it will be a big hit both domestically and over seas. I agree with the comment that Whipped should not be pitched as a male Sex and the City, mainly because unlike Sex and the City, Whipped is a satire about dating that never takes itself too seriously.  Whipped pokes fun at relationships in a way that most sex comedies wouldn't dare.  Also, the film that I screened at the AFM had more of a plot and story than Swingers, Clerks, and Sex and the City combined. Whipped never slowed down for a beat and provided the audience with non-stop comedy.  The performances of Amanda Peet and the rest of the cast were all rock solid, which only made the film more impressive considering the budget.      "},{"Title":"hilarious look at the way men really operate","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whipped is the story of a couple of average guys who ritualistically get together and discuss their latest hangups with women. I watched this film with very low expectations, and I was pleasantly surprised by how much I got into it. Amanda Peet is the angle this movie was sold on, but I didn't think she was as interesting as the guys themselves, whose late-night conversations are absolutely brilliant. Definitely see this movie. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I don't understand how so many people hated this movie. I know it is no piece of art, but hey, I laughed a lot. The characters were well developed and the acting is good. I especially liked the work done by the actor who plays the married guy (I believe it is Judah Domke). He is really funny.It is also a short movie (about 78 minutes), so you don't get tired of it. At least I didn't. If you want to see a comedy that commits suicide, rent Town and Country. It has great actors, much larger budget, but gets lost in itself. This does not happen with Whipped. In my case, it was worth the money. I have seen plenty of worse movies.Score 6.8/10 "}{"Title":"Turns the tides","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sophmoric this film is.  But, it is funny as all get out.  It shows the boys locker room mentality being played by the other side.  It is good to see such tides turned and how silly they are.  But that's probably not news to most women, 'cause (just ask one), they've heard 'em all before.Watch it with a small group or party of mixed gender and 97.3% of the room will laugh for 2 hours straight.  And the other 2.7%...can you ever really please them? "},{"Title":"a little too close to home for some I suspect","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had NO expectations for this film, but I laughed my ass off.I think a lot of men won't like this film one bit because it's just a bit too close to home in depicting some of the incredibly stupid ways men try to pick up and treat women.And then there's the concept that a woman might scam 3 men in the same way.If you don't have these issues to deal with I think you'll get more than a few good laughs from this.Sure, it's over the edge and over stated, but it's a satire on the way men and women treat each other. Very entertaining, but not for those who can't laugh at themselves. "},{"Title":"Potential lost in a morass of vulgar nonsense","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Four best friends young male chauvinist pigs (with the emphasis on pigs) meet weekly at a NYC diner to recount their dating sexploits in this misanthropic and visceral comedy. Peet is the common denominator who dates the three bachelors in the group which leads to conflict and the inevitable whipping. Although the film's premise has potential and there are some funny moments to be had, overall the flick doesn't work especially in the end where the girls are made to appear no better than the guys which runs contrary to the crux of the story. One of those one-man band flix with a dozen producers,  Whipped is likely to be enjoyed only by the kind of young males  who think The Man Show is Emmy material. "},{"Title":"Crude, disgusting, unfunny, pretentious--MUST I GO ON???","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I see quite a few positive reviews on this board, trying to revive this film from its lackluster status and starting a cult following.  I see the usual ranting--I guess this movie is just not for the easily offended, This movie is not Shakespeare, etc.  Guess what?  Neither was Road Trip!  And I laughed my a** off during that movie!  There's a way to make a crude, tasteless comedy and deliver laughs; and there's a way to...just make it crude and tasteless.  Whipped tries to be Swingers without the wit or intelligence.  It seems to have been written through the puerile eyes of a 14-year-old boy.  For God's sake, the characters in this movie are supposed to be white-collar, upright citizens--and they talk like some of the idiots I knew in freshman year of high school!  The dialogue is laced--more like drowned--with four-letter words.  You would think that people of their status would have SOME degree of intelligence--and a more extensive vocabulary.  Just watch a Whit Stillman film and you'll see the difference.  Not to mention the fact that the dialogue sounds totally unrealistic and downright cartoonish.  If you know any successful, white-collar businessmen who speak like the characters in this movie--please let me know and introduce me to them.  Their annoying sexual banter is equivalent to that of standard locker room chat among teens just arriving at puberty.  There is absolutely NO insight into relationships, sex or...anything!!!  It's just a poor excuse to showcase an array of extremely--and don't take the word extremely for granted, because I mean it with all my heart--crude gags.  These are gags with no substance.  Gags that are meant more for groans than laughs.  The scene at the end between Amanda Peet and her girlfriends was totally un-called for and totally unconvincing.  There are some movies that involve interaction among females that were written by (straight) men and play out wonderfully.  This scene involves a barrage of sexual metaphors and gestures.  It involves the kind of dialogue you can never imagine leaving a woman's mouth.  It was one of those noticeably-written-by-a-guy scenes.  I wasn't believing it for a second.  Whipped is purely a sick male fantasy that's as flat as it is annoying.  I got (very) few laughs out of this utterly forgettable comedy, and those were probably a result of desperation.  When you're not laughing for a long period of time, you desperately look for humor in the most trivial things.  So I wouldn't mark that down as a positive.   "},{"Title":"Whipped (1999)","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whipped no starsNo... Just... don't. By all means... don't. "},{"Title":"A poor man's Chasing Amy","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Imagine taking Kevin Smith's brilliant tribute to bizarre relationships, stripping it of all interesting characters, funny situations, or good dialogue, then maybe you'll come close to the stupid antics of Whipped.  The two movies do not share a plot, fortunately, but share a theme.  That theme is the screwed up things people do when they're in love (or lust).  All four of the main characters in the movie are boring, unlikeable idiots.  The girl, played by Amanda Peet, might be interesting.  We don't know.  The film makers never bother to give her a personality besides the ones she displays when she's with whoever she's with in that scene.  The jokes in the movie just don't work.  Not because they're vulgar, but because they never seem spontaneous.  Humor is subjective, though.  Maybe you'll find it funny...but I sure didn't.  (Frame of reference recent movies I found funny were There's Something About Mary, Austin Powers, South Park, and Election.  Whipped is no where NEAR as funny as those movies.)  Maybe I would have liked this movie more if I knew how it was going to end (call it Fight Club Syndrome), since I didn't think it would make sense for this girl to like all three of these jerks until I saw the last five minutes.  However, that would not have changed the fact that I had to sit through 75 minutes of their childish antics to get there.  Ultimately, Whipped is just an excuse for be crude for the sake of being crude.  There is a point to this movie, but that point wasn't worth 80 minutes of very unfunny toilet humor.   "},{"Title":"Filthy trash....please pitch it into the nearest garbage container","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Three men, and occasionally a married fourth, meet weekly to discuss their conquests of women, in filthy detail. One week, however, they are eager to talk about a dream woman that each has met. Trouble is, it is the same woman, turning the tables on these dastardly men. So what? It is just a matter of time before they all find out the truth, of course, but who cares about the outcome? Not me. This movie is a piece of absolute horror in the realm of recent movies. It is supremely filthy and degrading for women, for men, for anyone who comes near it. Do yourself a favor and never watch even a minute of this disaster. It is pure poison and should be avoided at all costs. (And I did not even finish it....I don't need to) "},{"Title":"Ugly","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Whipped' is a bad, uninspired movie created by a non-artist. The story is about three obnoxious, ugly (except for Brian Van Holt), annoying yuppies, who see women as trophies. Then they meet Amanda Peet and they start having this parallel relationship. What a genius idea!The comment you see on the main page here at Imdb, was probably written by the director, who is an illiterate, shallow, pathetic excuse for an artist. The script contains such explicit material, that makes you feel uncomfortable, even if you watch the movie by yourself.Some people should provide proof for their art skills, before they start shooting movies. And don't get me wrong, I loved 'Road Trip', Porky's and the Farreli movies, just because they had style, originality and substance.This movie is almost as bad as 'Scary Movie' (and if it wasn't for Amanda Peet it probably would be).1/100 "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure of 2000","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Coarse commercialization of the Neil LaBute shtik three manipulative, woman-hatin' white playas all fall for the same dish (Amanda Peet) and get their comeuppance faster than you can say Last reel of CARNAL KNOWLEDGE. An actually consistently funny reversal of IN THE COMPANY OF MEN, WHIPPED was so loathed by every upstanding film critic in America that I felt half compelled to like it out of sheer orneriness. But the bottom line is, funny is funny, and this is pretty funny stuff. To all those For shame, for shame! critics Does this material only get a pass when the Farrelly Brothers do it? And do they only get a pass because they make money? "},{"Title":"Fair is fair....","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think we have all met guys like these before.  Gusy that think they can conquer whoever they want whenever they want.  One has an ego the size of an elephant because he has money, the other thinks that his niche is the fact that he hangs out in coffee houses and reads Nitzche and then the other is actually a nice guy but he is influenced by his friends.  These are the kind of guys that will pick up a woman, have sex with her and then forget about her.  It doesn't matter that she may be heart broken and devastated, all that matters is that the boys had a good time and got what they wanted.  But what happens when a woman comes along that has a similar agenda on her mind?  What happens, is you get a smart, hilarious and insightful comedy called Whipped.Whipped is full of smart insights into the single male and the married male.  It starts off with four highschool buddies that meet every weekend for breakfast to discuss their whoring ways.  Everyone is single except for Eric who has been married for several years.  I think that even though he is played strictly for laughs, there may be more truth to his character than I know seeing as I am not married yet.  But he is one of the funnier elements of the film.  He likes to hang out with the boys because he vicariously lives through them and their exploits.  He would never cheat on his wife, he loves her, however, it is good to hear about the thrill of the hunt. Brad, Zeke and Jonathin are the other three friends in question and the three of them all fall for the same woman, Mia, played by Amanda Peet.  She meets all of them in conspicuously suspicious circumstances but they never seem to realize that fact.  Zeke ( the artsy type ) meets her at his fave coffee house.  Jonathin meets her outside a magazine store where he buys his porno mags and Brad meets her at a club where he likes to strut his stuff.  All three fall hard for her but she tells them that she likes all of them equally and she can't decide who she wants to date exclusively, so she wants them all.  Since they all like her so much, they all agree to this.  Complications ensue.Amanda Peet plays Mia as a soft, kind hearted woman.  You really believe that she is in love with all three of these guys and that she really can't make up her mind.  You have empathy for her and you can accept her plight.  Two of the three guys are pigs and you hope that she doesn't end up with them but then at the same time Jonathin is just as scheming as they are so it is hard to route for him.  But when the payoff hits you, it comes at you with a comic force that is refreshing.  I have read reviews in here that have chastised the film for what it tries to say, but I admire it.  I don't think I have seen a film that does what this film does and says what it says so confidently.  The comeuppance that the three receive is justice to all the jerks that have perpetrated guys like this before.  I think women will laugh at this film and most guys should like it as well.  I'm not sure why it is getting all the bad publicity but when I saw it with my fiance, she liked it just as much as I did.This is a funny, honest look at dating and revenge and it is very enjoyable.  The denouement is perfect, with every character.  Even Eric, the married man has a funny story about his time with Mia.  She is, after all, irresistible.9 out of 10-- This is a very funny film and if you like Amanda Peet, this is one film that highlights her talents as an actress.  Don't listen to what anyone else says about the film, judge for yourself.  This is a very funny film. "}{"Title":"An award winner...","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok class, repeat after me, thou shalt never see this movie again. The award this movie will ever so justly take home is the distinction of being the worst movie of the summer, or possibly the year. This movie was a typical Hollywood money making device. First you find a star,(Amanda Peet) coming off the success of a very popular movie, The Whole Nine Yards. Then, you release a movie she made almost a year earlier to take advantage of her name. I often wonder to myself why I go to see these movies I call hidden disasters. Most of these movies that were in the can for so long should be kept in the can.  I would love to comment on the plot for you, but this movie forgot to put one in the script.  The one bright note I can take from this movie is that Amanda Peet is a good actress when she has the support of a good script and accompanying cast. (see Whole Nine Yards) On a scale of 1-10, I give this movie a solid 2 for the amount of quality minutes this film contained. "},{"Title":"Revolting comedy.","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Extremely vulgar and totally forgettable, Whipped obviously aspires to be a male version of the popular TV series Sex and the City, and indeed, just like that show, seems to be taking place on an alternate universe, where people spend their whole days talking dirty and roaming the streets trying to stuff, pork and nail (to use the movie's language) anything  that moves. You'd have to be a real masochist to want to spend 80 (and thank God they are only 80) minutes in the company of these characters, who seem to possess the emotional maturity of 5-year-olds, and whose vocabulary consists of about 20 words (the most popular ones have four letters and begin with f and d). As for the plot, it's so predictable that you can guess its twists just by looking at the video box cover.       (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Peet Mess","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Pretty thin stuff, this. The entire structure is based on some supposedly snappy sex-tinged dialog and the reverse of the scam-the-scammers. Because of the first part of the latter, it is often compared to `Company of Men' but that completely misses the point of the reversal. No matter, if this could have had value, it would have been in the diner, in what happened there among these four guys and the movies they weave with their stories. Some of this DOES have edge the pair that screws and steals, the fabrications of the masturbator. But it doesn't have nearly enough to justify spending time with. `Red Meat' is vastly superior in this regard.I watched this because Amanda Peet was very effective in the one `fulcrum' scene in `Igby' where she meets her lover and is rejected, all soundlessly. Effective film drama that she inhabits. No skill or charm here however.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Doesn't get much worse","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For those of you who have not seen this movie yet, spare yourselves the pain.  This movie has to be one of the most morally corrupt movies of all time.  Also the script is a piece of crap and the actors performances sucked worse than that kids movie The Two-Minute Werewolf.  Basically this movie was a complete provides not interesting plot, bad acting, and no likeable qualities whatsoever.  I will say though that Amanda Peet is a pizza, pizza ass, but she does not save this movie. "},{"Title":"Vulgar film that most will not like.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whipped sets up the other side of scamming - instead of the men trying for a quick night in the sack then bragging about it, Amanda Peet plays a woman who scams men. But the men here are a particular set of men, three best friends who meet in a small diner in NYC for brunch every Sunday and brag about their conquests the night before. The premise could have provided an entertaining and insightful film, but this one is too vulgar and shallow. I admit, I laughed at quite a few of the jokes, because certain toilet humor I find funny. But the filthy language is mostly gratuitous and the interaction among the three best friends, especially after they discover they have fallen for the same woman, is not believable.Moralistically the film is trash. It depicts sex as a sport and marital fidelity something to be joked with. In the end, Peet's character is discussing the three men with her girl cronies at a table in a restaurant, making fun of their equipment, and explaining that she had targeted them only after she witnessed their scamming three young women in the park on Sunday One of the eight-week period of this film. So, I give it credit for some smart writing and a few funny situations, but overall it is a shallow and sophomoric film that is unnecessarily vulgar to the point that it no longer is entertaining. In fact, Freshmen and Sophomore high school boys seems to be the target audience.  See it for an example of how distasteful a current film can be, but don't expect to like it. "},{"Title":"Whip the creators!!!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Except for the very beautiful Amanda Peet, the remainder of this pathetic excuse for a film involves three egotistical jerks who think they're God's gift to women. With guys such as these, it's no wonder more females are climbing the fence!!! "},{"Title":"Wasn't bad.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The acting is uneven. The story does drag even at 85 minutes. But along the way, there are a couple of laughs. The shaggy dog ending almost makes it worth it. Would make an interesting double bill with In the Company of Men. "},{"Title":"dull movie","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know. This could be the homework of a film academy junior. The craft is alright, but the script is quite low. There are just too few exciting or comical elements. And this brute-force radical sexual situation doesn't make up for that at all. "},{"Title":"I would have rather been whipped, then see WHIPPED...","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WHIPPED FDon't even go  there... "},{"Title":"She's got you all whipped!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  **** = A masterpiece to be recorded in the books and never forgotten***1/2 = A classic in time; simply a must see*** = A solid, worth-while, very entertaining piece**1/2 = A good movie, but there are some uneven elements or noticeable flaws** = May still be considered good in areas, but this work has either serious issues or is restrained by inevitable elements deemed inescapable (e.g., genre)*1/2 = Mostly a heap of nothing sparked by mildly worthwhile momentsBOMB = Not of a viewable quality- Whipped = **1/2- Rated R (for sole strong sexual content with dialogue, and for language)There is one thing to know before seeing this movie the whole 90 minutes is *completely* sex-related.  It follows four guys who sit around a diner table and talk about past sexual episodes.  That said, it was very entertaining.  Of coarse, this may not apply to women (although they will most likely enjoy the ending).However, three of these men (except the married one) discover the same amazing woman... and they all continue to date her!  Pete is hilarious and breathtaking in that fabulous role.  Mind you, the **1/2 rating applies only to people who can let go of their values for an hour and a half and enjoy some trash. "}{"Title":"Neriah was robbed","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A news item on Neriah Davis' Web site suggested she had been told her role in this picture would be a recurring fantasy or dream girl.There may be other editions.  The version I rented gives the beautiful and talented Ms. Davis about one second of screen time, one time.It's the high point of this otherwise stupid, offensive, annoying, insulting picture.  Had Ms. Davis actually appeared several times, it might have made this dog bearable.  She looks even better here than she did in _Bikini Car Wash Company_ seven years earlier.If I were a cynic, I might suggest the producers included Ms. Davis in the cast so their picture would show up on lists of movies featuring Playboy models, thereby increasing its exposure. Porno Web sites do something like that, loading their meta tags with names of famous models (whose images don't appear on their pages) in an attempt to fool the search engines.Ms. Davis deserves better. "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What this movie lacks in story, acting and professionalism, it does not make up for in any way. A few of the mostly infantile jokes made me laugh, but generally it is a sad attempt at being funny, and plot twist has to be counted among the lamest in movie history. "},{"Title":"Don't understand why people seem to dislike this movie","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whipped is a funny look at three guys who always scam women and end up getting scammed by the same woman.  The movie has some great, funny dialogue and some outrageous scenes and I thought that it was a very good rental. Looking at the voting on this movie, however, and I'm baffled to see so many people disliked it.  Maybe, this movie isn't for some people who have easily offended sensibilities.  For my money, it was an entertaining hour and a half.  Not great, but good. "},{"Title":"Don't let the 4.5 average fool you....","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sure it's not Shakespeare, but it's definitely better than a 4.5 out of 10. It's a little bit like Swingers with a twist.  I thought it was quite entertaining and my wife liked it too.  Most actors (except Amanda Peet) were unknown to us but were pretty good.  It's not too long, has some good laughs and a curveball ending.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Spoofed?","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After renting the flick, what I have seen was a parody of romance and womanizing.  Even the diner scene, where two elderly women referenced to Ocean Spray products, was like the old lady in When Harry Met Sally... (1989), when she wanted to order the same dessert Meg Ryan had.  Neither of the three scammers has the machismo of either Shaft, James Bond, or Austin Powers, but with Amanda Peet as the woman to think twice before asking her phone number, one would have the impression that everyone should see Martin Lawrence being stalked by Lynn Whittfield in A Thin Line Between Love and Hate (1996).  The vibrator scene ended with a Truck Turner (1974) reference of exiting the bathroom stinkin', and throughout the film, there are a few instances that Amanda Peet was showin' her Whoopi Goldberg teeth several times.  Although the vulgar overtones wasn't the same as a Quentin Tarantino cult favorite (e.g. Reservoir Dogs or Pulp Fiction), especially with Brian Van Holt as the ultimate QT impersonator as Brad (watch how he picks up his women, but no one can be like the original Shaft, Richard Roundtree), some might consider this classic as a throwaway, but as a result, I rather purchase a ticket for Saving Silverman instead.  Where's the good talent?  They should have casted Ben Affleck, Seth Green, and Ryan Phillippe instead, and die-hard Amanda Peet fans would have nightmares after seeing this film (not to mention Saving Silverman).   "},{"Title":"There's Nothing About Mia","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found my self with time on my hands so I thought I would see Amanda Peet in this `Whipped'.  I mean she was excellent in `The Whole Nine Yards'.  I checked it out on IMDB user comments section and found the reviewers either loved it or hated it, with seemingly no in-betweens.  I'm fairly easy to please when it comes to movies, so I gave it a shot.  Big mistake.I went to the late showing at a high market multiplex, where I made up 50% of the audience.  I gotta tell you, I didn't laugh once. I guess I just sat through the movie, more or less stupefied, not caring what happened next and fantasying that it would turn into a slasher movie, where Freddie Kruger would come and kill them all (including the writers) and let me go home.  There is not one sympathetic character in the movie, not one funny situation, no surprises at all.  Just disgusting, if not revolting, behavior.  I think the theme is supposed to be that the woman turns the table on the boorish pigs, but she in fact, is the biggest boor of all. Now it might be that there is gender bias going on here.  It might be that women enjoyed seeing Amanda Peet acting like a chauvinist pig, hence the divided reviews.  And I, being a male, didn't.  All the charm Ms. Peet exuded in `Whole Nine Yards,' was totally absent.  I don't think it's her fault, it's the writer's.  Boorish behavior just isn't charming.  This movie wanted to be another `There's Something About Mary' but it missed on every count.   Save your money. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After watching The Crew for a boring 20 minutes, I headed out to see Whipped, which I hoped wouldn't be nearly as bad as The Crew.  Turns out this movie is actually funny.  I really didn't think American Pie and Something About Mary were anything that people tried to make them out to be, but Whipped is certainly underrated.  While some of the humor occasionally slips into the uncalled for section (i.e. the Something About Maryesque bathroom scene), most of the movie was genuinely funny.  With movies out this year like The Cell, Bless the Child, The Crew, What Lies Beneath, Space Cowboys, and all the other boring, predictable stuff that's been shown this summer, Whipped can hardly be called the worst movie of the year.  Due to it's lacking plot, I'd say this movie is just slightly above average, which is better than most movies this summer can say. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly 2000's worst film","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"      I've got a good blurb for Whipped The worst 80 minutes of film since The Blair Witch Project.  I've often wondered why the shorter films tend to be the worst (with the exception of Disney's better fare), since you'd think they'd have a nice, tight story with no lag.  But the reason these films are short isn't because they've got a tight story.  It's because they've got nothing to them, period.    This movie is billed as a comedy, but it's rarely funny and usually annoying.  Brian Van Holt, Zorie Barber, and Jonathan Abrahams play Brad, Zeke, and Jonathan, three friends who meet on Sundays to discuss their scamming that is, using pretty much any method to get in bed with a woman, only to (of course) never call them again.  All this changes, however, when they each separately meet Mia (Amanda Peet of The Whole Nine Yards), a woman who appears to share all of their interests.    Soon, they all find out that Mia is seeing the three of them simultaneously.  Naturally, this leads to arguing among the three over which of them is actually seeing Mia.  She says she likes all of them (how surprising!), so they begin to each pursue the separate relationships.  Obviously, this is total hell on their friendship - except that for some reason it isn't for very long.    For an 80-minute film, there's really nothing to fill the meager body of Whipped.  Brad and Zeke are terribly annoying, and every character in the movie is one-dimensional.   Only Eric, the married friend who still wants to be one of the guys, is even a remotely palatable character - and he's very, very annoying.    Peet herself displays a rather limited range of acting ability.  Rent The Whole Nine Yards if you want to see her in a better role - the charisma she displayed in it is nowhere to be found here (it would be wasted even if it were).  But don't spend a dime to see Whipped.   I went to a matinee show for $4.75 and still left feeling ripped off (there were six people in the theater on the opening weekend - sign?).  The movie is only occasionally funny and never interesting, poorly written and not directed much better by first-timer Peter M. Cohen.  A number of scenes are tacked on, contributing nothing to what plot there is.  Cohen excessively meta-references to boot, sometimes an amusing tactic but more often tiresome.  This is just a bad, bad movie.    It's not only the worst 80 minutes since Blair Witch, it's probably the worst movie of the year. "},{"Title":"Okay fake Kevin Smith film","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, I've been reading about this film for most of the year, and, finally having seen it today, all I can say is that its an okay *fake* Kevin Smith film.Inasmuch as three of the main characters meet for Sunday brunch, and shoot the breeze about their imagined Saturday night conquests, in language that is explicitly faux home-boy, the film plays like a beginner's version of what a Kevin Smith film is (or even Barry Levinson's brilliant Diner, which this film in some ways echoes), and its the dialogue that annoyed me.The fact that the three lead characters are basically unlikable made the film a tough go for me.The plot, okay, you have these three dofus guys, all of whom fall for the lanky (and very sexy) Mia, a character played by Amanda Peet, and they all three play her in their own way.The outcome is predictable, really, and there are one or two really amusing scenes, the funniest of which involves a vibrator, but I couldn't honestly recommend the film.Maybe by the time he makes his next film, Peter M. Cohen, who wrote & directed Whipped (and appears as a pizza delivery guy), will have found his own voice.Bonus points for using Culture Club's Karma Chameleon in a very inventive fashion. "},{"Title":"Whipped  is a wild Ride!!!","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whipped is the funniest film I've seen since last summer's American Pie. I went to a screening recently with some friends and we were blown away. Everyone was cracking up the entire way through..nonstop!  I'm going on record and saying that I think this film is going to be a huge comedic hit when it comes out on September 1st.  The film is a cross between Swingers, There's Something about Mary, Diner and In the Company of Men with a little Sex in the City thrown in.  Amanda Peet chalks up another great performance and the four soon-to-be-known guys were hysterical..especially Judah Domke, who plays Eric the pathetic married guy.  Peter Cohen put together an incredibly funny film that pushes the envelope and is sure to take the raunchy sex comedy to the next level. They have three of the soon-to-be classic scenes.  If you want details about the making of Whipped check out the ask a filmmaker feature on the front page of this site...Peter Cohen is the featured director and there is some good inside dirt.  So go check Whipped out and get ready to laugh your ass off....I can't wait to see it again. "}{"Title":"fun-e","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this film fit my style, the fast cut scenes, the quick urban language,and the offbeat characters. This is hands down the funniest movie ever made. 3 guys scamming chicks and feeling no remorse, people believe me, this really is how guys act, none of that, I want to fall in love and watch the TLC channel with my wife crap. The funniest scene, being I'm black, is when those white guys are playing hoops, and their air balling lay-ups, and they were taking the game serious too. The only downside of this movie were the scenes with amanda peete. I like it best when the guys are without her and just clowning around. This to me was a great film, and you'll never get tired of laughing your butt off to it, I suggest you rent it or own it.  "}]