[{"Title":"Great actors in a mediocre movie","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You'd think that a movie with the acting power of Nick Nolte, Jeff Bridges, and Sharon Stone would be one to watch. Well.......it is and it isn't.First off, I'd never in my life thought I'd see Nolte and Bridges in the same movie. Talk about an odd pairing!With that out of the way, they both put in good performances, as does Stone. The star of this movie though is Albert Finney. His performance is the best of all the parts in this movie.Unfortunately the plot, involving a racing scam many years ago which resurfaces, is only mildly interesting at best. It seems almost a shame to have such good performances wasted on such a story. Still, it's worth a watch if nothing else is on. "},{"Title":"Glassy, enigmatic but occasionally puzzling drama.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When 5 past Oscar nominees headline a movie, naturally, one would have rather high expectations. Such is the case with `Simpatico' a high-profile drama which went by relatively un-noticed when it was released 3 or 4 years ago. But I am surprised that it only received a 4.4 rating on the IMDb. I'm not saying that the film was a classic or deserved enormous critical plaudits, but I definitely think that it deserved more than that. It is an adaptation of the stage play written by Sam Shepard. While it starts out promising, it is also surprisingly bland when it reaches the conclusion.But the main problem is the lack of simple definition. It's hard to tell if this is a simple story, or a more complex one. It's unclear whether this is a film about friends reconciling or friends being torn apart by guilt. The film tries going both ways, but the result is a puzzling one to say the least. One thing that it avoids doing is falling into plot-holes, becoming predictable or using average movie clichés. This is done by creating thoroughly flawed but also very compelling characters that certainly aren't your average stereotypes. And they are lifted off paper by exceptional performances from the three Oscar nominated lead players.Nick Nolte (Affliction, The Prince of Tides) gives yet another top-notch performance as the untrustworthy hobo. Jeff Bridges (The Last Picture Show, The Contender) is also very good as his polar opposite- the eccentric millionaire. About two-thirds the way through the movie, the two main character switch places for no apparent reason. It doesn't make logical sense why a millionaire would choose to live like a bum, just because someone stole his wallet. Both actors are better and more believable in their opening personas.Sharon Stone (Casino) makes her first appearance in the movie at about the halfway mark. It's a shame she didn't appear earlier, because it's surprising how convincing she is as the rich and wrecked housewife. She's so far away from the icy sex-goddess of `Basic Instinct' it's hard to believe that this is the same actress. Albert Finney (Tom Jones, Erin Brockovich) makes great support, but Catherine Keener (Being John Malkovich) gives the blandest and most over-rated performance. Not only is her part boring and un-necessary, but she even over-acts in certain scenes.Unfortunately, there are some evident flaws scattered around here and there. The `big twist' is uninteresting and it's ironic that Sharon Stone and Jeff Bridges are never on the screen at the same time- After all, their characters are supposed to be husband and wife! But the brilliant acting alone makes `Simpatico' qualify as a good if un-remarkable movie. The script is below average and sometimes the movie ventures into blandness, but most other aspects are good as expected. My IMDb rating 6.1/10.  "},{"Title":"very weak film noir with great secondary characters","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Somewhere buried deep inside the mess that is `Simpatico' there lurk the makings of a pretty decent little love story.  Unfortunately, one would have to eliminate pretty much the entire main storyline and all the major characters in order to find it.  This tale of `three people caught in a web of their own making' is so thoroughly inept, overwrought and inconsequential that it seems more like a parody of film noir than a serious entry in the genre.   The crime that these three people perpetrated in their youth &#150; the one that keeps coming back to haunt them in their approaching middle-age - seems a piddling one at best for a film of this type.  An even more serious problem is that the three lead performers seem stuck in roles that have come to define their métier as actors.  Nick Nolte, for instance, plays his customary down-and-out, barely-teetering-on-the-edge-of-sanity middle aged loser whose capricious nature makes him forever a threat to the security of the group, while Jeff Bridges portrays the common sense, constantly put-upon ringleader who just wants to forget all about the past but who has a hard time keeping a leash on the unpredictable Nolte.   Sharon Stone completes the trio as Bridges' now moody, alcoholic wife &#150; a pale imitation of her much more meaty role in Martin Scorcease's `Casino.'  Stone's over-the-top thespian simpering reduces the (fortunately) few scenes she is in to the level of unintentional high comedy.  Moreover, in their attempt to provide a dual level structure to their tale &#150; crosscutting scenes of the past with scenes of the present &#150; the filmmakers have been forced to employ actors who look nothing like their contemporary counterparts.  The result is, initially, confusing and, ultimately, quite ludicrous.What is most strange about `Simpatico' is that, while the story itself fizzles and the audience could care less what happens to these three whining, puling, muking central characters, writer/director Matthew Warchus and co-author David Nicholls somehow manage to create a back story and two minor characters who engage both our sympathy and our interest.  These come in the form of the always splendid Albert Finney as the man our intrepid band of halfwit con men managed to entrap into an extortion scheme twenty years earlier, and the charming Catherine Keener as the highly principled grocery store cashier who finds herself unwittingly a pawn in Bridges' plot to rein Nolte in.  Finney and Keener provide so much warmth and humanity in their few scenes together that we find ourselves regretting that the film does not revolve around them entirely.  Wisely, after we wheeze our way through all the hullabaloo and nonsense necessary to bring the main plot to its ludicrous conclusion, Warchus closes the film with a coda focused on these two winning characters.  The finale, in some inexplicable way, seems more like a beginning than an ending and we find ourselves wanting to see what happens to this offbeat, likeable couple.  By wasting our time concentrating on the Nolte/Bridges/Stone triumvirate of insipidity, the filmmakers end up making us feel even more resentful in the long run.  Like the victims of the trio's racetrack shenanigans, we feel robbed!  "},{"Title":"An affecting movie. . . .","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm surprised at the negative comments on a movie that I found, if not a favorite, somehow **important** to watch. Every character, save Catherine Keener's (Cecilia), is basically a person who is broken on some level. American audiences are so used to the Hollywood formula of clear cut good guys and bad guys and people who overcome, story lines that have clear cut endings where the good guys win and the bad guys pay, where everything makes sense in the end. This is not one of those movies and it's not the way real life is anyway. If the ending doesn't make sense in that way, it does give the impression that by the end of the movie, the characters are on the precipice of finally finding some peace in their lives even though the audience won't get to see it.Viewers complain that the story meanders or makes no sense and that they don't understand the characters. I didn't find this to be true either. They were very easy to understand and the storyline ties together past events (shown in flashbacks to their youth) and the results of their actions--guilt, relationships torn apart, **everyone** paying (not just the bad guys) while trying desperately to reconcile with themselves and one another to find that it's not so easy to do so. Rather than meandering, I found the story to be shown in a very linear fashion and that exposition is given bit by bit until it ties together at the end.One of the complaints that I found in reviews and on the message board is how Lyle, the one that attained wealth through their shady methods, ends up quitting, walking away from his money in what appears to be an all of a sudden fashion. By the end of the movie, after his story is told in flashback, it made perfect sense to me that he wanted to walk away for a long time and this was finally his opportunity to grab it. His reasoning, talking to his wife on the phone, No more %*@#! lies! and that it's the smell of the alfalfa said it all. He just wanted to go back (perhaps to his youth) before all of the nightmare began and start over. Makes perfect sense. I think it's difficult for some people to comprehend that someone would choose meaning in their life over money or that there are perhaps rich people out there that may have fantasies of walking away from it all. I just don't find that hard to believe.Nick Nolte's character, Vincent, is probably the most difficult one to comprehend because his is the most screwed-up and in the most pain. Because of his actions when young, his obtuse reaction at the time to his then girlfriend (and now Lyle's wife, Rosie, played by Sharon Stone) through in what I'll call the event that tore them all apart and his part in it along with his clumsy and confused attempt at rectifying it with Rosie (and Simms), make his character the most uncomfortable to watch. It's not because the part is badly written or badly played (Nick Nolte plays the part to perfection). It's just because this guy is **supposed** to be uncomfortable to watch.The worst things I can say about it is that there isn't enough Sharon Stone in it. I'm not a big fan of hers but she is a dynamic actress and her character deserved more presence while most of her story is shown in flashback with a younger actress. Catherine Keener isn't given enough praise for her part because her character is the only ordinary and somewhat sane person in the midst of all this and so **appears** less interesting although I didn't feel it was. I think that is the purpose that that character serves--as a sort of reflection to it all. Albert Finney, as the crooked race commissioner who makes one mistake too many and loses the things that matter, is also a prize to watch. But then he always is.While this movie isn't a pick-me-up kind of thing, I found it intriguing. "},{"Title":"Plot less in Seatlle?","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I really don't know where to start. The characters weren't that believable at all. The development they have gone through (as you see them in their youth as well) and the development they go through during the movie just doesn't make sense to me.And the plot, you can smell something similar to a plot here and there, but that is as close as you get. The first 15-20 minutes it works, it feels like an ordinary movie. But then it just breaks down and you wonder what the message is, what the story is, what the heck this movie is supposed to convey.In summary it's a pointless flick that doesn't strike any chords in me anyway. "},{"Title":"Pure Thoroughbred","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Like the race-horse of the title, the cast in this dark, eccentric tale are pure thoroughbreds...Nick Nolte, Jeff Bridges, Albert Finney,Kathryn Keener, Sharon Stone along with up and comer Shawn Hatosy. And though the director, Matthew Warchus, appears to be a first time helmer, his handling of these pros is sure-footed. Warchus also does an impressive job of steering us through a complex plot with sure, visual dexterity. SIMPATICO, from a script by Warchus, based on a Sam Shepard play, really isn't about horse-racing. It's an entertaining exploration of betrayal, survival and how the simple passage of time changes the whole equation.  "},{"Title":"A touching, and heart warming tale.","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching Simpatico. I liked it so much I bought the movie. Jeff Bridges, and Nick Nolte are at their best. At times my heart did bleed for Nolte. Yet Jeff's character too drew my sympathy, but it was the horse who I felt the most saddened for. Even though it's an excellent movie, I would caution a parent against letting a child watch it, if the child was unable to tell the difference between reality, and fiction. It pulls at the heart strings in much the same way as Old Yeller. It covers love, lies, greed, and true friendship in one brilliantly wrapped package. It is a beautiful, heart warming, and intriguing movie. A must see if you are a Jeff Bridges fan. "},{"Title":"Engagement","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film has gotten beaten about by critics. IMDB voters rate it lower than `Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man!' Wow.It doesn't bother me that the older actors are on automatic pilot, because that's the point. No, nor does it annoy that the perspective is deliberately lacking energy, especially considering the life that Shepard spanked into theater in the 80s. Because that was deliberate. This hand shakes. Why shouldn't a play about decomposition show cracks?I don't believe Shepard can do no wrong. `Paris' was too artificial for me. `Renaldo and Clara' was a goof.But the writing here is so tight, so self-aware, so self-reflective that the force of it transports. Two elements are notable. A writer lives through his work, IS his work. As the work breaths so does he. As he ages and develops an awareness of the price of past excesses, of cheats and shortcuts, so should the work, if it is real. This does. Perhaps the audience for the living word is scanty. But this is real art, real control.The other element that impresses here is the art of slowly spinning the story. There is a tradition of withholding key threads when weaving a story. It is a game between writer and reader, each trying to outguess the other. The detective story is the simplest form, where you and the writer are engaged in a game of wits. Engagement.You become engaged not because of what you know, but what you do not know, and -- in this subgenre anyway -- a pact is established early that you will get all the pieces you need, but not without some work. This kind of storytelling, when it does not rely on convention, is very hard to manage. And the actors who do the real work must be obtuse, a particular challenge. I suppose that flies in the face of today's TeeVee watchers who want it all to make sense from the beginning, and who want to &#145;understand' characters.(A plea eschew your TeeVee. It numbs.)This is not of the caliber of `State and Main,' for instance because Mamet understands writing to the light which this adapter/director lacks. He does well enough with folding time neatly, but not with mastery as in The Limey.' It does not have the integration of writer vision and actor expression of The Pledge.But see it for the engagement. "},{"Title":"Underrated by far","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What is this 4.4 rating by 2348 users? Where did this come from? Not enough car chases? This is a good movie, well written. One could criticize a bit a sort of awkwardness or heaviness in the technical aspect of movie making, due to a first film or an approach maybe too theatrical, but the directing is good. It plainly deserves a minimum of 6.5 for its artistic value. Maybe Matthew Warchus is more a stage director and too keen on good directing than finding a picturesque way with images to illustrate something he has already staged.If films about horses are to be considered, Simpatico is much better than Dead Heat (rated 5.3), different from Seabiscuit (rated 7.3) because it does not carry hope against odds being more of a drama about betrayal, and better than the totally unrealistic Hidalgo (rated 6.6) who has never been in the Sahara, but it does show a chase.Why consider it as a film about horses? Because it also is a film about a horse, magnificent as opposed to human behavior in this story, as far as the only pure character in this movie, named by its title, is the horse Simpatico, and maybe this is the side that should have been enhanced more in opposition with the corruption of all this human horse-racing scam, since human perversion finally kills him, and what's more, because he his becoming sterile. Maybe the overall realism, that had to be detailed more in the movie than the play, brought too many necessary plot details that might have obscured the existence of the character Simpatico, although every time we see him, his beauty reminds us of his existence as metaphor, metaphor that might have been more powerful on the stage, just by being permanent but never visible.I suggest a 6.5 as a minimum. "},{"Title":"More European than Hollywood in style","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is not a great film but it deserves some attention.I am an admirer of Sam Shepard the writer, not necessarily the actor. And even though his contribution to the film is not direct, his subjects make an impact on me. I am surprised the director did not involve him in the screenplay. Of course, Shepard is more a playwright than a screenplaywriter...I loved all the main players, especially Sharon Stone. She had a small role that was impressive.The camerawork of John Toll always impresses; this film was no exception.One thing was clear; the direction lacked experience--but for a first film, the output is creditable.  "}{"Title":"Has a sleek poise and a nose for the finish line","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Tale of long-past racing scam resurfacing to change the diverse lives of its perpetrators and victims isn't particularly subtle, with transformations and transferences flying around like abandoned betting slips, but it's very well acted by a dream cast (no less engaging for the fact that they don't all seem to be in quite the same film) and never loses its basic finesse. In its early stretches, as the pieces of the plot fall into place, the film builds a highly effective sense of escalating jeopardy, and the initial gambits on the theme of identity and impermanence are effective, leveling out a bit as thematic considerations seem to overtake the characters. Still, it has a sleek poise, and debuting director Warchus shows a distinct nose for the finish line - the film's closing scenes seem about right on their own terms, even if you're not sure about all the stuff that led you there (the horse Simpatico for instance seems ultimately to be carrying more symbolic weight than the course of the film supports). "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Terrible movie. I cannot understand why someone - anyone would make a movie that is so unfulfilling, and totally depressing with no moral or tangible benefit. One of those movies that you wish you hadn't watched, wasn't worth the time, money, effort to make, etc. Terrible writing, terrible storyline, terrible ending. A total waste of time and you feel terrible after you watch it. I'm sorry I watched it and wasted 2 hours of my life to ultimately feel bad. there are no redeeming qualities or enjoyable quotes, action, memories, or benefits. I kept watching it hoping it would get better, but was dismally disappointed.I'm a severe movie buff, and please take my advice and don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Hell and retribution are on this earth as payback for misdeeds","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A 4.3 rating? This film is WAY underrated. It's at least average, which is 6, and I believe somewhat above average.This is a solid neo-noir and noirs have a way of being underrated, I find, because they can be a bit talky, deep, psychological and lacking in action. Not all, not always, but some and sometimes.The acting here is excellent by all concerned. The movie is paced well, although not all that much happens, photographed well and has interesting developments character-wise.The theme is clearly retribution in this life for past dishonest misdeeds that destroyed good relationships and substituted ambitions for money and what was thought to be the good life or material rewards. These may (or may not) be answered unto you, but should await the course of living properly. Gaining them improperly is shown here to twist lives out of shape, not easily to be reconstructed. This may not be how life works out, but in this movie that's how it works out.The story is told with ironies and substitutions as Nolte and Bridges exchange roles. It is told with character arcs as all the main characters come to new realizations. It is told with disappointments as things do not work out as planned or expected.When they were young adults, Nolte, Bridges and Sharon Stone got ahead by racing scams. When found out by Finney, they resorted to destroying the reputation of Finney. Many years later, Nolte is unable to live with the guilt and his jealousy over Bridges having married Stone, whom he wanted as his wife. Nolte is living in a bit of a dream world. Bridges has been paying him all these years to keep him quiet. These people definitely do not have a healthy relationship. The contemporary story is set in motion when Nolte calls Bridges up and asks for help, but he has other ideas and they seem to develop after he meets and talks with Bridges. "},{"Title":"Strictly Okay...","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Matthew Warchus directed 'Simpatico' has an interesting premise, but the advantage of it's promising concept, doesn't really reflect on celluloid. Reason? The Screenplay is stretched & slightly unspoken. It offers a few interesting moments in the first hour, but the second hour doesn't offer much.'Simpatico' is a tale of betrayal, greed, vengeance & complications. Though adapted by a play, this drama begins well, but, as told before, drags itself too much towards the end, and thus, the impact goes amiss.Matthew Warchus has directed this story fairly. Cinematography is perfect. Editing is passable. Acting Wise Nick Nolte is just about okay. Jeff Bridges is decent, while Sharon Stone gets very limited scope. Albert Finney and Catherine Keener are noticeable.On the whole, An Average Fare, At Best. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately no recommendation","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Was it done with silly money? Or is the script one of these peaces of paper that goes round in Hollywood for 20 years until someone says Ok, lets do it? I really have no idea. But this movie is so uninspired, so long-winded, so much missing a plot thats worth its name, it is just impossible to find what this movie is about. There are two rare moments when characters dare to say the truth and put some fine acting to the story with doing the unexpected. But unfortunately this is not enough. And what is most, this is definitely no Seabiscuit, a movie that is set in a similar way and subject and is sharing even one of the actors (Jeff Bridges). If you have the chance to see the latter, grab it. If you have to see Simpatico, leave it! "},{"Title":"Remarkably Bad Film","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Due to the manner in which premium cable works, I tried to watch this stinker over and over during the course of a weekend. It is without any doubt one of the worst films that I have ever subjected myself to watching. Calling it incoherent is a compliment. I like horses, I've ridden horses, this movie makes even the horse look bad. By the way, what are the odds of any modern woman going horseback riding in a slinky gown? What are the odds of staying awake while this stinker is on your bedroom TV? I'd say that both are one in whatever the current global population. I am in full agreement with the reviewer who compared it to a stick in the eye. I'd compare it to a stick in the eye and root canal without Novocaine. "},{"Title":"Why is Catherine Keener ignored?","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Why doesn't Catherine Keener get any credit for this film? Is it because Sharon Stone is blonde? Keener has the third largest role in the film yet is nearly invisible in the credits, on the box, in the comments on this site, etc. Sharon Stone has about five lines. No offense to Sharon Stone but I'm not sure what the big deal about her is, especially in this film. I thought Keener was really good as the ethical, somewhat naive person getting involved with people whose motivations and backgrounds were not necessarily as simple as hers. I think Sharon Stone got top billing for being Sharon Stone, not for anything she did in this film.Maybe Catherine Keener should bleach her hair... (joke) "},{"Title":"The horse is the real star","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In the aftermath of a horse-racing scam, a box of incriminating photographs appears to be the trump card. But to take possession of the photographs is also to take responsibility, to accept the burdens of the past; and no-one is exactly sure what it is they really want. One can see how 'Simpatico' might have made a good play, but it's an ordinary film. There's a stagey feel throughout, and the introduction of flashbacks into the basic structure is unilluminating. Of a starry cast, Nick Nolte has played ruined more interestingly elsewhere; Sharon Stone has little to do; while I always find Jeff Bridges annoying, and do so here as well. The real stars are Albert Finney, who sparkles in his role; and an exceptionally beautiful horse. "},{"Title":"Don't pick on this dead horse","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I felt like this movie was more than meets the eye.  On the surface, it is indeed a somewhat illogical and tedious, but underneath it all, it is a deep and meaningful journey of catharsis and rebirth of the human psyche.For all intents and purposes, this was more of a play than a movie. There were only a few characters and a lot of dialog; therefore we cannot expect the big bangs and simplified plot lines of cinema.  Instead we must search for the underlying meaning played out through the characters' experiences.I am not quite sure about the exact meaning of it all, and I was hoping for some insight relayed in user comments, but it looks quite solitary in here. The best I can come up with by myself is that this was a story about humanity's struggle to get to the top, and dealing with the consequences of cheating your way there.  The characters cannot be content with their lives because they haven't come to terms with the sacrifices they made.  The horse, Simpatico, is representative of the house built from their sins. That is why the horse had to die, to end the cycle of pain.  Each character was affected in some way by the crime they committed, and no one can move on.  They are all frozen, dead, in time and keep reliving that event over and over again in their minds (a true sign of madness).  Stone is drugged up on Zanex to deal with her pain, Nolte is a drunk that cannot stop obsessing over his box of evidence, Bridges is a cold-hearted business man who chooses to switch roles and live in squalor, rather than return to his life of wealth, and Finney is the only one who attempted to move on, changing his name and life, not ever wanting to relive it--even to be redeemed.I think the lesson in it all is that people (and fictional characters) must eventually confront their obsessions, kill that part of themselves that causes suffering, and move on with their lives.  Any comments?  "},{"Title":"Technically decently made... but I found the events and actions illogical","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Just from reading the main cast of this, one would expect a marvelous drama. Nolte, Stone, Bridges and Finney... such grand talent in the craft of acting. The fact that the writer/director had never worked in movies before or since didn't worry me too much... The Wachowski brothers handed in first-class work the first time they tried their hand at directing, and their first script... well, OK, but they've later redeemed themselves for that turkey. The cinematography is not unique, but it has moments. The editing is much the same... effective at times, but rarely breaks away from the norm. The plot is fair... it develops nicely throughout, providing the back-story and evolving throughout. The pacing is OK. The acting is pretty good, I didn't really find any performances to be lacking. I think my main issue was that I could simply not understand why the people acted like they did, for the majority of the film. I never anticipated their actions, I never followed their motivation and got to the conclusions that they did. Also, the themes and ideas seem to be nothing more than side-notes... none are explored with much effort. All in all, I found this to be a decent-looking film with sufficiently good acting that just didn't make an awful lot of sense and didn't spend enough energy on giving the viewer anything solid, be it an idealist message or simply food for thought. I recommend this to fans of horse-racing, as it features a few very nicely shot sequences of horses, and, to a lesser extent, fans of the actors and possibly those who know the play(as I don't know it myself, I wouldn't be able to tell you if this were a good translation or not). 5/10 "}{"Title":"Games People Play","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" **SPOILERS** Hard to gage since it has what seems like so many unnecessary sub-plots in it. Simpatico is basically about guilt on the part of three persons Vince Webb, Nick Nolte/Shawn Hatsoy, and Lyle & Rosie Carter, Jeff Bridges/Liam Waite & Sharon Stone/Kimberly Williams,who were involved, some twenty years ago in betting on a string of Ringers. A Ringer is a horse who's secretly entered in a race with a false and atrociously bad past performance record in order to fool the betting public. Thus winning races that he or she is not even supposed to be in by going off at astronomical odds.Were shown in a number of ill-timed and confusing flash-backs that the three track cheats were discovered by local track official Simms, Albert Finney, who was about to turn them into the authorities. Simms was set up in a blackmail scheme by both Vince and his then girlfriend Rosie. With Simms banging her in a motel room as Vince was hiding outside with a camera taking photos of the incriminating tryst.The movie starts with a drunk and homeless-looking Vince in Cucamunga Calif calling Lyle,now a major horse breeder, in Kentucky frantic that he's about to be arrested and he'll be forced to tell everything he knows to the cops. You get the impression that Vince had been blackmailing Lyle, as well as Simms, for years to keep up his lifestyle, paying for his rent and bottles of booze. As he masqueraded around town posing as a private detective an act that he uses to both impress and pick up girls. Before you can even catch you breath Lyle jets right down to Cucamunga and finds out from Vince that his girlfriend Cecilia,Catherine Keener,a local supermarket cashier is threatening to have him arrested for sexually abusing her. Which Vince says is all a pack of lies. Going to see Cicilia Lyle tries to get her to change her mind in reporting Vince to the police only to find out that she has no idea what he, or Vince, is talking about and almost throws a confused and befuddled Lyle out of her apartment. Lyle later puts two and two together and realizes that Vince tricked him into coming to Cucamunga in order to implement some weird scheme he dreamed up. All this in order to steal his car and identity, or wallet loaded with dozens of his credit cards, and go back to Kentucky to resume his relationship with Lyle's wife Rosie. Whom he once proposed marriage to and that she accepted.Lyle wakes up in Vince's cluttered pad,after drinking himself unconscious,and starts to have second thoughts about going back to his life as an ultra-rich Kentucky horse breeder and decides to live as an unemployed bum. Spending all his time sitting on the railroad tracks opening up a can of beans and watching the world go by. The movie never really gets any better after that but only more confusing with Lyle having Cicilia go, all expenses paid, to Kentucky to find Vince and get back the blackmail photos of his wife Rosie having sex with Simms. What all this has to do with Vince's bird-brain scheme doesn't make any sense at all since he has no plans to use the photos, that he seemed to have be using for twenty years, to blackmail anyone but destroy them in order to clear his guilty conscience. We also have Vince track down the disgraced Simms who now uses the name of Ryan Ames,a local blood-horse historian. Vince goes to Simms' office to, what seemed to me, make a mea culpa about what he did to destroy his career as a racing and track official. Simms almost thanks Vince for getting him out of business of policing race-track improprieties and going into a business that he felt that he was born to do researching the bloodlines of thoroughbred horses.Rosie who seemed to have been smashed and out cold pops up with a hangover just when Vince shows up, unannounced, at her and Lyle's mansion. When Vince tearfully apologizes to Rosie about all the trouble he caused her and Lyle with the photos Rosie comes across as forgiving at first. But when Vince shows them to her she blows her stack and almost blows Vince's brains out for what she at first was totally uninterested in! Simms later meets Cecilia who was sent by Lyle to tell him, together with a load of cash, how sorry he was about what he did to destroy his career. Instead Simms get the hots for her making the confused young women feel that she's being exploited by the two,Simm & Lyle, weirdo's. Cecilia is then put at ease when Simms invites her, this in late October, to the upcoming Kentucky Derby that's to be run the next year on the first Saturday in May!If all this wasn't enough to already drive you nuts there's the case of Lyle's triple crown winning stallion Simpatico who was syndicated for 30 million dollars and sold off to a group of billionaire Arabian businessmen. Simpatico to the shock of Lyle Rosie and those who bought him was discovered to be impotent and unable to successfully cover and put any mares into fold at the starting price of 75 thousand dollars a pop.Rosie knowing that her beloved horse Simpatico not being able to replicate himself will end up as dog food takes him out for a last ride. It's then then that she puts the poor animal mercifully to sleep with a bullet in his brain. Vince now back with Lyle in Cucamunga takes the blackmail photos on a deserted hill, overlooking the main highway, burning them in a campfire. Thus erasing the whole sleazy episode out of their lives forever as the sun majestically sets on both them and the movie. "},{"Title":"A Disappointment","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I like Jeff Bridges tremendously, so I'll watch anything with him in. But this film has so many loose ends, you could make a ragrug.Good acting by all, but a good dollop of suspension of disbelief is necessary with so many unlikely events or inconclusive nuances of the plot. Vinnie and his girlfriend checking into the same hotel and not knowing it. What was that all about? And what was Carter arranging with Simms anyway even before Vinnie turns up from the past?The central premise seemed to be Simms's reconciliation with the past - forgive and forget. Very good, but this wasn't developed enough. Okay Carter throws it all away through guilt and wants the simple life again. But it's not believable. They can't be nineteen again.It should have been filmed in the European style - slow and ponderous would have been so much better. But this version is too clipped and compromised with modern moviegoers tastes. Stone is very very good. Nice to see Nolte in rags again, it's his forte. Jeff is sleepwalking though. New girl terrific. Does she go back to Vinnie in the end or go with Simms? I think it's back to Vinnie. It almost works - I like movies that exercise the mind and leave loose ends to speculate on. But without the basic substance, loose ends is all Simpatico has. "},{"Title":"Uninspired And Uninteresting From Start To Finish","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Confused and confusing story of two men (Jeff Bridges and Nick Nolte) bound together unhappily by their participation in a horse racing scandal many years before.A completely uninteresting storyline was made even worse by uninspired performances by the three major stars Bridges, Nolte and Sharon Stone. Bridges and Nolte at least have something to do; why Stone would have even bothered taking such a worthless role is beyond me. The best thing to be said for this movie is that it's less than two hours long (although it seems a lot longer.) It's stretching a point to give this one even a 3/10. Let's just say that if this movie were a horse, it definitely finished out of the money. "},{"Title":"If this was a horse, you'd have to shoot it","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What starts out as a potentially interesting thriller turns into a ridiculous mishmash of  plot holes that left this viewer wondering, Huh?SPOILER ALERT (if the film isn't already spoiled enough!)The whole plot is based on some lingering mystery, a secret scandal from the main  characters' past. At one point Lyle (Jeff Bridges) says that he offered hundreds of  thousands of dollars to Vinnie (Nick Nolte) for the photographs that are key to the  mystery. When the secret is revealed, it's not worth 2 cents.Catherine Keener's character was interesting, and luminous in the final scene. "},{"Title":"a near miss. two stars out of a possible four.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   Simpatico wasn't a bad film, but nowhere near what I would have expected from the strong cast, and a Sam Shepard penned work. I don't know a great deal about horseracing, the backdrop of the film, but I do know if you bet on the favorite, you win less than betting on a longshot. That seems to be what happened here, the deck is stacked with terrific actors, Jeff Bridges, Nick Nolte, Albert Finney, and Catherine Keener. The resulting film is a letdown however. Finney and Keener are wonderful in it, but I think Nolte and Bridges could have been given more to work with. I bet that this cast and a suspenseful thriller, would have me riveted, but, the payoff was meager at best. If you are going to build a tale around the storm clouds of the past gathering on the horizon, you better have more than a common rainstorm coming thereafter. Another blow to the hopes that film noir can be current and still as good as in the golden age of the 40's film classics. Two stars out of a possible four.Not Highly Recommended.**. "},{"Title":"Simple Simpatico","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Like so many other reviews, I agree that this film had a great cast but nothing worked.  It's one of those movies where 4 or 5 characters are introduced, and they drop hints about some major, major secret event that took place 30 years earlier.  They keep alluding to it and dropping hints and showing ultra-fast flashback sequences (like 3 or 4 seconds at time).  The purpose, of course, is to tease us in the audience and make us die with curiousity and dying to know what the big secret in the past was.  Instead, I was looking at my watch and wondering when (if ever) is Sharon Stone gonna appear in this film. If you tease the big secret too long, you better deliver one HELLUVA major secret...and it wasn't.    Albert Finney and Catherine Keener and Stone are wonderful in this. But the plot??  Albert Finney catches some kids in a race-horse scheme.  They offer him a bribe, but he does NOT take the money.  He tells them just don't do it anymore.  He could have taken their money, but he didn't. He could have turned them into the cops, but he didn't. Instead, he was nice enough to give them a break and realize they were just young kids trying to make a buck.  So how do they pay him back??  They blackmail him!  HUH????  You're supposed to blackmail a-holes who did you wrong, not guys who cut you some slack. And what's up with Jeff Bridges?  He goes from a good looking billionaire to a street bum in a matter of 24 hours??  HUH????  Totally 100% unbelievable, simply because he did this transformation on his own free will !!! And Sharon Stone's character feels sorry for her soon-to-be-sold horse and does not want to see it destroyed, so guess what she does??? "},{"Title":"There's some potential here, but totally lost","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This could have been an OK movie but I had an uncomfortable feeling that no one involved really cared. I'm wondering how many out takes ended up in the final product. What was the terrible crime Nolte, Bridges and Stone kept buried for 20 years?  Nolte carries around a shoe box that should have received top billing for all the attention it gets. I thought surely it must contain a foot (at the very least) to justify so much mystery. Well, turns out (spoiler) it's full of some very tame porn shots that were used in a blackmail scheme that's the basis of this rather lame movie. All that said, it's worth a home viewing. (Send the kids from the room during the horse stud service scene) "},{"Title":"This old nag should never race","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This tale centers around a long-ago secret held by two friends and how it affects them here in the present. The title is the name of a thoroughbred racehorse about to be sold by Carter (Jeff Bridges) for millions of dollars. But wouldn't you know it, the well-to-do Carter gets a phone call from his longtime, ne'er-do-well pal Vinnie (Nick Nolte) with some malarkey about being in trouble and needing Carter to bail him out or else he'll go to the police with this long-ago secret.So in a plot more tortuous than a mutant pretzel, Carter flies out to Vinnie from Kentucky to California, hoping to get his friend out of trouble so he can get back to the multimillion-dollar horse deal. Ah, but wouldn't you know it, life's just not that simple for Carter. Naturally, Vinnie swipes his car, drives back to the airport, and flies back east to see Carter's wife Rosie (Sharon Stone), hoping to give her some illicit pictures taken long ago (from the long-ago secret, of course). Why? I don't know. Does Vinnie think Rosie will be so grateful to get those pictures back (which involve her and a crooked race commissioner, played in the present by Albert Finney) that she'll leave her husband and hitch up with Vinnie? Picture Nick Nolte looked as disheveled as he did in Down and Out in Beverly Hills. That's kind of how attractive he was in Simpatico. Quite a visual, isn't it?I think there was supposed to be a cat-and-mouse thriller, but there's no suspense, and therefore no thrills. You take seedy characters, add improbable circumstances and unbelieveable dialog, and you have yourself a recipe for ennui, a real nadir for all involved. Neither of the two males leads is particularly effective, but what was with billing Stone as highly as she was? She doesn't even make an appearance until the movie's about two-thirds over, and even then her performance isn't very good, either. But then again, no one had a decent script with which to work, leaving them to mouth badly written lines. "},{"Title":"Meandering plot obscures the issues in this story of a racing scam.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie starts well with a phone conversation between a disheveled Nick Nolte and a suave Jeff Bridges, obviously there is a link between them that should be interesting. Unfortunately the film soon goes downhill as we learn the details of a racing scam in the past.The script is from a play and the stage origins are obvious, scenes tend to look like set pieces and the dialogue tends towards the theatrical. However, to open it up, there are some nice location shots of Kentucky and some photogenic horses.Albert Finney probably comes off best in the acting department as a corrupt racing official, making an unpleasant character almost likeable and Sharon Stone does well in a small part.As the plot unfolds and details of the scam are exposed we get more confused as to whom we should feel sympathy. If anyone. I think at the end the audience in general will have a So what? feeling.I give it four out of ten. "},{"Title":"Horrid","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I got tickets for the sneak preview for this movie.  From my understanding, the main focus of this movie is a big secret that is shared by the characters, and how it changes their lives and makes them all miserable. It sounds like a good set-up for an intense psychological drama, but it was so long and drawn out I didn't care if they had all murdered their mothers, I just wanted to walk out of the theater. And then when you find out the 'scam' they had pulled, I was stupefied. That was it? That's what this whole movie is about? Two hours of building up this horrible secret and that's all it was? How stupid! If they were still worried about it, they all deserved to be miserable.I also didn't realize that so much of the movie would rely on horses and horse racing, neither of which I really care about. Like I said, I thought it would be an intense psychological drama, not a horse movie.The only barely interesting part of the entire film was the guy who played Nick Nolte's character as a teenager. He did a great impression of Nick Nolte. I also thought Sharon Stone did pretty well for the 90 seconds she was in the movie.Between watching this movie again and taking a sharp stick in the eye...I'd have to think about it. "}{"Title":"An unskillful thriller","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think Simpatico was ment to be a thriller. The plot is so idoitic the story sets up unnessisary pardoxes to hide it. Perhaps the stage play was adapted bizzarly....or perhaps it should stay on stage. Decent effort and proformances, but the previews do this film no justice. (just like the previews for The Ninth Gate, they make it look like a kick-ass thrill ride, not a boring excersise in tentionless horror) This film also contains no tention, good proformances, the actors tried atleast but were wasted by a bad script and bad dirrecting. I am not asking for a thriller ment to make one jump constently. (after all if I was I could have seen Scream 3, but chose this one because the traler made it look like a mature film).Simpatico's director (who has a history in theater) has limmited talent in film, one scene works on film the way it was shot. The other scenes built tord nothing. The film is pointless it goes no where and goes around in cicrles. And thats whats dissapointing about it, it leaves too many questions about it's charactors unanswered. Exotica is millions of times better, it's also about charactors, it goes some where without much of a plot. Simpatico makes you think it has a plot. Twister had more of a plot. "},{"Title":"Sam Shepard less than the perfect Ibsenite","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I didn't see Shepard's play SIMPATICO, but on the basis of this adaptation I'd say it looks like a pale rehash of TRUE WEST. Nick Nolte is a drunken, guilt-wracked mess and Jeff Bridges is his opposite number, a sleek, amoral, very wealthy horse breeder. Nolte and Bridges have a big secret in their past that locks them together, and, in TRUE WEST fashion, they eventually undergo a PERSONA-esque makeover Bridges gets down in Nolte's stinky undershirts and Nolte dons his buddy's Yohji Yamamoto suits. The script, not credited to Shepard, mixes the Ibsenite problem drama, ripe, noir-y trash, and an imitation of the overheatedness of THE MISFITS (where another latent Ibsenite, Arthur Miller, tried to get funky and flammable). It doesn't work because the character motivations, and hence the damage report after the fact of the Big Secret, don't make sense. Shepard, who learned late and profitably how to make the well-made play, seems to have left a few tools in his box--presumably out on his Minnesota estate.There's a character dynamic at the center of SIMPATICO that smacks of genius. Nolte's character goes to an ex-racing commissioner (Albert Finney) to make amends for a crime he had committed against the commissioner many years before. Nolte's stumbling block is that Finney doesn't care--he has made his peace with the unfairness done to him, and so should Nolte as well (a realization Nolte finds dumfounding). And the scene between Nolte and Finney sets off wonderful, fun-saturated sparks; these two can't seem to get enough of one another. All the primary performances are good--it's nice to see Catherine Keener play a character who's two beats behind everyone else. Unfortunately, the director shows no particular skill (like most theatre directors, he shows no particular respect for sound or image). The final product is so stagy and attenuated it scarcely makes sense. How did this movie ever get made? "},{"Title":"A Stinker!","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A really poor script + really bad direction & editing = a stinker! What a waste of a great cast. Four great actors couldn't even breathe life into this. I felt sorry for them.Most critics seemed to think this film was o.k. I know I'm not, but did some professional critics even watch this thing?  "},{"Title":"Rather predictable and disappointing","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this at the London Film Festival and although it is a slick and nicely shot film, the story is rather too predictable and, at times, dull. There should be a great deal of tension building as the story unravels but there is little because it is obvious how things are going to happen.The only person to come out of this with any credit is Catherine Keener who plays a vastly different role to others that I have seen this year while the other main actors only seem to go through the motions.It is not an awful film by any stretch but is just maddeningly ordinary. "},{"Title":"great acting ... and that´s about it","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nolte and Bridges are great actors and prove it again - although they are not given a script with much gusto. The story left me waiting for more and not receiving it.  The movie reminded me of Affliction (also with Nolte) in that it is a slow-moving story more concerned with character development than actual plot.  All in all not really worth the time. "},{"Title":"Needed Alan Rudolph","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Grretings again from the darkness.  Missed this one at the theatre, so just caught it on cable.  Original play written by the masterful Sam Shepard, this one could have been great if directed by Alan Rudolph.  Instead we are treated to disjointed moviemaking and sloppy story telling, mixed with inconsistent performances from some wonderful actors.  Nolte and Bridges are among the best even on their worst days, and Sharon Stone has a knack for worming sympathy from the audience even in the most unsympathetic roles.  Catherine Keener (excellent in 2000's Being John Malkovich) steals each of her scenes, even up against the powerful Albert Finney.  My tidbit on this one is look for Shawn Hatosy as young Vinnie - he was in the extraordinary 1999 film, Outside Providence, and Kimberly Williams from Father of the Bride.  The flashback scenes seem to be attempts at artful film making, but are fascinating as individual scenes. "},{"Title":"Lackluster neo-noir a la Shepard","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" SIMPATICO (2000) *1/2 Jeff Bridges, Nick Nolte, Sharon Stone, Albert Finney, Catherine Keener, Shawn Hatosy, Liam Waite, Kimberly Williams. Lackluster and boring adaptation of Sam Shepard's play about adolescent chums Bridges &#150; a well-to-do horseracing magnate &#150; and Nolte &#150; his drunken albatross &#150; embroiled in facing ghosts from their past involving a blackmailing get-rich quick scheme some 20 years ago and revisiting some not so good old times. For a neo noir the film suffers from nothing original, new or noteworthy and frankly offers no tension or interest; a real disappointment. However Keener gives a small gem of a performance as a gal pal of Nolte caught up in the attempted nefarious doings. (Dir Matthew Warchus) "},{"Title":"Disappointing... the cast should have made it MUCH better!","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  With a cast like this, you'd expect a riveting thriller, or at least a provocative mystery!NOPE.The pace was slow, I couldn't figure out why the characters made the decisions they made, and while the acting was well-done, by the end I was wondering why I'd watched the whole thing.  Even the musical score was off. "},{"Title":"A shameful waste of talent","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of those stories that prove that bankable stars can't save a bad script.  The film was a box office disaster, yanked after two weeks in theaters and grossing less than one million dollars.  The story, based on a Sam Shepard play, is a character study of characters so totally bereft that it is impossible to care.  Vinnie (Nick Nolte), Carter (Jeff Bridges) and Rosie (Sharon Stone) ran a betting scam on horseracing about twenty years ago that included blackmail.  Carter is now a successful horse breeder and Rosie is his wife.  Vinnie is a broken down drunk who is threatening to expose the scheme for reasons clear only to him.The story sputters along after that with all sorts of character development and flashbacks.  The more we learn about these three, the more we want the movie to end.  When it finally does end, the final resolution is so ridiculous and unsatisfying that we are left wondering what the point was.The acting was up to the standard one might expect, with all three major stars delivering strong performances.  However, the story was so irrational and boring that it didn't make a bit of difference.There is not a lot about the film that is worth recommending.  I rated it a 3/10.  Unless you are a devotee of one of the three stars, you probably will want to spend your time and money on something more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Messy, clumsy, convoluted, and weak.","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The film Simpatico tells its marginally interesting story through a succession of annoying flashbacks and unlikely present-day events. Character development is sufficient to make us realize that we don't much care about what happens to the characters and the drama unfolds like so much chaff from the cutting room floor pieced together in a futile attempt to whet audience interest. Simpatico is a poor showcase for some fine actors. "}{"Title":"Direct to Video - And deservedly so","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A lot of Hollywood films never have a cinematic release in Britain - because of the limited potential size of the audience and the number of cinemas overall. This never saw the light of day on the big screen - and it deserves that fate due to a hopelessly obtuse plot and some truly embarrassing moments. "},{"Title":"Unfocussed disappointment","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The script, particularly Albert Finney, is better than this meandering script.  The characters are unlikable, the situation uninvolving, and the point of the whole thing obscure.  Eventually, people behave inexplicably, but by that time, there's very little reason to care about anything or anyone.  "},{"Title":"Theatrical.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Simpatico' is based on a prestigious play by a prestigious author (Sam Shepherd).  Its values are theatrical - 'grand' (i.e. porcine) acting; a series of literary metaphors and structural connections; the group of long, 'key' scenes instead of a fluid cinematic narrative.  The film basically reiterates the maxim of another prestigious play by a prestigious author - 'Hell is other people'; all the connections in the movie serve to imprison the three main characters in a vicious circle.  Four great actors probably thought they were making another 'Paris, Texas'.  There are similarities - Nick Nolte's time-blasted hobo raking up the past; the home movies.  But I don't think so. "},{"Title":"Don't waste two hours of your life.","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm a huge horse racing fan.  This movie was a disappointment, what an understatement! Slow paced, ridiculous premise, more ridiculous reveals that make the limited plot even more of a joke.  What a waste of money and fine actors. "}]