[{"Title":"Wicked and stylish fun","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Gossip barely got noticed when it was released. This reception was possibly due to the generally slow box office of April 2000, but also to the fact that, at times, the film's style compensates for its lack of substance. Still, the film is a fun way to spend a few hours and the screenplay provides a unique story.The acting is pretty good, especially from the three leads - Lena Headey (Cathy), James Marsden (Derrick) and Norman Reedus (Travis). I saw Headey in some other films after this one, namely Face and Ripley's Game, and was impressed not only by her emotional range, but also by her mastery of accents. Both Marsden and Reedus are better actors than they are given credit for.The film's style and locales epitomize what I would personally call 'twenty-first century chic'. The loft is ultra cool, and so is the club. In fact, the film is worth seeing for its locales alone.Overall, a nice little thriller. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Slick, well-balanced, dramatically filmed, tense","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I viewed Gossip in a classroom setting with 26 college freshmen as a unit in a class devoted to transition to college.  I was pleasantly surprised at the discussion engendered by viewing the film in a classroom setting.  The students responded enthusiastically and thoughtfully to the many ethical issues presented.  I recommend the film for this purpose.The first 80 minutes or so of this 90 minute suspense thriller reminded me of some of the earlier films of Brian DePalma.  It is nicely shot at an urban university (NYU?), and the colors and angles add to the introduction of the main plot device - an innocent rumor started as a group project for a communications arts class.  Notice how many right angles and sharp points are present in the party and residential settings.  The students felt this contributed to the intended feeling of edginess engendered by the first 20 minutes.The first 80 minutes are well-conceived and intricately-plotted. The plot reveals itself at an excruciatingly pleasurable pace, and a nice twist is that the character of Derek appears to know no more than we, the audience, do.The ending is abrupt and somewhat derivative, but, in post-viewing discussion, we were able to identify a number of clues to the ending which the director has sprinkled throughout.A dark, cine noir feeling to the production results in a film a bit out of step with the 21st century, but one that should be satisfying to fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Pssst... Did you hear? This movie bombed!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, not totally. But it definitely left something to be desired. The plot starts out well and is very intriguing. However, the story takes some twists and turns that make it confusing and unbelievable.The plot begins with three college friends, Cathy (Lena Headey, The Devil's Advocate,) Derek (James Marsden, Disturbing Behavior,) and Travis (Norman Reedus, Deuces Wild,) who find they are very good at starting rumors. They decide to use this talent to do an experiment for a class in which they begin a rumor, track it around campus, and see how it changes and spreads. The poor subjects of their experiment are Beau (Joshua Jackson, TV's Dawson's Creek) and Naomi (Kate Hudson, Almost Famous.) While at a party, Derek discovers a situation between Beau and Naomi that soon becomes the rumor. However, when the rumor takes a drastic turn and students start accusing Beau of rape, Cathy and Travis must try and convince Derek that what they've started may lead to something worse. And when Naomi is found dead, the three roomates must fight among themselves and their consciences to fix a rumor that gave them more than what they bargained for. James Marsden gives an excellent, evil performance. Norman Reedus puts a lot into his character that excels in the end. And Joshua Jackson gives a wonderful performance as a wrongly accused man. I found Lena Headey and Kate Hudson's acting somewhat bland and boring. The movie seems to try too hard when trying to surprise you. In fact, it tries so hard that it creates way too many I have an ulterior motive and I'm not what you think I am side stories. If it just went down to the basic facts and left a little of the confusion out, it would have been much better. Possibly a 10 star movie. However, because I got hopelessly lost by the end, it only earned ******/10. "},{"Title":"entertaining and underrated gem","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Believe me this film doesn't have throngs of admirers. But I have an affinity for it. It's slick and interesting. The characters aren't what they seem. I thought James Marsders was quite good as the young man with the charm and looks..but something sinister lurks behind those eyes. The cast is pretty top notch for this genre and the film was much slicker than most give it credit for. It doesn't have a loyal following and certainly it's far from a masterpiece. But as entertainment,the film didn't let me down. The ending,while wasn't altogether satisfying,was at least fresh and different from the typical movie of it's genre. The movie has mystery and manipulation,it doesn't let you truly know all there is to know about many of the characters. There are many well known faces,especially from teen television,but this is an adult film..with adult themes like rape,deception,manipulation,trust,and possibly murder. It surprised me..because after it was over I was entertained. Sometimes that's all it takes for me to be satisfied. ***1/2/***** "},{"Title":"Simply not appreciated","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A vicious rumour is spreading like fire through the university, three journalism students planted the story, hoping to trace how it changes as it burns its path; but what goes around comes around.With a young and talented cast, including James Marsden, Lena Heady, Norman Reedus and Kate Hudson; Gossip deserves more credit than it seems to have received.The story is full of twists and is genuinely compelling to watch and easy to relate too; the direction is pretty stylish and achieves the necessary feel for the plot to play out, and the cast all contribute with solid performances.It's either been overlooked or harshly criticised by far too many people, come on! It's a good thriller. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Well done, and interesting.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    This is one of the rare current films which takes the trouble to combine good acting and an interesting plot with excellent filming and directing.  The viewer is left to think about the harmless thing called gossip, and about the views and moral codes of today's young generation.   It is pleasant to note that the characters are quite realistic.  We have all known, in high school and college such artistic weirdos as Travis, such hysterical golden girls as Naomi, such intellectuals as Kathy Jones, and such successful athletes as Derrick--popular and admired, and yet feared somehow, for the little diabolical flash in their behavior.  It is a tribute to the talent and skill of these actors that they inspire belief in the viewer while playing the roles of abstracts.   It should be noted particularly that James Marsden, usually an underestimated actor, manages by his skill to inspire sympathy, and in the end, a certain amount of bewildered admiration for his character.  One may argue whether lying and manipulation are immoral--but doing both of them well, and professionally, is worthy of respect.   To conclude--this is a film that is rare in the genre of youth films, in that it gets the viewer to sit back and think about the life these characters live, and the life which all of us saw firsthand in school and college.  The life of gossip, of lies, rumors, reputations . . . a life in which words have power over reality.  The Director shows this well, and the talented and skilled actors make us believe in the reality of their characters, their deeds, their emotions, and their thoughts.  "},{"Title":"good surprise ending and a very good film!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am surprised that Gossip so far has received rather low ratings. If you like Shallow Grave - then you will probably like this movie. It is very similar in concept with 2 guys and a gal living together with somewhat platonic relationships. But the movie is actually more about something else that is very intense and suspenseful.  I thought this movie was very captivating... all the way to the end. The acting was ok and the character Derrick Web is very well played by X-men star mardsen. If you like to guess at endings, this movie will give you a good ride. "},{"Title":"The first hour is good...","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 87 min.Gossip starts off well, an interesting premise, pretty people a suggestion of a good thriller to come. Alas somewhere around the 60 minute mark the script writer must have run out of pencils. The story takes a witless fantasy turn that left me feeling cheated.The so called alternate ending is just a longer and more unrealistic one.5/10 catch it on TV "},{"Title":"The Three Quickest Forms Of Communication Are ...","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Telephone... ...Telegram... ...and tell a woman Apologies for that old fashioned joke but it did make me smile and apologies too that anyone might think it's actually true because I know fine well from bitter personal experience that idle or malicious gossip and two faced chit chat that can affect a life is just as likely to be started by males as much by females . I guess everyone already knew that ? Interesting to note though that women like this film slightly more than men . I have to confess that I wasn't too keen on it . Now this had nothing to do with sexism and had everything to do with the way the story was developed which centres around rumours of a rape and before you can blink the rumours have spread all over college campus and a student finds himself facing charges . Other reviewers have rightly pointed out that the story is entirely dumb so I won't bother reiterating the points they've raised except to say  What about forensic evidence ? for a charge to be brought  . I also have a problem that it's a movie that's entirely made for a teen market which means the cast is young and good looking and we have to endure the MTV type of filming which totally negates any type of drama "},{"Title":"The Lower Life of Higher Education","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Recently, construction on my home forced me to spend a few days at my 21 year old daughter's apartment which she shares with her equally 21 year old roommate. Hmmm... Reflectively, that's a pretty good premise for a light comedy. Or, a gritty reality show. I'm sure I'll see it next year, after somebody reads this and works it into a million dollars I won't share, but you saw it here first, folks! Moving on. This brief sojourn afforded me several nights alone, left to shift for myself. Evidently, 21 year old girls go out EVERY night. Naturally, I thought to while away some time with a fine feature film.Enter culture shock. It seems that young women of this age possess very little of what their parents would consider watchable, let alone entertaining. However, sandwiched between classic Disney films, Bum Fights and a preponderance of films starring Orlando Bloom and Silent Bob, I found Gossip.Deciding to give it a try, I spent the next hour and a half or so with a growing feeling of nausea. This is a very disturbing film. The premise seems harmless enough. Three college students (James Marsden, Lena Hedley, Norman Reedus) decide to start an ugly rumor on campus for a class project. They claim that a friend, Beau (Joshua Jackson) had sexual intercourse with an unconscious date, Naomi (Kate Hudson) a notoriously virginal girl. Vicious as this seems, it remains relatively harmless until well meaning interference by other students convinces Naomi she has been date raped, and this baseless, thoughtless lie becomes a criminal matter.As a parent, this is a Class A nightmare. I STILL worry, much to my daughter's disgust. But, I also have a son, and the hellish circumstances faced by innocent Beau and his family resonates as well.The performances of all of the young up and coming actors, none of whom, except Hudson, I have seen before, is earnest and intense, especially as the situation spirals out of control. Edward James Olmos is, as always, utterly convincing as the detective assigned to the case.What I find so disturbing about the film is that it fails to make the point that gossip and rumors like these are not only ugly, they can be utterly destructive. Even if the subject is cleared in the end, the psychological damage to him, the girl, and both of their families is ongoing. I happen to be a big believer in justice, and I would have liked to have seen the three students responsible seriously punished, criminal records of their own being the least of the consequences.I am also disturbed by the opinions of others regarding this film. Comments that solely praise the beauty of an actress or the excellent directing, and say NOTHING about the subject. In fact, one went so far as to state that this is just the way things are on a college campus. How sad is that? How far has our society's moral standards fallen as to brush this off as nothing unusual? This Life Sucks.. So What? attitude is more frightening than the threat of nuclear war. Dress it up any way you want, Gossip is a revisiting of the Salem Witch Trials. The general consensus that no one seems to care, or feel that the instigators deserve vilification, at the least, both sickens and scares the hell out of me.Aside from that, there were serious reality flaws in the script. Forensic evidence, for one, or the lack of even more than a brief mention of it. The evil of Marsden's Derek revealed as if it were justification, both for the initial lie and the subsequent actions of the other two conspirators. The quick, and almost too pat ending.This film had an opportunity to make a powerful statement about the effect these kinds of vicious head games have on the innocent. A good film can go far in the changing of perceptions, attitudes, even actions of those who watch it. Unfortunately, Gossip fails in its chance. I give this film an overall six because of the dedication of the cast. Other than that, I cannot recommend this film as anything other than a sad, sad commentary on the lack of moral standards of the up and coming generation. God help us if they don't wake up. "}{"Title":"Decent movie","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was -over-all- a pretty decent movie. Nothing that would make my favorite shelf, but a movie I could definitely watch a few times a year. It's got an interesting plot and story-line, and most of the actors were top notch.Now that being said, there were two things that kept this movie from being an excellent movie. The first one was Lena Headey; her acting was mediocre at best, and in certain parts, down right awful. But this normally wouldn't be enough to knock off too many points, but the second problem... The ending -while decent- was definitely one that required you to suspend your disbelief. It leaves you wondering, What was the point?.But the acting by James Marsden, and Norman Reedus were amazing, and almost make up for it. Marsden plays the manipulative liar, who really isn't a bad guy, one who almost leaves you feeling a certain amount of pity at the end. Reedus was amazing; probably one of my favorite performances from him. The shy, SoHo, bohemian artist thing works really well for him. The interaction between the two men are some of the most interesting parts of the movie, and show the dominant/subservient or leader/follower relationship perfectly.Passable performances by Joshua Jackson and Kate Hudson. Nothing stellar, but nothing to complain about either.Again... Decent movie, one that could have been a hit with a few tweaks, and a different actress for Jones, but nothing that will make a 'favorites' list any time soon. "},{"Title":"This movie will show you why gossiping is bad.","Date":"3 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Actually, I started watching this movie with my hopes down, ready to be bored to death and my only motive was that Norman Reedus being in it. Its IMDb rating of 5.6 is a HUGE understatement and is possibly preventing lots of people from watching it. The movie is quite interesting from the very beginning, and midway through it you start to feel as if you're in the college that the rumor has been spread around. The acting is outstanding and believable though the plot is a bit far-fetched, but it still is one of the best movies I've watched and in my opinion it deserves a nice big 8. If you like surprise endings and thrillers and you're having second thoughts about spending one and a half hours of your life on this movie, forget them and DO IT. Your time will not be wasted. "},{"Title":"Drama With Plot And Suspense","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I recently seen this movie and I must say I was more than impressed. I was totally in shock when I discovered the final ending to the story. Yes Kate Hudson's performance is not some of her best work. (The Skelton Key) But all in all the rumor mill started by 3 college students. They want to see how starting a rumor about someone will change when it gets back to them as a class experiment. Not realizing that words even said innocently can hurt and destroy peoples lives. This is all I will say about this film for now except to say don't let the anyone influence you watch this MOVIE yourself. Then you can make up your own mind. As for me I rated this an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Gossip","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Gossip is a Drama/Thriller about three college friends Derrick (James Marsden) Cathy (Lena Headey) and Travis (Norman Reedus who decide to spread gossip for one of there assignments and see how quickly it can spread, but it spirals out of control. With appearances from (Joshua Jackson) and (Kate Hudson) Gossip was not a film that grabbed my attention when it was released I like James Marsden in (Disturbing Behaviour) but just wasn't a plot for me to get into. Gossip had something very likable about but ultimately crashed and burned (Norman Reedus) delivered a great performance as the guy laying low and James Marsden was strong but it was a predictable plot and a slow story the first half of the film doesn't revolve around much.I can't pinpoint what it was I liked about it maybe the eeriness of the gossip and Norman Reedus's performance, so much potential, disappointing though. "},{"Title":"A bit predictable, but a somewhat decent film","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***    ***SPOILERS*** This movie kept my attention throughout the entire duration, which I did not believe would happen.  I found this to be a mildly entertaining film.  The charming and talented Kate Hudson and the adorable Norman Reedus brought even more amusement to it.  This was not as immature and simple as most other movies of this nature.  However, this movie was quite predictable. Never did I think that Bo had raped Naomi nor did I ever think that Derrick did not rape Naomi.  Some people may have been fooled about what had really happened to Naomi.  I am happy to write that I am not one of those persons. This movie was filled with plot twists and turns.  It did do a good job of keeping my attention.  I rate this movie with a B+ for the suspense, a B- for the plot, a B for the acting, and an overall rating of a B, which is mainly for my bias towards Kate and Norman. "},{"Title":"Interesting Drama","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Guggenheim's second feature, after almost a decade spent in TV drama, is a taut thriller based on a savage theorem that the 'pleasure of gossip'  is gained by gauging its effects, no matter how cruel and unexpected the results.There are several things to criticise about 'Gossip' James Masden (who at times looks something like a young Tom Cruise) is perhaps too lightweight and insubstantial to project the confusion and cunning his role demands. And, even though explained away by an alleged substantial allowance, his apartment is perhaps too glitzy and fashionable for a college student. The thesis that Webb, Jones and Travis cook up together is too vague and spontaneous to be of practical use for study purposes. The debate over the rape and murder charges are unlikely to be used for teaching purposes as Professor Goodwin permits, the finale is far too elaborate to be convincing, and so on.But there is also much to enjoy here not least of which is a plot which, until the final few minutes brings the prerequisite closure that American audiences seem to crave, is clever, unpredictable and thought provoking. Guggenheim can claim Michael Lehmann's now classic 'Heathers' (1989) asone inspiration for 'Gossip'. Kate's introductory remarks'I'm a girl with a problem. I know better, but I have got myself in a very tempting situation'recalls Veronica's infatuation and self-analysis in the earlier film. Webb's mysterious charm can be compared to that of Jason Dean's, while both films share a college ethos, a sense of practical jokes spinning mercilessly out of control - a plot momentum that is only stopped with an unsatisfying ending. The slickness of 'Gossip' betrays its more recent provenance, and one is left feeling that a grittier, more documentary approach might have suited its subject more, particularly as it lacks Lehmann's ironic intensity. Fortunately the direction of Guggenheim's film is right on the button and sweeps matters along so that, for most of the time it doesn't matter that some sharpness is lost. Guggenheim's work within television has obviously led him to make some observations on the effects of the mass media. Such reflections are articulated most clearly by the McLuhanite Professor Goodwin, whose lectures bring most of the principals together, or are expressed in more practical terms by Travis. A shambling and reclusive figure, in many ways he is the most interesting character in the film and one wishes that his role had been expanded to articulate more of this obsessions. His enlargements and manipulations of Naomi's image in his TV den speak volumes about intrusion into personal space and it is entirely apposite that Webb's downfall should be captured on a monitor.At the heart of 'Gossip' are many such intrusions. Specifically, the rapes, allegations of rape, and confession of rape, each echoing one another, driving the plot. Webb's earlier encounter with Naomi, his struggle with her on the bed during which she scratches his cheek, his uncertain sexual coupling with Jones, Noami's allegations concerning Beau&#133; all these are linked by allegation and gossip. Significantly, the same line is uttered by Naomi to Beau, as she asks him to explain himself, as when Jones interrogates Webb about his role in matters 'that's not an answer'. There is, of course, no real effective 'answer' to rumour. It is always a wayward invention of reality which, as Travis knows, just needs to be 'good, simple, and with room to grow'. As his name suggests, Webb can 'spin' a yarn, catch people by their credulity and it will run its course, as for the most part people are content to go along with it and enjoy it.Spoiler ahead!Interestingly, the 'pilgrimatic' Jones (a reference to her perceived decency throughout), confirms the pervasive nature of rumour, when she contrives the scenario that forces Webb's confession. The 'death' of Naomi is conveyed to Webb third hand and 'confirmed' by the word of others. It is of course still only rumour, but under semblance of a reliable report. Fittingly, Webb is completely taken in when his own weapon is used against him. By the end of the film, as she admit, Jones has acquired, albeit in a good cause, guile and deceiving skills of her own. Her own satisfaction at her use of methods she had previously condemned, may be tempered by sadness. But the audiences' pleasure in following through the train of events that unfold, and realising that it was all fabricated, only emphasises the truth of Webb's exercise. "},{"Title":"A film for the ages","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Gossip, in my opinion is one of the best films ever, one for the ages. Now I realize that most people don't really like this film, for one reason or another, however this film has some of the most amazing qualities that filmmakers neglect to acknowledge in today's filmmaking. One of which is the anatomy-and assemble of the cast. The main and supporting cast alone is one of the reasons that I first wanted to watch the film. James Marsden gives an absolutely enthralling performance that should be more recognized in his career. I see no real holes in his acting and his character makes me wish that we could see more of those characters in films today. When James was in this film he was just getting his career going and, what some might say he was somewhat young in that stage of his career, we should hope to see such hard work, attention to character and determination in today's 'upcoming stars', as he did then. Derrick Webb is a character, I for one, hope to see more often in thrillers in the near future. Derrick's interesting appeal to women, and the fact that he is rich, makes it so much more enjoyable. Not to mention his character's thrilling change and turn of events; where at one stage we actually feel sorry for the guy for being a different type of 'freak'. Travis, played by Norman Reedus is one of those characters that I love, to delve into his artistic expressions and talent, and not to mention Norman's gripping performance as yet another type of 'artistic freak' in the film. So basically I love almost everything in this film from Joshua Jackson (and his performance) to the actual storyline as well. Furthermore, the camera lens and series of close ups at thrilling points of the film are absolutely brilliant, which again I wish filmmakers put into today's movies more often. Say what you will about Gossip but I completely love this film, and find myself watching it over and over again for multiple reasons. So it all comes down to great acting, and not only good looking actors (that we don't see as much today, as we should), great storyline, great camera shots and angles. One for the ages in my opinion (that should really get higher ratings than 5.6). "},{"Title":"Yentas on campus","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Let's face it, our culture is fascinated with gossip. It seems it is a national pastime. How, otherwise, can we explain the existence of glossy magazines and tabloids that deliver all the dirt to its readers. Gossip, directed by Davis Guggenheim, and based on a screenplay by Gregory Poirier and Theresa Rebeck, a playwright on her own right, exploits the premise of how damaging to anyone an innuendo can be, when it is perceived as the truth.The idea of spreading a nasty rumor to see how far it gets, is not a novel idea. Fortunately for the creators, the movie works out better than one thought up to the contrived finale. There are things that don't make sense, but one goes along just for the ride. If anything, the moral of the story is that the joke backfires and it comes to haunt the arrogant Derrick Webb right in his face.We enjoyed Lena Headey's take on Cathy Jones. This young actress deserved better than what she was given here. James Marsden has some good moments. The cast looks as though out of a colorful ad for J. Crew, or one of those catalog stores. "},{"Title":"It's just words.... right?","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Gossip is a glossed-over movie that if you ask people about it, they'll talk about Gossip Girl. I'll admit, I saw it because James Marsden was in it, and I was surprised by his edgy role. Gossip centers around three college students, Cathy, known to everybody as Jones, who seems like a normal college girl, Travis, the off-the-wall artist who has a different mind which he shows in his work, namely his room, and Derrick, the arrogant, quick- talking schmoozer who can lie his way in or out of any situation, who owns the apartment the three share. What starts as Derrick defending a girl in a class, where he states, We're people, and we do what we do... I like gossip. It's fun. This leads Jones to come up with their project for the class; start a rumor, track it and see where it leads. That night, the three attend a party. Jones is taking pictures outside when she bumps into rich girl Naomi, getting out of a town car with her boyfriend, Beau. Jones takes a picture of them going inside then scoffs once they've left (Who arrives to a party in the meat-packing district in a town car?) When Derrick and his date are in the bathroom while she gets sick, Derrick sees Naomi and Beau making out. Beau tries to push Naomi, but she stops him. Shortly after, from having too much to drink, she passes out and Beau leaves. Derrick sees this and gets the idea for their rumor. The next morning, hungover Jones is hesitant to go through with it; Derrick teases her about not being able to be mean (You're from Plymouth, with the Pilgrims and there were no mean Pilgrims) so Cathy tells Naomi's best friend she slept with Beau. Naomi hears the rumor and is afraid Beau raped her. Things go wrong. Beau gets arrested, Cathy starts doubting the plan, Naomi can't stand to hear Derrick's name, and Derrick doesn't tell the truth until he's absolutely backed into a corner. Was Gossip a world-turning film? Probably not. Do more than a handful of people know it exists? Again, probably not. Did it really need to be rated R? Once again, probably not. But it's a good movie to see once. It's edgy and a little dark but there are some dare-I-say cute moments. If you see it in the video store or better the library, rent it. It's only an hour and a half long. "},{"Title":"Gossip can turn you on... or turn on you.","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *Gossip SPOILERS* Three young journalism students, Derrick (James Marsden), Jones (Lena Headey) and Travis (Norman Reedus) have an interesting idea for a Journalism class project; they'll tell a rumor and then track it as it spreads.The selected victims are the Golden Boy and Girl of the campus, Naomi (Kate Hudson) and Beau (Joshua Jackson).But the gossip, naughty but nice at first, quickly takes a turn for the worse, destroying both Naomi and Beau's lives.Jones wants to tell the truth, Travis hides in his art and Derrick... what about Derrick? And why didn't he tell anybody that he used to go to school with Naomi? For this matter, why does Naomi react with rage at the mere mention of his name? Enticing, interesting and thought-provoking, 'Gossip' is one of the most enjoyable and underrated thrillers of the '90s - early '00s, with a talented cast, an inspired directing - by Elizabeth Shue's husband, no less - and a very well-written (especially for a post Scream teen-college thriller) and tight script.Watch it... and then remember it when you talk with your friends about rumors.Gossip 8/10. "}{"Title":"this movie is about the consequences of spreading rumors","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" really amazing movie... the idea of gossip is so intense... everything is intense... obviously this movie is slightly exaggerated but it also brings the viewer to think about how the gossip they have spread has affected people. Also the idea of karma was good... i really recommend this movie to anyone who likes to or has gossiped. In this movie the three main characters have to deal with learning the truth about their friends. Also their is some undertones of prejudice against rich people to deal with. Much reference is made to rich people being able to avoid problems which the main character fits this stereotype. For anyone that wants to watch something with a little more drama to it definitely recommend this movie. Phychologist might be interested in this movie. Has definitely made me want to study physiology even more. "},{"Title":"Intriguing, well acted and fun but sometimes unbelievable","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Plot 3 friends spread a rumor about a girl saying that she had sex during a party. The rumor takes a twist when people start changing it by saying that she was raped. Everything gets downhill and now the 3 friends don't know what to do. Should they confess? I cannot believe how many people dislike this movie, i thought it was very interesting and original in some aspects. First the acting....It was great! I mean everybody did a very good job at it. The characters were engaging and you're never quite sure about their intentions, which makes them even more interesting! The casting was excellent and everyone fit in their roles. The plot was very original and it was so full of twists i never see coming.It was very stylish too the use of colors, camera angles they were all used great, very good looking. Also it hit hard with its message about what a rumor can do. The story not always hold on because it felt unrealistic and exaggerated. The music/score was good and it added intensity to the movie. I truly recommend this movie to anyone looking for a more original and intriguing than the usual teen movie, i would say its very fun too. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch the Webb of deceit unravel","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you enjoyed Cruel Intentions, you'll probably enjoy this. 3 media students devise a thesis whereby they'll start a rumour and watch it spread, with dangerous consequences.There were a few things I didn't get about this film (*SPOILERS-SKIP TO NEXT PARAGRAPH*) 1. How were they going to prove their thesis to their professor? 2. When did everyone decide to expose Derrick? Was the thesis all a ploy to make him admit his past misdeeds? 3. WHY did everyone turn on Derrick? His character definitely wasn't as evil as SMG in Cruel Intentions. 4. Are we supposed to sympatise with Naomi. She wasn't a particularly nice person, so I couldn't see why everyone teamed up to help her in the end.The acting was good- Lena Headey was good as the conscience of the group, Norman Reedus' character took a mad,obsessive tangent midway into the film and James Marsden was good as Derrick- but he wasn't EVIL. Of what little we see of Kate Hudson's character doesn't endear her to us. If she was trying to illicit sympathy, she failed.The movie starts out as a drama, but then turns thriller, leaving behind the interesting take of the REALISTIC damage in starting a rumour. However, the movie still remains highly watchable.Enjoy in all its sleaziness- 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Well balanced","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Because of the nature of the film, (Teen Thriller) i was expecting a film that would be really simple and really for anyone.  But, i thought it was a really great film and that the scripting and acting was top-notch.  I saw the film twice, once with friends and once on my own, to get a better feel for it.  I was really impressed and the first hour or so builds up to the unexpected finish, which i really didn't see coming.Derrick seemed a really nice guy to begin with, but eventually, you just know he's nasty. Jones was a good character and the chemistry between her and Derrick was well done.  Travis appeared to have a lot of layers and to have taken the project a bit far but he attempts to bring out the deception which suggests he was only acting it (?).The film is a bit confusing but it's extremely well done and enjoyed it and thought that the 15 certificate was well-given as younger teenagers probably wouldn't get the gist of it.  I intend to buy it on VHS or DVD when it's released in the UK! "},{"Title":"A Good, super twisty movie that shines","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I happened to like this intense twisted movie, despite the poor reviews by some.  I thought the plot was original and cleaver.  I didn't know that what was going to happen at the end would happen.  I'm still trying to figure things out. I liked the characters, especially new comer Lena Heady.  I thought they all did an excellent job.  I don't feel this film is just another teen flick, it has substance and creativity. I hope people give it a chance because I think it's worth it.  I loved it and plan on seeing it again.  I give it a B.  "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, but ultimately forgettable...","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad movie. It starts with an interesting premise; where do we draw the line between news and gossip. And the actors, especially Lena Headey, are a step above your usual teen flick pretty faces. Even the predictable plot held my attention. Unfortunately, the overly stylized set and characters (never without a martini in hand) didn't work for the movie. Case in point, the tepid rumor that gets the whole thing rolling. Among such sophisticates, the rumor would seem like no big deal. But cast this rumor into the sea of Dawson's Creek or even a film like Scream or Cruel Intentions and the plot might have been more effective. This movie looks like a good candidate to be remade ten years from now...when everyone has forgotten about Gossip. "},{"Title":"An entertaining waste of time","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so maybe from a film critic's point-of-view this movie does not stand up in the top ten, but as a casual movie goer, I have no qualms about recommending it. In a style closely paralleled to 'Cruel Intentions', it's appeal lies within it's chic portrayal of college life, and the necessity for basic morality. The only critique I can concede to is that it has a titillating factor which could be enhanced a little more (i.e. like 'Cruel Intentions'. The performances are marvelous, highlighting the character of Jones (L.Heady), Derrik (J.Mardsen),and especially Naomi (K.Hudson). My personal love of Joshua Jackson does not bias me in any way, but just so you know, he was spectacular! "},{"Title":"Not bad at all!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gossip is a highly stylized romp that thoroughly entertains. The plot twists come fast and furious, which allow the audience barely enough time to set things straight in their heads. The performances are especially great for a young cast. Marsden displays some versatility here that I wasn't too confident he had previously. Highly enjoyable, I recommend it for anyone that survived high school. "},{"Title":"I was very impressed.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to the theater not knowing what to expect, but I was really impressed because the acting was very good and the plot was excellent.  Towards the middle of the movie, you tend to get an idea of what's going to happen, but the ending is a complete surprise.  I really can't think of a bad thing to say about the movie "},{"Title":"really,really good!","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  the ending was the best ending i have ever seen! i never guessed that something like that would happen!it's definitely worth the money to see it! it's like my favorite movie now! i don't think there was one bad thing about it!  "}{"Title":"`Gossip' is a very cruel and often emotionless drama","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  `Gossip' `Gossip' is a very cruel and often emotionless drama. Starring a very colorful twenty-something crowd we are taken into the world of university, where three roommates (James Marsden, Lena Headey, Norman Reedus) all take a class talking about the value and destruction that can be wielded by the simple juicy bit of gossip. As an experiment in the cultures, the threesome decides to spin a little yarn and track how intense the aftermath can be.Their guinea pigs are a beauty queen who won't have sex with her man and her man who claims he actually did have sex. Obviously this explodes into a rape investigation and threesome is caught wondering who is telling the truth, what is that person hiding and what exactly did happen.`Gossip' is the type of film that isn't juicy or even amounts to anything really interesting. What we do end up with is a lot of potential in a cast. Such stand-outs or gems in this film are three of the female leads who include Lena Headey, Marisa Coughlan, and Kate Hudson. These three actresses need better parts in far better films. Lots of these twenty-something actors are solid and wonderful. The only thing missing from this Williamson-type film was the homosexual male struggling with his sexuality.The male quotient of this film was domineered by the overly exhausting villain played viciously by James Marsden. Marsden is another actor who has never been given a chance at a better role.Gossip's sex scenes are short and anti-climatic and even bridge on torturous. Where is the passion and exhilaration often associated with the tantalizing of attractive leads? There is more steam in daytime.The analysis above does beg the questions, did anyone really love or care for another and were these people really shocked that a sex crime was actually committed? None of the characters in the whole entire film really lent any emotional connection to their sex lives or to the people they were supposed to be involved with. Without this emotional connection I found this film vacuous. (1.5 of 5).  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly interesting movie which just misses","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This a surprisingly interesting and well acted film considering the rather common plot. Three college roommates cynically decide to spread a rumor to see how far it would go and then are surprised and frightened by the results. The plot does have a few nice turns but Marsden's lead isn't developed enough and in the end the writer sold out for the safe moralistic ending when he could have added a few more twists to make the film memorable. "},{"Title":"The Gossip Should Be About Promoting This Film.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Gossip (2000) Dir Davis Guggenheim / Cast James Marsden, Lena Headey, Joshua Jackson, Kate Hudson, Norman Reedus The film is about a forest fire of words. The students presented here compare gossip to entertainment and media. During a party Derek witnesses Bo and Naomi having sex. Remembering a past rumour Naomi spread involving Cathy, she seeks revenge. With Naomi's past coming into visualization rumour spreads that Bo raped her. When Bo is arrested Cathy does some investigating. Derek argues whether they can arrest you based on what people believe? Well directed by Davis Guggenheim with numerous plot twists but the conclusion is too contrived. The outcome is flawed due to plausibility where everything would depend on union. James Marsden plays a real heat seeker bent on deception and popularity that can unravel at any moment. Lena Headey plays the guilt ridden gossip who seeks answers. Kate Hudson is featured as a gossip target who becomes the greater victim. Joshua Jackson becomes another victim when his reputation is on the line after being arrested. Norman Reedus plays Marsden's and Headey's roommate with an eye for the arts. Viewers will likely engage in its mystery and twists and turns but the conclusion could have been handled with greater credibility. The flood gates of gossip are easier to open than to close. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Worth checking out for all the (now) familiar faces + it's a decent thriller","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Stylish thriller surrounding three college friends and roommates who deliberately start a false rumour for a class project on gossip and how fast it spreads. Their rumour quickly takes on a life of its own, mutating into a tale of rape and resulting in the arrest of a classmate and potential murder.This wasn't a great movie but it wasn't as bad as I expected either considering I'd never heard of it before. Interesting if (believable) plot and a decent amount of mystery/suspense. It is also kinda predictable though including the twist ending.What makes this the most fun is the amount of (now) familiar faces involved and I'll admit I only watched it because I saw Norman Reedus' name attached. (Gah, he is super good looking here) but we also get James Marsden, Lena Headley, Joshua Jackson, Kate Hudson and several other supporting roles. 6/26/14 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is totally awesome. I rented it expecting nothing but a teenager thriller like Urban Legend and it eventually revealed itself as an excellent film.The acting is very good, Derrick Webb has such a villain vibe that I thought his character really killed Naomi. The directing is well done, along with a tense and entertaining atmosphere. The story is quite original with an unpredictable progression. The ending is absolutely unexpected, I don't remember the last film that had such great twist in the end. I just don't understand how Gossip is so unknown on IMDb and low rated, but I surely recommend this to everyone. "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I hadn't herd of this movie before, but when I saw it on tv I loved it! It has excellent acting and a good plot! But the best thing about the movie has to be James Marsden! I also hadn't recognize him, even though I had seen other movies with him in it! Now thanks to this movie I can't get enough of him! I recommend this movie to anyone!!! But I wouldn't rent this for a date, it might scare them lol!  "},{"Title":"Spreading rumors can really hurt people (possible spoilers)","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A group of college students decides to experiment with various rumors about just what took place between a good girl and the guy she was in bed with.  One of the students actually saw her say no before she passed out and he saw the guy leave without taking advantage of her, though they were doing just about everything but the act itself.  The rumors blow out of proportion and lead to the girl being convinced she was raped.  Don't go further or it might spoil the movie for you  the  guy who witnessed the encounter has a past with the girl who thinks she was raped, and one of the other students involved in the scheme investigates that past and it really comes back to haunt the guy, especially after the girl supposedly commits suicide.  So is what these students did now murder?  DO NOT read further if you don't want to know the ending  it's not what you'd expect, but I sort of anticipated it, though for all the wrong reasons.  It made the movie more worthwhile for me, when before it just seemed like junk.  Let's just say guys who go too far when they are told no get what they deserve, if you think symbolically rather than literally. "},{"Title":"Convoluted and frustrating","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I absolutely adore films but I usually wait for them to come out on video before I see them. I'm generally quite easily pleased by movies and each time I watch one it tends to become my new favorite! After a friend built the film Gossip up so much, I was pretty much dying to see it. I really liked the way the film was shot; the interesting camera angles and thrilling music created a very strong sense of drama and suspense and the first half was immensely enjoyable. However, as the film progressed I found it harder and harder to follow. Not only that, but it became very difficult to determine who was the good guy. The final blow for me was when, after about 85 minutes of twisted plot lines, the film culminates in a one-minute explanation. To say the ending was abrupt is an understatement. I was left contemplating what had actually even happened! The film was far too convoluted for me and I would only suggest watching it if you're in the mood to be frustrated by an unclear story-line. It's such a shame because the beginning was so promising and, had the film ended slightly differently,it would have been a very entertaining piece. Needless to say, it's not my new favorite!! "},{"Title":"Sleek and Stylish","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A new look on the whole dramatic thriller genre.  The film has a sleek and stylish approach on the whole film genre.  It was a gripping tale with a very suprising twist.  I enjoyed this film the whole way through.  A cool and excitng cast with great and devoloped characters that made the film what it was.  They can't top this film with any sequals or any copy scripts it's original and will always be original in my opinion.  10/10 "},{"Title":"There was alot of Gossip about Gossip","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The word on the town was that it was a half decent movie. Like most gossip, this was incorrect! I just saw it last night and it has to be the biggest load of crap I have ever seen. A plot that no one cares about, as movies are meant to help us escape reality, and this was an accurate, yet boring, portrayal of how college life is. The professsor should have lost his job, as harassing the student without proof of his crime, is a big no-no! Yes, the ending was a surprise, but it was not a wow, I never saw that one coming, what a great ending to a great movie, it was more like, A twist does not a good movie make.The main girl was not attractive, and I am wondering why they did not hire Katie Holmes, to make one element in this crap watchable. Then again, Holmes would never embarrass herself, by appearing in this movie! "}{"Title":"If...","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you can ignore the fact that...1) no self-described poor kid would have thousands of dollars of    art supplies and multimedia equipment in his room;2) there is almost no chance that a rumour about two students    having sex would attract any attention at the average college    (those religious colleges excluded);3) no professor (who wanted to keep his or her job) would offer for     class discussion a campus date-rape case that was under     investigation, let alone get involved in it personally;4) NO dorm-living college student (regardless of wealth) would     ever offer a drink to a fellow student, Gordon Gekko-style;5) it is almost laughable to suggest that the professor of a class     that large would know his or her students by name;6) on a campus so small that everyone clearly seems to know everyone     else, Naomi would have obviously had to have bumped into Derrick at     some point previously;then you will enjoy this movie.Also, while as a recent Torontonian, and a University of Toronto student, I find it flattering that directors deign to use my campus and city to sub in for virtually any American urban locale...I would appreciate it if Hollywood attempted to respect the intelligence of the average Canadian by not putting obvious shots of the Ontario provincial legislature in a movie that supposedly takes place in New York.  "},{"Title":"The most intense movie I've ever seen! spoilers","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  GOSSIP is a first rate thriller with a great teen cast and an ending that will leave you breathless! It's about a spoiled college boy named Derrik James Marsden who decides to make a up a rumor about the richest girl on campus Kate Hudson. One night while at a club he witnesses her boyfriend Joshua Jackson making out with her. She gets drunk and passes out. Derrick decides to push the truth a little too far when he says that her boyfriend has raped her. Pretty soon the cops come to arrest Jackson and that is when the thrills and chills begin! It is a fabulous mix of action, adventure, drama, mystery, and suspense. You may have to watch it more than once to figure it out, but that's okay with me because I absolutely love this movie! It is the most intense movie I have ever seen in my life!  "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film had an interesting concept with how bad gossip can get and what it can do to people. A harmless rumour get's spread around a campus and quickly get's out of hand. This movie had some interesting plot twists but be forewarned the ending is retarded. It made absolutely no sense. This movie could have had a great ending but it didn't. Kate Hudson I thought should have had a bigger role in it but she hadn't made it big before this film  "},{"Title":"Was it really about Gossip?","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At the outset of this movie, Derek states his hypothesis that Gossip is News.  What evolves from this is not necessarily an affirmation of that statement. Rather, it is an experiment in manipulation using gossip as the medium.Still, I don't think that's what the movie was about. To me, date-rape and Justice seemed like the prevalent theme. Along those lines I felt that an effort had been made to draw similarities with the Alex Kelly date-rape incident of the 80's. Both Kate Hudson and James Marsden were eerily identical to their real life counterparts, and as the movie began to backtrack into the past, I could see that the plot was no longer based on the web that spun on purpose, but on the truth waiting to get out. So what happens when a rich jock is accused of rape? In a parallel universe, what course of events might lead to a satisfying levying of Justice, if such a thing exists? "},{"Title":"Fun, Fast paced show","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gossip was a pleasure to watch and all of the actors portrayed their roles very effectively, especially Marsden who is a treat to see perform. The plot is fun and keeps you on your toes throughout the entire movie. The directors did a very good job on creating a very New York feeling in Toronto. Altogether this movie is excellent and I recommended it to anyone who likes Marsden and thriller movies.  "},{"Title":"Throws it all away with that ending","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gossip would have made a fun teen thriller if it could have thought up a way to end itself. Gossip is about some rich college students who start up a rumor about how far one guy went with his drunk girlfriend . She has no recollection about what happened, but she begins to believe the rumors that she was raped.  A big police investigation follows as well as many twists. Most of the twists you can believe and go on watching the film, but the last big one throws it all away. (spoiler!!! Everything towards the end of the film is a hoax to get someone to confess to all of the recent happenings). That completely ruins the mood, it seems like the screenwriter could not think of anything decent to come up with, so he slaps on this ending. In EIGHTH GRADE, I learned never to end a story with it was all a dream; or a big practical joke, it's way too easy and gives you an excuse to do anything with the first parts of the film. Rent purely for entertainment, because that's the only level this movie really works on. "},{"Title":"Great actors in fun, trashy movie","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gossip is good, trashy fun, as long as you don't take it very seriously. The film it's shot like an advertisement, and it has a lot of gorgeous actors and actresses (Lena Headey is lovely, I hope to see her on many more movies) and the ending is unconvincing, but if you accept the whole artificiality of the concept, you will enjoy it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"another film to make my generation look stupid","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My problems with this film were many, but I guess I sort of liked it anyway, a little.It opens comically - that college classroom is the least realistic thing I've seen since Mr. Bill.  (SPOILER) The girl the prof. insults could file complaints at the office of civil liberties, professors don't have the right to criticize your hair!  And the lead role's response to the gossip question, despite the professors pseudointellectual-sounding encouragement (e.g., connect the dots, but what's your thesis), never does make any sense... yet everyone looks astounded as if it was really profound.  Essentially he never says anything more sophisticated than what the (coincidence or subtle racism?) African-American girl says to open with... basically just that gossip is fun.  Gee, give him an 'A+'.  Made the film sit with me funny right from the start.Then the film progesses into an over-produced high art (yet really blatant) display of the plot.  And I agree with the other posters, the apartment, their dress, the way they spoke like they were supposed to be intelligent (sorry to the one little poster who thought this actually was intelligent), it was just a little bit rich, wasn't it?  Come on, this isn't Dr. Zhivago here.  And the kid who said he was broke had only about $50,000 worth of multimedia equiptment in his room.  AND WHAT was up with how that dude found a way to make it art?  Did anyone follow his complex schematic for his piece that later sort of deteriorated into just a simple collage?  Again, the people are brilliant because the story tells us they are, not because the producers, writers, etc. actually took the time and effort to MAKE them brilliant characters!!Then the thing just gets silly and wierd, and implausible.  Cops that don't arrest, roommates that fear their lives (or are key witnesses) but don't leave the apartment, confessions that nobody bothers to tape until (SPOILER) the very end of the movie (thus making at least ME, for one, ask... why didn't they do that a long time ago?), and other acts of Hollywood stupidity made the film go from bad to worse.However, the central theme of the movie (the title word) is intriguing enough that if you have intelligence of your own, and a sense of creativity beyond that of the monkeys that laid down this formulaic and trite film... you can do as I did, and sort of go off into your own little trance with the film... ignoring what actually happens (since it wouldn't really happen that way anyhow), and dreaming up your own little story.This food for thought quality of the film is its only redeeming quality.  Too bad the film doesn't take a bite itself.  "},{"Title":"gossip is loads of fun","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  a brilliant film artfully scripted and shot.  Davis Guggenheim does a wonderful job directing and the cast is believable and hot.full of twists and turns, everytime i watch this film, and it's a lot, i find myself asking myself new questions on what was actually gossip and what wasn't.  who started the rumors?  are they really rumors?  is so and so telling the truth?it is movies like this, that make you think about real issues along with the content of the film that make them wonderful.  Like travis's room in the film...it is a piece of art with a killer soundtrack( i was especially happy to have seen poe performing at a club in it...considering i thought she was lost to us). "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, but dwindles towards the end.","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts out _very_ promising with an interesting concept (the 'migration and mutation' of a rumour), but along the line it dwindles to a somewhat mediocre thriller-like movie.The ending holds very few surprises and no inspiring personality development or noteworthy plot-twists (all stock material).Their project-artwork is wonderful though. I voted a 6 for the concept, artwork and the first 45 minutes of the movie. "}{"Title":"Fun Way to Spend 90 Minutes","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When i first heard that Gossip was being released i thought it was going to be another Wack Teen Murder Flick. I was  surprised to find out it wasn't. Although the story line was weak and a lot of the events that transpire are somewhat predictable it was just plain out fun to watch. James Marsden is without a doubt the highlight of the film and its cool watching him lie and manouver to try and get out of every bad situation. I was a fan of the ending and the music throughout rocks especially Tonic's Mean to Me at the end credits. So if your looking to kill an hour and a half, check it out. "},{"Title":"I'm with Roger Ebert on this one","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film addresses many intriguing issues such as the moral consequences of postmodern ideology and the decadence of contemporary academia (highlighted by the hyper-real nightclub of a university in which it is set). And then in comes what others have called a twist and I call yet another lame Hollywood ending in which everyone gets what's coming to them. Sheesh. If I wanted that I would read Aesop's fables. "},{"Title":"How bad can words be ????","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Fascinating. Perfect plot. perfect actors. Perfect movie. This movie will make us think how bad a simple lie can be. How bad WORDS can be.Watch it.10 of 10 "},{"Title":"I Know YOU'LL Love It...","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  great cast, great story and great directing make this an awesome movie. sex, plot twists and scandal is all n-e-one wants in movies and this movie delivers. james is hot!!! so is the rest of the cast. watch it now. 10/10 "},{"Title":"An Intelligent Movie","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the bad reviews it received, I think Gossip is an intelligent movie. Maybe that's why many people hate it, because it's just too tiring for them to follow the story.The beginning of the movie is quite slow-moving. But it gets faster after the trio decided to spread out gossip to see how far it would go.James Marsden is quite convincing. However, Joshua Jackson is out of place. He can't get into his character at all. Maybe he was expecting to be the main character instead.The ending is quite unpredictable, although not totally believable. The yearbook scene should've been cut. But this movie is one of a kind and you should see it. "},{"Title":"All around a pretty good movie.... (A slight spoiler for the intelligent..)","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, following the plot-twisting manipulative style of movies such as 'Cruel Intentions' and 'Wild Things', does it all with style.The casting is well done, with only the casting of Hudson questionable, the actors complementing each other in the darkness of the plot. While the camera work is solid, it is also pretty ordinary and predictable, this is NOT the movie to watch for revolutionary camera work. The soundtrack is solid, not outstanding, but good nonetheless. Settings are suitably dark, and the weather is suitably inclement, with the appropriate deluges in the dark. The script is fairly well written, and exchanges between Derrick and Jones are suitably witty. Norman Reedus is to be congratulated for his performance as a dark and troubled Travis.The similarities to 'Wild Things' are striking, but are only revealed in the last moments of the movie. In conclusion, the movie IS worth seeing, and possibly worth viewing twice. I will. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie; you might be pleasantly surprised.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was a fairly impressive film. It actually managed to achieve suspense. I went in expecting a dodgy, common-denominator, teenage flick, and was pleasantly surprised to find a film with a plot. There were some brilliant cinematographic moments as well. Watch this movie; you might be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"the ending sucks but James Marsden is awfully cute.","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The story is basically about 3 roommates who explore the power of gossip as a school project & allow it to spiral out of control. It starts off quite promisingly with college life seemingly made up of living in a lovely house & going to parties everyday. However, as the plot starts to thicken, it becomes more and more ludicrous & the ending is really, really bad. The only good thing in the show is James Marsden who is unbelievably cute . "},{"Title":"It thinks it's clever... but it's not.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Seemingly a decent thriller that rattles along at a decent pace with decent performances and a good look the twist at the end totally changes your perception of it. There are a fair number of twists and turns throughout the film and it's hard (but fun) to try and keep up. It's just there's one twist too many and the ending is so rushed that questions enter your head. 15 minutes after leaving the theatre the whole film will have completely fallen apart - the plot just doesn't stand up to scrutiny. What seemed as clever just seems contrived and this is a shame because there is an energy and vibrancy to the film that really works. Sure, it's glossy and a bit silly but until the end you can overlook this. It could be that after a few viewings it really does all make sense but, frankly, I have no enthusiasm to watch it again. "},{"Title":"critics hated...i loved it..who listens to critics anyway. high 7 out of 10","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   i have no idea why this film has been so bad mouthed by the public. paid critics may have some bad  bad mouthing to do, as they insult any film which doesn't have a shakespearion performance in it. but as for the public, i have no idea of there problemthis film kept me on the edge of my seat for the majority of the film. the film started of well, got abit slow when the rumours  got going, but after a while this film speeded up, with twist and turns coming at you like no bodies business.the film was set up in a way that multiple plot twist were on offer. (slight spoiler) after the girl was killed, i became weary of all the character.with all the multiple  plot twist on offer, this one used one that i never would have expected. i'm usually quite good at guessing plot twist ( work out the twists in reindeer games, and primal fear half hour into them), but this one i never got.the only problem i have with this film was ( spoiler) ...that it was never explained why  artist room mate had an obsession with the murdered girl, and why he started screwing about with the murdered girls face on his computer screen, when the other two roommates were shagging.when all is said and done, this was a great movie, which i would definetely see again. 7 out of 10  "}{"Title":"A pull-the-rug-from-under-your-feet thriller.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why people on this message board are comparing this movie to Cruel Intentions, Scream, and even Pulp Fiction for crying out loud, is beyond me.  This picture is much more along the lines of The Usual Suspects and Snake Eyes.  Not as far as the plot goes, but concerning the excellent, intriguing storyline with a horrible ending.Sometimes I just wish movies were bad all the way through, that way you wouldn't be expecting much of anything for the finale.  But movies like Gossip might be the worst kind of movie.  This film has absolutely impeccable acting, with the performance of Edward James Olmos as the no B.S. cop coming first to mind.  Eric Bogosian's role is the only questionable one, his class is more like a Jerry Springer show than a learning environment.Next to the acting, the film's best trait is its high style (almost too much style, how many college students can afford to live in a pad like that?).  Coupled with a tightly-wound storyline everything seems promising.  But then somebody pushes the self-destruct button and everything explodes into utter nonsense.  I should've known something like that was going to happen while I was watching it, otherwise I'm sure I would've heard many praises prior to seeing it.** (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Inconsistent, Drawn Out MESS","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Expecting a fresh, enticing study as to how gossip grows from people's sick obsession with other people's business, instead i found Gossip to be nothing more than a jumbled mess of flat characters, inconsistencies, and meaningless tangents.  While the end was surprising, it was only surprising because it made very little sense after closely studying the preceeding scenes in the movie.  If you're looking for an actual good movie's along the same lines, check out Cruel Intentions.  Don't waste your money on this wannabe piece of crap. "},{"Title":"Pretty, Predictable, and unrealistically good. (spoiler)","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am sure I have seen the premise before...bad guy confesses through the tricks of close friends, or maybe it was...rich kids live life without adult interaction, oh yeah it was...22 year olds drink only the amount of alcohol in a shot.Don't misinterpret, I enjoyed Gossip.  However, it was completely predictable and unrealistic, in the way that they lived.I liked the characters.  They were enjoyable and well acted.  The scenes were pretty, the lofts, the bars and the people.One question...did anyone else notice the excessive amount of stair climbing in this movie? "},{"Title":"Not all that...but not all that bad","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I feel that someone needs to defend this movie...it was not that bad.  Gossip is about three roommates who decide to start a rumor and track its growth, and as we all know, gossip spreads like wild fire.  The cast of young actors did a wonderful job.  James Marsden (last seen in Disturbing Behavior, with Josh Jackson's fellow Creeker Katie Holmes) and Marisa Coughlan (Teaching Mrs.Tingle) give wonderful performances and Kate Hudson does well as the innocent victim.There are lots of twists and turns in this movie, so it may be somewhat confusing, but overall it is a good story.  The only problem with this pic, is the length of time it takes to actually get to the climax.  The first 30 mins, drags on for a while but the ending is fairly good.  Another problem I think was that the movie was advertised as starring Joshua Jackson when in reality he was only in it for a few short scenes and had minimal dialouge.  Most of the generation X'ers will go to see it for Josh Jackson and will be disappointed in that respect, but will find that in waiting for the scenes with Jackson in them, they will get wrapped up in the story anyway (which was probably the studios intent anyway).Over all, Gossip is not the world's greatest film, but who really expected it to be anyway.  Good acting, good story, bad production.  This film could be so much more, but hey!  Anyway you may or may not want to spend your money on this one...either catch a matinee or go on a cheap night, or simply wait till you can rent it.  I would give Gossip a 5.5 out of 10...but look at it this way, it could be worse. "},{"Title":"It was good! and entertaining.","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was good. I liked it. Good ending. and the fact is that this movie was interesting and u would be entertained and not bored. Has some flaws but most movies have flaws. and DONT FORGET that movies are just there to entertain you and so they dont have to be logical. another movie shot at UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO, CANADA. MY UNIVERSITY. "},{"Title":"a pretty good teenage movie","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Teenage movies can be divided into comedies and horrors. This ain't either one. Its more like a thriller. Its a story about some friends starting a rumor to see how it develops and than, it develops against their will and reveals something about them too. The story, therefor, is pretty good and worked out in a positive way. The acing is also good, as good as it gets when teenage movies are concerned. The whole concept is not seen before so if nothing, see it as a new movie. A god one that develops pretty good towards the end and even dough the ending is too perfect , get over it and enjoy. As i heard the movie is also pretty realistic concerning the college life and the surrounding. The story inside the story also fits pretty good. Usually these things stand out too much. "},{"Title":"Nice Idea, but predicable","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie premise for this film is a neat one, but looses its way in the final 1/3 of the film. Acting is good, the only problem is that near the end of the film you kinder figured it out yourself anyway.So hears the set up. Three College students decide to make up a completely untrue rumour about a fellow student to see how it changes as it is passed on via word of mouth around the campus, just like Chinese whispers. Things get out of hand though when the rumour spreads and changes into something more serious and the police become involved and arrests are made. Issues with the film are one unbelievable scene and a continuity issue, otherwise worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Twisting, polished drama-thriller","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Gossip is a glossy, college-bound thriller with an attractive cast and a fast-moving script.The beautiful Lena Headey is very watchable as the female lead, Cathy Jones.The rest of the cast is also strong and it contains some familiar faces - James Marsden, Norman Reedus, Kate Hudson, Eric Bogosian and Edward James Olmos. With this smrgsbord of talent, it's not surprising that this is an entertaining suspense-ride.I'd never heard of Gossip until I watched it (for me, Gossip was a blind-buy at the DVD bargain bin where it was practically being given away). It's not cinema-hit material but it does make a good evening's viewing at home.7 stars. "},{"Title":"Gossip Gone Too Far A Caution Film/Drama","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Gossip (2000) Starring James Marsden, Kate Hudson, Joshua Jackson, Lena Headey, Norman Reedus, Edward James Olmos, Eric Bogosian, Sharown Lawrence, Mif, Marissa Coughlan, Kwok-Wing Leung, Poe, Vicky Lambert, Noam Jenkins, Kenya Massey, Stephanie Mills, Raven Dauda, Kristin Booth, Novie Edwards, Shanly Trinidad, Samantha Espie, Christopher Ralph, Kristen Holdenried, Robin Brule, Debora Pollitt, Sadie LeBlanc, Elisabeth Guber, Balazs Koos, Roman Podhora, Marc Hickox, Bill Lake, Jessica Greco, Aleksia Landeau, David Nichols, Marc Cohen, Sanjay Talwar, Norma Dell'Agnese, Charles Guggenheim, Marion Guggenheim, John Wills Martin, Meeka Schiro...Director Davis Googenheim, Screenplay Gregory Poirier, Theresa Rebeck.Director Davis Googenheim and screenwriters Gregory Poirier and Theresa Rebeck released Gossip in the spring of 2000, but this film was not a big hit at the box office and consequently went straight to video, cable and standard TV. The premise ? In an unidentified major Univeristy, presumably in the US, a group of college classmates, who are also roommates, take on a human/social experiment about the nature of gossip. They spread a rumor about the richest girl on campus, pretty, blonde Naomi Preston (Kate Hudson) who was once the girlfriend of the guy who is now exploiting her, Derrick Webb (James Marsden). Derrick and his wickedly careless and insensitive, cruel friends/roommates Cathy and Travis (Lena Headey and Norman Reedus) begin to spread the gossip concerning Naomi's date rape experience as well as other vicious and damaging lies. Before long, the entire school believes the lie and Naomi finds herself in the middle of a media circus and a public courthouse trial case. But she is determined to expose her colleagues and their malicious experiment and scheme. She consults investigators, among them Detective Curtis (portrayed by Latino actor Edward James Olmos) to seek out those who wronged her. Before long, Derrik, Cathy and Travis find themselves in big trouble and attempt to cover up their evil deed. This may not be a very powerful film or even a very great one, but it has a truthfulness and realism, played out with a what if kind of scenario that really carries the film, not to mention the great cast of actors giving it their all, despite being very young and good looking actors. As such, this film is for a young audience. At times, it appears as if it's an intensely dark soap opera intense and dark soap opera in which good looking people set out to harm others. In this case, it's a lot like Cruel Intentions ,which had been in theaters only a year earlier in 1999 (it had also starred Joshua Jackson and other hot young stars)which was in itself a modern take on the French novel and film Dangerous Liasions. Clearly, the success of that film made this film possible. This is a very disturbing film and it's not suitable for even pre-adolescents, despite the young cast. It's really a dark drama about young adults but it's adult nonetheless. There is enough R rated material here to indicate that is intended to be viewed by a mature audience- violence, graphic sex (including rape) and profane language. Even with all this, the college classroom scenes are by far what provides the film with meaning. The professor and his student's conversations and eventual reactions to the rumor experiment is proof that people do indeed love gossip, but it's harmful and it dehumanizes and corrupts our society. The battle of the sexes discussion is also quite interesting and very well-handled. But the movie's heart lies in the fact that Derek Webb is the type of corrupt young man that actually exists out there and may be getting away with crimes, and all the more so because he looks harmless and is an attractive white male. Thus, this film is a caution tale, though this film is hardly Lifetime material, possibly because it has the independent Hollywood film signature all over it. I hope this movie opens people's eyes about gossip and about lies and how to value the truth which is the greatest human gift of all. "},{"Title":"Almost camp, it's so absurd","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I finally saw this film last night (23 Jul 2006) after it somehow fell off my radar over the past six years. It starts off well enough, though away from any sort of reality. I kept getting distracted by questions, such as, How does the artist afford all of his snazzy equipment, electronics and supplies when he can't even pay rent? Why is smart Jones having sex with the X-Man when she knows his insert-and-discard history -- especially when she's living under his roof? Why is a club's bathroom next to a bedroom, with just a latch-handle door between them? Did the Dawson's Creek guy really go and leave the club with his girlfriend passed out on the bed? Wasn't she mad about THAT? And then it gets around to ending. Woo-hoo! I was already writhing on my bed, overwhelmed by the utter absurdity, but then it went RIGHT over the top. What was already implausible was made doubly so. I still can't untangle the inconsistencies of this film. If the ending is to be believed (snicker), then what about that big, bad investigation? Such as when the female investigator tells Jones how she's not such an a-hole, etc. That scene logically fits in HOW? And that last dialog exchange is such a howler! THOSE were the best lines that were decided upon? Wimpy and eye-roll-inducing. I was surprised that Paul Haggis didn't direct this film. Gossip is bad. It can hurt people, and sometimes the gossip can be turned against its source and hurt the source, too -- and might even land him or her in PRISON. No rubber bras were worn during the making of this film. "}{"Title":"Entertaining Enough","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You probably will be able to see the twists coming but hey, it is still an entertaining film. I totally LOVE their apartment as well. I would love to live in it. I bet it cost LOADS. It makes American university look pretty easy as well. Of course, it isn't a realistic film but I think it is supposed to be stylish rather than gritty! You would probably like it if you like Cruel Intentions (although Gossip isn't quite so good). It is also maybe a bit like swim fan, only swim fan was worse than this. View it as a pacey eye-candy film and you will probably enjoy it. Watch, expecting it to have some deep moral meaning and you will probably be disappointed. Unless you never figured out that gossip can have serious consequences! "},{"Title":"paper-thin characters are a serious flaw","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The story line is not all that bad. What hurts is the superficiality of the characters played by actors whose smirking inanity remind me of nothing so much as Tom Cruise. They seem to have been chosen for good looks only, though frankly, the lines they have to deliver seem to have been written by an air-head. "},{"Title":"Saw this on HBO. Worth the watch","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie showed the talents of Kate Hudson. From the beginning,I thought the cast was very well put together.The build up of the friendship and then the breakdown when the gossip hits the fan keeps the movie going. There was not a dull moment in this film. Thumbs up from me. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable, and somewhat forgettable, thriller","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gossip is about.. gossip .. and the way stories can spread, and warp in a Chinese-whispers way. Three college kids, as part of a project, attempt to spread the rumour that one prudish girl, Naomi (Kate Almost Famous Hudson)- who had been a virgin - had sex with a guy she was seen with - Beau (Joshua Dawson's Creek Jackson). They then see how the rumour goes, and watch as it spirals out of control (as it would do).Gossip has some flaws. James X-Men Marsden plays the centre character of Derrick Webb, who becomes embroiled in his own web of lies. He's grand but he's too much of a pretty boy to try and play a character who has an under-current of darkness running through him, as Webb does. His character is also extraordinary rich - I don't exaggerate when I say that one bedroom, in his student apartment, is larger than a fair few student apartments that I have seen. There's also the implausibility of the gossiping - students sure do gossip, but a sexual encounter wouldn't spread such as it does. Part of the problem there is most people just don't care and wouldn't know the person involved, but we'll leave that aside.How does the plot work? Fairly well. I didn't guess the twist ending which was a somewhat silly and contrived end (and quite unbelievable). The pacing, in the beginning, was fairly slow but that's okay because the gossip does take a while to fly out of control (at which point the pacing picks up). The acting is generally okay with the most note-worthy performance going to Hudson (though it's hardly a standout).I enjoyed Gossip for a diverting 90 minutes of my time. It's no classic, and you're quite likely to forget it - particularly with a twist that's absurd rather than smart. Don't go to any bother to catch it, but if you've some time to kill, you could do a lot worse. A slightly above average teenage thriller. 5.8/10 "},{"Title":"Hollywood North","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was shot on location at the University of Toronto (probably Victoria College) and surrounding areas. The scenes for the police station in the movie were shot at the Old City Hall, next to the Eaton Centre and Nathan Philips Square.I particularly liked Lena Headey's portrayal of student Cathy Jones. I first saw Lena as Liv Tyler's sister Olga in the movie Onegin. Now I have become a fan of those beautiful eyes and dark locks of hair.The plot never misses the un-reality of the college experience as largely self-limited, defined not by current events in the news but by the student's perception of them. It is interesting to realise that, for media studies and the wider media, there is no scientific truth.Not even in academia. One's self-limited perception is as true as it can get.The movie also depicts how a social experiment is no science project. There is a lack of verifiability and predictability in a social experiment. Mischief and vexation are the most likely outcomes. "},{"Title":"Hey - I Heard This Wasn't A Great Movie!","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to concede this much the basic premise is interesting. Three college students decide to do a class project on gossip, by spreading a rumour and then following its course. Of course, as the rumour spreads, gossip becomes accepted as truth, those it's directed against get hurt, those who try to set the record straight by telling the truth are accused of lying, the results are tragic, and the ending - which I won't go into - is unbelievable to the extreme. Anyway, it doesn't sound too bad on paper, but when put on film it just doesn't work.Let's consider the obvious first. What kind of school project is this? How do you document your research on this? I'm a bit puzzled. But on to more serious points. The first half hour or so is a dull series of shots of college students drinking and making out. Yes, we needed a half hour to get the message that college students do this every now and then. Who would have thought? The acting in this movie struck me as second rate. There wasn't a single performer who stood out to me; who grabbed my attention. It's largely (with the exception of Edward James Olmos) a cast of young unknowns, and they're not going to grab a lot of attention with this. And the rumour that caused all the trouble struck me as less than exciting. A rumour that two college students had sex with each other is going to set this entire campus abuzz? I just don't see that as very likely. There are also too many intertwining story lines that just end up muddling everything.All in all, this movie - which had some potential - proved to be a disappointment. I would rate is as a 4/10. "},{"Title":"shameful","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it begins promising enough. After that though, it makes a slow descent, then a nose dive into cliches and predictability.It's yet another film that panders to the Gen X crowd but fails to understand what this audience is really looking for, namely, material much more interesting and sophisticated than this. Gossip is a made-for-tv movie with swearing in it.The film is about a class project that (supposedly) turns deadly. Its central characters, roommates, pick out two people they don't like, a couple who both come from rich families, and decide to start a rumor about them. The idea is to see how long it takes for the gossip to spread through the campus and back to them. It works, but not without unexpected, devastating consequences. Someone needs to tell this writer that a college campus does not work the same way as a high school campus (a misconception he got from Revenge of the Nerds apparently). Not everyone knows everyone else in college. By the time they enter college, heck even by the time they're seniors, they've grown up anyway. These characters all behave like ninth graders. Like I said, it begins interestingly enough and actually engaged me for the first 45 minutes. After that it becomes an episode of Scooby-Doo, complete with the climactic scene where everyone gathers in one room to uncover the real culprit. Instead of ooh-ing and aah-ing at its cleverness, you'll be covering your face in shame.Grade D "},{"Title":"Gossip Is The Best Movie Ever!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just have to say that Gossip has to be one of the best movies ever! And,i advise you if you haven't seen it.GO SEE IT NOW! Everything about this film was great. The storyline,the ending,the acting(by everyone)EVERYTHING WAS GREAT! I live in England and it has already been out here for a couple of weeks now and when i saw it at the cinema in it's first week it was absolutely packed and when the movie had ended everyone was commenting on how good it was and of course I AGREE. I thought James Marsden was AMAZING.He is not just a VERY GOOD LOOKING ACTOR but he is also VERY TALENTED. Gossip is one of the best films of the year and deserves an excellent 10/10. Like i said if you haven't seen yet i advise you to go see it NOW! Love Rebecca! "},{"Title":"Another teen suspense thriller, do we need another one?","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well can we say formula, can we say overdone, can we say bad!  I think it is about time that hollywood producers stop making crappy teen flicks like this, Scream was great, I know what you did last summer was a masterpiece compared to this movie.  Bad directing, bad acting and bad twists make for this to be a bad movie.  I warn all who see this movie that you are in for a long approximately 90 minute nap, sure cure for insomnia. "},{"Title":"Stylish and intriguing, but the filmmakers to not take advantage of the material. ** out of ****.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gossip is as shallow, meaningless, and pointless as movies nowadays come-yet visually enticing and stylishly crafted. Director of  photography Andrzej Bartkowiak, who just finished Romeo Must Die, captures the film's atmosphere with a sense of intrigue and allure. Production designer David Nichols contributes skillful imagination in building an effective mood for the film. With such a cunning outer appearance, one must ask oneself if a movie can succeed just because of a good taste of style. Without a doubt, the answer is no. Gossip stars James Marsden, Lena Headley, and Norman Reedus as Derrick Webb, Jones, and Travis, college students who travel from party to party, drink booze until they pass out, and spread seemingly false rumors about their fellow classmates. Their professor (Eric Bogosian), gets them to rap about lying which gives Derrick an idea he, Jones and Travis will make up a rumor and see just how quickly it spreads. They use an incident involving rich snobs Beau (Joshua Jackson) and Naomi (Kate Hudson) who could have been involved with date rape after a wild party. Derrick says Naomi was drunk and taken advantage of, and the gossip continues like a wild fire.The plot soon becomes murderously twisted; we learn of past incidences between several characters. The audience begins to question if Beau actually did have sex with Naomi that night. The so-called victim believes she was raped herself. There may be more to Derrick's motives than meets the eye, and when the good-hearted Jones becomes suspicious of strange coincidences involving him, things really start to boil.Derrick's original reasoning for passing tattles is not clear. The Joshua Jackson and Kate Hudson characters are the least developed in entire production, yet the two are the center of the story. Perhaps if we knew more about these characters we would have become more involved. The characters need explanation for the audience to form opinions about them.Davis Guggenheim's drama contains suspenseful and mysterious overtones in the second half of its story. As the movie advances and the stakes increase, the tension becomes consistent and effective. I thoroughly enjoyed the final act of this motion picture.Gossip is a good looking movie, occupied with a swank soundtrack and attractive, well-cast performers. However, the filmmakers do not take advantage of the young stars. In a movie about spreading gossip about sex and treachery, you would expect the story to have many contorted sex scenes featuring steamy encounters and bare body parts. Gossip holds out on the viewer expecting explicitly and sexuality, and instead uses blathering dialogue to withhold its material. The R-rating comes from its theme and sexual dialogue, nothing to do with sensuality or nudity. At least similar films Cruel Intentions had shocking wit and twisted audacity, and Body Shots portrayed date rape as brutal and sadistic material. Gossip is just a whole lot of gibber-jabber. "}{"Title":"Ouch!","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hey did anyone hear how bad this movie is? Do not see this movie even If you look past the poor acting horrible script, awful cinematography and ludicrous  direction . well all that is really left is bad story with plot holes so unimaginable it makes it painful to watch, I know I probably sound overly harsh, so there must be something good about the film. umm.I'm thinking. the art direction was so-so, and if you want to go see a bunch of pretty faced Hollywood 'teens' I guess that's where it could be redeeming. In my opinion burning your $10 dollars would give you  more excitement though.  "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this film very much","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I began watching this film at a late time so I tired.  Anyway, as it began and the trailers rolled, I began to wake up, waiting for this film.  I had not heard much on this film so I wasn't really familiar with it.  I know the plot and heard of a few actors which are in it but the rest was foreign to me.  The movie is based upon a group of three college kids, a good looking, rich boy named Derrick(James Marsden), a book smart, pretty girl names Jones(Lena Heady) and last a poor, artist Travis(Norman Reedus) who, for a final paper in one of there classes, start a horrible rumor about a rich, prude girl named Namomi(Katie Hudson).  At a party she gets drunk and her boyfriend, Beau(Joshua Jackson) is all ready to finally have sex.  But as they go on, she says no and then passes out.  He leaves her laying their sleeping.  OR DID HE?  Is the question that Derick says to three friends, he was in the bathroom and watched everything go on.  He finally talks them into spreading the rumor, that rumor, Tell everybody that the prude girl had sex.  After the words begin to changes person to person then it goes to rape and Namomi then thinks since she was passed out that maybe she was raped. She then finally files a report to police and has Beau arrested.  Finally after that Jones begins to fell sorry and begain to wonder if maybe she should tell everybody they began the rumor.  It keeps going from there and never stops twisting and turning till the very end of the film.  I really enjoyed this film and all the different turns it took.  I liked how it had you keep wanting to know what REALLY happened.  I also liked the performance of James Marsden, he hasn't really been in much since the horrible movie  Disturbing Behavior but look for him in the upcoming blockbuster  X-Men Movie as Cyclops.  Anyway I really enjoyed this film and thought it was worth my time.   "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Have you seen the movie that came out in 2000 with that guy in it that is supposed to play Anakin in the next Star Wars?  You know, The movie that looked cool in previews and it had an interesting premise?  You know, the one that, I heard, was supposed to be good?  You know, that guy? (Still Clerking anyone?)(Ya know, that guy (J.J.) who better get into better movies fast?)Anyway Unfortunately,  this is all gossip (with the exception of the last comment).Gossip, the movie,  follows the exact path of gossip, as gossip. So, much so, that this movie is almost predictable down to a T.1-Yes, it starts out with an interesting idea, (wow like gossip)2-Yes, it has an interesting pre-credits/pre-gossip bit, (like gossip) and3-Yes, it has an interesting class teacher/communications premise (hmm... trend here).However, all this movie is, is, just like gossip, (and that is) interesting.Like true gossip, it simply runs out of steam.  After all the gossip has been planted and the story must run its course it (continues)/goes down the predictable path. Unfortunately, this (post gossip planting) path starts with an hour of the film to go and the audience is left to think, where would the path most most likely lead?  What did that foreshadowing most likely mean? ETC....  Unfortunately, the audience could have written the script.  With a few minor exceptions, the story goes from interesting to nowhere fast.Too bad the movie was not scripted as well as the initial Gossip planting because that could have avoided the followingThis is almost a must skip. BUT, you did not hear that from me. viewed 35mm  "},{"Title":"Glossy, undemanding fare that will distract at best","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Derrick, Cathy and Travis are three cool students who sit in fancy lectures with Professor Goodwin during the day and enjoy their cool lifestyle of parties and sex at night. After one class about the nature of news and unconfirmed tabloid gossip the trio decide to spread a rumour and write their thesis about how it spreads. An unfulfilled sexual encounter at a party is witnessed by Derrick and they decide that they will spread the rumour that the chaste Naomi really did do the nasty with ladies man Beau. Things go better than they expected and the rumour quickly grows from sex at a party into rumours about multiple partners etc. However when the rumour takes a more serious turn towards rape, tensions start to go between the three friends.Starting out as a glossy, hollow and interesting concept the film gradually becomes a glossy, hollow and so-so affair that isn't as good as the first part appeared. The script doesn't do that well at setting up the interesting idea (opting for a lazy lecture genesis) or even delivering it but it doesn't make the concept any less interesting although it does eventually just start to morph into a standard teen thriller &#150; all style, breaking glass and running. Likewise the characters are very clichd spoilt student types who worked because I didn't care so much for them as actively look forward to seeing their selfish, rich world implode on them. Dislike is probably not enough to base a film on but it was enough to hold my interest here.Guggenheim can't manage to do much with the idea other than let the silly teen thriller unfold but at least he injects style into it &#150; helped greatly by good sets (even if they just made me dislike the preppy spoilt lives of the students all the more!). The cast match the stylish but empty tone of the film &#150; Marsden in particular being pretty but unable to do much more than just deliver the basic script. Reedus has a thankless task of being the red-herring, crazy character while Headey turns in a solid enough moral compass character. A young Kate Hudson doesn't do much and when Eric Bogosian is the big cameo in any film then you know things aren't up to much.Overall this is an OK teen-style thriller that has an interesting idea at its core but ultimately does nothing with it apart from just what you would expect from the genre. It all looks good, has a pretty young cast and produces a thriller that will not put any pressure on you to get involved or to think things through. Glossy, undemanding fare that will distract at best. "},{"Title":"brilliant!","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i think it was a brilliant movie,smart and really interesting till the last minute.i really enjoyed it!acting was great,scenery also awesome and a subject that no one else have ever done a movie for.Gossip.Gossip has important role to our lives rather we like it or not and though in this movie gossip and its effects turns up to be even criminal which might be exaggeration i thing it really shows with a smart way that gossip can change our lives in a good or a bad way. i ve never thought how far can a rumor go but i realized it with this movie.so we have to be careful when we open our mouth even when we are doing it for fun..generally good movie,fresh,and with non-expected ending. "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions meets The Talented Mr. Ripley meets The Game","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Cruel Intentions meets The Talented Mr. Ripley meets The Game.A nice enough movie, but not great. The storyline feels rather forced towards the end of the movie, but a surprising ending explains a lot...All in all nice concept, but it never gets you completely enticed. A number of sudden shifts in the story leave you feeling disoriented during the movie, when the story asks for continuity. The character of Travis is completely unbelievable.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"HOTTT!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i saw this movie a couple of hours ago. it was fun, hip, sexy, sassy, and really dangerous. the plot made no sense, but i loved it. i wish it was longer. i could have watched that movie for hours. i think everyone should see Gossip. "},{"Title":"A GOOD THRILLER","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For normal people, this is a good film full of suspense and and a thrilling plot that keeps you interested from the very beginning till the end of it. Although the topic is something simple the story has many interesting changes and the end is...... unexpected! Although the actors are very young they prove they are not only handsome but they are also talented. Anyway, even when it is not an excellent film, it's good and it will make you have a good time. "},{"Title":"Wanna know a secret?","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Being a huge Kate Hudson fan, I had to see this film despite horrible reviews. Gossip centers around three college students; Derrick (James Marsden), Jones (Lena Headley) and Travis (Norman Reedus) who start a sexual rumor about a virginal-yet-icy classmate Naomi (Hudson). At a party, Naomi and Beau (Joshua Jackson) go in a room alone and he leaves. Naomi is found passed out. Jones, Travis and Derrick circulate the rumor around campus that Naomi and Beau had sex, then that turns to rape. Naomi, being drunk, doesn't remember much of the event and believes that she was raped. Hush....no more, you have to see it for yourself!My only complaint about the film is that it does not fit into a genre, is it teen or not? The actors are in their early to mid-20s (ideal for teen movies) and the ending was very confusing and WEIRD. Overall, it wasn't that bad. It's better that a lot of other, um, teen movies. "},{"Title":"Top-of-the-line mystery.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gossip works like quicksand - you never know where you're standing, and it sucks you in deeper and deeper, as the engrossing script reveals one layer of deception after another. The characters are compelling because they are not clearly defined as good guys and villains; you'll find your perceptions about them constantly changing throughout the film. Despite its setting and its handsome young cast (Lena Headey is truly a talent to watch out for), this is not yet another hip teen slasher flick; it's an exploration of the nature of truth. Or, as Hercule Poirot would put it, Yes, the truth is so difficult to tell.        (***)   "}{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At first glance, this movie seems like any other teen movie but as you watch along, the story slowly unfolds and you get entranced just waiting to see what will happen next. James Marsden did a pretty good job as a the handsome clean cut boy who thinks it's OK to start a gossip. When the story unfolds, you find out why he thinks it's OK to start a gossip particularly on Kate Hudson. She, however, did OK OK and I thought she could do better. Lena Headey was a surprise. I had never heard of her before but she was pretty good without being really overdramatic or tragic. Joshua Jackson's part was quite short but he did pretty OK too as so did Norman Reedus who played the other housemate of James Marsden & Lena Headey. He was a quiet, weird brooding artist and fitted nicely with Lena Headey's sombre portrayal and James Marsden's cool exterior (I couldn't believe that he's with Helena Christiansen!). Towards the end, it appears as though the movie will turn into one of those stereotypical dramas where the perpetrator turns out to be the victim but I urge you to watch it to the end. Though the ending can be rather predictable to some, it's the way the movie went that was very interesting. "},{"Title":"terrible, terrible ending!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just caught this movie on TV, and I was very frustrated with the ending. The rest of the movie was pretty decent - the spiral effect of gossip and whatnot is actually a pretty good idea for a movie. However, the ending was so ridiculous and contrived that it was pathetic. Had things not played out in such a grandiose fashion, it might have been plausible, but as it was, it was totally unbelievable...a major let-down to an otherwise decent movie.  "},{"Title":"A Great Intelligent and Subtle thriller starring obsessively handsome James Marsden","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is about three bored college students planting a rumor and tracking how it evolves and spins out of control.  This is an intelligent and subtle thriller, not the kind that has dead bodies and blood all over the place. James Marsden's heart stopping good looks and extraordinary talent are a treat to watch this film as well as all his other movies (Sugar & Spice, X-Men, Disturbing Behavior, Bella Mafia, On the Edge of Innocence, Public Enemies, Gone in a Heartbeat, Second Noah &#133;).  Look forward for his new film `Interstate 60' and `X2' coming out in Fall 2002 and May 2003, respectively.  "},{"Title":"too unbelievable","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As `youth' thrillers go, `Gossip' is slightly better than most, I guess, but it still seems, in the long run, less meaningful and profound than it imagines itself to be.  Part of the problem is that the film never comes across as particularly convincing, either in its setting or in its characters.  The film takes place on a college campus located in Manhattan filled with the types of students that make the rest of us feel as if we wasted our own college years attending dull dry lectures and writing lengthy term papers when we could have been having so much more fun creating scandals and sending the entire institution into fits of apoplexy.    Not only do these students never crack open a book or put pen to paper, but even the one class we see them attending turns out to be a seminar on the role of gossip in the media.  Doesn't anybody ever study the classics anymore?  The main characters even live in one of those impossibly dank, dark cavernous artist lofts that only people in movies ever seem to occupy.The film centers around three college buddies &#150; two males and one female, naturally &#150; who share not only an apartment but also a penchant for spreading fictionalized stories about themselves to get what they want (usually something insignificant like free drinks).  One day the young lady, `Jones,' suggests that they start a rumor about a snooty little rich girl who has recently transferred to the school and track the story's progress as part of a research project for a media class they are taking.  I guess this is what passes for research methodology these days now that books have become pass even in academic settings.  (You'll note that no one involved in the `study' ever attempts to document any of the findings on paper once the rumor has been successfully launched.  How were they planning to get a grade on the assignment?).  It's obvious that the makers of the film believe themselves to be making some sort of profound statement on the dangers of rumor mongering &#150; you know, about how easy it is to start a rumor but how hard it is to control it, etc. &#150; but the characters seem at times so dimwitted that it becomes impossible to take any of it very seriously.  Jones is supposed to be the compassionate, rational one among the trio yet she seems genuinely surprised when the little experiment goes awry in ways that to us seem entirely predictable.  Credit the filmmakers with at least presenting characters who are marginally ambiguous on a moral level, but we find it hard to believe that a genuinely good, caring person like Jones would have come up with such an idea in the first place.Moreover, the film features one of those surprise `turnabout' endings, the sheer logistics of which strain credibility to the breaking point.  In fact, since the ending is telegraphed way in advance anyway, it fails both on the level of suspense as well as credibility.`Gossip' tries hard to be taken seriously, but in the end both its own air of contrivance and our own sense of incredulity manage to do it in.  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Is the ending as dissatisfying as everyone says?  Not quite.  Disappointing is perhaps a better word, and that's because it fails to live up in either cleverness or craftsmanship to the rest of the movie.  One thing that can be said in its favour - how do I put this, so as not to give anything away? - is that if, like me, you spent the entire film having little idea what was about to happen next, the slightly muffed and over-elaborate conclusion will come as a pleasant surprise.  We're led to expect - again, how do I put this? - late nineteenth-century Italian opera.Gossip is much more of a clever, well-crafted, involving film than you might think, especially since everyone has been so mean to it.  The uni students are more plausible than they usually are in American movies, no character who's meant to be likeable isn't, and the ideas - the purely narrative ideas - are all interesting.  ONE implausibility is worth mentioning, however.The story is this.  Three students decide to plant a false rumour - the but of the rumour being two people they don't much care for - in order to see how it spreads.  Anyone who has seen any movie knows that they're just ASKING for the gods to smite them.  And yes, the gods smite them.  Events spin out of control like you wouldn't believe.So what's the rumour they plant?  Get this Naomi and Beau ... you know, the couple, they're dating, they were at that party together...?  Well, they had SEX.  Gasp.  How many people would bother to repeat, or even remember, such a rumour?  I'd be more likely to comment on their drinking unusual cocktails.Suchlike motivational weaknesses are the only telling flaws.  I mean, obviously you shouldn't expect Les Diabolique, but it's still a solid, constantly engaging thriller. "},{"Title":"Reaffirming a good rule","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Gossip was the best movie I've seen lately. I don't understand why a lot of people are panning it, because I enjoyed it. I saw it with my mother and even she enjoyed it (usually she sleeps through most movies I take her to, including last year's Go!). I really like the character of Cathy Jones (played by Lena Headey). She seems like a very strong willed person, not willing to take bull from her roommates; slick, sly Derrick (James Marsden) and artful Travis (Norman Reedus). I think the only weak point of this movie was that it was highly stylized... I don't think university will ever be so cool, but if you know of one, hook me up. My mother pointed out to me that the teacher in the movie (Eric Bogosian) was a prof of Communications, and ironically, I took one of those classes in college )To sum up, I think Gossip is a better film than a lot of the patronizing teen fare that's out there, and remember, Joel Schumacher (the director of Gossip) seems to know best when it comes to hip (he directed the Lost Boys and Flawless after all).  "},{"Title":"Rich kid with an Alessi Kettle.","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot think of even one good aspect of this film. It is just plain silly. I have no idea how i managed to finish watching it. And the ending is just plain stupid (which I wonder again how I managed to sit through the entire crap.) You should avoid this ridiculous piece of junk at all costs. Its an insult to your intelligent. If this one is a suspense thriller (by all mean, I highly doubt it is one), I cannot help but think of scream and I know what you did last summer but without the gore, the blood, er.., also without the thrill and the suspense.*a little spoiler ahead* When Naomi came up to their lofy apartment and to confront with Derrick, we all know WHO did it and WHAT he did. So what is it so scary to find out Jone's roommate(Derrick) is a rapist who she has already slept with in the opening of the first 15minutes? I just dont get it. Secondly, Travis is supposed to be the scary and unstable character so we should get tick in our scary-o-meter. Instead, with the incredible script and directing,  I felt he is just a little child who need some motherly care. And what's up with the ending? I managed to sit through the entire movie all I get is this lousy ending? I was expecting something shocking, twisted which blown me away. Eh no, I only get a let's wrap this up quickly because we don't wanna stick around the set no more kind of ending.It just failed miserably  as a suspense thriller but it managed to show you a nice Alessi kettle though. ) "},{"Title":"Insultingly stupid.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Outrageous.  It seems as if all of the dim, untalented people of Hollywood got together and put Dargis GooGooHimer in charge and then spent a lot of money making something that looks like every single lame commercial or music video.   Destined to be forgotten, but not forgiven., "},{"Title":"Boring, stupid","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Gossip is a pointless movie about a bunch of obnoxious characters who, for a class, start a lie to see how gossip changes and makes the lie even bigger. Of course, things get out of hand. The movie looks good but the characters say and do stupid things, the dialogue was totally unbelievable, and the cast--well, what can you say when Joshua Jackson gives the best performance? The cast is UNattractive (they always look like they've just fallen out of bed) and James Marsden as the class stud???!!!??? His acting is so-so and, frankly, the guy's ugly! No self-respecting woman would go after him! The movie does contain a nice twist at the end, but it's too little, too late. Don't waste your money--not even worth a video rental. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Another 'Pulp Fiction' wannabe bites the dust. This is a low budget movie with advertising that kicked off only recently and now you know why. A total waste of time. A cast of relatively new faces in Hollywood - ( James Marsen &  Marisa Coughlan ) along with Joshua Jackson ( better known as Dawson's sidekick on the tv drama Dawsons Creek ) try their best to add energy and spice to this one. Marisa Coughlan's ( Teaching Mrs.Tingle ) performance was the only positive from the film. Coughlan seems to be a talented young actress and is destined to go places. As for the others, while there was no lack of effort - their performances did not even come close to matching Couglan's. Jackson in particular was exposed as an actor with limited acting skills, which is surprising since he's been around for a while. James Marsden did a better job than Jackson as did the rest of the cast, but Gossip seemed to be lacking in more than one department. Not worth watching. Rating 2/10 "}{"Title":"Who Makes Up the Story","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is a bad movie. But its not because the basic idea isn't clever. In fact, for many teen movies, the number of good ideas seems to outnumber the good filmmakers.Modern storytelling is obsessed with, even based upon who is telling the story. In films until 1941, the story was created by some God while we watch. Since then, all sorts of devices have been used shifting and blurring the roles of the writer, viewer and narrator. Here, we think we are observing a simple effect where the characters make up the story for others of the characters. The twist, of course, is that the writers and players get combined. Nothing new here, except the notion of the `third man,' the artist friend who creates wall art (not unlike movies, no?), mirroring the creation of the film. More the actor playing the artist is in fact an artist and all the art we see is his! This could have been a very good film.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"THE WORST FILM I'VE EVER SEEN?","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It could well be that this is the worst film I've ever seen, and I've seen Kolobos. At least Kolobos had some redeeming features, like the fact that it couldn't be taken seriously. Like a preening, self-righteous supermodel, GOSSIP begs to be taken seriously, yet ends up being superficial and empty. However, perhaps the film's biggest sin is that it is just plain nasty. I'm guessing that the makers of this film wanted us to think about the implications of spreading rumours, but all I could think about was how glad I was that someone else paid for my ticket.  "},{"Title":"Plot was stupid!!!!!!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Four words 'deoxy ribo nucleic acid' or DNA.  Did the writer forget about about this?  I asked myself if detectives and police could be this stupid, because if the answer was yes i don't think any crimes would ever be solved. This movie was boring and I called the ending with about an hour left in it. If you are the kind of person that picks up on detail when you watch a movie,  you're gonna hate this as you will easily foresee the ending.  "},{"Title":"Stylistic, Nasty but fails to be clever in its final act.","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" James Marsden and Lena Headey start a rumor that Joshua Jackson had sex with Kate Hudson in this forgettable outing that isn't actually a bad film.Gossip is well made film featuring good performances from a pretty strong teen cast. The main characters using gossip as a sociological experiment is an interesting idea and is made the most of as we see how quickly and totally things get out of control. The film does lose a lot of goodwill with a lazy twist ending that provides easy answers and will change the way you look at the film on second viewing, I'd suggest for the worst.As mentioned above, the film is about three room mates, Derrick, Cathy and Travis who are all attending college together. Inspired by a communications lecture on Gossip (because of course everyone pays attention during college lectures) she decides to start a rumor and then track how it spreads. They go to a party and see Beau (Joshua Jackson) making out with save it till marriage virgin Naomi (Kate Hudson). So they decide to spread the rumor that the two slept together.The rumor quickly gets out of control, and people start believing that Naomi was raped. Unfortunately for Beau, she became unconscious that night and believes the rumor too, so Beau is up- on rape charges. From there this actually is a pretty good look at date rape and consequences. However this is ruined by the twist ending, which actually throws all of that insight away in order to tell a story of complicated revenge.Look. I give this a tick because it is well made and stylistically directed by Davis Guggenheim. It looks at serious themes, and for much of the duration, does these themes justice. However the ending is either to make or break the film for you. And I would suggest it would break the film for most viewers. However, if you were dissed b y the ending, watch the film again. It actually is a different experience the second time around and it is not terrible as a revenge flick.Anyway, not bad, but could have been infinitely better had it stuck to the issues of date rape and gossip culture. Give it a look, it will suck you in, but be prepared for an uninspired conclusion. "},{"Title":"so much glossy fakeness","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Derrick Webb (James Marsden), Cathy Jones (Lena Headey) and Travis (Norman Reedus) are close college friends and roommates. They are in a communications class with Professor Goodwin (Eric Bogosian). For their final project, the trio ponders whether to start a rumor and track the progress. Naomi Preston (Kate Hudson) from a rich influential family is known to be a virgin who's saving herself. She's with boyfriend Beau Edson (Joshua Jackson). At a club, Sheila tells Jones about a rumor of her sleeping with professor Goodwin and suggests the source is Naomi. Derrick happens to spy that Naomi passed out while making out and Beau leaves. The trio decides to start a rumor that Naomi actually had sex with Beau. The gossip starts to change into Naomi may have been raped by Beau. Detective Kelly (Sharon Lawrence) investigates and eventually arrests Beau. Jones wants to come clean but Derrick claims to be not sure what actually happened that night.I don't care about any of these characters. Jones should have started out nicer so the audience can really pull for her. It would also be helpful to show Derrick helping Jones and Travis with his money. There are too many things like the club or the massive college apartment or the people or countless trash can fires that seem too fake. The basic idea has potential but it never takes off for me. It has some good turns as a thriller. The believability is never that high. It gets really bad when nobody even listens to Jones. It's kind of stupid. It's a conspiracy for no reason. Jones could easily get Kelly to listen to her if she drops Derrick's name. Why are cops always so stupid? This is written like a sitcom where if people just talked and listened, all the problems would go away. The movie keeps turning and twisting. At some point, the turns becomes meaningless because I didn't care about the characters in the first place. "},{"Title":"Gossip our famous French perv actually likes it (rental)","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Claiming to be also a poor victim of those wrongful accusations of rape, this French personality just proved the contrary and highlights what gossip is a distorted truth. Indeed, a gossip relies most of the time upon a real fact but after being told endlessly, the exact meaning is a bit lost. To put it with fun, it's the story of the man that says that he have seen the man who saw the man who saw the man who saw the bear. This movie at first illustrates clearly this definition but soon it turns more as a criminal investigation. Thus, the promised study about the social effect of a gossip isn't totally fulfilled. A second disappointment concerns the way of life of those roommates they live in an incredible flat that is totally implausible for normal students. At last, the ending is terribly stupid as it's totally unbelievable to think a so big scheme to catch a so little fly! The cast may be good but again i can't buy Lena still being in college! In conclusion, it's difficult to really believe in the movie and it's problematic as it's the core of the subject! "},{"Title":"?","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was a bit difficult to follow, and I was mystified by the ending-could someone please explain it to me? Thanks. I was able to follow it up to then-maybe I'll look up the plot on Wikipedia. Maybe then I'll understand it. Some college students, as part of a class experiment/project, decide to spread a rumor about some classmates, only to learn that the said classmates have really done what they said what they were doing, and the girl turns up dead, and everything starts going to hell in a handbasket. Or something like that-it's that kind of movie with that type of plot and formula. It had a good cast with good characters, it just wasn't executed well. Better execution would have helped, ya hear that writers???!!!! ** out of **** "},{"Title":"DANGEROUS","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen it before, I didn't see it again! It makes me want to quiver..quiver in that wholesome, good way! Some memorable lines from the movie Eat Quizno's SUUUUBBBSSS, Beware of paper CUUUUUTTTTSSS. Mmm, mmm, mmm, SCANDALOUS. "},{"Title":"Worst flick I've seen in recently","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had not heard of this movie until I saw it at a friends place. There is nothing in it that makes it even half way enjoyable. The plot is extremely predictable. When it started I told my friend exactly what was gonna happen and how it would end. Wouldn't you know I was correct. It's another one of those lame flicks aimed at high schoolers. Kate Hudson and that Joshua guy, wasted their time appearing in this flick. Must have been a favor owed to someone. "},{"Title":"a student film in every sense","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Thousands upon thousands of film students have great ideas for films. They soon find out a basic premise is not enough. They need a good script.Someone forgot that with Gossip. They thought if they could emulate the style of Shallow Grave, and the intergroup tensions of Flatliners, they'd pull this one off. James Marsden and Lena Headey put in strong shifts as the leads. The film is stylishly shot. After that, you are struggling to say anything positive about this infantile non-event of a film.The leads are supposed to be undergraduates, though they all look about 31 but talk like 12-year-olds. They are 'shocked' that a dating couple might have had sex. They drink hard but never touch drugs. They only seem to take one class, about 400 of them packed in one room (no empty seats?) where the professor (who wrote THIS guy's lines??) picks on them because... well, I never figured that one out. And the three flatmates who initiate proceedings just would not be friends in real life.The ending is as bad as you have heard. You see it coming, but the only surprise is that you assume they will not go down this path, it is just too absurd, too against the flow, and so you writhe in shock and embarrassment when they 'reveal' their trick. And what exactly is Kate Hudson's supercilious smile at the end supposed to convey? I was raped, but YOU are going to be gossiped about. Some victory. This film is glib and thoughtless, and probably would be offensive if you could remember it five minutes after ejecting the DVD. "}{"Title":"A unique plot filmed with style and verve.","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gossip is an engrossing film with an intriguing premise. Though it's surprise ending is little more than a surprise, it is a bonus as the film could easily rest on the laurels without it. Whatever this film lacks in plausibility it makes up for with some excellent performances from a young cast, powerful sound and camera work, and a slick script. "}]