[{"Title":"A pleasant surprise !","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film, already on TV here in the U.K., examines the old chestnut of being careful what you wish for - you might just get it !Blake Foster plays the lead, as a pre-teen suffering at the hands of all those who are older and bossier than him.  If only they could leave him alone...The film leans a strong performance from Foster, who clearly has the skills to handle a leading role, and an excellent performance by Christopher Lloyd who has the difficult task of playing the only adult to feature.  The blend of youth and experience works well and the interaction between all the lead players, including several movie debutants, is credible and absorbing.The film avoids the sanitized sentimentality of so many big studio productions and brings a touch of reality to the film which allows the willing suspension of disbelief to work that bit more effectively.  The bully is really cruel in this film - and kids ARE cruel !Kids will enjoy this movie and adults hopefully will see that enjoyable children's entertainment does not have to equate to Hollywood vacuity. "},{"Title":"Great film for the whole family!","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A truly fun and entertaining movie for the whole family. Christopher Lloyd (Leo) is at his best and Blake Foster (Ryan Mitchell) is adorable. A must see for anyone who wished their parents would disappear for just a little while so you could do whatever you wanted. Kudos for a great film! "},{"Title":"The best film I have ever seen","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is hands down the greatest movie ever made, and I'm not just saying that because I've been to Pauanui. This movie has a gripping story line with riveting character development and exciting plot twists.I especially love Twinky, hes just so fat and black, you can't help but laugh. This is also in my opinion Christopher Lloyd's best role My dad says I'm... retarded, that really bought a tear to my eye. I highly recommend that everyone should run down to their local video store and rent this amazing feature film, or buy it if your video store is going out of business like i did. Overall I rate this a 10/10 with 5 stars. Well done Daybreak Pacific Films, you really outdid yourselves. "}]