[{"Title":"Funny, thoughtful spoof","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"330 out of 343 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I still don't quite understand why GQ never conquered the box office. The movie is clever, hysterically funny, surprisingly moving and, as one reviewer pointed out, more respectful of (and better at communicating) the ideals of Star Trek than any of the recent Trek movies or television incarnations. The script is inventive, the special effects are vivid and powerful (especially when the actors see the real ship for the first time, and when the rock monster rampages through the ship), and the characters are incredibly well drawn.I'm also puzzled by the negative reactions some people have to the film. Does the film fail to register because the Trek social phenomenon is unfamiliar to them, thus there's no frame of reference? I'd really like to know.Comedy is possibly the hardest genre to get right, because line delivery, timing, direction and character shading all have to be pretty much perfect or the movie just won't be funny. GQ nails these elements -- right on the head and in virtually every scene -- and keeps up the pace by constantly moving its characters forward. Tony Shalhoub (Fred), Sam Rockwell (Guy Fleegman) and Enrico Colantoni (Mathesar) in particular are so dead-on perfect in their scenes that lack of box office and the Academy's traditional indifference to comedy are probably the only reasons these guys didn't get Oscar nods. (Okay, well, 1999 was also an incredibly strong year for American cinema.)But GQ is also strangely moving -- particularly in the way it derives comedy from despair. The actor characters' lives are in ruins, not unlike the aliens they eventually save from extinction. Perhaps this is why -- even though the characters don't know it yet -- the two groups get along so well and why the actors make the decision to actually become their TV characters in the end. This may also be why the dismay in Mathesar's face when he learns the truth is so painful.I suspect GQ also got lumped in with the likes of Scary Movie and The Naked Gun movies in the public's collective conscious It was perceived as just another spoof and therefore not worthy of significant attention. I hope the movie develops enough of a cult following that it one day reaches that wider audience it deserves.  "},{"Title":"Badly Marketed Yet Utterly Brilliant","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"315 out of 337 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was amazing.  I saw the trailers and swore I'd never watch it. A couple of friends overruled this after watching it in the theaters, and I'm glad they did.Not only is this film an amusing spoof of Science Fiction Fen-dom, it's a brilliant action-adventure/science-fiction film in its own right.  The only other film I can think of that is a righteous satirical look, yet a splendid example of the genre, is the Fifth Element.Galaxy Quest Has It All. Beautiful women in scanty clothing.  Love interests.  Computers.  Space ships.  Ugly and evil monsters.  Blasters. Arcane martial arts.  Dynamite catch phrases.  And best of all, the very population that is satirized is the group that Saves The Day.The dialogue is brilliant - you'll find yourself quoting from this film regularly.  The acting is marvelous.  Tim Allen doing William Shatner doing a Heroic Spaceship Captain is worth the rental all by itself, not to mention Alan Rickman's memorably dry performance as the I-Am-Not-My-Strange-Looking-Alien character.The first thing I thought upon leaving the theater was that I had to see this film again.  The first thing I thought upon seeing it again was that I would have to own this movie.  Check it out - you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"A wickedly funny look at the SciFi inner sanctum","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"239 out of 247 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Comedies are usually pretty tricky for me.  Either I'm laughing my head off and nobody else gets it, or everybody else is laughing and I'm looking for the nearest exit.  But Galaxy Quest had everyone in the theater laughing, including my companion--who hates science fiction.  It cut across ages and backgrounds with a very simple premise--you are what you believe yourself to be.As a fifteen year veteran of science fiction conventions, I've seen the phenomenon from both sides of the stage.  I've met the get-a-lifers, the just-for-fun guys, and the not-so-rare I'm-only-in-it-for-the profit gang. I've met actors who loved the whole shebang, actors who loathed it, and actors who didn't have a clue what was going on.  Fandom is a very big place, with room for all sorts.And Galaxy Quest got it right--the conventions, the costumes, the geeks, the groupies, even the mocking mundanes who attend cons looking for kicks. It took notice of all the science fiction cliches, acknowledged them, and then twisted them to its own comedic purposes.Galaxy Quest captured not only the silliness of fandom, but the inspiration of it.  In the end, the demoralized and cynical actors found strength and meaning in the same characters which stereotyped them.  The geeks saved the day.  The good guys won.  The bad guys provided entertainment to masses of fans.  Things blew up.  And isn't that what science fiction is all about?The entire cast was excellent, especially Tim Allen and Alan Rickman doing their best Shatner and Nimoy impersonations.  Special credit must go to the four actors who played the naive aliens.  Their wide-eyed innocence reminded me of the quality that drew me, and draws children of all ages into the world of science fiction.This movie didn't rely on vulgarities or overt violence.  It didn't need to resort to meanness or cruel jokes, either.  While it poked fun at science fiction and its fans, it never resorted to the kind of mockery you see in other films.Galaxy Quest is a solid, funny movie.  Go see it.  Take the kids.  Go see it twice. "},{"Title":"A great film, much underrated at the box-office.","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"228 out of 236 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I generally rate films highly based on how often and how much I'd like to watch them again. I can watch most films more than once, but only a few have the necessary qualities to watch over and over again. Comedy films are never that high on my list of watch agains. After seeing a joke or comic scene once, it's hard for it to have the same impact again and again. I well recall being in tears of laughter when I first saw Airplane at the cinema. But now I find it hard going and even the inflatable pilot only raises a smile.So it's rare that a film like Galaxy Quest (a scifi comedy) comes along, but very welcome when it does. There's a lot of homage paid to Star Trek, of course, and old scifi shows in general and fans of those will have no trouble spotting the moments culled from those shows.The cast are all exemplary in their roles as ex scifi stars who get catapulted into the real thing and have to save the galaxy. Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver give good, solid performances here. In particular, Weaver shows a talent for comedy here that was lacking in Ghostbusters. Tony Shalhoub's bumbling, out-of-his-depth technician is also a nice addition.But out of all of them two really shine for me. Alan Rickman, whose facial expressions throughout the film just have you laughing out loud without needing to listen to what's being said. And Sam Rockwell, who plays the extra crewman who's always convinced he's going to get killed, because he's a nobody and not one of the regular cast.The whole film is chock full of delightful silliness and memorable scenes, such as where they enlist the aid of geeks to navigate them through their own ship as the geeks know the plans off by heart.A great film, much underrated at the box-office and destined to become a classic.  "},{"Title":"Above ANY Expectation!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"131 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Galaxy Quest' couldn't be better. It's not a mockumentary, it's not a Star Trek parody. It's pure comedy based on the Star Trek legend with excellent actors and absolutely brilliant production.The visuals are magnificent. You would expect nothing but mediocre stuff for a space comedy, but this is not the case with 'Galaxy Quest'. These are the best effects for a space movie, since 'Starship Troopers'!The story is also very original and interesting. Not only jokes on thin air, but a great story nonetheless. The triumphant ending is beautiful, it elevates you! In fact, it would easily compete with the some of the best Star Trek stories of all time.Don't miss it!10/10 "},{"Title":"Hits every mark, gets it all right!","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"129 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are very few comedies out there that manage to get laughs from all of the jokes; Galaxy Quest is one of the few films that pretty much gets them all.As corny as it sounds, the film is practically perfect in its execution. It parodies a genre that had been screaming for it for decades. It's funny from start to finish and even manages to have a heart while on the way.When the film was first released in theatres, I didn't have any desire to see it. I don't think the advertising was right for the film. I am a huge Star Trek fan and I found the advertising made the picture look stupid with juvenile humor. A co-worker insisted I see it, saying if I didn't I would regret it for the rest of my life.Luckily I didn't ignore him, because he would have been right!There are a lot of reviews for this film here, most of them positive. I am quite glad to see that I am not alone in my praise for this film.Most certainly it's not Citizen Kane by any means, but for what it is and what it is trying to do, it succeeds in every aspect. The screenplay is technically brilliant (in terms of structure, characterization, and wit!). ILM does a terrific job in the visual effects department (as they most often do), and David Newman's score not only parodies but also develops into a heartwarming action score (a paradox? I think not!).Galaxy Quest - If you haven't seen it yet and you love Star Trek, I only have to ask.....what ARE you.....waiting for? "},{"Title":"By Grabthar's Hammer! What a movie","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"120 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first thing that makes a good movie good is always a great story. The whole idea of actors from a long ago space series being mistaken for being the real deal by actual aliens is indeed ingenious.From there, you put together a top notch cast.They hit the nail on the head there. Tim Allen is a natural for the Jason Nesmith role.A great cast is nothing if they don't work well together.Not to worry.They are superb. This movie is an excellent twist on the old good vs.evil concept.There are movies whose ideas are so unique,you want to love them and not be disappointed.Take my word,Galaxy Quest delivers the goods.Warp speed! "},{"Title":"Best comedy to come along in years","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"112 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A set of hammy TV actors turn up for a sci-fi convention only to be met by real aliens who, having only seen them on TV, mistake them for a real space crew.Given that Star Trek and Star Trek fans are such campy jokes to start with you don't have to have such the imagination of Charles Dickens to see there is potential here.The real surprise is that we don't get cheapo jokes, but fully formed, fully funded jokes. Indeed there is more plot and budget than many films that try play it straight.The crew being actors think there may be a buck involved and go along with what, they initially think, are over-the-top fans and before they know it they are in space having a fully formed adventure.Jokes about spacemen, mad Trekkies, transporters with side-effects, token blacks, interracial love, British thesps who detest what they do, aliens who don't have a sense of humour, characters who think they are going to be killed because they don't have a second name, and lots, lots more.Once again I stress that this subject was a sitting duck for satire, but what is amazing is how clever the script is, worse will win Oscars. And the jokes just keep coming. Not all of them funny, but the ratios of hits to misses is pleasingly high and the cast are good enough to make themselves look like idiots as well.The climax is both and funny and appropriate and had me laughing over the final credits. Highly recommended unless you are the butt of some of the film's bang-on-the-money jokes. "},{"Title":"Fun entertainment.","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"101 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is an excellent feel good comedy that's enjoyable for the entire family.Even though the concept of the movie is not original anymore, the story is still enjoyable and fun enough, mainly thanks to the cast who seemed to be enjoying them selves during filming.Tim Allen is surprising good as William Shatner like captain and Alan Rickman is perfect in his role. Sigourney Weaver perfectly makes fun of her own Ripley character from the Alien movies and plays the complete opposite of this character. All the characters are fun and entertaining because they are humane instead of heroic. There also is a fine stereotype space villain.The movie perfectly makes fun of Star Trek, the fans and everything else around it. Well, I'm not sure if making fun of is the right way to say it, it's more like holding up a mirror, without making the Trekkies look like complete fools.But it's a comedy so how about some laughs? Well, there are a few laughs but this movie is more of feel good, fun, entertaining comedy instead of an hilarious one. The movie also knows to be emotional at the right moments.Other thing that contribute to the greatness of this movie are the special effects and the musical score composed by David Newman.By Grabthar's hammer...what a movie.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":" Entertains adults and children alike, standing as one of the year's best family films. ***1/2 out of ****","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"82 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  GALAXY QUEST (1999) ***1/2Starring Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Tony Shalhoub, Alan Rickman, Daryl Mitchell and Sam Rockwell    Directed by Dean Parisot, written by David Howard. Running Time 104 minutes. Rated PG (for action violence and some gore, mild language, and brief sex-related material) By Blake French As I walked out of the theater in which I screened Galaxy Quest, I thought how surprised I was to have enjoyed what seemed as a cheesy family spoof. But the film turned to be an action adventure with some really hilarious moments. I loved the film. It has qualities of a successful science fiction drama, but also contains a variety of comical characters that had the whole audience overwhelmed in laughter. Galaxy Quest is right up there with Toy Story in merit, it entertains adults and children alike, standing out as one of the year's best family films. The story details the adventures of a canceled television science fiction fantasy cast, similar in content to Star Trek. Galaxy Quest is the name of the program. In their years, the stars, including Jason Nesmith, Gwen DeMarco, Fred Kwan, Alexander Dane, and Tommy Webber, were some of the biggest, most popular names in TV. Now, their means of making a living is signing fans' autographs for a price and being cast in amateur presentations. There is very detailed character development here. The characters are wonderfully cast and brilliantly portrayed. Unfortunately, most family films don't contain the patience for such necessary material. We bond with these characters; they are likable, funny, energetic and independent.  These individuals are the key of success to this kind of movie.The real plot begins when strange people come to Jason beging for him to save their existence from a powerful evil force who wishes to wipe them out of the universe forever. Naturally, at first our television star is skeptical, but when the strange people turn out to be humble aliens and transport Jason to their spaceship, he realizes this is something serious. The aliens begin to explain that they think he and his Galaxy Quest team are the only people in the universe who can save their race. He rushes to the members of his old cast and tries to justify his experience. He says that there are extraterrestrial creatures who require the help of their Galaxy Quest characters. None of his friends believe him, but once again give in when they find themselves transported off earth, onto the creature's spaceship.  Of course, the aliens don't realize that their hopeful heroes are simply out of work actors, but who needs to tell them? So it is up to Commander Peter Quincy Taggart, Lt. Tawny Madison, Tech Sergeant Chen, Dr. Lazarus of Tev'Meck, and Lt. Laredo to save the day for our innocent and haunted alien life forms. Galaxy Quest is a slapstick comedy that is smart, and does not go over the edge with its humorous material. It leaves room for several other essential elements such as happiness, romance, honesty, excitement, and contains a dramatic purpose. The story is very original, and contains a firm theme of action in its premise. It also has lots of outstanding visual effects and sight gags that are effective and interesting to watch. Although the film gets a little off-track near the end, Galaxy Quest is still  high energy laughs audiences will come to the theater expecting. This is one of the most victorious movies of this year in its execution of the script because we anticipate what we are going to view is a silly comic spoof. Even though parts of the film fit that definition, in the end we end up with a lot more than that.Brought to you by DreamWorks Pictures.  "}{"Title":"A love letter to sf fans everywhere","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A beautifully-crafted film, Galaxy Quest is a love letter to sf fans of all sorts everywhere. The characters are perfectly drawn, the story is well-written, and there's the right amount of goshwow to make the whole thing work perfectly. And it's funny as hell in all the right spots.Tim Allen is amazing. He's got his Shatneroid character down perfectly. He's a vain, pompous clown who finds out what a laughingstock he's become, and when he gets a chance to redeem himself, he pounces on it.Sigourney Weaver is a delight. Sexy without trying, her character Gwen DeMarco is as far from Ripley as you can get. Alan Rickman is flawless as Alexander Dane, massively talented Shakespearean actor who's been stuck in this Spockish role for years because he played it too well. Darryl Mitchell is great as Tommy Laredo Webber, and Sam Rockwell is hilarious as Guy, the hack actor stuck in the middle of something that scares him silly.The two actors who really stand out are Tony Shalhoub and Enrico Colantoni. Tony plays Fred Kwan with understated glee, while Colantoni plays Commander Mathesar with a smiling earnestness that makes you firmly believe everything he's saying.The supporting cast is incredibly talented. Robin Sachs is perfect as Sarris, Patrick Breen essays his role as Quellek beautifully, and Missy Pyle amazes as Laliari.But it's still Tim Allen's movie above all else, and he makes the most of it.A final note this movie wouldn't have worked nearly as well if not for the production design work of four of the greatest artistic talents in science fiction Simon Bisley, Brom, Wayne Barlowe and the lengendary Berni Wrightson. Barlowe is an expert in xenobiology, and designed the Thermian's native form. Wrightson's quite possibly the best horror illustrator of all time, and Sarris and his minions are his work.My favorite moment in the film? the point where Alan Rickman gets his first look at the NSEA Protector II for the first time... his look of astonishment is a joy to behold.Like The Last Starfighter, this is a popcorn movie with a message. See it with your kids.  "},{"Title":"The best science fiction comedy ever made?  CERTAINLY!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is what I would call a PERFECT film. As a long-time Star Trek fan I have waited for a movie which had that total feelgood factor, not a spoof, but a humourous and heartfelt homage.  A film which shows fans in a good light, in a way that, of course, we can laugh at ourselves, but in an unoffensive and entertaining manner. I never thought it would arrive, and so in GALAXY QUEST, I found one of the best films in cinema history. Everything is spot on.  The story is fantastic, and telling it from the point of view of normal people was great.  Making them play those stereotypes that we know and love was just the tip of the iceberg, and everyone played the parts superbly. The special effects speak for themselves.  When the Protector leaves space dock...Wow.   When she goes through the minefield...Wow!  When Tim Allen faces the biggest rock monster since The Never Ending Story...Wow Wow WOW! The score is also great, capturing the adventure of the old Star Trek shows, and the epic scope of the story at hand. And then there's the way everything just comes together at the end into a sensational package of laughs, thrills, sometimes bitingly moving scenes, and a genuine feeling of warmth inside. Go and see this, buy the DVD, whatever.  Just see it. Never give up, and never surrender!  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Sci-Fi Parody","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's hard to imagine how this movie could have been improved upon.The plot is simple typecast actors from a long-ago-cancelled sci-fi adventure series (led by Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver as the stars of the show, with Alan Rickman a close third in his role) earn a reluctant living on the convention circuit, making special appearances in character.Allen plays James Nesmith, who played ship commander Peter Quincy Taggart. His crew in this film is strong Weaver turns in a well-preserved performance as Gwen DeMarco (Lt. Tawny Madison on Galaxy Quest), the show's eye candy who dutifully repeats whatever the computer says (out loud), and who more than exceeds the show's cleavage quotient. Rickman (the villain from Die Hard, among other roles) is convincing as Alexander Dane (Dr. Lazarus on GQ), a once-serious actor who almost-suicidally laments his decision to leave what he considers a meaningless mark on history. The supporting cast is notable as well Sam Rockwell plays Guy Fleegman, who gets dragged along for the ride when the crew suddenly finds itself aboard the alien ship based on their show, and Tony Shaloub (from the TV series Wings) does well as Fred Kawn (Tech Sargent Chen on GQ).Now for the plot while at a convention, the Thermians confront Nesmith, who is convinced they are just another group of obsessed fans in character, as they inform him that their race is about to be obliterated by an evil space villain (Sarris, played by an over-the-top Robin Sachs). Enrico Colantoni as Mathesar stands out among the Thermians, a good-natured, highly intelligent species who do not understand subtle social communication such as body language, sarcasm, insult, misdirection, disinformation and deception, or...the difference between reality and a TV show (hence the plot). Mathasar is convinced that only Cpt. Taggart can save the Thermians from Sarris, and Nesmith proudly accepts the gig, the first time alone.While negotiating with Sarris, Nesmith decides to end matters by firing on all cylinders, and when it appears he has won, he returns to earth triumphantly. All is not well, however, as Mathasar and company return to inform him that Sarris has survived and wants to continue negotiating. The rest of the crew is invited to join and refuses at first, but decides that they won't let Nesmith steal the limelight and go along. Pretty soon they realize that they really are aboard an alien ship, and soon after they realize that Sarris is a genuine threat not only to the Thermians, but the entire universe as well, thanks to his pursuit of the Omega 13, a reactor that could destroy the universe if used maliciously.Once the battle begins, anyone who has ever seen a Star Trek episode could write the plot you have good against evil, in space, with the usual assortment of aliens. There is of course the token hottie alien (Missi Pyle as Lailari), who seems to have been based on Kirstie Alley's Savvik from Star Trek II. This movie was obviously designed for everyone who grew up on Star Trek and who pondered if the universe and the future really were the way they were depicted on the show. I give this movie a 10 simply because the writers left very little out. The movie is neither too long nor too short, too serious nor too funny, and it manages to explain an alien subculture (the Trekkies) to the general population all in the space of an hour and a half. As can be expected, one of the show's most loyal fans gets to take a special journey with the crew that no one would believe if he ever tried to tell them, and the ending is unapologetically over-the-top in a way that captures the essence of the atmosphere at the conventions. To that extent, the story is also a coming-of-age tale about a group of actors who, when all is said and done, realize with a new appreciation that there are many worse fates for an actor than to be typecast, such as being forgotten, without fans, and without work, and who seemed by the end of the film to have finally accepted that GQ is all they will ever be known for.Some sci-fi movies are so bad they're good. This movie is just so good, it's great. A must-see. "},{"Title":"The Coolest Funniest Quest","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are some movies that are better watched while you are not eating. 'Galaxy Quest' fits into this category as I made the mistake of watching it while having dinner and I almost choked several times. This is one of the funniest smart comedies I have seen. The film is brilliantly executed and it brilliantly spoofs the science-fiction-spaceship genre. But the film isn't mere silliness as it does have a soul and tells an action adventure story of 5 has-been stars of a famous Star-Trek-type TV show that got cancelled two decades ago. The screenplay is great and the dialogues are witty fun. There is no crude humour or over-the-top-out-of-context joke.The special effects wonderfully add to the spoofiness. The monsters and aliens are a 'treat' to watch. An intelligent comedy isn't easy to make as the maker has to pay close attention to line delivery, characterization, situation, comic timing and direction. 'Galaxy Quests' fulfills all criteria from start to end. Tim Allen as the pompous hero, Alan Rickman as the whiny has-been 'Shakespearean'-actor-forced-to-play-an-android, Tony Shalhoub as the funny Fred, Sam Rockwell as the terrified-of-being-the-first-one-to-die Guy, Enrico Colantoni as the gullible Mathezar and last but not least, the incredibly sexy Sigourney Weaver as the tired-of-playing-dumb-blonde Gwen (the total opposite of her famous Ripley character) play their parts.I'm glad that I bought this film on impulse yesterday as most American spoofs I have seen, like the abysmal Scary Movies (puke) or the silly Screams (yawn) and the ridiculous Naked Guns (okay this last one was kind of funny) hardly have anything more to offer than silliness. Actually I was given the choice between this and 'Naked Gun 33 and a Half' and i'm glad I made the right decision. 'Galaxy Quest' definitely surpasses these films by several miles as I wouldn't even mind calling it one of the best comedies. "},{"Title":"A must see for all who saw the serious ones","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm rating this with a 10. The reason is simple - never before have I seen a parodying comedy that works without vomit, urinal and fecal jokes, a parodying comedy that doesn't need to make fun of George WC Bush.Where many serious-looking sci-fi movies try hard to explain how the futuristic technology works, Galaxy Quest in a clever way lets the spectator to find out (to his/her amusement) that sci-fi writers sometimes accidentally correctly guess something functional.Where other movies either depict extra-terrestrials as blood-sucking carnivorous monsters, or as peace-loving beautiful creatures, both easily distinguishable as such by appearance, Galaxy Quest in a clever way makes the E.T.'s surprising and twisty.Jokes about nonsensical equipment/machinery, jokes about cult remarks, obvious nods and eye-blinks to other cult series or movies, as well as a multitude of mocking remarks aimed at the very same series and movies - that all adds a lot of fun to this fantastic movie.So to somehow wrap it up - I highly recommend this movie, it's probably the best it can be. "},{"Title":"Finally a film which contains humor of a different color.","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having a husband, who is a huge Star Trek nut, helped me sympathize with this hilarious film. After having been to half a dozen conventions in glory to this campy old sci-fi show, I have to say that this movie manages to target PERFECTLY every strange quirk and idiosyncrasy which surrounds fan boy groups.I was also pleased by the character development which allowed for personalities that were as equally funny as they were original. This is not a Roman slap stick, but a witty fun thrall.I was ESPECIALLY pleased with Alan Rickman's performance, who is one actor who has never let me down! He delivers his character with perfectly timed synchronicity, and suave appeal. Rickman is one actor who demands attention in every role, and this performance is no exception.The other performance which was especially appealing was that of Tony Shalhoub. I hope to see this swanky, sly spoken comedian in many more performances. I cannot think of another actor who could have pulled off his lackadaisical, laid appeal. Hilarious, thank you Tony! I can honestly say that this is one movie I can watch and watch, and watch, and it actually becomes more appealing each time. The jokes are layered, so you get something new each time you view it. This is very hard to do in comedy....hats off....... "},{"Title":"Space spoof with brilliant comic timing.","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest isn't groundbreaking, but it's a charming and instantly likeable spoof on space dramas like Star Trek. With Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman in the leads you just know this will be good. The three leads make the movie consistently enjoyable and as they are good comedians, they bring in a lot of fresh and funny (if not light-hearted) material. While spoofs of the horror genre (Scary Movie etc.) are sometimes grotesque and desperate to keep laughs coming every second, Galaxy Quest is a lot better paced and has an impeccable comic timing. It settles for witty anecdotes and good tasteful material instead of riotous sex related jokes and cheap visual gags. Perhaps it is a tad predictable and the script suffers from one or two dull moments. But it's highly original and keeps you thoroughly entertained for its 100 minute running time. This is popcorn entertainment at it's best, 7.1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Forget Spaceballs and 2001A Space Travesty, this is the ultimate salute to sci-fi!","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like a good spoof/comedy movie when it is done right. As far as spoof movies go though, there are those that are really unfunny and a waste of time which applies to 2001A Space Travesty and anything by Friedberg and Seltzer. There is also the kind that has hit and miss moments but reasonably entertaining, Spaceballs in my opinions belongs under this category. And there is the spoof that work on every level, of which Young Frankenstein and this underrated gem Galaxy Quest fits like a glove.Do I have any problem with Galaxy Quest? Not with the movie itself. But I do have a problem with the way it was marketed. Like Bridge to Terabithia, Lilo and Stitch, Tangled and Disney's Hunchback of Notre Dame, Galaxy Quest was marketed terribly. For example, watching the trailer, I thought I was in for a mediocre comedy with substandard effects and corny dialogue. When it came to seeing the movie finally in trepidation, I was shocked at how much that wasn't the case! Galaxy Quest is just brilliant, and one of my favourites, and has been since I first saw it.For one thing, Galaxy Quest has wonderful production values. The cinematography and editing are crisp and smooth, the costumes are inventive and the sets and scenery are colourful. The real revelation are the special effects, which are just sublime. These special effects do not look as though they were made in a hurry or in a half-hearted fashion, care has gone into constructing them and it shows. Also they enhance the story and the like in alternative to distracting from it.Galaxy Quest is not the sort of movie where the visuals are the only asset going for it. There is also David Newman's score, which with its rousing, energetic and clever themes and motifs compliments everything beautifully without distracting from the mood and composition of each scene. Galaxy Quest also has a strong story, this story is not a predictable one, instead it is fun and exciting making the most of an inspired premise, not to mention it bounces along at a furious pace.The film's humour also helps elevate. Galaxy Quest's script is fantastic. No badly explored clichés or crude humour and all that in sight. It is hysterically funny, very smart and quotable. Not only that the dialogue is thoughtful with a lot of heart. The references to Star Trek, the movies and its fans are clever, sly and wonderfully incorporated in the story and writing, the characters are immensely likable and engaging as well as being alive to every character nuance and the direction is done with precision.Galaxy Quest couldn't have had a more perfect cast either. Tim Allen seems to be having a ball, Sigourney Weaver is charming not to mention very, very hot, Alan Rickman is hilarious doing what he's best at bagging all the best lines and an endearing sense of bitterness, Tony Shalhoub is the wonderful Tony Shalhoub he always is with a deliberately burned-out character and Sam Rockwell is also very good. Also Sarris is a wonderful villain, an utter bastard and very ruthless with a cool demise, appropriately sinister voice and awesome make-up.All in all, a wonderful film and the ultimate salute to the genre it pays homage to. But there is also something special about Galaxy Quest, it flawlessly satirises the acting profession and parodies fans of sci-fi and Star Trek without being rude about them and it is an engaging and original space saga in its own right. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"brilliant, wonderful tribute / spoof","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS Star Trek is a worldwide phenomenon. Watched by millions around the globe, the many series own a gigantic following and some of the most obsessive fans going. With regular conventions full of fans in costume, the whole Trek universe is one long opportunity for ridicule. In 1999 therefore, we were finally given a film which does it justice. Both spoofing the obsession as well as paying tribute to it, Galaxy Quest is a hilarious, under rated movie with an amazing comedy cast and some magnificent scenes.Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen) is a washed up actor who used to play Captain Peter Quincy Taggart in classic science fiction programme Galaxy Quest. Hated by his former co-stars, Nesmith is a drunk who is living in the past. When a group of naive aliens believe Nesmith to actually be the real captain however, Nesmith recruits the remainder of the cast to join him on a Galaxy Quest mission with a difference. This time it's real.Blatantly poking fun at the original cast of the first series of Star Trek, this wonderful film is a piece of hilarious ingenuity. Referencing so many cult ideas from the world of science fiction, it inspires humour by pointing out things which any fan knows and loves.Led by a truly brilliant performance by Allen, the film is also aided by comedy turns by Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman and Sam Rockwell. All pull their weight and add to the story, especially Weaver who excellently pokes fun at the use of women in classic science fiction.In fact, it's hard to really find flaw with the film. The Thermian race might be a bit annoying at times, but then they're meant to be. The film is so funny throughout though (a scene involving a corpse and the view-screen in particular is enough to make you fall off your chair) that if you have ever been interested in Star Trek you just can't help but love it.Definitely designed as a treat for fans, this wonderful comedy is brilliant at paying tribute through spoof of one of the biggest television series of all time. With so many glorious scenes and some terrific acting, it starts well and never lets off. A must watch for science fiction fans around the world. "},{"Title":"Great movie on many levels.","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"26 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great movie on many levels.It is a comedy, a scifi, a drama, and romance. I forgot Tim Allen did this before he did that gigantic mistake The Santa Clause. Nonetheless, you will forget that and watch this one with great joy. It is very close to perfect.The entire cast delivers a high quality performance totally convincing you of the reality of this historical document. 9/10Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub (who is brilliant as Fred Kwan/Tech Sgt. Chen), Sam Rockwell (who plays 'Guy' fits right in), Daryl Mitchell, Enrico Colantoni (who played 'Mathesar' was totally convincing), Robin Sachs (who played the evil General Sarris, brought him to life), Patrick Breen (who played 'Quellek' is why this gets a 9/10), Missi Pyle (who played 'Laliari/Jane Doe' was beautiful by just smiling), Jed Rees (who played the Thermian Historian 'Teb'), and all four fans Justin Long who played 'Brandon', Jeremy Howard who played 'Kyle', Kaitlin Cullum who played 'Katelyn', and Jonathan Feyer who played 'Hollister.-Zafoid "}{"Title":"Successful Quest to Parody Sci-Fi Conventions","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A long time ago, I read a very entertaining & humorous short story in a book collection of Star Trek stories by fan authors, a whimsical piece about how several of the real Trek actors, such as Shatner & Nimoy, get zapped into the Trek universe, as if it was real, and are forced to enact their TV roles in a real setting. This movie captures that whimsy and is very entertaining, as a result. It begins rather mundanely - on purpose - during a standard science fiction convention, in which several actors, whose careers nosedived after starring in a canceled sci-fi TV show, are relegated to these cheesy appearances, signing autographs and hiding their disgust at what they've been reduced to. Well, except Tim Allen, who starts off very cheery until he has some ice water thrown in his face, a surprisingly effective moment. All the actors playing the actors fill out their roles very well. Tim Allen used to be the Capt.Kirk-type commander on the TV show; Weaver played his communications officer, like Uhura, and always repeated computer statements; Rickman was the alien doctor; Shalhoub was the Scotty-like tech man below decks; Mitchell was the pilot, like Sulu. Rockwell ends up along for the ride, even though he only appeared in one episode, as an expendable crewman.When everything shifts, about 20 minutes in, it's not very subtle. All of a sudden, these has-been actors are thrust into a very real galactic adventure. It's kind of a jaw-dropping scene, meant to inspire awe, and, at the same time, the humor is quite clever and thought out. The actors' reactions when they're first transported over several light years are priceless. And, even in already good moments like these, the filmmakers throw in an extra little slice of comedy, as one of the actors does not react as expected. Rickman stands out a bit as the huffy British actor, showing exasperation in almost every scene he's in, but it's never tiresome. Weaver & Allen exceed expectations, however; we're not used to seeing them in roles such as this. Allen is known for comedy, but here he's expected to draw out a character with a long history as a pretentious, sometimes failed actor, and he succeeds nicely. Rockwell nails the role of the nervous 3rd-stringer, a throwaway part usually, which he somehow manages to use to steal a scene or two. And Shalhoub, who we're used to being interesting by now, is very much so as the somewhat oddly serene member of the group. But the biggest surprises are Mitchell & Colantoni, whom I was unfamiliar with; Mitchell is terrifically funny attempting to navigate the real starship, while Colantoni offers the most unique interpretation of how a real alien would act & speak.There was obvious tinkering just before release of this movie to avoid a harsher rating or reduce the length, but these changes could not remove the charm of this sci-fi parody. And, simply labeling it parody may not do it justice. I think only those Trekkers who regard Star Trek as their personal religion may be offended by it; otherwise, any Trek fan should applaud this as mostly a tribute to such entertaining TV shows, recognizing all the little reminders of what made them such great shows. The theme of tolerance, for example, is represented by the strangely different but similar-to-us aliens who the audience cannot help but grow very fond of by the end of the story. On top of that, the so-called sci-fi geek fans, usually the object of scorn, are made the heroes by the end of the film. Everyone has their value in such a universe. "},{"Title":"Second-best Star Trek movie ever","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even though it's a comedy, it out-Treks almost all of the Star Trek films, with a better plot and better writing. The laughs are continuous and the dramatic elements are quite good.I not generally on the Tim Allen bandwagon, but he nails this performance, mocking Trek's Kirk & Riker without caricaturing them. Alan Rickman is terrific, as always. Tony Shalhoub is great, too, with a lovely understated humor. Sam Rockwell steals the show as the terrified Guy Fleegman (Crewman #6).There are so many little things that are just for Trek fans, like the ridiculously Rube-Goldbergesque corridor dangers on the way to the ship's core. Even if you don't like Star Trek, you'll probably find it funny when the film pokes fun at the venerable TV and film franchise.But it's not just a Trek spoof. It's got a compelling story with great comic acting and timing. My wife is definitely not a Trek or even a science fiction fan, but she loves this film. That's the ultimate endorsement. "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie, but with a caveat.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw this movie was less than impressed. Sure it had some funny moments, but overall I felt a lot like I was watching a cross between Star Trek the Original Series and a Mel Brooks film. Then I watched it again. And again. Then I went back and watched STTOS on DVD. And suddenly I got it. Galaxy Quest is funny on its own, but the humor of it only REALLY becomes outright tear inducing if you remember some of the old Star Trek episodes, like the one where Kirk fabricates a weapon to fight an alien. In the movie Guy says Look around, is there anything you can use to fabricate a rudimentary lathe? A lathe being a complex machine tool that one does't just fabridate on the fly.I think the measure of how much this movie sticks in your mind after you've seen it and appreciated the humor is that, while watching a TV commercial with the same actor who plays Tech Sgt. Chen in this movie, I didn't turn to my friend and say Hey! That's the guy from Galaxy Quest! Instead I said That's Tech. Sgt. Chen! and my friend, who is not a star trek fan, knew immediately what I was talking about.Tim Allen IS William Shatner in....Galaxy Quest! "},{"Title":"Just great, even the deleted scenes.","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is one of the best science fiction comedy I have ever seen. Even if you're not a science fiction fan, and/or a comedy fan, it is so brilliantly written, filmed and played, that you will laugh and enjoy yourself watching it. Fans of Star Trek with a good sense of humor can only love it. For more information about the movie itself, the actors, and the story I recommend you to have a look at the other users comments. You will have an idea of the quality of this movie. I wrote this comment only to add something I didn't saw in the others comments The movie is so good that its 1h40 duration seems too short. So if you buy or rent the DVD, don't forget to look at the deleted scenes. They are all worth it and some of them are excellent. Usually when I look at deleted scenes from other movies I understand why they have been cut, most of the time because they don't bring anything interesting to the movie. But that's not the case here. The deleted scenes of Galaxy Quest are so good, that a question arise who is the half wit who decided to delete these scenes ?! OK, the film would have reached more than 2 hours. So what ? 2 hours of quality is better than 1h40 ! "},{"Title":"Where no comedy has gone before","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a fine line to be made between playfully parodying popular geek culture and making a mockery of it. It's easy to believe that the latter approach would feasibly be easier to inject to a movie and also more readily appeal to a wide demographic. Galaxy Quest wisely forgoes this option, with the alternative working all the more in its favor. Its resulting charm is mostly the product of the love it extends to sci-fi, the actors involved, and especially the fandom associated with it all.In Galaxy Quest, we follow the lives of a number of actors formerly involved in a popular TV show (not in any particular way to be confused with Star Trek) who now make their livings off attending conventions for money. All but washed up, they are approached by a group of humanoid aliens who have confused their TV episodes with historical documentation. Their race is in great danger, and they need the help of their heroes to fight off the evil lizard-like beings that threaten their existence. It's all very convoluted, and it all works very effectively to give the writers every bit of leeway needed to make the jokes they want to make. The cast deserves special mention, with Rickman, Allen, Weaver and others serving as perfect references to notable real life counterparts. Watching Galaxy Quest you sort of want to believe Roddenberry would have appreciated it as much as any of us could have. Putting all the humorous overtones aside, it is distinctly similar about the message that it is trying to convey about human nature. This compliments the movie for the geek audience (myself included), but fortunately you do not need any sci-fi knowledge to appreciate what Galaxy Quest is about. All the technobabble aside, it's just a darn funny movie, and that is more than enough to make it worth your while and then some. "},{"Title":"An original concept for people who like movies like Mystery Men","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's been a lot of years since this film came out. Upon just seeing it; I must say that old adage Never judge a book by it's cover is totally applied here.On the outside, this movie looks childish, dumb, and and un-needed. Push those thoughts aside, Galaxy Quest is truly one of the most original concepts for a film in a LONG time.It basically makes a play at Star Trek, and the actors who play the crew in the movie (from the TV show they are in) are forced into taking on a real life scenario a sci fi TV show exhibits.With the help of a clumsy albeit charming cast of aliens that emulate the show and bring the actors show to life (ship and all!) Galaxy Quest manages to produce some funny moments.The movie never loses it's charm. Its consistently humorous, while serious at times, but heart warming at points. Watch all of the details, because a good movie sets the tone with foreshadowing. Surprisingly, this film moves along good and will shock you when details you thought were irrelevant come into play later.Galaxy quest takes itself seriously in it's own created world, but never loses sight that we viewers know it's a take on star trek.It does a better job then you would imagine in distinguishing itself as memorable.Excellent film. Easy 9/10. "},{"Title":"Terrific fun","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most movies are varying shades of OK. Some are poor - misjudged maybe, or technically poor, badly acted, badly scripted, or any variation.And then sometimes Hollywood gets it resoundingly right. Galaxy Quest is a case in point.Take Star Trek (the original series) and then take a look at sci-fi conventions and fans, and extrapolate in two directions one, assume that the original cast are now washed up has-beens whose only ongoing engagements are said conventions (at which they hate each other) and, two, assume that a race of aliens have picked up the original TV broadcasts, believe them to be true, and seek to recruit them to help in a genuine intergalactic crisis.This film is good satire, good comedy, good science fiction, and good action. Everything is note perfect - script, characterisation, casting, performance, effects (both original TV series and real) - it all works, and works well. Characters develop and learn, there is humour and heartbreak, and its greatest strength is probably how well the characters are drawn - they are real, and we care.A very, very good film. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie!!!","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watched Galaxy Quest for the 5th or 6th time. I am not a Star Trek fan and I almost never watch movies more than once but I never tire of seeing this one. The script, actors and directing are stellar. Here I am writing this comment 8 years after this movie hit the theaters. It's still one of the best movies ever made and one of my all time favorites. Every time I watch it I am amazed at the writing and directing. Of course, the casting and the actors are brilliant as well. I am astonished that this movie did not get more attention when it came out. Everyone involved in this film should feel proud and deserves the highest praise. THANK YOU for this wonderful film!!! "},{"Title":"hysterically funny sci/fi spoof of pop culture and the cult of celebrity","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is a comedy sc/fi action adventure film rolled into one.it is a spoof of Star Trek and and other sc/ci TV shows/ movies.but more than that,and more importantly,it also pokes fun at popular culture and how absurd we have become as a society.for instance, the worshipping of Celebreties as idols.the cult of Celebrity plays a prominent role in this movie.any movie that skewers celebrities and brings them down a peg is always a good thing.this is great satire.in this case it also happens to be hysterically funny at times,with great action and even some romance.the movie is not done in a mean spirited way,so is not overtly offensive or insulting to it's targets(well,okay,to some it would be,but we won't get into that here)although i guess,to be fair it is pretty blatant.oh well,cry me a river.honestly,the average human being that enjoys laughing frequently will enjoy this movie 9/10 "},{"Title":"Leaves no cliché unturned","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'd forgotten how good Galaxy Quest is until I caught it tonight on television, the first time I'd seen it since it was originally out in the cinemas. As other reviewers have said, it carries off an astonishing balancing act that manages to hit all the right notes, combining laugh-out-loud comedy with some genuinely moving scenes that could easily have teetered over into schmaltz.It somehow achieves the feat of being both merciless and affectionate, poking fun at all the clichés of Star Trek and its legions of fans, without ever being snide or mean-spirited. It gets us to laugh our socks off at a bunch of cynical, played-out has-beens, and then feel genuinely uplifted when they discover that they can turn from frauds into heroes. It lets us smirk at the obsessive indulgence of sci-fi fans, and then share their joy when that obsession is the key to averting disaster.The child-like innocence of the aliens who have interpreted the Galaxy Quest television series as a collection of historical records is beautifully realised, being both hilarious and touching. The performances of both aliens and humans are excellent across the board, and it would be unfair, if not impossible, to single out anyone for special praise. (On a purely visual level, though, some comment has to be made regarding what is perhaps Sigourney Weaver's most glamorous screen role, far more reminiscent of Barbarella than Ellen Ripley.) Comedy, drama, and a feel-good ending - this film really does have it all. So why is it that the writer of the story and co-writer of the screenplay has nothing else listed in the IMDb?How good is it really? Well, good enough to finally prompt me into writing a review, after years of being only an IMDb reader. "}{"Title":"Great fun for Trekkers and non-believers alike!","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" GalaxyQuest stands both as one of the most well-crafted and witty comedies in recent years as well as a grand space adventure with amazing special effects that have held up quite well (with the possible exceptions of the CGI baby aliens on the desert world).Essentially, a number of cast members of a long-canceled Star Trek-style television series are mistaken for real astronauts by a race of aliens who receive the transmissions. The aliens begin to model their culture and technology after the show, recreating every element of the spaceship depicted in it. When they need help battling marauding lobster-faced invaders, they come to Earth and recruit the cast to lead their people to victory.The cast is superb. Sigourney Weaver and Tim Allen are both solid and believable (notable, given the track record of Tim Allen as an actor) but the supporting cast really shines. Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub, and especially Sam Rockwell are flat-out hilarious, and really get under the skins of their characters. Justin Long, as the die-hard fan Brandon, is a real find as well.The story is average, but built on a great premise and delivered masterfully. This movie is very likable, very climactic, and enjoyable throughout. Any fan of Star Trek will love it for the gentle mockery and homage granted to that franchise, but people I know who are not Trekkies have adored it as well. One of my favorite comedies. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The cast of a canceled science fiction television show are reunited when real aliens, the Thermians, mistake them for a true starship crew and enlist their aid to help defeat their evil enemy, General Sarris.Galaxy Quest is a slick, highly commercial caricature of Star Trek. That said, it is a very well done tribute to the show and its cult following. This movie pokes fun at the popular culture of Star Trek and the Trekkers and Trekkies at conventions, and does so in an extremely comical way.Tim Allen performs well as Cmdr. Taggert, and does his best to remind us of his counterpart on the other show. I love Sigourney Weaver in almost every movie I have seen, and this one is no exception. Darryl Mitchell is hilarious. But the whole cast also work together to make this one very funny movie.The script is entertaining, and if you are a fan of Star Trek, then you will appreciate the numerous subtle and not so subtle references to that show. But even if you are not a fan, this movie has enough action and adventure to ensure that you will still be entertained.I really enjoyed this movie, and continue to keep watching it. "},{"Title":"I love this movie, mostly because of the cast","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only reason I saw this movie is for one person, Alan Rickman. I read the Harry Potter books and hadn't seen the movies, and Snape became my favorite character. I asked my friend about who played Snape several times, and when we came back from vacation, which is where we read the books, she took me to her house and put Dr. Lazarus aka Alexander Dane on screen, pointed to him, and said, thats him. I just smiled, but when i got home i watched the harry potter movies and was surprised to find that Alan Rickman portrayed an excellent Snape, which i never expected. After that, my friend forced me to watch Galaxy Quest. I did NOT like the movie the first time around. I thought it was a dumb plot, although it did make me laugh. But when I got home that night, I found myself thinking about it and laughing. I watched it a few times after that, and now I'm in love with the movie, and I think I've pin pointed why.The cast of this movie is brilliant. Tim Allen playes the pompous but lovable commander, and is hilarious to watch as his character unfolds. Sigourney Weaver plays a lovable blonde who just has to make you smile, I have to give her marks for the way she played this character. Alan Rickman (my personal favorite) plays a somewhat sardonic actor who has been going down hill for a long time. Sam Rockwell plays a guy(named guy) who was an extra on the set and insists on tagging along, until he is overcome with anxiety and seems to fall to pieces. He is absolutely hilarious. Tony Shaloub is incredibly funny, playing a fun character who is somewhat carefree. Daryl Mitchell plays a fun character who was a kid on the show.I am all about body language when it comes to watching movies, and there is a ton of it in this movie, especially from Alan Rickman and Sigourney Weaver. I would have to say that they are my top favorite Actor and Actress. If you watch it a couple times, you will most likely find yourself laughing at more than the great lines. Some of the facial expressions from Rickman actually make me crack up, no joke. All in all, I think this is a great film with a fun plot, the ending is cute, and the cast is what makes this movie a must see, and incredibly entertaining. It is a great family film, and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys comedic movies with good actors.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious ! D","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My dad heard that this movie was good from a friend of his, so he took me to see it one day at the cheap theater. Well, I tell you, its not very often I laugh THAT hard at a movie. I was in tears watching some of the scenes, I thought it was so funny. I've seen it tons of times, and still laugh everytime. I love this movie. I love the Thermians (or was it Termites?) they really are truly hilarious. One of my favorite lines in the film is when Gwen DeMarco says to Jason Nesmith; Does the rolling help ? (He had been rolling for some reason to avoid the aliens I guess) I also liked when Guy says Ah, thats not right when he sees Fred and the tenticled female alien making out on the floor. Lastly, my favorite line is; Sir Alexander Dane Could they be the miners?  Fred Kwan Sure, they're like three years old.  Sir Alexander Dane MINERS, not MINORS.  Fred Kwan You lost me. You gotta see this movie! I give it a 9.  "},{"Title":"By Grabthar's Hammer, This movie kicks @$$!!!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit I was initially really wary of this movie. From what I saw on the Pay Per View Trailers, I envisioned basically what it's been made out to be, and that was some sort of childrens' screwy Disney-esque space adventureHarsh enough? Don't worry, I turned out to be 100% wrong-o! In fact, as a loyal Trekkie, I had such a blast watching this movie. The inside jokes and references to unnecessary plot complications that have been duplicated down to the last detail on the real-life NSEA Protector scream Star Trek, but it's been so lovingly parodied that no Trek fan could possibly be offended. A total classic, much much funnier than it's given credit for being. I especially enjoyed the pre-teen fans who had the entire ship schematics on their PC at the age when most people are still playing with Power Rangers figures and Barbies, which is an all-too real phenomenon in the Trek fan community.The acting is top-notch, (Tim Allen plays the scene-stealing hack down to the last detail, Sigourney Weaver is hilarious as the token female on the ship, Alan Rickman adds wonderful conflict as a furious Shakespearian actor who is convinced his role on the show ruined his career) the special effects are just fabulous, and the few poignant moments are done so well that it's damn near tear-jerking. Do yourself a favor and buy this movie. Don't even rent it first, just buy it!  "},{"Title":"An amusing spoof of Star Trek? Make it so - 79%","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Truth is often stranger than fiction. One of the DVDs that I was looking for in Virgin's pretty funky 5 for £30 deal was this but it wasn't there. And lo and behold, when I return to do my shopping, it's there on the shelf for just a fiver. Sweet, huh? I'm glad I found this because it was a film I'd been meaning to watch for some time and having read the screenplay beforehand (one of many I read before I wrote my own) surprisingly failed to diminish my enjoyment of this underrated sci-fi comedy.Tim Allen leads the cast as Jason Nesmith, the hero of a cult sci-fi TV show called Galaxy Quest. In the show, he is Captain Taggart - rugged, handsome, brave and heroic and leading the crew of the NSEA Protector on various missions. The tone of the show is much like Star Trek (the obvious inspiration) with a crew made up of all types and species. For example, former Shakespearean actor Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman) plays half-human, half-lizard Dr Lazarus while beautiful blonde Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver) plays Lt. Tawny Madison. But since the show was cancelled, the only work any of them could find was opening supermarkets and endless fan conventions. Tensions between the actors simmer away while Nesmith milks the show for all it's worth. Until a group of strange aliens persuade the crew to help them against their mortal enemy, believing the TV show to be actual historical documents. Encouraged by Nesmith, the actors reluctantly stay and so find themselves playing the good guys one last time - but this time, it's for real.Having watched a film about ordinary but strange guys pretending to be superheroes (Mystery Men) this morning, it's surprising how closely this film follows that one. But the results here are considerably better. This film has some real laughs in it as the actors eventually begin to realise the awful truth of how deep they have to go. Rickman is just brilliant, forever cursed to wear his rubber lizard make-up and watching his star-struck captain steal the fame and the glory. The rest of the cast do well, especially Sam Rockwell as the unnamed crewman convinced he's going to die and Tony Shalhoub as the engineer who takes the whole thing in his stride and steals the heart of an alien woman. Every actor reacts to the scenario in different ways and this helps Galaxy Quest to become a much funnier movie than it has any right to be. Rickman and Weaver aren't known for their comedic roles but both display good comic timing and expression here. Allen is OK but to be honest, I still haven't forgiven him for The Santa Clause.There are times when the comedy falls a little flat. The aliens themselves are a little annoying, speaking strangely and slowly and over-emphasizing certain sounds. Alien make-up is also of a passable nature. Sarris (Robin Sachs) and the other nasty aliens all look impressive but the good aliens, when they revert to their normal appearance, look like those old giant squid puppets you expect to see in a Doug McClure film. And while there are few belly laughs, it is a nicely entertaining picture that pokes gentle fun at people who have been almost demanding to have fun poked at them - namely, obsessive fans of sci-fi TV shows. The sort of person who'd be happy with a Commander Riker costume for Christmas, complete with scruffy beard and inflatable Deanna Troi. It's a shame that Galaxy Quest didn't quite carry the reputation it deserves but then again, it isn't a riotous tour de force. It's a pity more wasn't made of the central premise, which is sublime, but I'd be surprised if a Tim Allen film was a biting satire. What it is, however, is a perfectly enjoyable mix of mistaken identity, galactic warfare and geeks with an encyclopedic knowledge of the working of a fictional starship. "},{"Title":"Wacky, goofy, greatly-done, neat and very awesome. Yes, a rather great science-fiction comedy film.","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What do you know? it was even a critical success. And that is great, because this is the kind of film that critics will end up criticising in the worst ways possible, or giving negative thoughts on it online. Simply genius-like, this film. What I love about it in particular is that it has a great cast, especially Alan Rickman, he's probably my favourite in it. Galaxy Quest manages to keep up with the laughs and awesome comedy while simultaneously goofing off all the futuristic, science-fiction shows; and hey, that's what's so great about the film. I think another thing that is so great about this film is that it was also a financial success, meaning that yes, because it grossed a lot of money worldwide, more people will know about, thus it's got loads of fans who love it. My thoughts are very positive on this film, and it's one of my favourite films of all-time, that comes under science-fiction and comedy. Hopefully you'll check out this amazing film if you've not seen it before already. Spectacularly wonderful film full of great things; with amazing characters, wonderful make-up designs and great costumes, top- notch acting and beautifully-done, scientific scenery. Thanks a lot for reading. "},{"Title":"Great fun especially for sci-fi fans","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a parody of the Star Trek TV series, the cast of a popular sci-fi TV show Galaxy Quest are kidnapped by an alien race who thinks the show is actually real. These aliens are peaceful builders, desperate, and they face a tyrannical enemy. In order to defend themselves, they built a replica of the spaceship they see on TV and grab the cast to run it.The crew has Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen) as suave Commander Peter Quincy Taggert, Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver) as sexy communications person Lt. Tawny Madison, Sir Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman) as alien Dr. Lazarus, Fred Kwan (Tony Shalhoub) as engineer Tech Sgt. Chen, and Tommy Webber (Daryl Mitchell) as child gunner Laredo. Along with Guy Fleegman (Sam Rockwell) as the extra guy that gets shot. They become a fun cohesive group that has a lot of the old Star Trek lore.This is a super fun, hilarious, insightful take on the sci-fi series that's being mimicked. The group has great chemistry. It'll be most fun for sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"It's not a parody. It's Galaxy Quest.","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is one of few great comedy which has so many parody elements. It is actually full of Star Trek spoofs. Even the basic storyline depends on them. If you are not a fan of Star Trek series, you won't feel any difficulties to find the elements. Uniforms, ship designs, aliens, even the lines are inspired by the Star Trek.However, even so the movie itself is quite enjoyable thanks to the very well balanced SF part and Real-World part. And that balance is the one thing original in this movie. They actually proved that even with the classic theme like Star Trek, they can still create something hilarious. It's completed as one single movie. "},{"Title":"Galaxy Quest &#x97; A lot of sci-fi fun for the whole family","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is science-fiction movie wrapped in a parody of the Star Trek TV series phenomenon. The comedic appeal of this film is without doubt, but if you know what a Star Trek convention can be like and all it entails, it's doubly hilarious. This piece makes fun of the fans, the actors, all the paraphernalia surrounding them, as well as those milking it for all its worth.That being said, it's only half of what you're going to see, because you'll have a true sci-fi flick on your hands, with special effects, space ships, exotic planets, scary aliens and creatures.It might not have a very complicated story, but really it's a character movie, and based on that, it's quite a success. Tim Allen was made for this role, it fits him like a glove, and you can see that Sigourney Weaver is having a blast playing a role that is so unusual for her.See this movie, and entertainment and laughter will fill your evening. "}{"Title":"A Hidden Gem","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Considering the all-star cast, and considering the overall quality of this movie, it's pretty surprising it was relegated to instant obscurity. This is a very clever, very entertaining movie. The premise is such a good idea that the film practically writes itself.Everyone is very well cast (especially Alan Rickman). The storyline requires quite a suspension of disbelief (c'mon, it's sci-fi comedy). If I had to complain, I'd say I didn't like Tony Shalhoub's character--not quite sure what they were going for, resulting in a waste of Shalhoub's comedic talent. Additionally, this premise is such a target-rich environment, I'm surprised the movie wasn't even funnier then it already is.Overall a very pleasant surprise, and a great family film. "},{"Title":"does not get old","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" All these years later and this film is still one of those guaranteed to make me smile. My husband and I quote lines to one another far more than I'm comfortable mentioning (LOL). Funny, poignant in places with a surprisingly strong plot and acting that is superb all round. This is a modern classic.I was not a particular fan of Tim Allen until this film. He is brilliant! He has managed to do a PERFECT imitation of William Shatner at his most Kirkian.Alan Rickman is understated in a role that could have been a bit too out there. He captures Nimoy's I Am Not Spock period of denial wonderfully.Sigourney Weaver was never more beautiful and perfectly cast.Tony Shalhoub was marvelous with deadpan delivery of some of the funniest lines in any modern film.All in all this is one to watch over and over. "},{"Title":"BECAUSE I DIED IN EPISODE 81! sometimes they make them better than they used to","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jason Nesmith played the commander in the moderately hit TV sci-fi series Galaxy Quest 18 years ago. Now the best that he and his fellow cast members can do is make money from appearing on the convention circuit. Sick of his lot and losing his dream of being a successful actor, when he encounters 4 mysterious strangers who want his assistance he think he spots a potential big money spinner, it isn't until he is beamed aboard their spaceship that the truth is revealed, these strangers are aliens who think that galaxy quest is actually a historical document and have based their entire culture on the crews adventures, after returning to earth Nesmith convinces the rest of the crew to join him and the real adventure begins.Galaxy Quest is that rarest of films. It's a hybrid. That may seem like a weird start but the reason the film works so damn well is that on the one hand it spoofs mercilessly the cheapness of quickly produced garbage sci-fi of the, well, sixties to the eighties, but at the same time it also works as a homage to their ethos and values. Allen is superb as the jaded Kirk character with Sigourney Weaver also excellent as his woman that got away with a wonderfully dry Alan Rickman as an I am sick of playing Spock character, but for me the real scene stealer is the excellent Sam Rockwell as Guy Fleegman, an extra who was killed in one episode of the original series who is terrified that art will truly imitate life.Kudos to the rest of the cast who all do a great job, but especially Robin Sachs who plays a particularly nasty real alien villain Sarris, who truly is frightening and adds the sense of danger that the film needs. The script is first rate and the direction fantastic! In fact come to think of it, why have I not seen that guy's name on more stuff. Dean Parisot really did a great job on this film. The effects are excellent and the last shot of the film is one of those that will have you smiling long after the credits have stopped and you've started watching something else.For any one who loves Trek/Doctor Who/Babylon five and all the sci-fi shows, not in spite of their limitations, but to some degree, because of them.Top. "},{"Title":"An impressive Star Trek parody with laughs, excitement, sometimes poignancy, and great visuals","Date":"18 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This 1999 sci-fi comedy is a parody of Star Trek. It was apparently a box office success during its run that year, and I had been familiar with that 1960's sci-fi series for many years by the time this spoof was released, but I never even heard of Galaxy Quest until years after its release. I first saw it in 2007 and was not disappointed. That was very soon after I had first seen ¡Three Amigos! for the first time, and I found that this film was like a sci-fi version of that western spoof. I watched this movie for the second time in 2008, and I guess I still thought it was pretty good, but not as good as the first time. However, it's been over two years since then, and I recently decided to watch it again. This time, I can rate it 8/10 instead of 7, just like I did after my first viewing.It has been seventeen years since the cancellation of Galaxy Quest, a cult sci-fi TV series, but the former members of the show's cast appear at conventions and grand openings. Jason Nesmith, the egotistical former actor known for his role in the show as Commander Peter Quincy Taggart, meets some mysterious individuals one day! At first, he thinks they're a group of obsessive Galaxy Quest fans, and goes along with them, but these are actually real extraterrestrial beings that have seen episodes of the show, and Jason finds himself on a real spaceship for the first time! Soon, the entire former cast of the sci-fi show find themselves on board. Unfortunately, where these aliens are from, the concept of acting is unheard of, and they think these fictional episodes are historical documents! For that reason, they are now counting on these former TV stars to save their kind from the evil General Sarris! These Galaxy Quest cast members staged many adventures like this in the show, but can they do it for real?! In this film, the story begins at a convention, with the Galaxy Quest cast about to appear in front of an audience. This part is memorably funny, introducing the lead characters and showing how Jason Nesmith's ego causes trouble for the others (based on William Shatner and the trouble other Star Trek cast members had with him), and Alexander Dane (another main character) not wanting to appear at this convention. The starring roles in this 1999 movie are played by Tim Allen (Nesmith), Sigourney Weaver (Gwen DeMarco), and Alan Rickman (Dane), and these three all deserve credit for a job well done. The supporting cast is generally impressive as well. The movie isn't consistently hilarious, but there are a number of comic highlights, such as Jason meeting the aliens and thinking it's all a show at first, what happens when the other former GQ stars board the ship for the first time, Alexander served what the aliens think he eats, etc. The conflict between Nesmith and the other former sci-fi stars, the aliens (even if they can be pretty silly), the Alexander Dane character's bitter remarks, and other things help with the humour. There were times when I laughed, and other times when I smiled. As well as being funny, this spoof can also be exciting, sometimes even poignant. Unsurprisingly, there are also great sets and special effects.This movie parodies various aspects of Star Trek, including William Shatner's arrogance causing trouble for other cast members and the show's hardcore following. Unlike some modern spoof movies, this one actually works for the most part. There may be some fairly weak scenes, but fortunately not very many, and my third viewing might have been my most memorable one. ¡Three Amigos! parodies the western genre and Galaxy Quest parodies sci-fi, but the main characters in both movies are actors who find themselves actually doing what they've only been known to act out on screen, and both of them can certainly be funny. I've seen Tim Allen in more than one unfunny comedy and know of some others which I haven't seen but know they're not so popular. This doesn't mean ALL his films are bad, but clearly, he hasn't had the greatest film career in Hollywood history. However, this particular film in which he stars is a good one, and I recommend it for fans of the sci-fi comedy genre. "},{"Title":"American Parody","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As an Englishman and a frequent visitor to the US, I am constantly amazed by the contradictions of that country, such as promoting Christianity on a 'witchfinder general' scale while producing most of the worlds pornography.This film however, and 'Team America' being another example, shows us that significant numbers of Americans are able to parody their national image as vigorously as anyone else.I have loved American comedy in both film and TV for over 45 years, but self parody of this quality still surprises me.Galaxy Quest has been well described, so I won't bore you with another description. It just make me laugh out loud every time I watch it. Did Tim Allen give birth to the character of Buzz Lightyear in this film? "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) Galaxy Quest (1999)","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are countless of Star Trek spoofs out there, but this one really takes the cake. It's funny, witty, thoroughly enjoyable, and stars Tim Allen of the Home Improvement TV series (which I am proud to admit I never saw an episode before *horrors*) Directly spoofing the original Star Trek series, Tim Allen plays a William Shatner clone with wicked delight. Here, he's Jason Nesmith, a self-centered man who's Captain Peter Taggart on the show Galaxy Quest. Rounding off his main crew are Sigourney Weaver, who plays buxomy blonde Gwen DeMarco/Lt. Tawny Madison, whose only job is to repeat what the ship's computer says, and Alan Rickman, as Alexander Dane/Dr. Lazarus, the token non-human on-board the ship, making him the butt of many alien jokes.While the cast and crew of Galaxy Quest are made to be all chummy and such, in reality, they are a bunch of quarreling has-beens whose show has been canceled 20 years ago, and are now making ends meet by attending conventions, and opening electrical stores. Until one day, an alien race of Thermians come visiting. They have been watching the transmissions of Galaxy Quest episodes, and have considered them to be historical documents of earth and its heroes. Naturally, they bring on board the crew to their ship, the Protector, modeled after the TV series. Only thing is, it's real.So the Galaxy Quest crew have to play what they have been playing for years, except that it's for real. The ship, the planets, and the enemies as well. They have to quickly learn that they can only survive the harsh galaxy by believing in themselves, since everything on the ship works as it's imagined to be, and by believing in one another, just like in the show. Which is a pretty nifty message inserted into a comedic movie.It's extremely fun, and do watch out for Sam Rockwell as Crewman Number 6, an extra on the original series who somehow get caught up in the mess, and crossing his fingers each time that he won't die, like on the show.I've regretted not being able to have caught this in the theatres when it opened, given that it featured 3 aspect ratios in the same film, it would have been an experience to have watched it on the big screen, only if they screened it properly. Nonetheless, the DVD comes packed with loads of extras, so you might want to pick it up and watch it.Code 1 DVD extras Deleted scenes, making-of documentary, trailers, and an entire audio track in Thermian! Never give up, never surrender! "},{"Title":"A great comedy","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The script is great and the actors are hilarious. If you are familiar with Star Trek and the Trekkie phenomenon you should enjoy this wonderful comedy immensely. It is not great inspirational art but it is great entertainment and in my opinion one of the absolute all time greatest feel good comedies. I cannot recommend this movie enough.The actors in particular all perform brilliantly in this movie. Admittedly the lines they serve up are pretty great in and of themselves but there can be no doubt that the cast deliver an absolutely stunning performance. The movie simply works and comes together on all levels. The effects are almost overkill considering that it is a comedy. In short this is a keeper. "},{"Title":"Slow at start but when it takes off it's off to space","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is one of Tim Allen's finest work. The movie starts of a bit slow and it is a no brainer but one's mind doesn't have to be on the edge all the time. In my opinion the target audience is adults but children will surely enjoy this film as well. It tells the tale of a group of actors that play in a TV-series (a startrek-clone) They find themselves a bit stuck with each other and friction starts to surface. But then they get involved in an adventure that really changes them. Standard story I guess but it's a comedy and as a comedy it is one of the best I've seen. The finds in the film are brilliant and when the movie really takes off you WILL crack-up. It is a parody on startrek and alike (not to be confused with starwars) I especially enjoyed the technical chief who seems to lack the ability to be amassed (group hug is one of the thinks I will never get off my retinal) The beginning of the movie is rather slow but when the film takes off the laughs follow at a rapid pace. One of my favorite scenes involves scraping aside a space-port. this might seem a bit fuzzy but when you see the movie I'm sure that you will immediately recognize it. The embarrassment that stretches out forever makes your skin crawl and makes you want to get up and scream profanities to the driver in charge. Although parodies generally seem to disappoint me this movie surprises me. Even the scenes in which it is obvious what is going to happen, you will be unable to be bored due to the comedy that drips of Tim Allen's face. The acting is very good although I have to say that I find it hard to judge acting performances in comedies. But I wasn't bored or annoyed at any time in the movie so I guess the acting must be rather good. All in all this movie is a must see if you just want to have a laugh because it is well thought out and just plain funny. "},{"Title":"Know the essence of a perfect movie","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a big Star Trek fan from its beginnings and having enjoyed a long career supporting NASA, I avoided Galaxy Quest. For five years I thought it would be a waste of time - just another light parody. Was I ever wrong!I won't go into the details of my regard for the movie as they are already covered in hundreds of comments. Please read the comments of bob the moo, PMApollo, smileyfrancis, KeithsMovieView, aleen_o, and terri-43 for the gist. Although you don't need to be a Star Trek fan to enjoy the movie, it helps if you are. The parody is deep and hilarious.But most commentary misses the conceptual reason why this is such a perfect movie. The reason is wonderfully simple.Although Galaxy Quest is an exquisite parody of the show, it is more an homage to the values behind the Star Trek myth! Imagination, persistence, loyalty, honor, courage, friendship.The homage unfolds both in the characters' growth, as they come to respect the values that they at first only acted, and in the plot, a technological and social mission of expansive imagination. The philosophical foundation of the Star Trek mythology is thoroughly validated.Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Galaxy Quest is a movie for FANS.","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave Galaxy Quest a 10 out of 10 rating, and I can tell you why.It is a near-perfect representation of what a fan (short for 'fanatic,' remember) of a TV show craves We want it to be real! Unless you can watch it as a fan of such TV shows, you cannot understand the fine writing and craftsmanship its creators put into it to make it the answer we all wanted. Those of us who grew up with Star Trek dreams can fully appreciate this movie. We are that kid and his cohorts with the maps of the ships and the nitpicking details. I am most sorry for those of you who cannot appreciate Galaxy Quest on this level. These seats have the best view!  "}{"Title":"You don't have to be a fan, but it helps =-)","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (May contain Spoilers!)So, this is obviously, blatantly, and in a few ways quite painfully, a Star Trek spoof film. Disgruntled actors, an actress whose sole purposes are located six inches below her chin, a British fellow who went from Shakespeare to syndicated sci-fi (Actor Hell to some), boy geniuses, raving egomanical leads and totally fake ethnic tokens.But, hot damn it's hilarious!One does not necessarily need be a fan of Star Trek to understand the unending line of in-jokes, but it helps. My mother, who wouldn't catch an episode of Trek if held at gun point, laughed hard enough to cry at the universal comedy--the sarcasm, cynicism and one-liners anybody would find funny--but she also stared at me as though I were completely mad when I laughed, hard, at the jokes only a Trekkie with a sense of humor would find funny.The Convention was...well painful, as so with the four Questarians. They almost hurt to watch. Not because it was bad, mind you, but because from the homemade uniforms (many not quite right in color or stitch and some very amazingly accurate) to the badly (and sometimes expertly) applied makeup to fans' inability to differentiate between actor and character, it was true! I've never been to a convention, nor do I own a uniform, but I know people who do. And they know people who almost need to be committed.This film is hilarious, whether you've never seen a single Star Trek episode, or you do happen to have a Starfleet regulation uniform in the back of your closet. "},{"Title":"Why is this movie so damn good!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay reading through all of the rest reviews, you find that the vast mayority of the comments find this movie hilarious, funny , terrificI coun't stop laughing can be read quite a few times. Hey i will not argue with you on that one. But what makes this movie so damn goodfirst of all you've got a great script. witch really is brilliant in it's simplicity. 'cast of of B sci-fi actors get called on by aliens to save the galaxy.' There, you've got the hole movie in one sentence! (and I bet you smiled when you read it!)Now this idea could go really corny if it wasn't for the nice character development. on the outside they seem the plastic fantastic tv-persona's we all know. but in real live they loathe eachother. wich we al know can make for wonderfully funny scenes second this script doesn't take itself to serious, wich is good! because no person in the world is going to believe this as a true story. so we don't get any of those horrible moral undertones.second combined with great actors like Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman, who I both worship! (but that on a more personal note!) Really also have fun with their characters. they know these people are fake,(I've got one job one this lousy ship, it's stupid. But i'm gonna do it! Okay!) they make fun at that, and themselves as actors. (the method acting scene with rickman wich was cut from the movie is quite brilliant because it makes fun at the very thing most of these people base their careers on!)thirdly everything about this movie is so recogniceable, iven if you haven't seen star trek you will get this movie, there are hardly, if any 'inside' jokes if it spoofs anything star trek it spoofs the way non star trek fans look at the series and their fans!We've got wonderfull conventions with die hard fans looking completly retarded in woderfully precise (but still not entirely accurate!) costumes. The characters of the strange doctor, the butch captain and the artificial aliens. the continuity errors and plotholes in the scrip (Why is this here, it makes no logical sense!)Combined with some of the best special effects, sets and make-up money can buy, Great scenes (The beginning and end are brilliant!) and wonderfull dialogue mixed with some of the funniest one-liners this side of the galaxy make this one hell of a filmsince no film is perfect i give it a 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies in the galaxy","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw ads for this movie, I thought it was just going to be another Sci-Fi film. But it confused me when comedy actors like Tim Allen, Sigorny Weaver, and Alan Rickman showed up for the main characters. I decided, why not, and tried it.I was laughing SO HARD I could barely contain myself. Every other line was a huge comedy extraveganza. Everyone sunk so deeply into their role. Tim just fit naturally with this rich, well-loved actor (surprise, surprise)Sigorny Weaver shone as Gwen with the funny catch lines and the frustration. Alan Rickman seemed perfect for the actor genius of Alexander, and you can tell he really enjoyed his part.I URGE EVERYONE TO SEE THIS, EVEN IF THEY HATE SCI-FI MOVIES. THIS IS ONE OF THOSE MOVIES THAT IS IMPOSSIBLE NOT TO LOVE. "},{"Title":"intelligence in a fun package","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Films which are intelligent without making you feel all along that they are(intelligent) are way too rare to be missed. Very well played from all involved and very well written, the distanciatedkind of humor is probably what annoyed the audience... but it is exactlywhat makes it an excellent film, one I've seen about 6 or 7 times since Idiscovered it. If you're a Trek fan this probably is not for you. If you're not (or if youcan laugh at what you like) - enjoy! "},{"Title":"still as funny after 50 viewings...","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is a classic fish-out-of-water talea group of TV actors who haven't had a new (or real) job in 20 years and are famous for a campy sci-fi show reminiscent of star trek (galaxy quest) meet up with some 'fans' at a convention. When the 'fans' turn out to be aliens convinced that the Galaxy Quest actors are the saviors of their civilization, the results are laugh out loud funny.The plot is original and the jokes just keep coming. One of the greatest things about the movie is that some of the unspoken jokes are funniest, from just about every sardonic expression on Alan Rickman's (Alexander Dane...my personal favourite) face to the characters interacting with each other...from a definate sci-fi fanatic (but even if you aren't one), this movie is highly worth seeing and is watchable again and again. (believe me!)  "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek movie never made","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is a Star Trek movie in all but name. That it is recursive, i.e. a science fiction movie affectionately spoofing a widely loved science fiction show, doesn't necessarily prohibit it from being a potential part of the franchise. The Star Trek people just weren't quick enough or imaginative enough to capitalize on the opportunity. If they did, they would have made a hilarious movie, mining humor simply by observing Trek fandom and Trekkies. The fans would have loved it. The actors could have played themselves (and express what they really thought of each other) and their characters while poking fun at stilted scripts and overripe cliches. A brilliant idea. But Galaxy Quest got there first. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable, funny, fine concept finely executed","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm going to start by admitting a strange thing that perhaps should be kept secret--I shouldn't lose my cool in this public forum.  Here it is  I cried after seeing this movie again after 3 years.  I don't know why.  Maybe it's the idea that the bad sci-fi hack characters find redemption at story's end.  I was just overcome with deep bittersweet feelings!  Maybe it's the depiction of high ideals being rewarded.This movie is unabashedly funny and fun.  And, yes, it has a cool moral.Speaking of which  I'm teaching an ESL reading class, where we read topical pieces, then watch and discuss movies that also address those topics.  The latest readings were on the theme of heroes and role models.  The normally assigned viewing was Stand and Deliver.  As usual, I prewatched it so I could prepare a vocab/idiom cheat sheet for the students.  Unfortunately, Stand and Deliver turns out to be a lousy movie.  Its heart is in the right place, but artistically it's pretty pathetic.  So I was expecting just to skip the viewing this week.  But then it hit me  Galaxy Quest!  Of course!  Heroes and role models are what it's all about, and it goes one better and elevates the discussion to the role of grand ideas as an ennobling, heroizing force.If you haven't seen this movie, take the time to do so; just be sure you're in the mood for comedy and just plain fun.  If you're an old Trekkie....well, I strongly suspect you've already seen this movie!  "},{"Title":"A huge surprise -- rent it!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think Galaxy Quest was largely overlooked because of it was pigeonholed as a spoof of Star Trek (ho-hum) and because its star is a TV comic not noted for making movies with much wit or imagination.  Too bad, because Galaxy Quest is a very imaginative, very ambitious production with an ingenious story line (which works off of the Star Trek phenomenon but really has a life of its own), wonderfully comic aliens, great special effects (more than you'd expect from a spoof,) and a plot that keeps coming up with funny and exciting developments just when you think it's got to be winding down. Few movies I could recommend more highly for a good time on a Friday night. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Actually, I purposefully didn't go see this at the theater because it looked so lame.  Cheap Star Trek ripoff p***take was all that it appeared to be.When I was finally able to watch it at home, I was totally impressed with the movie and disappointed I judged it so harshly.  The humor had perfect rhythm.  The acting was exemplary, egos were definitely checked at the door during filming of this picture.  There was no Tool Time in Tim Allen's performance.  Sigourney played the token busty blonde crewmember so perfectly.  The writing/directing was so well-paced and devoid of incompetent plot devices, pretentiousness, not even so much as an uninteresting romantic encounter.  About the only thing I might've changed is to give Tony Shalhoub  more screen time.  His scenes drew some of my biggest laughs!I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"Satisfying comedy","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The cast of the Galaxy Quest television show meet an alien race who have modelled their society on it, believing it to be non-fiction.Damn, I just gave away the joke.  But luckily, and surprisingly, there's more to the film than its one joke, so don't be put off.  For instance*  Galaxy Quest is making fun of Star Trek, the show, and Star Trek, the cultural phenomenon, in a way that a simple spoof never could - at least, not without self-referential jokes, which are always tiresome.*  Alan Rickman is just terrific.  He plays Alexander Dane, a once-acclaimed British actor who finds himself wheeled out to conventions in order to say his big line By Grabthar's sacred hammer, you shall be avenged!  There's something hilarious about the way Rickman portrays Dane's helpless disgust.  He's almost at the stage of not being able to say the line pretty soon, his lips won't even be able to form the words.*  Surely it's no accident that the one fan we see is a dead ringer for Wesley Crusher.  (Except that, unlike Wesley, he's easy to like.)  He and Dane are the two most important sources of both humour and warmth; the fact that they manage to provide both at once suggests there's something exceptionally human about them.*  In order to explain why the actors haven't aged as much as Shatner et al., they've made Galaxy Quest into an 80s rather than a 60s show.  And it looks so very 80s!  Take a look at Sigourney Weaver - the mere fact that they cast Sigourney Weaver is evidence enough - with her big blonde hair and her distinctively 80s cleavage.  (There is such a thing as distinctively 80s cleavage; I hadn't realised this before, either.)*  Pacing is perfect.  It would have been easy for the writers to say Now we've had the jokes - it's time for the big, rousing, stupid adventure.  Instead they manage to integrate the two.Perhaps too good natured to be truly classic comedy, Galaxy Quest is still very funny and completely devoid of dead spots - streets ahead of the Scary Movie kind of spoof they could so easily have made instead.  (Jason Nesmith would have made us cringe by saying light years ahead.) "}{"Title":"Great Saturday Night movie!","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Invite your friends (with or without kids), pop some corn, turn on the bigscreen and pop this into the DVD, and at the end everyone will be chuckling gleefully. I know this sounds like a publicist's blurb, but trust me, this one delivers. And it's good enough for re-watching.This is one of those fun for all ages flick. Ingenious premise, great cast, comedy, pathos, fine F/X, happy ending, no profanity (despite some intense dialog) and the delicious Alan Rickman. Is he playing against type? It's hard to say, except that he's perfect as a sort of Shakespearian Mr. Spock manqué. In fact, it's fun to see the Star Trek crew - both generations - skewered by proxy here.Most everything is right with this movie, though I do have a couple of quibbles about plausibility with couple of scenes. (Yes, with a premise this implausible, I quibble about plausibility.)  But Galaxy Quest is such an enjoyable trip that I rate it an E-ticket.  "},{"Title":"If you grew up watching Star Trek, watch this.","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you grew up watching Star Trek, you should love this good-natured comedy/spoof based on it and the Trekkie phenomenon it inspired. I was expecting a near-childish family friendly production, but was instead surprised and impressed with the acting, special effects, clever and witty script, and real emotion invested in this light-hearted and respectful homage to everything Star Trek. What I liked most was that an adult doesn't have to make any excuses for enjoying this film, since, even though it's squeaky clean by modern standards, it is still way sharp and mature enough to be legitimate dumb fun. Trust me--sometimes all it takes is very light sex and violence to git er done. If you too were weaned on the original Star Trek, you owe yourselves this one. "},{"Title":"Epic Quest","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sci-Fi has always been my favorite genre since childhood, we've all had those favorite TV shows we've seen Star Trek, Firefly, and my personal favorite Doctor Who. We're so into them that we can't help but imagine or think of what it might be like if we ever had the opportunity to go on an adventure with the characters or even just to talk with them, how they would react to us and likewise.This is one of my favorite films of all time, being a huge fan of the sci-fi genre it really felt like a dream come true making a sci-fi comedy that homages Star Trek which is cool since that's one of my favorite TV shows, but also some of the sci-fi genre in general.It's kinda like with the movie Scream where it's pretty much a movie within a movie format. Thought for that film it was for the slasher horror genre, this film it's for Star Trek and any other space opera you can think of. Personally I thought this was a brilliant idea and it's almost a wishfulfilment dream for any Star Trek or sci-fi fan. With that notion there could of been a film about the cast of the sci-fi TV series Firefly being taken up into space to fight the alien's version of The Alience, that would be awesome.The effects are great made from Stan Winston's company which is cool. From the aliens to the design of the ships. There is some CGI which actually turns out to be good. I really like the music, mainly the theme song which is one of my favorite theme songs, it really feels like it can be a theme song for a real sci-fi TV series.However what really gives this sci-fi comedy speed and power is in the characters and their dialog. The verbal humor as well as in jokes on some of the clichés,elements, even inconsistencies in sci-fi or even certain homage jokes that are all there, there are so many of them that it would take more than one watch to find them all.This film just has such an amazing ensemble, all of them just really play off and go well with each other. It almost feels like they all could of been in a sci-fi TV series together which is why they all work. I really love seeing how each of them react to the adventure it's sort of like how any of us might. Alexander played well by one of my favorite actors Alen Rickman is just fantastic, this is probably my favorite role from him. He is just so dryly hilarious at playing a former Shakespearian thespian whom feels he's made the biggest mistake of his life, taking on the role of playing an alien to be in the visual medium. It's just hilarious how sour he acts, from complain about his acting career to his bruised ego how his character is always considered second best.Kwan played well by Tony Shaloeb. This is my second favorite role from him, he is also just dryly hilarious as a character and actor that practically isn't very useful. I really like how laid back and burnt out he's is which makes him almost act and sound like a stoner, it sort of makes sense since he's played a role where he's practically useless which is why it seems like when he delivers certain news he half assing it.But my favorite character and one of my favorite actors is Guy played by Sam Rockwell. He is just fraking hilarious from the beginning feeling psyched that he even got lucky enough to play a bit role from the show. But also he is constantly scared and paranoid throughout most of the adventure and most of his fear is justified. I also like the fact that he's a sci-fi fan and knows most of the clichés and principles that happen. It's funny how we're constantly reminded he played a red shirt character which in Star Trek is always a no name character that dies, hence the name of this character. My favorite is seeing what he says as he is looking at the radar screen, it's comic gold.But I also love that this film has heart as well, it has an ongoing them about believing in yourself. Each of these actors have one thing in common they all stopped believing in themselves. Due to what happened with the show and their acting careers each suffering from typecast syndrome and having nothing but the fame of the show and conventions to keep them going, their sense of self worth has diminished.What great in this film is that thorough this journey each of the actors go though an amazing transformation where at first their just acting out the characters their meant to play but then actually they become those characters as their the one's that have to save the Galaxy.And also about the importance of fandom and how it truly fuels belief. From what the Thermian aliens created all because they were inspired by the idea the show has given them. To even keeping the idea of a franchise alive by supporting it though conventions, merchandise, fan/licensed fiction, just anything much as it is with our shows or movies we support. Though this is did lead to something in the end which proves how much belief in something can make the biggest difference.Galexy Quest is an journey worth taking.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"A very good parody film that goes beyond its genre","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is definitely one of the best parody films out there. It's different from other parody films (like Hot Shots, The Naked Gun and so on), mainly because the main characters of Galaxy Quest are very realistic and not over the top. The film manages to poke a lot of fun at Star Trek while at the same time it manages to question the celebrity status of actors.I haven't seen much of Star Trek, but I am familiar with the franchise, and I don't feel it's a necessity to have watched Star Trek to enjoy this film. Because there's just a lot more substance in this film other than simply being a parody of Star Trek.The humor is quite different from other parody films. It's not just the actual lines that are funny, but even more so the characters and what they represent, their relationship to each other and because they all seem real. Especially Jusin Long's character - he doesn't really say anything that makes you laugh out loud, but just his entire being is very funny in a charming way, not the usual ridiculousness typical of parody films.All in all, a very good parody film with great characters, some good laughs and some interesting things to say. "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Meaty Screenplay is the key here...","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is a surprisingly clever comic adventure that does stretch credibility, but provides a little more substance than you might expect from this kind of comedic adventure.The title of the film is actually the title of a short-lived, sci-fi television series that during its brief time on the air, developed cult status, a fictionalized STAR TREK, if you will, that continues to live on through conventions and live appearances for its cast, whose careers have pretty much been reduced to these live appearances, which most of the cast seems bored with, except for the star of the show, Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), who lives for these live appearances until he accidentally overhears a couple of fans talking about how ridiculous the show and Nesmith are, which sends Nesmith on a drunken bender. The following morning, a seriously hungover Nesmith is actually confronted by a group of aliens, who believe he is the character he plays on Galaxy Quest and have come to ask him to help them with a mission on their own planet.This film manages to achieve the impossible, by literally throwing reality and credibility out the window and still presenting an entertaining satire that takes on-target looks at fan obsession as well as science fiction television in such an entertaining way, that you can't help but be immediately sucked in by the proceedings.Tim Allen lights up the screen here, proving to be a commanding comedic presence who manages to make the character of Jason Nesmith funny, likable, and human in seemingly effortless fashion. Allen receives solid support from Sigourney Weaver, Daryl Mitchell, Tony Shaloub, and especially Alan Rickman as the rest of the cast of the television show. Sam Rockwell is also very funny as an actor who guest starred on one episode of the show but still manages to get in on the adventure here and mention should also be made of a very young Justin Long, who is adorable as a nerdy fan of the show who ends up being very instrumental in helping the gang with their mission.David Howard's screenplay is intelligent and surprisingly clever, mining laughter and warmth out of an outrageous story, well-anchored by Dean Parisot's effective direction, which makes a completely off-the-wall and unrealistic story completely watchable and enjoyable, with enormous re- watch appeal. As long as you don't take it too seriously, this film can be so much fun. "},{"Title":"Its the best","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen this movie about 100 times and have owned 4 copies. It's hilarious and my favorite. That is all. But its appears like I need to use 10 lines of text. So the movie was written well to be a spoof on space movies such as star trek but also written with enough depth to be incredible standing alone. So I still need more lines and should be reviewing the movie. You probably will read this and see the movie and completely disagree, but that's okay. It's my favorite movie just because. The movie is acted well. Most people do not expect the level of effort that went into it either. I hope this was enough lines dammit. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever for me","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can watch this movie over and over and laugh hysterically each time. The comic timing, acting and directing is just about perfect. Being a Star Trek fan, I think makes it funnier for me than for my non-Trek friends. My favorite parts start on the ship. The parts that come before serve well to set the stage for what follows. How each person decides to come aboard the alien ship is also funny. It's great how they all think it's an acting job and not real, which starts things rolling and sets us up for many laughs with over-the-top visuals of all the non- human looking aliens; the deadpan, jerky, smiley-faced alien crew in human form; running the real ship as actors, then getting into situations that used to not be real for them and figuring out how to deal with it. Each cast member including Guy are top-notch actors/comedians all the way through each terror confronted until they are finally transformed from disgruntled and petty actors into heroes. I also love how the obsessed fan gets a call from Jason who asks his help to save them all and crash land at the convention. Yes, it was all absurd, but I loved every minute of it. "},{"Title":"(Some Spoilers) Excellent Movie","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went to the theater to see this movie when it was first released mostly because I was a fan of almost the entire cast and their works. When I went the theater was packed and everyone had a wonderful laugh, that is why I could not understand when I heard the movie flopped. As a fan of Sci Fi, Comedy, Drama, and Action movies and TV this was a thrill ride and I hoped that it would receive a sequel but it has not thus far. The scene where the little aliens started appearing and Sigourney's (Alien franchise) character started to comment on how cute they were, then Sam's started freaking out about how they were going to turn ugly and eat them was hilarious. I loved how Alan awakened his inner rage when his friend was killed and he led the crew on a rampage, that was a moving point in the film for me.If you have not seen this movie you should definitely take a look it is comedy/sci fi gold. It is not really a spoof as much as it is an homage to the likes of Star Trek. "},{"Title":"But the animal is inside out... and it exploded.","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I rented this film after having found out that the line in my summary was used as a snippet of dialogue for last month's 11 Second Club competition along with Sigourney Weaver's lines, Oh no, everything's fine, and, Hold please. Last month's 11 Second Club dialogue in this film takes place during the most horrible yet most memorable scene where the pig-lizard is beamed aboard the spaceship but is turned inside out and eventually explodes. This film was above average and had parts that dragged on, were hard to follow or forgettable but there were a few moments that made me chuckle, some memorable lines (especially the ones I've already mentioned and Never give up, never surrender) and I liked the concept of a TV show within a film.The costumes of the Galaxy Quest TV show cast and the alien race that Jason mistakes for fans are reminiscent of those in any incarnation of Star Trek and I liked how Alexander's head was designed. The sets reminded me of those from Star Trek (especially the spaceship's interior) and one piece of scenery reminded me of some that were featured in the Star Wars franchise (the alien planet). I also liked the convention scenes at the beginning and end of the film while the alien enemies aboard the spaceship are fierce and the small aliens on the planet where the show's cast try to retrieve a beryllium sphere are cute and amusing if not as colourful in the film as they are on the film poster and DVD cover, they especially made me laugh when they cheered on Jason trying to defeat the pig-lizard that was well-designed before its unfortunate death I mentioned earlier and I liked how the rock monster was designed as well. The musical score was powerful with the occasional haunting chorus vocals and one piece of the incidental music reminded me of Also sprach Zarathustra from 2001 A Space Odyssey. The ending is clever due to it consisting of the opening sequence of the relaunched Galaxy Quest show.Overall this film offered me slightly less than I expected but it had its dialogue, costumes, sets, alien planet scenery, a TV-show-within-a-film concept and music as its best aspects. 7/10. "},{"Title":"A Stellar Parody","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" We've all drained Saturday afternoons surfing what a colleague of mine once called the television wasteland. Even though it's rare that we're able to locate something we're genuinely interested in, reruns of any number of Star Trek iterations abound. The science, technology and exotic worlds that define the series are engrossing for many, and that's exactly what the 1999 movie Galaxy Quest sought to capitalize on.It's a parody of just the sort of fare that Trekkies feed on; the pulp matinée offerings that feature cheesy effects and multitudes of quantum speculation. The movie astutely mines the doldrums of the lives of the actors portraying the heroic crew of the ship feature in the conjured up TV show sharing the name of the movie in question, and it really is comedy gold. Tim Allen solidly portrays the captain of the crew, a slick protagonist who's a drunken mess in the real world of Hollywood. After Allen and company are abducted by real aliens who believe them to be a true galactic force&#x97;they're basing this on the historical documents (a.k.a. TV broadcasts) they've intercepted&#x97;who can battle an insect-like villain not all that dissimilar from the Klingon of that other sci-fi series.As you'd expect, there are oodles of fish out of water moments that are humorous, though some unexpectedly poignant dramatic elements are present as well. The all-star cast&#x97;which features the likes of Sigourney Weaver, Sam Rockwell and Alan Rickman&#x97;is great, too. It's clear that everyone involved had lots of fun during production; an infectious sort of fun that makes the film a standout among its peers.Galaxy Quest isn't problem-free, however. At times the tone is a little too slapstick, and the power of the drama embedded in the movie could, perhaps, have been probed a little more deeply. As I'm fond of saying, though, these are relatively insignificant. And when it comes down to it, ignoring a movie like Galaxy Quest is a blunder of cosmic proportions. "}{"Title":"just awesome....","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What I love most about the movies, is when a film 'gets it'...when every thing and every one involved create some thing timeless. Galaxy Quest is that movie.A brilliant homage to Star Trek, Trekkies and Trekkers, Galaxy Quest takes bits and pieces of the show and sweetly mixes it with a dash of Trek convention life then blends in some fantasy to produce a film both oddly real, yet decidedly whimsical.The cast in brilliant in their respective roles. Tim Allen was great as the self-impressed Shatner-esque Commander role. Sigourney Weaver is hilarious as the blonde eye candy. In my opinion, the show stealer is Sam Rockwell playing the hapless glorified extra who just wants to be part of the crew.If you love sci-fi, Star Trek, space movies or just comedies - this one is a mandatory watch. Good for the family too as there is no nudity or excessive foul language and violence is pretty typical for a mild TV show. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a hilarious spoof of Star Trek and other sci fi shows-Star Trek especially. The cast of a long-canceled TV show is at a convention, led by its egotistical star, when an alien race, who believes its escapades to be real, arrives, beams them up, and enlists them to help them ward them off. Basically imagine the Star Trek characters in a comic episode of The Twilight Zone with some cute aliens thrown in. The movie was perfectly cast. I loved every minute of this movie, especially Tim Allen's scenes. If you want some escapism-this movie is for you! It is the perfect combination of science fiction, comedy, and action.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"A Must-See for Classic Star Trek Fans","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Total disclosure I've been a science fiction geek since middle school. I've been a fan of Star Trek since I first discovered The Next Generation but, in my defense, I'm not a convention- level fan. You'll never catch me dressing up in uniform and stalking my favorite cast member to sign an action figure. But, I love the idea of it all. I love the shows, the fans, and the wild devotion of some people out there. That is why I probably loved GALAXY QUEST as much as I did. This movie was a comedy gem from '99. It's a sort of love letter to the campy science fiction of the '60s (primarily the original STAR TREK series) that plays on all the conventions that have become cliché while picking fun at the bizarre lives of the men and woman who starred on the series. In the movie, Galaxy Quest was their kitschy science fiction television series that developed a massive cult following. Since it's cancellation, the stars have gone on the convention circuit, signing autographs and opening department stars while trying not to let the depression of their miserable existence overwhelm them. One fateful convention, star of the show Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen) is cornered by a bizarre group of fans claiming to be Thermians and begging for his aid in negotiating with the brutal General Sarris. Believing it to be just another fan-made show, Nesmith plays along until he realizes the Thermians are true aliens and the crew of actors from the NSEA Protector are called upon to save them.To give you an idea of how much I love this movie, it's the only Tim Allen movie in my collection (not including the TOY STORY series). I've never been a real fan of Allen's film career but there is an exception to every rule and, in this case, that exception is GALAXY QUEST. Allen has never been high on my ranking of favorite comedians but he's great here as the egotistical lead actor Jason Nesmith. An obvious parallel to the notoriously difficult William Shatner, Nesmith embraces his position at the head of the show hierarchy until he realizes he might not be as popular as he imagines himself to be. Allen is joined by a stellar supporting cast, especially considering that this is a mere sci-fi comedy. Science fiction legend Sigourney Weaver is gorgeous as the blond Gwen DeMarco, the show's female bridge officer in charge of&#x85;erm&#x85;repeating the computer. Alan Rickman is Alexander Dane/Dr. Lazarus, the show's version or Spock. A classically trained actor, Dane is most depressed with his lot in life&#x85;relegated to wearing a head prosthetic and forever repeating his character's signature line. Tony Shalhoub is Fred Kwan, the ship's (stoned?) engineer, and Sam Rockwell is Guy (a.k.a. Crewman Number 6, who died within the first 5 minutes of episode 81). Rockwell is freakin' hilarious with Guy's constant state of panic that, because he was a nameless crewman killed off in the series (a redshirt for the Trek fans out there), his fate is sealed once he arrives on the Thermian ship.Fans of Star Trek are going to find loads to love about this movie. There are a ton of in-jokes and references for people familiar with the show (the captain losing his shirt in battle with an alien creature, the timer ticking down to 0001, etc.), and the story is actually pretty fun. The stars of a sci-fi TV show mistaken for their on-screen counterparts, forced to fill the roles of their characters in a real-life space confrontation. What science fiction loving kid hasn't had that exact same daydream at some point? The movie mocks all of the usual Trek clichés but it does so lovingly. It might call out the campiness and the laughable elements, but it isn't mean about it. Really, I thought it was the best Star Trek movie since UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY, and it's not even a Trek movie. The production value in the movie is pretty admirable too. Even now, more than 10 years since it was released, it still looks loads better than some of the movies being released currently. The CG is pretty good and the practical effects are even better. It's OK for the aliens to look a little corny here (pig monster&#x85;enough said). The jokes are hilarious and the movie looks amazing. I might not have minded if they'd gone on to do a GALAXY QUEST television series afterwards. This is a must-see for sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"A rather amusing Star Trek Parody","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I didn't find this movie to me one of those laugh out loud movies but it was still quite entertaining nonetheless. Basically it is about some out of work actors whose claim to fame is that they all stared in a popular science-fiction television showed called 'Galaxy Quest' until it was canceled at the end of the forth season. However, these actors were never able to shake the stigma of being connected with the show and has simply, since that time, been traveling from convention to convention rehashing their old characters. That is until some aliens appear and ask them for help.In a way this movie is a parody of everything Star Trek, despite the actors of the original Star Trek actually going on and doing other things (Leonard Nimoy hosted a documentary). Later they did return for the movies, but in many cases it was true to form that these actors were never really able to shake the roles that they played. For instance Patrick Stewart was always be remembered as Captain Picard (and now Professor X) despite him going on to perform numerous Shakespearian plays, and the same goes with David Tennant (despite both actors performing incredibly well in Hamlet).Another thing that I picked up about this film is the nature of acting. The aliens that come of pick these actors up do so because the galaxy is being threatened by some nasty alien and they believe that the cast of Galaxy Quest are real space heroes flying a real spaceship. They simply do not understand the nature of acting an entertainment, and as such consider that such actions are tantamount to lying. Of course pretending that you are somebody that you are not is lying, however it is also clear that many people do not actually want to hear the truth, and when confronted with it, would rather hide their head in the sand.One can also get a sense of not giving up and not hiding behind excuses either. These guys know that they are not space heroes, but rather actors, however the aliens do not know that, and what is more, their entire technology has been based upon what they saw on the show. This means that despite the actors only being actors, the ship is flown simply by doing what they did on the television show. In part they want to give up and hide, but in the end they confront their fears, defeat the bad guy, and get the girl. Oh, and Sigourney Weaver is ravishing in this film. She is a far cry from the macho-woman that she plays in Alien (once again a role that simply cannot seem to escape her). "},{"Title":"Smart and funny homage to Star Trek series & fans","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Patrick Stewart liked it! Who could disagree with Captain Picard, anyway?Rarely do we see a movie that is so intelligent, funny and touching all together. Galaxy Quest is like a breath of fresh air... The ultimate homage to Star Trek series and fans, Galaxy Quest also comes off as one of the best movies ever made about the film industry, actors and make-believe. What the job is like, what challenges actors come across and what kind of relationship they develop with the audience- all these are scrutinized with smart humor and spot-on observations worthy of the finest connaisseur of human nature. The script is very, very funny &#x96; a spoof of the Star Trek phenomenon and a reminder of why we all LOVE Captain Picard, Data, Riker and the others. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Galaxy Quest is an underrated Sci-Fi/comedy gem from the 90's!  Great plot and hilarious jokes make this a fun family film!","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The vastly underrated 1999 release Galaxy Quest is a semi-forgotten gem from director Dean Parisot, and starring Tim Allen, Alan Rickman, Sigourney Weaver, Tony Shalhoub, Sam Rockwell and numerous other talents. A delightful sci-fi comedy about aliens who accidentally mistake a corny Sci-Fi TV-show for historical documents and kidnap the actors to help them, this is a great, fun family film.Eighteen years ago, Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), Alexander Dane (Rickman), Fred Kwan (Shalhoub), Gwen Demarco (Weaver) and Tommy Webber (Darryl Mitchell) were the stars of Galaxy Quest, a popular Star Trek-esque TV series about a group of space explorers who get into various adventures across the galaxy. After the show was canceled, none of their careers really took off, and they now spend their times making appearances in character at store openings and Sci-Fi conventions for fans. All are sad, and yearn for their fame, living in the past.However, a group of Thermions, aliens from a faraway world, have intercepted TV signals of the old show, and mistaken them for actual historical documents. The aliens kidnap the confused actors in order to help them fight a ruthless space dictator named Sirus, whom is threatening to destroy their world. The Thermions use the show to re-create all of the ships and technology, forcing the actors to play the role of a lifetime- to live out their fantasy roles in the real world.The film is very light-hearted and very funny. The cast works very well together, particularly Allen (whom is basically playing a riff on William Shatner) and Rickman (a surrogate Leonard Nimoy character). Weaver, Shalhoub and Mithcell are all hilarious as well, and Sam Rockwell as a bit-part actor who is inadvertently brought along (despite only appearing in one episode of the show) is a joy to watch in particular. Other notable appearances include a charming young Justin Long in a small role as an uber-fan, and Enrico Colantoni, Missi Pyle and Patrick Breen as some of the principal Thermions, whom are innocent, goofy aliens with big hearts and clueless brains.The film has plenty of good humor. There are some bawdy, risqué jokes but for the most part, everything is clean and family-friendly. There is also some fantastic meta-humor for fans of sci-fi and adults. The script is very tight and very charming, and characters all are well established and well-written. The visual direction is quite stunning, and despite being released more than 10-years-ago, the effects hold up surprisingly well compared to today's films. There is also a surprising amount of honest suspense in the film, and some shocking emotional moments.That being said, this is not a perfect film. For one, it isn't particularly long at 102 minutes, and it takes a while for the story to set itself up, so it could have used a bit more padding around the middle- it involves too much screen time with the plot, and not enough with the fun in many scenes. Also, it does bog itself down in a lot of scenes trying to over-explain certain aspects of the story. Finally, there are some very big questions left over that are never explained. (Ex. How the aliens could re-create everything, including the fabled Omega 13 Device, which was never explained completely on the show. This part of the story doesn't make much sense.)That being said, though, this is still a very fun film, and despite it's faults and questionable logic, should not be missed. I give this a near-perfect 9 out of 10, strictly for the great humor that will put a huge smile on your face. See this movie, you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Good natured comedy","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot -a TV show is taken seriously by an alien race- may be on old chestnut, but there is enough amusement here to satisfy most of its target audience. Indeed the fan interaction near the end is an important if predictable element. One does not get the impression that the film makers are laughing at the fans, merely applauding their (admittedly excessive) loyalty. Particular delightful are the numerous in-joke references to sci-fi especially Star Trek IE the extra who thinks he is fated to die a la a star trek red-shirt, the captain who always manages to get his shirt off and the token eye candy female who doesn't do a great deal. Performances are good especially from the leader of the alien race. "},{"Title":"A hilarious meta-reflection on the (wish-fulfilling) power of fiction","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jason Nesmith lives a shell of a life structured around the prolonged exploitation of the notoriety he gained portraying Commander Peter Taggert in 1980's sci-fi TV show Galaxy Quest. As made clear to the audience in the film's opening few minutes, his former co-stars are fed up with his selfishness and the disrespect he consistently evinces toward all of them. A decisive moment occurs when he overhears two boys speak of him as a laughingstock, unaware even of the disdain that his co-stars feel for him &#x96; thus, he is (quite unceremoniously) made to recognize that his attitude is the source of his loneliness, the source of the indifference, bordering on hostility, that characterizes Gwen's interaction with him...And Nesmith desires Gwen, he desires the admiration of his co-stars &#x96; he desires an escape from the life he leads. The catalyst for the fulfillment of these desires is Nesmith's suddenly being thrust into a tense interstellar conflict in which he must, effectively, becomes the figure around which his entire life is centered, yet who is largely invisible to him Commander Peter Quincy Taggert.Nesmith must overcome not just his own tendencies toward selfishness and arrogance, but a formidable alien overlord Sarris. Mustering all his natural cunning and strength as a leader, while simultaneously embracing his co-stars as a team, each member worthwhile, each contributing to the fight, both Sarris and his race of evil aliens and Jason's own personal failings are overcome.Existing parallel to the main thrust of the narrative are two romantic relationships Nesmith and Gwen's, and Fred and Laliari's. Through these relationships, two major characters (Gwen and Fred) are given some kind of definition, an identity that meaningfully separates them from the film's other characters (essentially, this is the function of all the B-stories &#x96; to further define the individual characters that make up the large ensemble). Additionally, Gwen and Nesmith's relationship complements and fulfills the protagonist's arc &#x96; a useful function in and of itself &#x96; symbolically cementing Nesmith's transformation from jerk to hero. Fred and Laliari's relationship has the added benefit of setting up a couple choice punchlines Laliari's semi-transformation into her more cephalopodic form during, as Roger Ebert put it, a necking session; the revelation of her being included on the new iteration of the Galaxy Quest show.The film dazzlingly brings the world of the Thermians to life. The special effects stand up remarkably well considering their vintage. The illusion of a real life version of the Galaxy Quest universe is at all times in effect; the ship's design, its technical trappings, the evil-alien spaceship, which seems half organic, half machine, and the evil-aliens themselves are all rendered remarkably, and are powerfully effective in terms of immersion.Having successfully navigated this space adventure, Nesmith's life of loneliness and moneyed squalor fades away and is replaced with a kind of real-world refraction of the ever-fascinating, idyllic pretend-world of Galaxy Quest &#x96; a fusion in which values of love, friendship, and inclusion take primacy. The film dramatizes this merging of the pretend with the real in an unbelievable set piece in which their ship, en route to Earth, actually crashes into the Galaxy Quest convention itself. We end where we began, effectively, the cast of characterizes walking onto the convention stage &#x96; only, everything has been transformed the world of Galaxy Quest, previously thought to be entirely fictionalized, pretend, has ingratiated itself into the real world, the entire cast of characters benefiting from this shift. Nesmith, by the end, becomes a sympathetic figure with a real life &#x96; a partner in Gwen, friends who care about him. He is loved reciprocally for who he is &#x96; who he has becomes &#x96; not just disinterestedly admired by fans for who he pretended to be. He's become a Taggart figure. Someone who can be relied upon. The film is not only narratively satisfying, but thematically and formally nuanced &#x96; ultimately far more than a spoof, but a meta-commentary on the sci-fi genre, and the (wish-fulfilling) power of fictional storytelling at large. "},{"Title":"By Grabthar's Hammer, By The Sons Of Worvan, You Shall Be Avenged.","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eighteen years after their sci-fi adventure show Galaxy Quest was canceled, actors Jason Nesmith, Gwen DeMarco, Alexander Dane, Tommy Webber, and Fred Kwan are making appearances at sci-fi conventions and store openings in costume and character. They're wallowing in despair and at each other's throats until aliens known as Thermians arrive and, having mistaken the show for fact and consequently modeling their entire culture around it, take them into space to save them from the genocidal General Sarris and his armada. 11 Years Later & This Movie Keeps Its Rating From Me. How Did Enrico Colantoni Not Get An Oscar For His Performance As Mathesar. Sam Rockwell Also Does A Great Performance As Guy Fleegman That Last Name Discussion Is Also A Great Part Of Cinematic QuotesGuy Fleegman I changed my mind. I wanna go back. Sir Alexander Dane After the fuss you made about getting left behind? Guy Fleegman Yeah, but that's when I thought I was the crewman that stays on the ship, and something is up there, and it kills me. But now I'm thinking I'm the guy who gets killed by some monster five minutes after we land on the planet. Jason Nesmith You're not gonna die on the planet, Guy. Guy Fleegman I'm not? Then what's my last name? Jason Nesmith It's, uh, uh - -I don't know. Guy Fleegman Nobody knows. Do you know why? Because my character isn't important enough for a last name, because I'm gonna die five minutes in. Gwen DeMarco Guy, you have a last name. Guy Fleegman DO I? DO I? For all you know, I'm Crewman Number Six! Mommy... mommy... Sir Alexander Dane Are we there yet? Ha Ha Ha That's So Funny. But Better On Screen & Delivered By The Cast Members. "},{"Title":"Faded stars trek far to break away from conventions.","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is brilliant. There, I said it. Job done. Review over.Okay, I guess I should say a little bit more than that. The story here concerns a set of actors who used to star on the TV show called, you guessed it, Galaxy Quest and who now make their money from celebrity appearances and conventions. A mix of egos, resentment, insecurities and exasperation, they can barely stand to share the same space. But when real aliens ask for their help and put them at the helm of their very own, very real, spaceship they soon begin to realise the individual skills needed to make the whole team work. Yes, it's ¡Three Amigos! in space with plenty of sly Star Trek references.The great thing about Galaxy Quest is that it's not just for sci-fi fans. Yes, they will get the most fun out of it but this is a movie full of great one-liners, numerous visual gags and a standard underdog vs baddies storyline. The sci-fi touches are wonderful but never detract from the heart of the story and characters.The cast are all perfect and what a cast it is Tim Allen is on great form as the selfish, egotistical commander, Sigourney Weaver is a lot of fun as the blonde bombshell required to do little more than repeat whatever the computer says, Alan Rickman is hilarious as a serious thespian unable to escape one memorable character (and one particular catchphrase), Daryl Mitchell is great as the older version of a child star, Tony Shalhoub is as good as Tony Shalhoub always is and Sam Rockwell almost steals every scene he's in as Guy, a crew member unknown to the others who wants to avoid the fate that befell him in episode 81 of the TV show (yep, he was one of those extra guys who seem to serve no other purpose than to be killed). There are also great performances from Missi Pyle, Justin Long (in his first film role) and, well, absolutely everyone who appears on screen, including lesser known names such as Enrico Colantoni, Patrick Breen, Robin Sachs et al.The other strength the movie has is a script as funny and quotable as Mystery Men (another favourite of mine). There is barely one line here that fails to provide a sly reference, fun character nuance or a good laugh. Congratulations go to David Howard for creating such a great selection of comedy dialogue and it's all delivered perfectly. Perhaps it's an unusual way to describe a comedy set mainly in space but I could easily close my eyes and just listen to the words of this movie, the script is THAT good.Director Dean Parisot may not seem to do anything that spectacular but he certainly has a good feel for the material being referenced and, in places, gently mocked and he recreates facets of that world brilliantly as well as letting us glimpse some believable, yet subtle, alien environments.Anyway, as I said at the beginning, Galaxy Quest is brilliant. There, I said it. Job done. Review over.See this if you like Spaceballs, Mystery Men, ¡Three Amigos! "}{"Title":"This is a great movie and I mean it!","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My family must have watch this movie a dozen times and it still is great to watch! It has so much to offer my kids and the message of the film is truly wonderful, never give up never surrender!.The special effects are really clever and I like space movies anyway but the fact that you can tie into this from present day earth is really appealing to me and my kids like it too!This surely will go down as a classic film for anyone to watch if they like heartfelt story lines and great character development. If your felling a little down and need to be cheered up this is the movie for you!The cast is well chosen and plays point on for the entire movie. A lot of great laughs and endearing characters make this a must see for any family. "},{"Title":"Great satire and yet touching as well","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My husband minored in Drama in College. He learned there that the difference between a mediocre movie and a great one is the ability of the story to get you to care for the characters. You can see that if you really could care less what happens to the people in the movie they can have all sorts of tragedies befall them which will have little or no effect on the audience. Conversely, if indeed you like and even come to love the characters in the movie then what happens to them will affect you deeply. And that becomes the difference between a good and bad show.As much as I enjoyed the satire of this movie, I also felt a real tug at my emotions for the plight of the characters in Galaxy Quest The actors who were reduced to opening Super Markets because the only success they had known was this show, to the aliens who confused the fantasy for the real. It seems there is something wistful in all of us that wants to believe.The actors who played the aliens especially Saris deserve real recognition for their work. The writers who had the idea. The director who saw to it that the Aliens were so completely lovable. All deserve special thanks for a very good yarn.I too hope this movie will gain proper recognition as time goes on. "},{"Title":"hilarious on every viewing","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this movie. Every time I watch it, it's as funny as the first time. The casting was perfect - every single person was great, although that kid with the shaky voice who sounds like he's about to burst out crying is always annoying to listen to. The absolute best actor was Sam Rockwell as Guy; he was so hilariously Cheesy. The bad guy had a great costume, very scary. Sigourney did a great comedy turn, which was a nice change. Tim Allen was great, Alan Rickman was great (as always), and I liked the guy who played Laredo. Probably you have to have been an original Star Trek fan to REALLY get it and find it maximally funny, but it's funny enough to stand on its own without that background. I can't even think of anything negative to say, it's that good. "},{"Title":"Must see film","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is good every time I watch it! I am a Star Trek fan and have also seen both installments of Trekkies, so I resisted watching this film in the beginning. Once I did rent it I had to own my own copy because I knew I wanted to see it again and again. My only regret is that I never got to see it on the big screen.Galaxy Quest is so unique in the way that it blends comedy and parody with sensitivity, making it extremely appealing to a very wide audience. At the same time, this film never loses its integrity, making it an instant classic with a great deal of heart.Alan Rickman is wonderful as the classically trained dramatic actor, tormented and trapped in his role as an alien on a sci-fi TV series.Sigourney Weaver shows a surprising talent for comedic timing and delivery, whose chief role is as an attractive female who repeats whatever the computer says.Tim Allen shows a great deal of heart, sympathy, and understanding of his parody of a Captain Kirk-type character, who evolves wonderfully and believably because of this well-written script.Tony Shaloub is hilarious as the quirky, spacey engineer and his performance is endearing.Enrico Colantoni was terrific as Mathazar. His role was actually quite difficult to pull off as it would have been very easy to blow it by coming off too cheesy or silly and throw everything off-kilter. Hats off to Enrico for his sense of balance.All of the cast are terrific. There are no slackers or uneven performances. The ensemble works very well together.The special effects are terrific. The monsters were cool. The space scenes were great eye-candy. The story is complex enough for the genre, and the acting is convincing enough to make this film quite engrossing and entertaining throughout The best part is that it has multi-level humor, making it suitable for all ages. It is good for the family, a friendly get together, date night, or just you and the TV. An excellent film overall, good for many, many viewings! Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Hilarious-- one of the  best comedies I've ever seen!","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this film was released in 1999, I avoided it because the trailers I saw made it seen childish pap full of slap-stick humour and Tim Allen behaving like a twit. It was only for the lack of anything else on the television to watch that I finally saw 'Galaxy Quest' and my previous preconceptions were shattered as I discovered this film to be an hilarious action-packed comedy with a twist of sci-fi, romance, drama. The story centres on the has-been actors of a cancelled Seventies sci-fi shows accidentally being mistaken for real heroes by aliens who ask them to win their war against another savage alien race. Fans of sci-fi shows, particularly 'Star Trek', will appreciate it all the more because there are many in-jokes (such as the geeky fans at the convention who need to know every detail of the show) that they will recognise.I'm not a huge fan of Tim Allen but his portrayal as Jason Nesmith, a character that is a parody of William Shatner, was just great as he depicts the character's sheer arrogance and narcissism without losing heart. Sigourney Weaver was another surprise as she shows how adept she is as an actress with her perfect comedy timing. She clearly had a great time with this film. However, it is Alan Rickman as the dour, sullen Alexander Dane who steals the show with his dry wit and sarcasm. There are times when he doesn't even have to say a word, just his facial expressions portray the character's disgust with the situations he is placed in (check out the deleted bathroom scene on the DVD for a great example of Rickman's expressiveness).'Galaxy Quest' is probably one of the best cinematic spoofs out there, making the 'Scary Movie' collection looking positively amateurish and infantile in comparison. Not only that, it is an excellent comedy full of laughs and a moment or two of moments that just touch you. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Comedy + Sci-Fi + Drama =Galaxy Quest","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alright, Galaxy Quest is more of a Comedy/Sci-Fi than a drama. The story is supposed to be the life's of actors after making a hit TV series like Star Trek. The movie starts with the cast of an 80's TV series Galaxy Quest. While signing autographs, Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen) is confronted by some odd looking (more odd-looking than what is around him) but are cut short by him.That night Jason does some heavy drinking and the next day wakes to the knocking of his door. The strangers are back pleading for help. Jason goes along thinking its a gig but is actually transported to an alien spaceship and confronts the Evil Gen. Sarris. After ordering attacks while wasted he returns home and finds the cast of the show. Soon the whole cast Jason, Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver), Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman), Guy (Sam Rockwell), and Fred Kwan (Tony Shalhoub) is on the ship and trying to figure out how they got there. the movie is filled with hundreds of laughs from trying to get to a Beriliam Sphere while the little children monster chase them to Tony Shalhoud falling in love with an alien. The acting is great with a mixture of some classic actors and actresses(Alan Rickman and Sigourney Weaver) with top notch comedy actors (Tim Allen and Tony Shalhoub). The story is hilarious with them actually being transported into there own TV show to battle actual aliens. Of what I understand about how the aliens came upon Galaxy Quest is by watching TV signals in outer space and thinking it real. The movie was reedited so it could receive a PG ranking. Children would find the movie funny but some scenes would probably scare them.Galaxy Quest. Starring Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub, Sam Rockwall, and Daryl Mitchell.4 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"To boldly go haha where no man haha haha sorry I can't stop giggling...","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching Galaxy Quest made me ask myself how the Star Trek TV series, in all its remodeled manifestations, is still exciting viewing while the handful of full-length Star Trek feature films are by comparison a yawn. It has something to do with the hold that a snappy science fiction story could keep on me as an adolescent, for an hour or more, making me think This is so cool that I WANT it to be true!Galaxy Quest will make you want it to be true. You probably know that there are fans or trekies who take the Star Trek series VERY seriously; they meet at conventions, wear the uniforms and study the jargon tirelessly. The setting for Galaxy Quest is just such a fan convention for a TV series which must be a clone of Star Trek, without actually naming any of the Star Trek characters or actors. As guests of honour we have a different troupe of actors, tired of their stereotypes but willing to sign autographs. *** SPOILER AHEAD ***The convention hall is crammed with fans dressed up as various kinds of aliens, so Commander Taggert (Tim Allen) is hardly surprised when a particularly strange-looking group approach him, and solicit his aid in their very special alien problem. When he is eventually persuaded to play along he finds that these are REAL aliens, the Thermians, with a REAL starship locked in a standoff against another alien adversary. The Thermians having watched earth TV from space are convinced that the adventures of Commander Taggert and his crew are historical documents, and want to enlist them to lead them to victory!That is enough about the plot because what I want to tell you is that this movie is a delightful space romp from start to finish. It is a corrective to the actual Star Trek movies whose failing is that they take themselves too seriously. The special effects are as good as you would expect from a modern Lucasfilm product, the drama is tight as comedy should be, and the characters cleverly drawn. Honourable mentions for Sigourney Weaver who is right in a supporting bimbo role, and Alan Rickman as the failed english serious actor condemned to bitterly deliver a meaningless line that he'd rather not know. (Check the cast overview to for these characters' names. It is a little confusing that in such a play within a play, each crew part has a actor name that plays a crew name...)I had an afterthought as the credits rolled after this movie had whisked me away into an adolescent's sci-fi universe that I thought I had grown out of what does it mean when so MANY cinematic craftspeople contrive so effectively to suspend our sense of reality? Will there be a future when half the human population serve experience to the other half? Or everybody will make reality for us all? "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Im not a Star Trek fan but i was still able to enjoy this very funny film.The film is nothing more than a laugh riot without using cliched stereotypical characters or heavy bathroom humor or plain vulgarity which is what makes many comedies bad nowadays. The acting is very nice and i like how each character have their own worries, values, etc. it certainly raises them above typical below average comedy dreck. The special effects are fun to look at and they look good enough to make the film enjoyable.All in all this a fun film to watch at anytime.Recommended8/10 "},{"Title":"Gene Roddenberry would have loved it","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fresh, funny comedies are hard to make - that's why we see so few of them. Galaxy Quest is original, funny and exciting. Tim Allen leads an agreeable cast into first-rate satire of Star Trek (and its apparently eternal aftermath). Gene Roddenberry would have laughed his head off.  "},{"Title":"A real hoot.","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A nicely tongue in cheek Star Trek spoof. Good all round cast - especially Alan Rickman as the angst ridden Shakesperian actor in what he considers actor hell - Alexander Dane. Good special effects and a nice predicatbly corny villain.I loved it.I've spoken online to William Shatner about this film and he likes it too.As I said - a real hoot - worth a view or two in my opinion. I give it 10/10. "}{"Title":"Galaxy Glory","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There hasn't been a movie invented quite like this one. A very clever perspective of the differences and similarities between the characters. Tim Allen, Sigorny Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shaloub, you name the actors, they stole the show. Outstanding, especially when I usually hate sci-fi movies. But this is one of those you can't beat films. EXCELLENT. "},{"Title":"Not What You Think","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me preface this review by saying something that is going to shock you...I have never, ever seen a Star Trek movie or TV show.  Not one!(This is where you pelt me with your 'The Wrath of Khan' is the greatest movie ever made comments.)Having said that, it took me quite a long time to decide to see 'Galaxy Quest'.  I figured all of the jokes would be references to Star Trek in some way and would totally go over my head.  Boy, was I wrong.I could not believe how funny & enjoyable this movie was.  The entire cast was perfect.  I was shocked to see Alan Rickman in a humorous role.  The script was extremely hilarious.  There was a part of this movie that I literally had to push pause on the VCR and wait until my family all caught their breath from laughing so hard.  (HINT It's the 'take out the garbage scene')I'm telling you as a non-Star Trek fan (and really, with the exception of 'Star Wars', I'm not a huge Sci-Fi fan either) that this movie is worth renting if for nothing else to laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Star Trek spoof that may rate as the feel-good movie of the decade","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie could have failed so many ways.  But a wonderful cast is buoyed by an excellent script fuels that rarity in any solar system--a movie that never quits.  Instead of getting hung up on just spoofing the Enterprise gang, Galaxy goes on to make statements about the space genre in general, trekkies, nerds, typecast TV actors and a society's devotion to television.  One of the most delightful and downright funny gimmicks is the collection of star-struck aliens, so goofy yet downright lovable.  Outtakes included on the DVD version reveal that the film could have been even more entertaining had not producers opted for the stripped down version.  Even if you were never a Star Trek fan, your mission should be to explore Galaxy.  "},{"Title":"Genial Star Trek spoof.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is the kind of movie that Star Trek aficionados can enjoy. Thankfully, it's also for non-Trekkies alike.The film has great fun, poking and ribbing at the Star Trek mystique. Not to mention its legions of fans who swarm to these conventions like a moth to a flame. Even poking fun at some of the fans and the eternal devotion they wallow in.Every cast member was perfectly succinct to it's character. Tim Allen played the William Shatner-type actor, who cares more about his personal trainer appointments than his own cast members. Sigourney Weaver played the token slut character to a tee. Sam Rockwell earns points as a no-name actor. So did Tony Shaloub as the quiet one. But the real scene-stealer was Alan Rickman as the temperamental thespian, who hated the very line that made him famous.Galaxy Quest is no classic, but it's still a real treat.Grade B "},{"Title":"Dam this film is great","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just love this film. I think it is perfectly casted and has wonderful effects. It is also really funny, much funnier than a lot of modern comdeys. It is good to see one that doesn't focus on people doing stupid things, like in most modern comedies, like road trip and amercan pie. This is a good thing to see because comdies such as road trip are not suitable for younger viewers when this film is far more suitable and in my opinion funnier. Tim Allen is great in his role as is Alan Rickman. I think you have to see this film as it it is very funny. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The best damned Star Trek movie ever made!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's get this straight I am a marginal Star Trek fan. This means I like it when Star Trek surprises me and actually tells a good story. I do not live and breathe waiting in my parents' basement for the next installment of whatever derivative form of Roddenberry's classic form is being foisted upon the public this year. I do APPRECIATE what Star Trek has done for Sci-Fi, television, our culture, and the world at large over the past 30 years. That being said, this send up of one of the most loved, honored, and OBEYED licensed franchises the world has ever known is absolutely brilliant. It skewers EVERY aspect of the show, it's fan base, and it's place IN the world, and does it with LOVE. Not many parodies actually succeed on all the levels this one does. Kudos all around. This one is to be watched again and again, and check out the special features on the DVD. Amazing! "},{"Title":"An historical comedy!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can say that Galaxy Quest was by far one of the best surprises this year. It is genius! The cast is great, and the performances are all top notch. What makes Galaxy Quest also so great, is that being a comedy, it doesn't suffer from the curse of `only 10 jokes among 20 are funny', no, they are all great! All of them hit the point, making you laugh until your tears! The script is original and done nicely, providing depth to the characters, and the directing is also very good. As you walk out of the movie you wonder how great the special effects were, and how much they dazzled you. Also when the movie ends, you are already waiting for a sequel or even a TV Series! Some thought that Galaxy Quest would have been this year's Wild Wild West, only Galaxy Quest was everything Wild Wild West, promised and was not, a great comedy and an intelligent satire.  It is really enjoy and worth watching and my only complaint goes to the cinematography &#150; disappointing and spoiling. 8 out of 10 &#150; which means highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"A perfect model of what a spoof should be!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  RED ALERT!  SPOILERS AHEAD!OK, folks, let's be blunt.  We all know just how cheesy the old Star Trek series was, what with its plywood sets, household appliance props, cheap makeup, and miserable overacting.  We all know that Shatner, Nimoy, the late Kelley, and the rest of the cast simply rode the Trek horse until it could be ridden no more, and have been making money for what they once were for decades.  Now, it is about time that an effective spoof of this was created! Galaxy Quest delivers a beautiful one.Basically, the old 80s show Galaxy Quest has been airing reruns since it was cancelled, and its stars have been making a living only by doing conventions, autographs, and publicities.  The actors don't get along with each other very well, and none of them particularly likes their captain (Tim Allen).  This is parallel to Star Trek in almost every manner. Everything is perfect!  The alien science officer (Alexander Dane) is a British Shakespearean actor who continually bemoans the fact that this show ruined his legitimate career.  The chief engineer (Tony Shalhoub) is now burned out.  The chick (Sigourney Weaver), whose only real job on the show was to repeat the computer, grumbles about the fact that all she was there for were her boobs.  It sounds exactly like your basic low-budget series, but twisted out of proportion.  The Quest nerds are all identical to real sci-fi nuts, quoting episodes from memory, dressing up in costumes, and asking detailed questions about technical science (fictional science, that is) discrepancies.This is where the big ugly spoilers are.  Don't read the rest if you want to be surprised.  A bunch of aliens have been receiving the broadcasts of Galaxy Quest, and they have naively believed them to be historical documents of an alien culture.  They have now based their entire society upon the example that Quest has set for them, down to the uniforms, ships, and food.  They now need the crew's help to defeat a powerful villain, and ask the actors to come with them.  Not entirely understanding, the actors take it to be a gig, and, not knowing when their next paying job will be, accept. They soon realize that they are actually in space, on board a perfect replica of the show's ship.  The hilarity that ensues is incredible.  They attempt to explain television shows to the aliens by asking about Gilligan's Island.  The response is, Oh, those poor people!  It's just a good spoof, right down to the extra who has no name, and is killed in the first five minutes just to add tension.  (Of course, he's paranoid that he'll get it for real now that the show is real, and spends the entire movie trying to avoid danger).  If you are a true Trekker, you will laugh until you pass out at this film.  If not, you will still laugh for a good long while.  It's a genuinely excellent spoof! "},{"Title":"Yup, it's a good 'un, alright!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really liked this movie, and pretty much for the same reasons all of the other reviewers have. In particular Tim Allen's surprisingly dramatic, as well as comic range; Tony Shaloub's loopy performance--and the best laugh-out-loud line in the film; Sigourney Weaver as a buxom BLOND--yow, she should stay that way!; all the Thermian actors who, after initially seeming ridiculous, make the viewer begin to empathize with them; Alan Rickman who was born to play Dr. Lazarus; and Sam Rockwell, who also is perfectly cast. Only the Tommy Webber character seemed weak to me.Here's one thing...in all the obvious comparisons to Star Trek, am I the only one who noticed an obvious homage to a famous scene in The Dirty Dozen? Check out Tim Allen reviewing the alien troops in their barracks, striding down the line and looking back over his shoulder at his mates with a mischievous grin. Is this not Donald Sutherland, the fake general, doing the same thing in TDD? whatever, it is just one of many wonderful vignettes in this wonderful film! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie on the craziness of Star Trek!","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, let me just say that Galaxy Quest is a fantastic film that has six out-of-work actors becoming an actual team fighting aliens in the galaxy.  Tim Allen (Commander Taggart), Sigourney Weaver (Lieutenant Tawny Madison) and the rest are all excellent!I've been waiting for a good film of what happens to actors who are stereotyped for one role.  This being the case for the crew of Galaxy Quest.  It is so easy to see that this is what happened to pretty much all of the cast of Star Trek.  It's sad, but I guess that's life.However, the movie betters itself when REAL aliens think the actors are real space heroes and asks them to help them!  There are a lot of funny moments and excellent jokes.  One of them is when Tim Allen (Taggart) is running from the rock monster and Sam Rockwell (Security Officer Ingersol) tells Tim to see if he can make a rudimentary lathe!  Another part is which Sigourney (Lieutenant Tawny Madison) tells Tim Allen that at least she didn't sleep with all the love slave girls on the show!  A direct parody of William Shatner.Unfortunately, some of the jokes are lost in non-trek fans.  However, many of my friends who dislike Star Trek, liked the movie.  It was well made, had a great cast, great battle scenes and was fun for the whole family.  It doesn't get any better than that.  "}{"Title":"A cast of TV space heroes go from sci-fi parody to a real intergalactic war.","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this hilarious spoof of cheesy sci-fi television the other night on HBO, and I must say you have got a good movie. Galaxy Quest was a hit TV-series during the 80's and after the cancellation a reunion of the cast members leads to several conventions of obsessed fans, in which one convention the cast is approached by some fans who seem strange and out of place. They turn out to be real aliens, who idolize the TV members and the strange members hope that the crew of TV stars can help them defeat a destructive foe in space combat. That is the story now for the reasons to watch Galaxy Quest to start the great camera and makeup work. And TV star and comedian Tim Allen heads an affable cast. And I won't forget Sigourney Weaver I must say Sigourney looked great in that red space outfit her cleavage alone was a reason to watch Galaxy Quest, and you can notice her red bra strap when her outfit becomes ripped nice choice to wear a colored bra even in space and it matched the clothing. I know Galaxy Quest is no sci-fi classic like Star Wars or Star Trek but it's definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"If you watched Star Trek for laughs, you'll love this","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you've ever caught yourself yelling Oh, come ON! at the TV during an episode of Star Trek when the plot contrivances and gratuitous alien character flaws went too far, this is the movie for you.Galaxy Quest pokes fun at the likable weaknesses of Star Trek, as well as the bizarre spectacle of fans consumed with obsession for such a show, and stays good-natured all around while doing it. To really enjoy the movie, then, I think you have to be able to laugh at yourself for spending time watching Trek. If you can do that, you're in for a good time.Two actors in particular really elevate this from a decent spoof to full-on comedy Tony Shalhoub and Enrico Colantoni. Shalhoub's rather distinctive take on the earnest and excitable Scotty's engine-room antics is hilarious, dry and perfectly-delivered. In fact, from the moment the crew first arrived on the alien dock it was clear he was going to be a scene-stealer. And Colantoni's Thermian affect really surprised me in being consistently funny throughout a 100-minute movie. Most comic gimmicks wear thin after a while, but his was sufficiently engaging, and he was having so much fun doing it, that it just became infectious. I started grinning every time he came on screen.About my only objection to the movie is the same thing that consistently bothers me about mainstream American TV and movies People kept choking on the language they'd naturally use and instead substituting gosh, darns and gollys. I suppose this was necessary in order to get the PG rating, but it's distractingly awkward. Why do Americans entertain this fantasy that four-letter words don't exist? Why do they give them so much power to offend? Surely we are smarter and stronger than that. After all, we can defeat wicked, advanced aliens without even trying.Just an aside Probably the only thing I've seen in a while that's funnier than this movie, has been the delicious irony of so many commenters here objecting to the actors appearing in makeup and uniform at a sci-fi convention, which would never happen in real life. "},{"Title":"Good natured spoof on the real thing","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sometimes the best humor is made from fondness.  In an era where most humor is mean-spirited and nasty, this movie manages to poke fun at a rather large cult following of a real sci-fi phenomena.  I like Star Trek, but I'm far from a Trekker.  I liked Galaxy Quest, because it was good natured and amusing.  Though, I must admit, watching this with an old friend of mine, who IS a Trekker, was the real entertainment! "},{"Title":"If you love the genre, you will love Galaxy Quest.","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Have you ever been to an sf/fantasy convention? Have you seen every Star Trek ever made? If you haven't, you will like this movie but if you have, you will absolutely adore it.Galaxy Quest was clearly made by people who love the genre. They don't miss a trick, from the fans who attend the conventions to Ensign Aargh (you remember him, the dude in the red shirt that was killed within 5 minutes of landing on the planet).The film is campy without going into overkill, and the parodies are affectionate. It's a great family movie, something everyone can enjoy. "},{"Title":"After several viewings, funnier than I ever thought","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I reviewed this movie earlier and since have bought the DVD.  Now I've watched it several times and loaned it out to friends (who had never even watched star trek), and it just gets better every time.  This movie has longevity.  It is funny, and then it is even funnier.  Watch it over and over again, and it is still funny.  Heck, we lent it to a friend who had never watched even one episode of star trek, and she thought it was uproarious also!This movie really is a gem, I cannot implore you enough to give it a rental fee.  Once you've rented it, you might want to buy it.  We pull it out every several months, and find new humor (and still laugh at the other stuff).  It really is layered comedy and very worth having in your library. "},{"Title":"By Grabthar's Hammer, what a movie","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is surely a dark and cynical comedy to be made about the culture and fandom of genre TV, but Galaxy Quest opts for some (mostly) good natured ribbing while simultaneously celebrating and expertly executing its conventions (both types).The cast is wonderful, sharing a rare type of chemistry and inhabiting their roles so utterly that their characters almost pop off the screen. But it's not just the humor that works here. Every character is given a redemptive arc, and when the late, great Alan Rickman--whose character has lamented the popular catchphrase of his alter ego throughout the film--speaks said catchphrase to a dying character who has idolized his alter ego, I got a lump in my throat.Mixing humor with heart and never skimping on the thrills, Galaxy Quest is a total blast, and quite frankly, better than all but a small handful of the actual Star Trek films. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek Parody Ever Made and Tim Allen's Best Role","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched it again after so many years. What a wild ride! Tim Allen plays the pathetic disillusioned former star of tacky-old Galaxy Quest. Like the original Star Trek you can see the wires on the cheesy special effects. The planet or star has a winking eyeball like Lost in Space. Everyone including make-up wizard Rick Baker had a blast making this one. The alien suits are over-the-top with two (on-purpose) exceptions The villain's henchmen look like cheap extras from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles or The Swamp Thing. Their ray guns look like Subway sandwiches with sesame seed buns. Sigourney Weaver's fake chest is amazing! Since it was made in 1999, the digital effects are outstanding. The plot borrows heavily from implausible sci-fi and Star Trek plots. A major transporter malfunction like in Star Trek I. A power-mad entity that wants to rule the Universe. Rock monsters. Aliens disguised as humans. (Missi Pyle plays the sexiest octopus ever.) Gadgets and gizmos on the ship that make absolutely no sense whatsoever and hungry aliens. Spaceship dog fights. Shape-shifting. Explosions and fire. Like the Men in Black Series there are a few alien deaths so it's a little more than just a funny comedy. I sincerely hope than Alan Rickman and Leonard Nimoy meet in Heaven. A fun and worthy tribute to Star Trek and Trekies everywhere. "},{"Title":"Never gets old","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Wars had Spaceballs, but if you're looking to have some fun at the expense of that other major space-faring franchise, then Galaxy Quest fills the role very nicely. It's a big (but affectionate) jab at all things Star Trek, from the scene-stealing star and bickering cast to the relative silliness of all of it (fandom included).That, in and of itself, is a great hook, but what ultimately makes this clock tick is its cast, And that chain has no weak link. Each and everyone of them is pitch-perfect for their roles, and they all get their moment(s) in the sun (even Justin Long in a thankless role). It's a story that requires your immediate involvement (sure, examine it too closely, it'll start to look like Swiss cheese), but don't let that repel you. The whole thing just works. To this day, I find this movie hilarious. It just puts a huge smile on my face.8/10 "},{"Title":"So awesome I really hope they make a sequel.","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was one of those very rare cases where I wasn't expecting much, seeing a movie for the first time in theaters, but was thoroughly entertained by the end. They tried too hard to not spoil the movie in the previews, and forgot to add some of the more fun bits that would attract people to see more (perhaps part of the teleporter scene). Half the preview talks about the annoying tropes of a sci-fi conventions, for crying out loud.Anyways, very funny, even enthralling, forgot I was watching a movie for most of the film. I won't say it was entirely captivating, because the characters and setting are annoying in the beginning, and you hope they aren't going to stick to the Hollywood setting for very long, but the movie quickly picks up the pace and the character development takes place, making this a fun adventure from multiple angles.There's rumors of a sequel possibly being made, and I would love to see that done. I'm a big Sigourney Weaver fan and like a lot of her recent movies, but she can't just play a bit-part in the sequel. I hope the cast is willing to come back for another run eventually, with a studio that realized the marketing mistakes that were made, and they all give it another shot. I don't think they, or we, would be disappointed with the results, but if it never happens, at least we have the one movie to treasure. "},{"Title":"A Post-Modernist Masterpiece","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sitting back and watching Galaxy Quest for the umpteenth time since its release in 1999, I've come to find something quite remarkable about the sleeper hit that made the masses fall in love with boldy going where no man has gone before, again. The movie, for all its quirks and sharp sci-fi fandom satire, just may be the dawn of post- modernism in science fiction movies. Allow me to explain.Galaxy Quest follows the former stars of a popular space adventure series which was abruptly cancelled in the 80's. The crew of the NSEA Protector still have clout inside of the obsessive pop culture echo chamber that is the sci-fi convention, yet outside of that none of them have achieved the success they truly feel they deserve. That is until they are shuttled off into space and are recruited by a race of aliens to play their roles for real and save their species from the nefarious Sarris (Sachs).The film was advertised as a family-oriented comedy instead of an ironic satire/emulation of Star Trek (1966-1969). During development however, original producer Harold Ramis wanted the story to be much darker and raunchier. After Ramis left however, the squeaky-clean machine that is Dreamworks Studios cleaned it up and dubbed all the four letter words to avoid a PG-13 rating. Luckily none of the humor is lost largely thanks to the cast's excellent character work. Every character from the original TV show's crew to the Thermians (the race who beg for help) blend perfectly to create this quirky little masterpiece.Tim Allen gives the best performance of his career as Jason Nesmith, the de facto leader of the cast with the ego to prove it. His mannerisms and base character channels William Shatner to a T, yet Allen brings an added layer of self-deception and mirth that goes beyond mere mimicry. Throughout the years many claim his character in Galaxy Quest feels like a meta-commentary on his career trajectory after his Home Improvement (1991-1999) days. There's even an extra-bonus feature on the DVD where Allen, Weaver and Rickman portray their characters in a faux Behind the Music (1997-Present) documentary. In it Allen lampoons his goofball dad persona on Home Improvement by stating he thought a similarly themed show would go somewhere.The layers upon layers of meta-humor becomes so labyrinthine that if everyone played it up for laughs, it would implode in a supernova of silliness. Luckily the cast plays it more ambitiously and for that we have Alan Rickman as our anchor. Playing Alexander Dane a Shakespearean trained actor frustrated by the trite trappings of playing a humanoid sidekick, Rickman is an absolute stitch in this movie. His constant look of contempt when faced with adoring fans and his clear distaste with the plot's proceedings not only gets the biggest laughs but also the biggest amount of pathos. He's the Captain Picard to Allen's Kirk and writers David Howard and Robert Gordon know it.Special mention must also be given to Sam Rockwell's Guy, a crew member who was killed off on the show and becomes an unwilling participant in the zaniness. While Guy may be overly broad at times, his outbursts are utilized at just the right moment. Another standout is Enrico Colantoni as the Thermian leader Mathesar. His expressive face and monotone tenor provide just the right amount of off-kilter geekiness to give the talented ensemble cast a run for their money.More than a decade has past since Galaxy Quest was released in theaters and since then science fiction now plays faster and looser with its world building, meta-commentary and post-modernist embrace of the cliché. In spite of this many movies have fallen out of favor despite initial release largely due to them being unable to strike a balance between good-natured ribbing and actually telling a story we as the audience care about. Galaxy Quest remains an enterprise of brilliant comedic storytelling with deft ensemble acting. It's the first of its kind and movies like Guardians of the Galaxy (2014), Ant-Man (2015) or (gulp) Jupiter Ascending (2015) owe a lot to this minor masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Never give up never surrender","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a huge fan of Star Trek and I have got to say Galaxy Quest is one of the funniest movies I have seen. Since Spaceballs was a parody of Star Wars, Galaxy Quest almost took that take with Star Trek.The plot of the films centers around the cast of a fiction TV show called Galaxy Quest Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver), Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman),Fred Kwan (Tony Shalhoub), Tommy Webber (Daryl Mitchell) and Guy Fleegman (Sam Rockwell) are asked to pull the biggest performance of their careers when a alien race lead by Mathesar (Enrico Colantoni) as they hunted by Sarris (Robin Sachs) Galaxy Quest does a lot to make it worth your while such as the cast performances are very well done and most of them have done Science Fiction movies in their careers plus each actor brings their best to the film and their characters are good enough to watch and enjoy.The effects in this comedy are pretty well done with ILM behind the works you know it's going to be a promising good effects since the company never disappoint with their special effects.The comedy in the film is just priceless yes some jokes could have been done without but still the humor is very goodThe film is also full of quotes that you would find yourself using over over and over again even actors from Star Trek praise the film so it goes to show that the film is fun and safe for everyone I give Galaxy Quest an 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Are we there yet?.....","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The stars of a 1970s sci-fi show - now scraping a living through re-runs and sci-fi conventions - are beamed aboard an alien spacecraft. Believing the cast's heroic on-screen dramas are historical documents of real-life adventures, the band of aliens turn to the ailing celebrities for help in their quest to overcome the oppressive regime in their solar system......He thing that makes the film stand above other comedies released around the same time is that the cast are not afraid of a little self deprecating humour, and Alan Rickman is wonderful in a role that obviously sends his artistic manner up just a little.We all know and love Rickman as a wonderful thespian, but he knows his big break in Hollywood was as cinemas greatest villain, in arguably the greatest film ever made, Die Hard.And the majority of viewers here will know him from that movie, the Harry Potter films, and Robin Hood POT. Here it's a little bit of life imitating art. On screen here, he's a thespian of the highest order, but is best remembered for a role that he did years ago, and this is the funniest role in the film.Weaver is brilliant as the atypical TV pin-up who has so much more to offer, but obviously the studios are only interested in two things, and and again, the desolation of her suit through the duration of the film is also a great representation of a prolific actor sending themselves up.And this is the fundamental element of the film. The TV show depicted here is obviously referencing Star Trek, and here, the TV series is a self aware camp-fest that has so many die-hard fans, who become a hindrance to the cast. But what would the cast do, if things became real. What would the cast do if they needed actual help from the die-hard fans?Allen is obviously channelling Shatner in his performance, and he seems to be having the most fun sending him, and himself up as the self absorbed faded star who needs to get back to the real world, metaphorically at first, and literally come the end.Along with the brilliant parody, the film is genuinely action lacked with some wonderful set pieces, and delicious stupid humour thrown in for good measure.It's highly original, and it's a shame that Parisot never evolved into a bigger director.Great fun. "},{"Title":"Did You Guys Ever Watch The Show?","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" We're all familiar with the mass fandom of sci-fi shows like Star Trek. Even if you've never seen it, you've undoubtedly seen the cult fandom of the show who embrace the source material almost like a life style with some going as far as to learn an entire language based around the show. It's the knowledge of this fandom that makes Galaxy Quest so enjoyable. It combines its parody of typical sci-fi clichés, with a deconstruction of the fandoms that such shows have inspired.The film starts off at a convention for a TV show that's very similar to a show like Star Trek. Just like any comic con the place is packed with people dressed up as typical Sci-Fi characters and flocking for the chance to meet their favourite characters from the show. This includes Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman) a Shakespearean style actor, who's fed up with being known as the Spock type alien from the show and wants to take on more serious roles. Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver) who played the blonde airhead character who had no real role on the show other than to look pretty. And the only actor to thrive in the fandom, Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen) the ex lead of the show who gets all the attention at the cons and approaches his popularity with a typically cocky attitude. Whilst at the convention they encounter a group of oddballs who turn out to be an alien race called the Thermians, a species of squid like creatures who use a special device that gives them a human form. They received broadcasts of the show in space but have mistaken the episodes as historical documents and believe that these actors really are the characters that they were on the show and worship them as heroes. Thus they recruit the actors to defend them in a battle against a terrifying reptilian species. There are many jokes in the films where it's important to have some familiarity with sci-fi shows like Star Trek. For example one of the best running gags in the film involves Rockwell's character fearing for his life on every dangerous mission he goes on since nobody knows his name and fears that he's an expendable character. And there's even more gags that only a person with serious familiarity with the show would be able to get.But what makes this film so great is that you could enjoy this film even if you had no familiarity with any of the things that they were referencing. It's characters are still fun, memorable and exist in their own right. Plus the costumes and effects are so great that it's even led to a small fandom somewhat similar to the likes of which the film was paying homage to that can be enjoyed by both fans of the genre and newcomers to it. "},{"Title":"A love letter to Star Trek fans","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a long-time Star Trek fan, Galaxy Quest felt like a personalized love-letter. The writers really did their homework, too. Notable examples of attention to detail include Dr. Lazarus' name as an homage to Spock returning from the dead; Commander Taggart doing the signature Captain Kirk shoulder roll (and getting his shirt off during a fight); and Guy Fleegman's horror at realizing that he might be the redshirt who's supposed to die to show the seriousness of the situation.The film begins as a rather satirical, tongue-in-cheek, review, depicting a show that's been relegated to cult status, the fans as obsessive social misfits, and the show's cast as washed-up actors. Around the midpoint of the film, we see a change in attitude, though. All the fans who were along for the ride with the crew get the chance to see their fondest dreams come true- A convention-going fan got to go with the crew on a mission, and eventually landed a role on the reboot of the show.- A group of fans got to use their collective knowledge of the minutia of the ship to help guide crewmembers through the hall of big, smashy/crunchy things.- A fan (nee disciple) of Dr. Lazarus got to hear him say his signature quote on his deathbed.- We got to see the crew come to terms with their misgivings about this old, cheesy, TV show they were once on, and learn to embrace their fans, warming to them in the convention in the final scene.- But the best part, was that the fans learned that their heroes weren't just actors, they weren't just pretending, and it wasn't just a TV show; it was really, really, real.And that's why, whenever anyone asks me what my favorite Star Trek movie is, I always reply Galaxy Quest.﻿ "},{"Title":"Hilarious Sci-Fi","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs is to Star Wars as Galaxy Quest is to Star Trek = hilarious quirky spoofs! If you enjoyed Spaceballs then Galaxy Quest should be right up your alleyway.Galaxy Quest is one of the best sci-fi comedies ever made. It is an underrated film in my opinion. Comedy lovers as well as Star Trek fans should enjoy this film. I love it! If you liked 'Mars Attacks!', 'Spaceballs' 'Men in Black' or even films like 'Airplane' and 'Naked Gun' then you really should watch Galaxy Quest - you are sure to get a few laughs out of the film.9/10 "},{"Title":"By Grapthar's hammer, you shall be avenged!","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes when spoofs come along, it becomes so ridiculous it makes me hate what it's based off of. Galaxy Quest is obviously a spoof of Star Trek but it actually makes me want to go back and watch the original Trek films. This film does a great job of mixing insane comedy with action and even some heart.First of all the cast is perfect from top to bottom. Rockwell is hilarious in one of his first major starring roles. Tim Allen plays the captain kirk type role so well and Rickman does the Spock role justice as well. Not to mention how sexy Sigourney Weaver is in this movie, but also has great comedic timing. The crew does a great job of playing off each others strengths and weaknesses.The Aliens at first were a bit annoying but once you realize that's the point then it becomes that much funnier. Some of the funniest scenes were them just walking or clapping acting stupid. I also really like the fact that this spoof isn't over-the-top silly. There are some scenes with true heart towards the end and that's what separates this film from the typical spoof. I will say I wish the film had some more memorable lines or moments. I think i'm going to remember this film more for it's ridiculously hilarious characters but not any one moment. The film is also incredibly predictable. But then again, most comedies are.+Cast +Rockwell is hilarious +Aliens humorous normality's +Spoof that isn't too silly +Some actual heart to the story -Predictable -Left wanting a classic moment or two 8.2/10 "},{"Title":"By Grabthar's hammer...what a movie.","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest gets high marks for being a genuinely funny, smart, and endearing comedy that pokes gentle yet loving fun at science fiction and all of its trappings. Clearly, it uses 'Star Trek' as an influence, but one doesn't have to be a Trek fan to like this movie and enjoy it...although that certainly wouldn't hurt.The concept isn't wholly original, but that hardly matters (just to use one example, it's like Three Amigos! in space); it still works. A talented ensemble play the cast of a Trek like cult favourite TV series who are now reduced to appearing at conventions and store sales. They get the surprise of their life when an actual alien race - the Thermians - approach them and implore them to save the aliens from being exterminated by a ruthless enemy. You see, the Thermians have seen the show, but naively believed it to be fact and not fiction! (They lament the fate of those poor people on 'Gilligan's Island'!)So it's up to the intrepid actors to play their parts for real, and embark on a series of challenges. Tim Allen is Jason Nesmith, the egocentric star of the show, Sigourney Weaver is Gwen DeMarco, the stunning blonde whose only purpose seems to be parroting whatever the computer tells the cast, Alan Rickman is Alexander Dane, the illustrious thespian who considers his alien role to be beneath him (he goes through the entire movie with his makeup on!), Tony Shalhoub is the unflappable Fred Kwan, Daryl Mitchell is ship pilot Tommy Webber, and Sam Rockwell does a hilarious job of paying tribute to every red shirt wearing, expendable minor character to ever appear on 'Star Trek'. They're all great, especially Rickman and Rockwell, but Enrico Colantoni also deserves a mention as he hilariously plays Mathesar, the Thermian leader who speaks his English in an awkward, sing song way. Look also for Justin Long as a nerdy teen and Rainn Wilson as one of the Thermians.The dialogue is often quite good, the special effects are impressive, and Stan Winstons' studio create some nifty looking creatures, among them the Thermians who have a rather Cthulhu like look when not disguised as humans, and the big angry villainous lobster Sarris (Robin Sachs). The movie does go on a little long, and get silly towards the end, but overall it has a real charm to it and it's pretty hard to resist. Comedy and science fiction fans alike should find it quite agreeable.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Very Funny And Even Exciting Way To Spoof Star Trek","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoof movies don't always work well. If they're done well - like the first Airplane movie - then they're excellent. Unfortunately, they're not done well often enough and so I approach them warily if at all. In the end, I am truly delighted that I chose to approach Galaxy Quest. It's a very well done spoof of all things Star Trek. Everything gets skewered - the cast (and especially the egotistical actor playing the commanding officer who is despised by his castmates, a la William Shatner), the silly but still exciting storyline, ridiculous aliens, overly fanatical fans, even the unnamed crew member who appears in one episode only to be killed in the first 15 minutes. It all works.The movie opens with the tensions among the cast front and centre. They're at a Galaxy Quest convention, but Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen) - who plays the commander - is late and making everyone wait. Regardless, once he shows up he's front and centre; the guy everyone came to see, while the rest of the cast (played by Alan Rickman, Sigourney Weaver, Tony Shalhoub, Daryl Mitchell and Sam Rockwell) fade into the background. But the cast is about to get the adventure of their lives as a group of real aliens, led by Mathesar (Enrico Colantoni) take them to their spaceship to enlist them in a space war because, having picked up the TV signals with the shows (which they believe are a historical record) they believe the cast truly are space heroes! What follows is truly funny at times, and by the last half hour even becomes fairly exciting, as the battle against the evil aliens reaches its climax. Eventually, the tension-filled cast learn to work together and to appreciate each other's abilities, leading to a wonderful entrance at another convention as the movie ends.Most everything worked in this, but you have to give special credit to Tim Allen, who pulled off the Kirk-Shatner type character brilliantly. It's a fun movie that fans of Star Trek will enjoy, but even non-fans will find it entertaining, although they may miss some of the jabs that are taken. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Top notch sci-fi","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Still the best Star Trek tribute of all time, and worthy of a sequel. A bunch of has-been actors from a long-ago sci-fi TV show are recruited by a child-like alien race to defend them against a nasty invading force. It takes this old TV crew awhile, but eventually they man-up and take their defender role to heart. The cast is perfect, the script is sharp, and the comedy mixes very nicely with some well-developed dramatic elements. The plot doesn't always go where you think it might, which is a good thing. A young Justin Long can be seen in a small role as the TV show's number one fan. People may quibble with Tim Allen's acting ability, but not here. He is on top of his game as a Shatner-type hambone who must do some serious soul-searching in order to keep himself and everybody else alive. A must-see for sci-fi fans. Flawless and unobtrusive special effects make it all seem very plausible. "},{"Title":"A successful and smart sci-fi comedy","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is an affectionate and successful Star Trek spoof. Well I say spoof but that's probably not the most accurate term as the film never really parodies the series. It's more about the making of the show itself. The focus is on a group of washed-up actors whose livelihoods have come to depend on a popular science fiction TV series they made in the 80's. Its parallels with Star Trek are obvious. The clever thing that the film does though is to combine this with a narrative that manages to put these actors in the exact same position that their TV characters would be in week in week out, i.e. battling evil aliens in outer-space. So the film works equally as a comedy about the making of the show, while simultaneously functioning as an action adventure just like it.The plot centres on a group of aliens who believe that the Galaxy Quest transmissions are factually based. They travel to Earth and meet the ship's captain at a sci-fi convention. This eventually results in all of the crew ending up being taken to the far off galaxy to help save these benign aliens from aggressive adversaries.It's a clever touch having the aliens being mistaken for over-enthusiastic fans of the show. It acts as a good link into the second part of the film. I can't say I am a Trekkie, yet I enjoyed and 'got' this movie. Even non paid up members of Star Trek have a reasonable handle on what it was about and recognize some of the clichés of the show, so most of the specific references to it shouldn't really be over too many people's heads. Pleasingly, a lot of the jokes are very funny, hitting just the right note. The film doesn't go over the top with the humour. While the cast all acquit themselves very well, creating rounded characters that you can believe in. It's a film that should appeal to a wide range of people; they just might not realize it. "}{"Title":"Rather good spoof movie of science fiction shows.","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" All in all this was a rather funny movie that was well done. My only complaint is that at times it just seemed it should be funnier. Granted, the film has a lot of heart, but like I said it just seemed like it should be funnier in places. The story has a bunch of actors from an old television show called Galaxy Quest. For the most part they are all pretty much washed up, they pretty much spend their days at science fiction conventions and opening shopping centers. Tim Allen plays the man who was the captain on the show, and like Captain Kirk from Star Trek he is not exactly loved by his fellow actors on the show. Well he snaps at a fan and then kind of hits the slums, but then some strange people come to him and he assumes they are wanting to do some sort of private skit or something. He passes out and awakes on what appears to be a very updated version of his former fake ship. Well as it turns out these people are aliens and they are in need of help, so the Captain gathers the whole crew and they are all off to fight some actual space baddies. The rest of the cast is great here too, as Alan Rickman plays the alien from the former show, Sigourney Weaver plays the role of a person whose job on the show was apparently just to repeat everything said, and Tony Shaloub is in it too. I also liked the guy who played one of those unknown guys that is usually the first to die in the typical science fiction show. The comedy is good with some great scenes here and there. One of my favorites was the metal chompy things and Weaver's reaction to them. I also liked how Shaloub just walked right out of the shuttle not even knowing he could breath or not. The film does get a bit heavy handed during the final confrontations with the bad guys, however overall this film was a blast. "},{"Title":"A wonderful spoof on the original Star Trek cast.","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" While this movie stands quite well on its own, it is obviously not intended to. The basic premise is What would happen if aliens, years later, thought that the original voyages of the Starship Enterprise were real?If you think the original Star Trek is just an outdated old sci-fi show, and you are unaware of the fact that there are STILL fan conventions devoted to it, and you are also unaware that many people, including members of the original cast, thought Shatner was an ass, you probably won't get this movie. But, if you get all this, this movie is hilarious. If you don't like it, read Shatner's autobiography, and then watch it again. ) "},{"Title":"Life at the movies can be fun.  This was Fun!","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, I had a free ticket I had to use back in 1999, in Las Vegas, or it would expire. I called the theater and hear the choices and then went to the internet to watch excerpts. Galaxy Quest had this odd scene with rocks and a great line. That was enough! I had to see that movie. I've seen it 5 times since on DVD. Life can be fun and simple and this movie provides pleasure poking fun at Trekites....All the acting works....there is a charm to this movie. Just watch to have a good time and you will. The emotions were there. Silly...happy...dumb...serious...sad...crazy....I scratch my head wondering why there was no sequel. It's been 10 years...and every year I'll watch this movie just to have fun. And so will you....or my name isn't Phineas T. Bluster! "},{"Title":"Sci-fi parody done right","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everyone who loves Star Trek should see this clever and smartly done parody. It's fair to say also that everyone not totally allergic to sci-fi would probably like it too. You get the gamut of has-been actor stereotypes including the kid turned adult, the blonde sexpot never taken seriously, the Shakespearean trained English thespian hating his typecasting and the arrogant oblivious leading man who thinks he's still as popular as ever. Everyone did very well in their roles playing it mostly straight but with quirks and mannerisms (Tim Allen really channels captain Kirk well without outright imitating him). Besides the deliciously cynical Alan Rickman as the TV show alien doctor character, the acting standout was definitely the naive chief of the real aliens Mathesar. His expressions and the original odd way he talks manages to be both hilarious and endearing. He's instrumental into making us care about the fate of his race despite their obvious silliness. Their constant smile and enthusiasm is practically contagious.The combination of the strong script with the fine comic performances makes for very entertaining storytelling and fun characterizations. I think what particularly helps to sell this movie is that despite the spoofs and the jabs, it's ultimately affectionate towards sci-fi and the fans without ever really going for over-the-top slapstick like the Airplane films. The humor is funny because of the fish out of water situations, the wisecracking and the TV clichés who usually get noticed as such. Galaxy Quest also works as a space adventure with very good special effects made by Stan Winston (creature designer extraordinaire) and Industrial Lights & Magic (all those Star Wars films).Rating 7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining movie","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is one of those rare movies. It parodies a TV show, its actors and the fans of the show yet at the same time the movie is a tribute to them. The TV show in question of course is Star Trek, which is a very easy target. After all the show, to a certain extent, took itself more seriously than it should and and has spawned a couple of generations of followers. The movie itself stands out on its own, it's actually a pretty good action film that at the same time allows the characters to grow on us. Much like the show itself.Tim Allen stars as Jason Nesmith, the egotistic actor who stars as the Captain of an intergalactic spaceship. Since the show has been canceled he and his cast mates has been reduced to making personal appearances to earn a living. I'm not a big fan of Tim Allen's acting but he does a decent job here. He also gets support from two very good actors Sigourney Weaver, who's not playing Ellen Ripley, and Alan Rickman who's playing an ex- Shakesperean actor who has grown to resent the character that has made him famous. Rounding out the cast are Daryl Mithcell and Tony Shalhoub. The Rickman character is very interesting because it shows how being identified with a very popular character can be detrimental to an actor's career no matter how good they are.The story, of course, is that Nesmith is recruited by aliens to lead them in a fight against their enemy and he brings his crew along with them for the fight. The movie have fun with this premise as it takes the actors to a strange and yet familiar situation. They have to operate the gizmos they have been playing with on their TV shows but now it's for real. One particular funny moment is when Mitchell is trying to get the spaceship out of the docking bay and there are many more.The fans of Star Trek and other SCi FI TV shows or Movies are easy targets that gets picked on by stand up comedians, TV and Movie columnists as well as other TV shows. In most situations the fans are basically being sent a message to move on and get a life. Here they get their due as it were the fans with their encyclopedic knowledge of the show that would be instrumental in the defeat of the enemy. I wouldn't say it encourages one to be a craze fanboy but more to have to have fun with it and not take it too seriously, as this movie didGalaxy Quest is a good entertaining movie that works as a comedy, action movie, and as a tribute not just to Star Trek but other TV shows that have a strong cult like following. "},{"Title":"Trekkies aren't the only one's who'll get a real kick out of this.","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take Hilarious send-off of STAR TREK with hilarious performances and jokes that really hit the right targets.Boldly going where no man has gone before... long before they're canceled from television, GALAXY QUEST is a wacky, hilarious take on the still-increasing popularity of STAR TREK fad. There have been many lampoons of the TV series and films, but rare (if ever, none at all) manages to engage audiences far beyond the Trekkies/Trekkers who knows the universe above all. This time, the trips for everyone to take. And it's quite the gag-filled excursion.Much like the real-life adventures of the STAR TREK cast, the has-been stars of a fictional TV show of the title, namely Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver) and Sir Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman), have left the roles that made them famous in pursuit of a better point in their careers. Unfortunately, they're stuck signing autographs and attend special shows for the Galaxy Quest Fans Club. But their long for a world beyond a fan base is about to be quenched. Joining a race of funny aliens, they board a new mother ship and battle an evil space tyrant and his armada in pursuit of powerful force. But this time, there adventures are real.Benefiting from an ensemble of hilarious players and a fine direction by Dean Parisot, from a hilarious script by David Howard and Robert Gordon, GALAXY QUEST is a light yet hilarious entertainment that doesn't pitch itself on a cult audience. See this one before it hits hyperspace! Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Rip-roaringly FUNNY!!!","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A side-splitting Sci-fi adventure that will keep you at the edge of your seat and roaring with laughter. This movie is a brilliant satire of some of the classic Sci-fi adventures such as Star Trek, Star Wars, etc. From the first time I saw it, I knew it was destined to become an all-time favorite and classic for fans of this genre. The cast was assembled with great precision and designed for ultimate laughter. Tim Allen was made for the role, Sigourney Weaver is HOT as a blond, Sam Rockwell is hilarious, Tony Shalhoub and Alan Rickman are both perfect and Daryl Mitchell as Tommy Webber, aka Lt. Laredo, gives a most memorable performance. Actually, the entire cast performances, including the supporting players, are truly magnificent. On second thought, you don't even have to be a science fiction fan in order to enjoy it, anyone who appreciates great comedy will be thoroughly entertained, I swear it, by Grabthar's Hammer! A perfect 10! "},{"Title":"The Show Must Go On","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mash-up of clever send-up and rip-roaring adventure, with sterling special effects and a game cast, Galaxy Quest is proof good comedy is possible even with a huge budget and some big-name dramatic actors, provided the story is good.David Howard and Robert Gordon's sharp script introduces us to the cast of the '80s TV series Galaxy Quest, now reduced to appearing at mall openings and fan conventions where they must wear their cheesy costumes. Much resentment centers on the guy who played Capt. Taggart, Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), a smug egomaniac who alone seems to be enjoying all this. Then Nesmith shows up late for an appearance telling a fantastic story of being whisked into outer space, by a people who adore the show's characters and now want their help against an evil overlord.Sure it sounds sketchy, but a gig's a gig. Can you say Beam me up, Scotty?Star Trek parodies have been with us since at least the 1960s, when MAD magazine did several while the series still ran on NBC. Galaxy Quest uses the behind-the-scenes legend of Trek (how lead actor William Shatner was hated by cast mates, for example), as well as its passionate, nerdy fan base, to develop a deftly layered parody that works better for viewers knowing something about the real-life Trek going in.At the start of the many good things to be said for Galaxy Quest is Allen, once again (as with Toy Story and The Santa Clause) playing a character bringing life to another's fantasy in a case of mistaken identity. He's terrific in his early scenes with the worshipful alien Thermians, thinking them just some deluded fans filming a sci-fi knock-off Do you have pages or do you want me to wing this? he asks before his first showdown with the evil Sarris. Allen communicates deeper emotions, too, at Nesmith's sad shambles of a career and the prospect of letting the Thermians down.Providing farcical counterpoint to Allen's layered performance are Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman as cast mates. It's odd that sitcom actor Allen does the heavy dramatic lifting here while the theatrically more accomplished Rickman and Weaver kick back and goof around. But it works. Weaver has more fun in this film than I've ever seen from her, as a blonde Uhura resenting the attention her cleavage gets but still wanting her close-ups. Rickman plays a Spock-like role of an alien that forces him to wear a rubber skullcap for the whole film, glowering at the misery of his singularly lame catchphrase and of always playing second-fiddle to Taggart, even later when it's for real.It's always about you, isn't it! he screams as Taggart is about to be devoured by an alien horde.There are other characters with Trek-echoes, none more entertaining than Sam Rockwell's Guy. As an actor, Guy appeared only briefly on one GQ program. Now, brought along on this fantastic voyage, he sees himself about to endure a similar fate I'm expendable! I'm the guy in the red suit who dies to prove the situation's serious.It's fun to see this and other Trek conventions, including the conventions themselves, sent up by the underemployed but able director Dean Parisot with such affection and wit. The adventure elements come off a bit too powerful at times to handle the delicate suspension of disbelief; the ending wrapped too tightly in a bow. But Galaxy Quest is fine entertainment, smart and empathetic, no doubt the best Star Trek movie never made. "},{"Title":"Funny and re-watch-able","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" While I am not typically a fan of Hollywood mainstream movies, now and again, one will appeal to me. This is more often true with comedies, and out of that list of ten or so contemporary Hollywood comedies I like, Galaxy Quest is at the top of my list.The idea is nothing short of comically brilliant, and the script fleshes out the idea beautifully. Poor Alexander Dane, cringing every time he hears that line, the egotistical Jason Nesmith, the ridiculous role for the only woman in the TV show cast, the clever use of the man in the red shirt phenomenon from Star Trek, the satirizing of those nonsensical mechanical details TV science fiction shows rely on too often in lieu of real drama all combine to produce many laughs. The brief scenes with Brandon, the nerdy boy, interacting with his parents are hilarious. The physical comedy of the Thermians is a treat--don't you just love that walk? What is surprising is that the plot also, at the climax, moves us. There's a moral center to this tale, and GQ succeeds in being a film for the whole family that will not bore the adults one bit or leave them ruing that they let their children watch it. I own the DVD, and I've watched it ten times--it never pales. "},{"Title":"Funny  and   heart warming","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is a funny little movie and undeniably Tim Allen's best. The casting is perfect,Alan Rickman's facial expressions are just hilarious,his performance is very sublime as always, and he made the film even greater than it is. Sigourney Weaver is just amazing in a blonde wig, we even get to hear her scream, and she doesn't encounter ALIEN. Sam Rocwell basically made me have a laugh attack whenever he said anything.Justin Long is great as the nerd who ends up saving the day.And the Thermians were pure brilliance,the way they talk and walk was just hilarious.But most importantly , the film had a heart, and that makes it one of the best sci-fi movies ever made and one of my personal favorites. This is a must see. "}{"Title":"Does 2 things perfectly","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest manages to both BE a science fiction movie, and to mock the genre (especially Star Trek) -- but to mock it more lovingly and aptly than any parody ever. These lines from the movie say it allFan But I want you to know that I'm not a complete brain case, okay? I understand completely that it's just a TV show. I know there's no beryllium sphere... Actor who plays captain Hold it. Fan no digital conveyor, no ship... Actor who plays captain Stop for a second, stop. It's all real. Fan Oh my God, I knew it. I knew it! I knew it! Til "},{"Title":"It really wasn't that bad of a film","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am glad to see that there are a lot more positive comments on this film. When I first read the reviews here, there were far less. In addition, it is somewhat rare to find any friends that have really appreciated this film. I think that this film did a great job, and in spite of it not standing out at the box office, it rivals many of the better movies in many genres -- not just comedies.One of the main things that made this movie great is that it was taken very seriously. Often the approach to comedy is an approach that has been used for years, in about everything comedic. Basically the performance is merely a platform for jokes. For small scale performances, you have a small stage & perhaps a few props. For a slightly larger scale, you might have bigger, low-budget sets. The point is usually to make the audience laugh. Hopefully, you can keep the laughs going, so the audience doesn't turn the TV off or leave the theater. On the movie scale, a humorous movie is usually written, so that all the gags that have been chosen can be showcased in the alloted time. Usually it seems, from the viewer's standpoint, that the script/story is then written after the gags are chosen. The jokes & gags are inserted at the appropriate points.The thing that separates this movie is there is actually a good story behind the whole thing. Of course, the story isn't new. Such a story has been a topic of fan-fiction for ages. A writer will often try to find a way to insert his or herself into the story somehow. It is also natural for us as human beings to identify with actors that suddenly become part of something bigger. In some ways, you can see the problem of the traditional approach to comedy. Tim Allen delivers some of his typically funny lines full of malapropisms. In some ways, it's hard to believe that a normal person would be oblivious enough to so badly misunderstand conversations. This affects believability, but it's forgivable & minor. Most movies rely on extreme humorous dialog & slapstick to entirely float the movie. Instead, Tim Allen transforms into a believable and formidable commander, that many sci-fi movies might be proud to have in charge. Even though the movie had far-fetched concepts in it, the concepts were presented in a way that it was perfectly believable -- more believable than more serious sci-fi movies.Without getting too technical & taking itself too seriously, yet still giving credit to the audience for grasping complex concepts, I think that Galaxy Quest delivers a very entertaining & well balanced movie. It was a complete and entertaining movie with a good story, and not just skits pieced together. "},{"Title":"Statreck Geek Parody","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is one of the funniest parodies on the Star Track geek community. No other movie displays just how silly the fandom community is and just how obsessed they can get. At the same time the laughs are directed at the movie making community as well, for the futuristic out of this world adventures and how silly they might look to a civilization not familiar with this aspect of our society. I mean, just how silly must the crew of the space ship feel screaming for the ZenZen cannons to fire and the giant blob of brain matter that threatens to take over the universe. The creators of Galaxy Quest caught the idea perfectly showing just how silly it look from the side of the none participants.In all the movie is a hilarious comedy full of unexpected plot twists, well unless you are very comfortable in the realm of science fiction then maybe the twists won't be so unexpected. "},{"Title":"Light Hearted and throughly enjoyable comedy","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Do you have to be a Star Trek fan to enjoy this? No, but it certainly helps. The humour of Galaxy Quest pokes affectionate fun at us Trekkie's and the subject matter, whilst at the same time paying tribute to the world of cosmic sci-fi.What really makes Galaxy Quest work is the chemistry between the actors. Tim Allen is on good form and as always Alan Rickman is superb. They are backed up nicely by Tony Shalhoub, Daryl Mitchell and Sam Rockwell, who all have their fair share of good lines. However the real shock is Weaver. Known for playing the hard-as-nails Ripley in the Alien films, her character is almost the anti-Ripley, being a blonde bimbo with a push up bra who complains about her role on the show. In many respects, her character is the funniest, and has most of the best lines. A good amount of the comedy is Trek-based, such as Guy's fear of being 'the expendable' character or the self-destruct button stopping at one. But it's also got plenty of laughs for the non-trek fan, and it's doubtful you'll keep a straight face for too long.Ultimately this film is enjoyable and provides a good laugh. The story bounces along at a good pace and it's serious when it needs to be. This film isn't a masterpiece, but it is an entertaining and enjoyable one. "},{"Title":"Great movie...","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is one of those movies that hits every note perfectly. The tone is consistently irreverent throughout, every performance is flawless, the writing is impeccable, and each plot twist keeps you riveted. The comedy is great, but the funniest moments are subtle (like Sam Rockwell's one liners). The most surprising thing about GQ is it's charm. I really have no idea why this film didn't do well in its theatrical release (maybe it was the marketing...I do remember Dreamworks trying to position it as a family film and not embracing its SciFi roots) but it deserves, and seems to be getting, a strong life on video. I highly recommend this film if you're a fan of the Men in Black films...or if you're just looking for a fun ride that leaves you appreciating the art of good storytelling. "},{"Title":"A biting satire and a touching tribute","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a self-confessed Trekker, I was really looking forward to seeing Galaxy Quest. I loved the idea of a group of has-beens famous only for a cancelled SF show to suddenly be thrust into a real space adventure. But I didn't know at the time Galaxy Quest was also a commentary on the whole concept of fandom, and what these people are like, and I was thrilled to discover it gets everything right, as well as delivers a fantastic intergalactic odyssey.GQ is a real underrated gem. It should have been, and deserved to be more popular at the box office. There is a sly level of satire and intelligence at work here that reminded me of This Is Spinal Tap. But the subject here is SF fans, or to be more precise, Star Trek fans.Galaxy Quest is not Star Trek, but in every respect it might as well be. The targets it chooses to parody are spot on, and almost unnerving in its accuracy. It was a show that ran for four years, about the crew of the NSEA Protector. Commander Peter Quincy Taggart, aka Jason Nesmith (the underrated Tim Allen), the ship's science officer Dr Lazarus, aka Alexander Dane (a marvellously funny Alan Rickman), and Lt Tawny Madison, aka Gwen DeMarco (a blonde Sigourney Weaver).When the show was eventually cancelled, the cast found themselves typecast in their roles. And now they scrape a living making appearances at conventions for the adoring fans who still hold a candle for the show.It's details like this where the satire really works. Tim Allen does a marvellous send-up of William Shatner. Hogging the spotlight, making grandiose speeches that don't mean a damn thing, and tearing his uniform every chance he gets. Alan Rickman is obviously channelling Leonard Nimoy into his performance. He can't escape from the character of Dr Lazarus who has stalled his career, forced to parrot stock lines just to appease the fans. GQ also captures the animosity between Nesmith and Dane which so obviously mirrors the same thing between Shatner and Nimoy on-set.Sigourney Weaver is the unfortunate to be cast as the dumb blonde. Lt Madison hasn't got much of a job, rather than just repeat things that the ship's computer says. But it's her one job. And she's proud of it dammit! She is also poured into a very form-fitting uniform, that proudly shows off her ample cleavage. Seven of Nine by way of Marina Sirtis. Weaver does a complete about face from her most famous role as Ellen Ripley. She also looks great as a blonde by the way.The GQ conventions are also very accurate the way they portray the fans. These are people who take the show very seriously, some who even have trouble distinguishing the fiction from the fact. They dress up as the characters, they have episodes memorised, they have all the technical details at home, etc. But it also demonstrates some respect for the fans. When we see some of them, I was expecting them to be portrayed as nerds with thick glasses, but actually they're just normal people. A little socially inept perhaps and they take their adoration a little too far, but they are real people. Galaxy Quest is a film that's very well informed.The cast find themselves blasted right out of the stratosphere into an adventure when an alien race, the Thermians, mistake Galaxy Quest for reality. They have modelled their entire society on it, and in true fandom fashion, they are completely naive and unquestioning in the presence of their idols.The dictator Sarris (Robin Sachs) is exterminating the Thermians, and they have turned in desperation to the cast as the saviours of their race. The Thermians are hilarious. With funny walks, monotone voices and plastered on grins, they're the ultimate fanboy convention.One of the greatest surprises is how good the special effects are. The actual Protector, built by the Thermians, is a sleek spectacle. There are some astonishing sights such as a full on view of the galaxy as a blanket of stars, and Sarris's people has some impressive make-up work too. The point here of course is that since they're supposed to be real, and not cheap, fake sets and rubber aliens, they have to look real. Something GQ delivers in spades.There are also tons of in-jokes for hardened Trekkers. References from various episodes that cover all the Star Trek series. And there are many witty observations too. Such as the cast-member who was killed in one episode (what they call in Trek a Red-Shirt), whose only purpose is to die, making him the most expendable person. Or when Weaver wonders why there is a dangerous chopping device on the way to the engine core. No reason really. It just looks good. And it was a badly written episode!Galaxy Quest succeeds both as a knowing commentary on the Star Trek phenomenon, and as an engaging space adventure. There are some very touching moments too. It's a truly poignant scene when Nesmith has to explain to the Thermians they're only actors, and everything they've believed is a lie. Or the look of contentment on a Thermian's face when Dr Lazarus blesses him before he dies.I also like the final scenes when they crash land at a convention, appear one by one from their ship and dispatch Sarris. Which the fans interpret as part of the show. As well as the help they get in beating Sarris with the aid of GQ acolytes. Something that is interrupted when one fan's mother forces him to take the rubbish out.Galaxy Quest is a fine homage to Star Trek, amusingly played by the cast, as well as astutely observed.Take us out! "},{"Title":"An outstanding, very funny sci-fi romp that takes you on a journey","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I give Galaxy Quest a 10, but not because it's perfect. This movie aims for success on so many levels that if it was perfect it would deserve at least a 12. As it stands, it will likely find a place in movie history as one of the great comedies, one of the great sci-fi movies, and probably the greatest sci-fi spoof. (Not to mention possibly the best thing Tim Allen has done with his talent so far!) The more levels you can appreciate the movie on, the more rewarded you will be as a viewer.You don't need to be into sci-fi...as long as you can live with it, imagination-wise, there will be plenty of humor for you. Every main character is funny, and so much of the humor is universal--based on tensions between characters, or the fish-out-of-water premise, or the naivete of the Thermians--that any comedy lover should enjoy this movie. And with outstanding performances by terrific actors in what amounts to about 10 main characters (once you include the nearly-perfect Thermian leads, and Brandon) there is plenty of humor for anyone who likes to laugh.If you *are* into sci-fi, you will be served up delights in layer upon layer. It doesn't just spoof Star Trek...it produces a fantastic ricocheting of spoofiness and loving, laughing tribute. With the original Galaxy Quest show being the Star Trek spoof, the lives of its stars 18 years later is a spoof in itself, as they re-live their sci-fi personas on stage at conventions and at opening ceremonies for high-tech stores. (By Grabthar's Hammer...what a savings.) Meanwhile, the world of the Thermians is yet another spoof of the original spoof--a real-world, functional version of the show's fictional environment. (A great laugh on that level comes when Daryl Mitchell's Laredo sees his control board on the real version of the Protector. Look -- this thingie!) And before you know it, the movie's plot has become yet another spoof--and by this time it's a spoof of both Star Trek and Galaxy Quest at the same time. And the actors whose lives had become spoofs of the fictional show which is a spoof of our real show start end up living out dramas that appear to be pulled straight from episodes of their old show (which seem heavily inspired by classic Star Trek episode models). (A great laugh on this level is when Sam Rockwell's crewman #6 Guy starts freaking out when he realizes they are living out the episode where his expendable character died.) Then, once this movie has wrapped itself around itself like a hilarious, inventive rope, it takes a deep breath and a giant bounce, grabs its own tail, and attempts to bring the whole package home in a super-satisfying ending sequence that works on every level. Which it does.And before you come away from this review thinking that with all that spoofing, the movie must be farcically ridiculous...well, that's the truly amazing part. With all the layers of absurdity that make up the movie, it's remarkably realistic (considering the premise) and heartwarming.This is not Spaceballs- or Scary Movie-style spoofery. This is some sort of amazing magic spoofery which manages to interlace itself seamlessly into a real story about characters we care about. It spoofs the Star Trek body of work while simultaneously matching or exceeding the best of it. It mocks the wholesomeness and false camaraderie while also embracing it. It takes utterly cynical characters and brings them on a transformative voyage that is as preposterous as it is hilarious as it is real and rewarding.At the same time, you could scrape all that out of the way and just watch this movie for the funny moments, and you'd still have something that's more satisfying than 9 out of 10 comedies.Let's get out of here before one of those things kills Guy! "},{"Title":"a great surprise","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wasn't expecting much from the previews I had seen, but was greatly surprised at how much I loved... yes... LOVED this movie. An all star cast did a fantastic comedic job. This movie made me a Tim Allen fan (which wasn't before). He actually brought depth and heart to his character that evoked emotions within me. I highly recommend this underrated movie. I didn't see it in theaters because the preview and poster didn't appeal to me... Grave marketing error. I feel that this movie would have killed if it had been marketed better. I actually own this movie (one the few I own) and watch it now and again for a good laugh. Sam Rockwell is hilarious. "},{"Title":"Good alien movie about saving the universe","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" GALAXY QUEST, in my opinion, is a good alien movie about saving the universe. I thought that Jason (Tim Allen), Gwen (Sigourney Weaver), Alexander (Alan Rickman), Tommy (Daryl Mitchell), and Fred (Tony Shalhoub) made a good team when they were trying to save the universe. If you ask me, they were really brave to battle aliens after their show was canceled. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was ideally cast, the direction was flawless, the costumes were elegant, the production design was spectacular, and the performances were top-grade. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this alien movie about saving the universe. I guarantee you you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"This was like a religious experience","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" While watching this movie I was vaguely aware that this was only an OK/kinda good movie, rating around 6 or 7 stars maybe, but it was only a vague feeling and I didn't care as I was enthralled. For me, watching this move was like a religious experience. I'm a Star Trek fan.In Galaxy Quest, aliens who've monitored transmissions from earth, have seen the 'Galaxy Quest' TV show and believe it to be a reality show. Facing alien invasion, they construct a duplicate of the Starship 'NSEA Protector' and visit Earth in order to have the Galaxy Quest crew man the ship and save them.Needing help figuring out how to run the Protector, the actor who plays 'Captain Taggart' (Tim Allen) visits a Galaxy Quest fan convention and asks a young fan for help, I need the schematics on the engine compartment he asks. The young fan says, It's real!, I knew it! Any of your friends into Farscape? This is a nice movie for any X-Files, StarGate, Sliders, but especially for any Star Trek fan. This movie was really fun for me to watch. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. "}{"Title":"Hilariously accurate.","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" First, to really understand this movie, you must think of Star Trek and it's followers. Galaxy Quest does not make fun of them, instead it kinda shows them what everybody else sees.Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman and Tony Shalhoub all shine, but the one who shines the brightest is Sam Rockwell as Guy Fleegman. His role as crewman #6 who was killed before the first commercial break of episode 81 in 1982 is wonderful. His timing is great and his one-liners are hilarious! The special effects are great and the action is there but never too heavy, it allows room for the characters. Everyone plays their part well. Alan Rickman has great moments as the frustrated Shakespearian actor who lost his way in Sci-Fi television. Simply a wonderful movie in every way. "},{"Title":"A Masterful Star Trek Parody","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just as Austin Powers is considered by many to be the definitive James Bond spoof, Galaxy Quest---a far superior film---is the greatest spoof of Star Trek yet filmed. The barbs against the Trekkies and Trek conventions are dead-on, but the film never gets mean or cruel, and actually seems to have a great deal of respect for the franchise it is spoofing. I don't usually like Tim Allen, considering him a corny guy and a Disney-minted by-the-numbers goof-ball, but he is excellent as the brash and arrogant Nesbit, AKA Commander Taggert. Sigourney Weaver plays it goofy and sexy as Nesbit blonde eye-candy costar. It's amazing that Weaver can do comedy as well as she does action movies, and she is still beautiful at nearly fifty years of age.The parody shifts into a sci-fi action/comedy, which is masterful written and played out by the actors. This is one of the few intelligent and very funny comedies produced in the last ten years. The actors took their comical roles seriously. The makeup effects are pretty good, too, especially for the pasty Thermians and the evil Sarris. The balance of comedy and action is well done, with the comedy veering into preachy messages or sappy side-stories. Please rent or buy this marvelous gem of a film. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest spoofs ever","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you want a movie to make you laugh so hard you cry, then watch Galaxy Quest. It pokes fun of Star Trek fans without being mean-spirited. Even though you don't need to have been to a sci-fi convention to enjoy it, although if you have, you will enjoy it in a whole new way.This ensemble cast is excellent. They each play their parts to the hilt, and yet, make them believable. The plot manages to be original, but keeping with standard sci-fi genre fare. The special effects are good, and the music is exceptional.A great movie! "},{"Title":"See it, you will be surprised","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the quintessential sci-fi spoofs, taking shots at Startrek from every angle, not to mention the entire spectrum of B-grade science fiction classics.A well balanced and talented cast makes this a movie one that sets the bar for its rather selective and unusual genre. It is entertaining to imagine similar personality conflicts among other more well known casts of television science fiction shows, and so we see the over-blown bitter bite used to comic effect. The casting of Alan Rickman was inspired for his portrayal of the vain (but I need the money) method actor is perfect.It's merit as spoof comedy aside, Galaxy Quest has a thoughtful and funny (in its own right) story with plenty of action and adventure, it is well paced and carries its audience through the twists and turns of its simple but very well executed story.GQ is a whole lot of fun that I find myself watching far more often that I would ever have expected. Certainly one to take the time to enjoy! "},{"Title":"Those Poor Trekkies","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Do we really need to dump on the Trekkies any more?Well...OK,yes we do...they ask for it by insisting on living in a constructed reality one based on TV notions, not cinematic ones.The best early Trek movies scored because of the clever self-reference, of evolved movie notions defeating TV ones. Here the 'movie' defeats the TV drek, and we're along for the ride.Note the construction and deconstruction of 'episodes' (the TV-based Trek). Nestled in this are movie borrowings, most obviously the problems with warp drive from ST The Motion Picture. Less obvious is a resurrection of a ST V The Final Frontier idea; the subplot of battling rock giants was cut at that time because of budgetary concerns. Here, they turn a rock giant loose.The Thermites (Trek convention-goers) are blissfully unaware of all this (movie notions). After all, the ST 'enterprise' has been whittled down to hard core fans those who can live their constructed reality at home, without the risk involved in socialization -- going to the movies! "},{"Title":"Works on so many levels","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a great story in and of itself. Aliens mistake a corny 70's sci-fi TV series (Galaxy Quest) for historical documents, and call on the show's cast to save them from an evil interplanetary warlord, believing the actors to actually be the larger than life characters they played. It's a great parody, of Star Trek, sci-fi TV and movies in general, as well as the whole fandom scene. It's spot on without being obvious, crass, or mean spirited. It's a very funny comedy. It's a solid adventure film. It's a very good sci-fi film, with state of the art special effects. The acting is fantastic, and there is wonderful attention to detail in the direction, backgrounds, and plot elements. This is a movie you can watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Science Fiction Comedy at it's best","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is so clever and unique (apart from using the same basic story as 'The Three Amigoes') that I can't see why it's score isn't higher.It's just such a funny film, certainly one of the funniest in years, with great chemistry between a good cast that makes it fun for the whole family.What I also admire about the film is how the special effects are not as full-blown as they are in other science fiction films of recent years such as the Matrix Sequels or Star Wars prequels. In this film, they are only used when necessary and give a much more realistic effect. Plus, the makeup and costumes is brilliant. I particularly love whenever Sarris is on screen.This film is sure to please people of all ages (even if you aren't a Star Trek fan, like I'm not). "},{"Title":"On a Sunday afternoon and you fancy watching a great movie this is the one.","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you love Star Trek you will love this. The films has lots of subtle humor which any Trek fan will appreciate it and even if you are not into Star Trek there is loads here in which you will appreciate on its own merits. The story is straight forward and sometimes this is the best policy for such a film which is backed up by a great cast. Being a 'Brit' I loved Alan Rickmans spoof of Spock which was played 'dead-pan' and adds to the character superbly. The production is top notch as well, great special effects, superb sets and so on. The best thing about this movie is that when you are at a lose end on a Sunday afternoon and fancy watching a great movie this is the one purely because it is a great movie. Watch it, you will not be disappointed, I guarantee you that much. "},{"Title":"To see if there's a pub!","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just outrageous and excellent.A great sci-fi spoof with catchy one-liners, and a great cast.The soundtrack is great, and has a cheesy ring to it, but its great and catchy.When i saw it in HMV i thought erm that looks good, i'd buy it, i thought i wasn't going to enjoy it, but i did, It had me in stitches, and i could watch it over and over.There are many funny scenes in Galaxy Quest.1st Scene  Is where the aliens in human form come to the commanders house to pick him up in his limo and they are knocking on his window and he answers the door just wearing a shirt and the aliens turn there heads to figure out what it is hanging between his legs.2nd Scene  Where they are all on the ship and the commander orders Lucio to take the ship out and its go's out the air lock and it starts to scratch the side of the ship and the noise irritates them and they are tilting there heads.Final scene i like is where they are on the planet looking for a dilithium sphere and see the cute little aliens that look like children, and when they see the injured one and the others go to help it, the crew think awwww, until they eat him and rip him to shreds.The kid in the film who helps the commander out with the schematics etc is also in jeepers creepers. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi cheese at its best","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you are a fan of the original Star Trek, Battlestar Galactica,or any other cheesy sci-fi series, you must see this. A terrific parody with funny characters and some great one liners. Tim all is perfect as the overblown but washed up hero. Who knew that Sigourney Weaver was so sexy? Alan Rickman is always great, but he really caught the style of an actor who knows he must have been meant for something better. Tony Shaloub had some of my favorite lines - That was a helluva thing! Sam Rockwell was perfect as the almost an actor trying to horn in on the others popularity. When he really gets in the deep though, his spinelessness shows through. The beginning of the movie had me laughing right off the bat as having attended sci-fi conventions myself. "}{"Title":"Awww , they're going to help the little hurt one......Wrong !","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the vast universe of space comedies , GalaxyQuest is a shining star , the others are mere twinkly bits by comparison.With such a stellar cast including the wonderful and delightful talents of Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman , you know you're going to rise from that armchair an hour and 42 minutes later a far happier person. Its worth half a star alone just to see Sigourney with blonde hair.The acting , special effects , costumes and sets are all very creative and top notch. All the actors get an equal share of the comedy , but it's not just the dialogue that will have you in stitches. There are some wonderful visual elements in this film that will make you laugh your pants off.GalaxyQuest will have you watching it over and over again , because a rare thing has occurred here. That magical X factor has been created , with just the right mix of actors , just the right mix of humour , and a take on something which makes you think , what if? The crew of the NSEA Protector are resigned to watching re-runs , appearing at conventions and opening the odd shopping mall or two. Suddenly whisked away to a far off galaxy by aliens who think the GalaxyQuest episodes are real , they must play their parts for more than just ratings. My favourite scene has to be the childlike alien miners , or is it minors? Although this is a space comedy , there is a touch of romance , and at the end of the film , the actors who had grown so far apart when we first see them , finally end up a lot closer.I would strongly suggest though that you get your hands on a copy of the DVD if possible. It has some very enjoyable out-takes on it , which includes Alan Rickman's specially equipped cabin on the ship. For some reason this gem of a scene was cut from the original version. "},{"Title":"Didn't  you ever watch the show?!","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film succeeds incredibly in so many ways and on so many levels and I find it to be one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.The great success and outstanding humour of this film is but principally, though not entirely, due to its parody of Star Trek and it achieves this perfectly. The result, though, is that someone should be at least somewhat familiar with Star Trek, Trekkies, etc., in order to really enjoy this movie (although I doubt that will be a problem for many viewers) and one will probably have to either love Star Trek (like I do) or hate it to receive the full benefit.There are so many scenes where the film succeeds exceptionally well at picking on Star Trek, Trekkies, the Star Trek actors, etc., that I laughed throughout most of the movie, and still do after repeated viewings. Much of the humour is found not only in the obvious, but in the details of the scenes as well, making it stronger and richer.I was not really a fan of Tim Allen before I saw this movie but I love him here. He portrays both his real character and his character's character perfectly, and the same is true of the others.Alan Rickman is outstanding as usual and I love how he is always wearing his character's costume and make-up, even in the scene at home where he seems to be getting ready to relax, and how his make-up gradually comes apart as the movie progresses. His irritation towards Allen and the whole convention thing is great, too.Sigourney Weaver is again outstanding, proving even more that she can convincingly play a wide range of very different characters.All the others playing the crew, aliens, and the Trekkie-types are also great. I particularly like Tony Shalhoub as the tech sgt. and Sam Rockwell as Guy.To top it off, the film goes beyond simple comedy and provides drama and love/romance to fully round out the film and give it greater depth and substance. "},{"Title":"The anticipation was well worth it!","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer to this movie I almost wet my pants! It just looked so funny and to have it fulfill all my preconceptions about it is a pleasant surprise in this day an age of false marketing and unwarranted hype. To tell the truth, its this fact that probably made the movie seem better to me than it actually was as it did everything I wanted it do to and nothing more. The main thing that holds this movie together is the wonderful charactures from the main cast including, Tim Allen, Signorey Weaver, Alan Rickman and Sam Rockwell who hit all the right notes with their lines, which make heavy digs at the Star Trek universe the movie is clearly parodying. The somewhat vicious alien enemy, with some fantastic make-up effects, gives the piece a bit of seriousness, but generally it is just a laugh fest from beginning to finish. If you like science fiction or comedies, this movie should be top on you list. It may not rock your world as much as it did mine, but when you look back on it, you will find it hard to criticize to badly.  "},{"Title":"Great for a light hearted laugh","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An excellent tribute to science fiction fans &#150; especially B-flicks of the 60's and 70's (yes, The Original Star Trek included kids so don't get offended&#133;) this movie offers a good plot, excellent character building and of course Sigourney Weaver in a revealing crew uniform.Seemingly based on Star Trek `reunions' the cast of a cancelled 70's Sci-fi show are reunited again however, all the troops are not happy about it. The leader &#150; Commander Taggart has broken the cast `reunion rules' by sneaking off behind their backs to do private reunion shows without the other cast members. Taggart is very self-centered on his wavering success and doesn't seem to care about anything outside his realm of life &#150; that is, until aliens &#150; REAL aliens, come to him for help in a crisis situation on their planet. The cast, thinking this is `just another gig' decides to join Taggart and a real space journey starts. All of the characters in this movie seem to grow from their small self centered personae into caring individuals, having learned from the journey they have taken up.I am a major Star Trek fan and found the many seemingly background references to the franchise, respectful and funny. So many cast outlines are composites of Star Trek original series cast members and a smattering of other franchises &#150; even though the movie is missing a `Robbie the Robot' but not to worry &#150; that is covered by Sigourney Weavers character who `really doesn't do anything on the starship'. Well, kids &#150; she lets us know exactly what she does so step back and recognize!!You'll get a lighthearted laugh out of this film. Check it out and enjoy it like so many other have.  "},{"Title":"A must see film for anyone who enjoyed Star Trek","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film succeeds brilliantly in recreating the off screen legendary tensions amongst the cast of the star trek series.In particular Tim Allen & Alan Rickman surpass themselves as counterparts to Kirk & Spock in the original series that the fictional galaxy quest parodies. Fan signings & the trekie culture are all targeted for humor. Sigourney Weaver as a blond counterpart to Ohura in the original is also very effective & provides a very welcome working thread through the movie in her hate\admire relationship with the captainIf you have enjoyed the original series you simply can't miss this.Keith  "},{"Title":"warmer & funnier than the usual sci-fi","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not just another been done sci-fi flick, I wish they'd muted or left out the crude/base/adult humor so I could have bought this for kids too.I found it not only mind-bending as you expect sci-fi to be, but also funny.And with heart-warming themes of innocence, kindness, friendship, loyalty, courage, daring, overcoming, and the value of different creations, from whites to blacks, young to old, and earthlings to other-worldlings. Movies should leave us better than before--amused, or thought-provoking, or inspiring and more hopeful, more inclined to reach out connect with our fellow humans & maximize our relatively-short earth lives.The fabulous Sigourney Weaver in Aliens II is one of my favorites, and it was fun to see her here spoofing her intense performances in other sci-fi flicks. I never saw Tim Allen in anything besides Home Improvement before, he was well cast. Alan Rickman always seems like he's going to busy out of his cynical bad guy and turn out to be as sensitive as he appears intelligent. Boy was I rooting for the fervently faithful trekkie kid surprise, and for the real stars of this Galaxy Quest movie--the lovable unknowns playing the aliens, whom I liked so well I wanted to put 'em in my pocket & take 'em home. Casting agents--did you discover that adorable little black-haired girl??? She could have a future in movies. )Hmmm, maybe there'll be a sequel. It sure felt good to have the standard raised back up to idealism and gentle humor, an interesting mix with action & adventure. I agree with Siskel & Eibert on this one.  "},{"Title":"perfect... if you're bored","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't want to go to this movie when it was first out. I didn't expect a good movie. And later I forgot about it. Somehow I found a copy of this movie last week and watched it today becasue I didn't had anything else to do. Well I was really bored and it really entertained me. The jokes are entertaining. I laughed for 5 minutes to the countdown scene. And the speaking of Termites are very funny. Visual effects are quite well. Honestly effects are better than I have expected. I say you, if you don't have anything to do and looking for an easy film to watch and laugh, don't miss this one. It will worth the time you spend. "},{"Title":"Great Satire, Great Fun","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the rare film that brings together a great ensemble cast (Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Allen Rickman, Sam Rockwell, Tony Shalhoub, etc.) and elicits excellent performances from everyone of particular note are Rockwell (who has since become a much more expensive casting choice), and Shalhoub (who, through the excellent series Monk, has earned some much-deserved recognition). Rockwell plays the doomed other guy--the Ensign Jones character from Star Trek--and delivers one of the funniest lines in recent memory, Did any of you even WATCH the show?Galaxy Quest is a keen parody of science fiction in general, and of Star Trek in particular, and it pulls off the impressive feat of poking fun at the genre without ridiculing or belittling it. It is, in an oft-used phrase, an affectionate spoof, and a great one at that. Galaxy Quest is intelligent, funny and touching without being maudlin, and it manages to accomplish all of this without a hint of crudity. Comedies of this quality are rare, so ENJOY.(By the way, the bizaare, mushroom-like rock formations on the gremlin-infested planet are real--they are found in the appropriately-named Goblin Valley, Utah.) "},{"Title":"I didn't know at first if to cry or laugh, but I ended up laughing","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am one of those people who follow every Star Trek series... I even put my real Klingon suite on before engaging this evil movie. Being that hardcore about Star Trek I didn't know if to not even touch this movie... because it had the potential to hurt my feelings bad and destroy my illusions about Star Trek being real and the government denying all knowledge about that!! So to make a movie that makes fun of Star Trek was basically blasphemy and I immediately wrote a letter to Captain Jainway... oh Christ! I blew my cover! I don't even know if I spelt her name right! (Btw. I didn't mean to step on anyone's toes. Any person or persons depicted above, either living or dead... something something and any resemblance is coincidental anyway!)Well ok. I just watched the movie without any expectations to be honest and didn't really know what to expect, so I was really rather expectationless, to be totally clear about what I expected from it! But just some minute into the movie my face became wider and wider for some reason and suddenly there were strange alien gurgly noises emitted from my throat as I spat out in laughter!The movie makes fun of a lot of Star Trek and other sci-fi clichés that even real hardcore Trekers must admit are there! But it does so in a rather neutral way, it is not pushing the big momma in the dirt, but is just exploiting things that are obviously there in the original anyway!The humour, eventho it was at times a bit far between, was really... well... funny! I mean, the jokes were in a way rather unexpected ones, so they had a great effect on my viewing pleasure.A really sweet and funny movie for everybody... even for Klingons dressed like humans...errmm?7/10  "},{"Title":"What can I say? I'm impressed!","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first heard about it, I thought it was going to be the most stupid sci fi spoof ever! I finally watched it yesterday and it changed my mind completely. When I wasnt laughing, I definetly had a smile on my face. It's still a bit stupid but its a nice stupid, like its supposed to make you smile, not stupid stupid when all you can think is Why am I wasting my time with this rubbish?Tim Allen is brilliant as the idiotic captain and Signouary Weaver kicks as the lovable blonde with the huge you-know what! But for me its Alan Rickman who steals the show as the dry actor who is jealous of the attention that the main star recieved. Once again, Rickman doesnt even have to say a word to make the audience laugh. Like in PRINCE OF THEIEVES, he just had to look funny and you'll laughing!!!Word of warning Don't even try to take this film seriously. You wont enjoy it.  "}{"Title":"excellent parody","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this in a sneak preview for the first time and thought it was one of the best, funniest and most entertaining movies of the year. The humor is (almost) never flat or stupid but often very ironic, as it has to be in this kind of parody.I won´t repeat the whole story again, but the idea of confronting an aging crew of a scifi-show with all the alien-stuff in REAL life is as simple as effective. One wonders why it´s never been done before.The special effects are also state-of-the-art and some of the most convincing I ever saw in a scifi-movie.The cast is great, lots of fantastic actors having fun to fill their very own part in the crew - with all the necessary cliches...All in all a movie that is a MUST see for every fan of scifi/star trek/parody/action/humor...9/10 "},{"Title":"A feel good movie...","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whenever I've had a tough day at the office, or just need a laugh, there are few movies in my extensive collection that bring a smile to my lips and a chuckle to my heart.  Galaxy Quest is one of those movies.  It's intelligent writing, wonderful acting and almost perfect comedic timing is pure fun. It's a wonderful ensemble piece with the likes of Tim Allen, Sigouney Weaver, Alan Rickman, and of course... TONY SHALOUB of MONK fame.  Watching the Cast alone is worth the price of the rental.. or better still the purchase of this laugh a minute feast for the soul.   "},{"Title":"Life Imitates Art Imitating Life","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A great Sci-Fi show is cancelled killed in its prime but kept going by loyal fans still living and reliving the show in re-runs and conventions.  An Alien race mistakenly considers signals carrying the wild exploits of this sci-fi show to be historical documentation seeks help with their galatic issues.Well they get the help alrighty just not in the way they expect.  These mothballed morribound actors cruising the re-run convention circuit now confortable sort of opening big box computer super stores to hordes of frantic nerds, geek's and geekette's are called into action.  The alien culture creates a working model of the once fictional star ship accurate to the historical documents down to the last detail.The crew of the TV starship is hi-jacked ahh Recruited to reprize their fictional roles now in the real star ship against real aliens and issues. Well here is the time old has been stars do whats right for the galaxy learn a few valuable insights about themselves and have fun poking fun at old skool sci-fi TV shows all at the same time.The ribbing of other old sci fi shows is constant.  The pace is kind of slow in places. The movie over all is well done with sort of convincing special effects.  If you are sitting someone with an hour or so to waste this is a good way to do so.  This movie is what I call a break even deal it does not promise much but neither does it ask for much.  Just let your tongue hang out power up the star drive engines and take a ride to silly land. "},{"Title":"A really fun film with lots of SF and Star Trek references","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you've seen Star Trek, you'll get the joke.  If you know about Cons and Trekkies you'll recognise more, but you don't need to be one.If not, it's still an entertaining adventure fantasy.Sigourney Weaver as Gwen DeMarco is lively and much more gorgeous than Ripley ever was, although at one point her costume is accidentally ripped. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this is one of the most underrated films of the last few years. It is a sendup of the Star Trek culture, but is quite sympathetic in its approach. Twenty years after the Galaxy Quest science fiction programme was scrapped the actors still live off the programme by way of guest appearances. They are rather frustrated by their dwindling popularity, irritating catchphrases and lack of opportunity to get other roles due to typecasting. Real aliens mistake the programme for a documentary and employ the team who are expecting another appearance at a convention. In real life the actors take on their screen personas and fight Sarris. The main leads Rickman, Allen and Weaver are all very good and you get the feeling they had a real blast making the film. Rickman probably takes the honours with Dr Lazarus who was a fine English actor before the series. Perhaps the funniest character is Guy who didn't get a surname because he was killed off so quickly in the show. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a sci-fi fan, but when I saw the trailer for this movie, I was positive it would be horrible.  I decided right then and there that I would never see it, however, the other day when I was looking for a sci-fi movie to rent that I hadn't seen, Galaxy Quest was the only candidate.  Sighing,I took it home and popped it into the DVD player.  After watching it for about five minutes, I was glued to the screen.  Not only was it sci-fi, but it was actually quite funny.  Tim Allen's character (Jason Nesmith) was a humorous ego-maniac, Sigourney Weaver's (Gwen DeMarco) was a refreshingly bright contrast to Ripley, Alan Rickman's (Alexander Dane) was hillarious, but Sam Rockwell's (Guy Fleegman), who was killed in the first five minutes of a Galaxy Quest episode and fears the same thing will happen with the real aliens, stole the show.  There's not a scene he's in that didn't have me laughing.Galaxy Quest is definitely a must-see for all sci-fi fans out there (heck, it's a must see for all non-sci-fi fans, too).  It's filled with action, adventure, and plenty of laughs.  You won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Great fun for television fans","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a strange collection of talents this film represents!  Sigourny Weaver and Tim Allen in the same movie?  And a comedy?  Great special effects and a script too.  Space Balls comes to mind by comparison, but that really wasn't all that great.  This hangs together perfectly.What we have is the cast of a since canceled science fiction series is touring and cashing in on their fandom.  They are out of work.  An oddly realistic group of well costumed fans show up at a fan convention.  Of course they are real aliens who have been viewing the history of the exploits of the TV star ship captain and crew and now enlist their aide in an intergalactic crisis. "},{"Title":"A must see for Sci-fi/Comedy fans!!!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must say I enjoyed this movie pretty much. It has a good cast although so far I didn't like Tim Allen that much. He was pretty good in this movie. I am a big fan of science fiction and comedy and I recommend this movie to anyone who is also. I rated it 7 on my scale, but you must know that I am a though judge. "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard that I cried.","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The funniest movie I've seen in years.  A parody of Star Trek, and yet original in almost every respect.  This would have been one of the best Star Trek episodes ever made, but the humor in Star Trek would have been mostly unintentional. "},{"Title":"I take it back","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, please don't read the next comment. =) I'm not sure what happened but when I saw the picture the second time, I absolutely love it. It's fun and funny. I guess the first time I was expecting something else and that trek-like scene in the beginning probably threw me off. Anyway, this is a great comedy you shouldn't miss. "}{"Title":"Sci-Fi Comedy? - that concept has never worked","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sci-Fi Comedy? - that concept has never worked, many have tried it, remember The Ice Pirates or Pluto Nash or Spaceballs - many have tried, and many have failed, but this was by far the best ever attempt at it, and the only one I actualy enjoyed. All the other attempts at making a sci-fi comedies were either too stupid to enjoy, or they were just a bunch of parody scenes that made fun of other sci-fi movies. I thought this one was really funny & Original (I'd like to see a sequel). Its a must see for anyone who likes sci-fi. because this film is funny enough to be called a comedy, and sci-fi enough to be cool.I give it 7 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"A lotta fun","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you were at all a star trek fan you have to find this one amusing. A graet send up of all the space cliches, plus an exciting and touching back-story with the aliens.  The actors seemed like they really enjoyed themselves and had great chemistry.  A fun and touching enjoyable little story "},{"Title":"Triumphant comedy","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave it a 7. Why? Because it was an entertaining movie that was funny and had enough action to keep it moving along. I'm not really a fan of StarTrek, but I don't think you have to be to enjoy this. I really loved the characterization going on with Tim Allen, Weaver, and Alan Rickman. This movie always draws me in when I see it on and there's a real note of triumph to it. A good film for the whole family.  "},{"Title":"Amazing!! Do Not Miss This Movie!!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"       I..Like many others, am a Geek/Nerd. No, I Don't like Star Trek, but I LOVE Sci-Fi Movies and Cartoons and Video Games, Etc.     Now, This movie was one of the funniest spoofs i've ever seen! Like, It has a good cast, Aliens, A Space-Ship, Freaky-Alien People trying to act like humans and walking very strangely, More Aliens, Gorignacks, Space, Goo, Humor, Action, Adventure, Comedians, TV Shows, Earth, Houses, A Pool, Grass, Metal, Air, Space-Age Guns, The Chompers, Nerds that have memorized every technical detail of the show communicationg through space aged gadgets to help the old actor/heros move around the ship to deactivate an explosion that could kill the ship and all the aliens on it, Actors with Plastic Surgery on their heads to look like an alien and have stuck with it for the rest of their lives, Kamakazie Actors Avenging dead comrades, Coca-Cola, Fire, Posters, Fireworks, Crashes into Sci-Fi Conventions, Time Travel. The Works!              It's up their with the other great spoofs Austin Powers, Naked Gun, Scary Movie!       Rating 10/10  "},{"Title":"A huge surprise -- rent it!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think Galaxy Quest was largely overlooked because of it was pigeonholed as a spoof of Star Trek (ho-hum) and because its star is a TV comic not noted for making movies with much wit or imagination.  Too bad, because Galaxy Quest is a very imaginative, very ambitious production with an ingenious story line (which works off of the Star Trek phenomenon but really has a life of its own), wonderfully comic aliens, great special effects (more than you'd expect from a spoof,) and a plot that keeps coming up with funny and exciting developments just when you think it's got to be winding down. Few movies I could recommend more highly for a good time on a Friday night. "},{"Title":"Intergalactic update of The Three Amigos (though not quite as funny)","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perfectly cast, affectionate spoof of Star Trek-type sci-fi that boasts some pretty respectable effects too. Not quite a comedy classic, but its heart's in the right place, and there are a few genuine laughs along the way.So, if it's an amiable comedy you're after, then this is for you. Trekkies will probably enjoy it even more for the multitude of sci-fi references it hurls at the viewer(I myself probably didn't even get half of them).  "},{"Title":"Yes, Michael, this movie was good!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  GALAXY QUEST is a congenial goof on Star Trek, fanatical fans and showbiz--concerns a fictional TV series, Galaxy Quest, which, though off the air for years, spawned a die-hard, costumed legion of followers known as Questarians. The stars, now mostly out of work, still pick up spare cash by signing autographs at conventions for nominal fees. Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen) played Commander Taggert, and relies almost exclusively on convention adoration to massage his sizeable ego. Blonde Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver) provided the sex appeal on the show. Her character, Tawny, recited the on-board computer information while struggling to keep her bosoms in her space suit. Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman) played the Spock-like Dr. Lazarus, part Shakespearean actor/part lizard. Fred Kwan (Tony Shaloub) was the obviously non-Asian Tech Sergeant Chen who kept the ship, the NSEA Protector, airborne. Things get complicated when some honest-to-goodness aliens show up and expect help from the Galaxy Quest crew in battling evil forces. The aliens (who have cute little pixie haircuts, jerky body movements and the ability to spout tentacles), take Earth's old TV shows and movies as historical documents, and the Galaxy Quest actors as authentic astronauts. Tim Allen makes an affable swell-head offered the opportunity to explore his own inner hero potential. According to historical documents, Ms. Weaver has ample experience kicking alien butt. She does so here with a healthy sense of humor, while making Tawny more than the predictable punchline of a blonde joke. Rickman is droll indeed as the consummate actor trapped in a role more Gila than Hamlet. The rest of the cast is right on target too, and the script, while never fall-out-of-your-seat funny, will keep a smile on your face throughout. Galaxy Quest also features creatures courtesy of Oscar-winning Stan Winston and the slickest visual effects conceivable from Industrial Light and Magic. "},{"Title":"Top-notch sci-fi spoof","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a really excellent spoof of TV sci-fi shows, with the hypothetical possibility that a group of aliens watching the television waves take a fictional show seriously. The idea has been seen before, most notably with a Canadian low-budgeter called CAPTAIN ZOOM IN OUTER SPACE and an early FUTURAMA episode. But this version shows the highest production values, the most notable cast, and a very witty script.I have to say my two favorite genres are comedy and sci-fi; and they're also the two most idea-intensive and creatively draining, so I think anyone who can put them together successfully has to be virtually a certifiable genius.The great thing about this movies is that is takes a tongue-in-cheek look at sci-fi without totally undermining it - rather like the way THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE worked.Tim Allen certainly returns to top comic form as the star of an old series who gets mistaken for a real space hero. Sigourney Weaver is quite a revelation in her flair for comedy. Enrico Colantoni and Tony Shaloub reaffirm their comic prowess, along with Alan Rickman. And Justin Long as the over-enthusiastic fan is thoroughly enjoyable, and WAY hot.The only question that really bugged me with this movie; why does Alan Rickman's actor character keep his make-up prosthetics on even when he's at home??? "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rarely am i impressed by full blown comedy movies. When this one came out on screen I didnt go to watch it at the cinema because comedy which try to make fun of other films usually turn out to be dumb and irritating. But i must say that after watching this a few times on satellite I find myself stragely attracted to this movie. Its hilarious! The situation just bring with it bags of laughter on the way! "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a Star Trek fan, I must say that this movie is very good at poking fun at the Star Trek franchise.Tim Allen is a spitting image of William Shatner playing James T Kirk of the USS Enterprise, the original series. Anyone that has seen the original series will instantly recognise their captains Duck and roll technique in this movie.All actors are doing a good job through out the movie. Especially Tony Shalhoub as the doped-up-has-been-actor. He manage to be high through the whole story. And Sigorney Weaver as the Lt Uhura copy whos job it is to repeat what the computer say.In adition to this, clever script, especially if you've seen Star Trek. Good visual effects. All in all the best comedy I've seen for a long time.Well worth a watch! "}{"Title":"A fun movie.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We all know that it is not real. However, the movie is utterly unreal, yet it is quite funny and watchable. Unlike some movies that you want it end soon, this movie is very smooth, and you will be absorbed into its fantasy.a well done movie. "},{"Title":"Funny, affectionate and uplifting","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest successfully pulls off a pretty difficult trick. It first gets laughs out of the notion of a bunch of ageing has-been actors reduced to doing the promotional rounds of fan conventions for the cancelled SF series they once starred in. Subtly, almost imperceptibly, however, it also portrays them in sufficiently sympathetic detail that, when they then find themselves in genuine jeopardy and are forced to find depths of resourcefulness they never knew they had in order to survive, we actually care deeply about the outcome.This feat requires the writing, direction and performances all to be top-notch. Fortunately, they are. There's a wonderful scene near the beginning of the film where Tim Allen, as washed-up actor Jason Nesmith, drinks himself into a stupor while watching his younger self saving the galaxy on TV. We cut between the hammy, Shatneresque heroics of Nesmith on screen, to Allen's beautifully played reaction in the here and now as he struggles to speak a few lines of dialogue in unison with his screen self before shutting his eyes in pain to block it out.Repeated viewing reveals many wonderful gags and nuances that are easily missed first time around. Just one example during the opening credits sequence where the cast are waiting backstage at a convention for Allen to show up, we see Fred Kwan (played by Tony Shalhoub) struggling unsuccessfully for several minutes to open a biscuit tin. Only later do we discover that Fred's character in the TV series is the ship's engineer.Galaxy Quest has genuinely funny dialogue, and moments of enjoyable knockabout humour, blended with warm, likable characters. It has, ironically, better visual FX than The Phantom Menace (the hilarious sequence of the ship leaving space dock only works because the effects are flawless).And it has moments of genuine poignancy. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Boldly goes, where no screenplay's gone before!","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You have got to know, when picking up this movie, that the series Star Trek was going to be lampooned. Not as much as I thought however.The movie uses the premise of what do actors of a successful axed cult series do in the twilight years to its fullest. Blending in the actual Trek convention phenomena as an eternal reminder of their obsoletism, the retired cast display their view of life with various demeanours. Only Nesmith (Tim Allen) loves the attention as any meglomaniac could.This movie had the possibility of being an absolute flop or really funny. Gladly, it made it to the latter. Not doing the usual lampooning, it used the storyline of actors who have taken their past fame just that little bit too far.Tim Allen does a usual Tim Allen job, which works quite well in this movie. It is fun watching Sigourney Weaver play the redundant computer repeating blonde instead of the usual commando style sci-fi character we have seen in Alien. The blend of characters is a delight from the English actor condemned to repeat the same horrid lines and dream of Shakespeare, to the neurotic extra that knows he is alien fodder at any time, to the engineer who seems to take every encounter as if nothing alien was happening.The one liners in this movie are great, and the simple ridiculousness of each event makes this movie one you can't help but laugh through. I think that Trek fans will appreciate the humour more, particularly if you have seen the documentary Trekkies.For a simple and frivolous laugh, this movie is a must.I never knew aliens were so polite. "},{"Title":"Most enjoyable film ever!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is without doubt one of the most enjoyable films of the last millenium. I mean how much funnier can it get. Alan Rickman is fantastic and Tim Allen and Weaver actually put in good performances. Great film, great acting and long live sci-fi spoofs "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  GQ is offered in my local video shop in the lowest rent category (for the equivalent of 0.25 USD/day in fact-). I thought this would be a cheap stupid parody. But it turned to be an excellent comedy, especially if you are a Star Trek fan, as I am. One point I appreciated was that though a parody, it is not cynical. Everybody has respect for the fans, however ridiculous, stupid, hopeless they might appear. "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like BOWFINGER, GALAXY QUEST is a refreshing change from comedy films of the late 90s, when the majority rely on gross-out situations and bathroom humor. GALAXY QUEST is a film the whole family can watch and enjoy. Kids will like the comical situations and space battles, while adults will laugh at the subtle jokes. The special effects and alien costumes are great, and the cast works well together. After several viewings, you almost start to feel a bit of nostalgia, as if the film is a big-screen adaptation of a much-loved, long-gone television series. Sigourney Weaver looks great in a blond wig, Alan Rickman is a standout as always, Tony Shalhoub and Rick Rockwell provide a lot of laughs, and Tim Allen leaves The Tool Man behind and shows some range as an actor, particularly during the scene where he tries to explain to Enrico Colantoni that he and the others aren't really space heroes. The film never really generates any big laugh-out-loud gags or jokes, but it has enough humor to keep a smile on your face as you watch an ultimately-satisfying family film that everyone can find something to like. "},{"Title":"Simply wonderful","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Occasionally one still gets surprised at finding a movie that's almost perfect in its execution, script, casting, spirit; this for me is one of them. This is clearly modeled on the Star Trek phenomenon (how did they get away with that?!) but it's a terrifically warm story about a bunch of actors who take on the roles they play in an ancient TV program. The humor is terrific; Tim Allen is terrific (and I was no big fan before) as is Alan Rickman and all the cast; the casting is just superb. In the end it doesn't deride fans of this kind of SciFi genre, it both celebrates and validates them. The special effects are just great and the pacing is wonderful; it doesn't lag for a second. There's nothing more I can say about this movie except many, many, many, many thanks to the cast/crew/producers for making it and when's the sequel?. (I lied, there is something more I will say about this; I heard nothing special about the movie when it did the rounds and I didn't catch it in the theaters so I was completely surpised that there wasn't a bigger buzz about it when I first caught it on HBO - well, that's other peoples loss!). "},{"Title":"Entertaining cross between a Lampoon and a Dedication","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the recent past, I've seen the honorable genre of comedy twisted into a despicable excuse for terrible, sex-filled sludge.  Galaxy Quest is an immense relief to that image; if only it weren't a well kept flower in a junk yard of crap.  I've seen many films I liked better, but far more I hated more.The first thing I noticed was how well Tim Allen molded himself into his role.  I like his humor, though I can appreciate the opinions of those who don't, and I thought he worked well in the film.  Sigourney Weaver, who has also been an eye-pleaser to me, performed excellently as well; I love her response to the criticism she received for doing her job.  I would like to note that I also have high opinion of all the other actors in the film, I just don't like to write long reviews.Few films I've seen in the last few years seem to use Special Effects as an excuse for not having a plot or a story.  Despite having seen several other critics on this site whine about their lack, I found the movie had a well thought out story and a sensible, believable plot.  I didn't laugh continuously, but I enjoyed the entire film. "},{"Title":"A hidden gem","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie doesn't get much press, however, there a so many subtle jokes in this movie that I always seem to find a new one each time.  The quiet one-liners, the background humor, and all the character flaws (meaning that each character probably could use some psycho therapy of some kind) make this a gem.  I was surprised to see the other places I had seen some of the actors in this cast.  For example, Dr. Lazarus was previously known for the Sheriff of Nottingham in Costner's Robin Hood.  Or Mathazar is played by the actor from Just Shoot Me (Elliott).This is a great little movie with a number of great lines worth repeating. Take the time, study it, and keep picking them out.  As I said, there always seems to be another subtlety waiting to be found. "},{"Title":"I Loved It!!!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is THE funniest Star Trek parody I have ever seen. Trekkies and non-Trekkies alike will find this movie hilarious, even though non-Trekkies may not get all of the in-jokes.I don't remember the last time I laughed so hard through an entire movie! You MUST see Galaxy Quest! "}{"Title":"Destined for cult posterity along with Rocky Horror and Buckaroo Banzai.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With tongue firmly tucked in cheek, the cast and crew of this movie set out to simultaneously lampoon and honor Star Trek and its cult following. Tim Allen, as the egotistical actor who 18 years earlier played the Starship commander, shows the perfect timing and smug but self deprecating wit that brought him fortune in TVs Home Improvement. The remainder of the crew, including Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman, are wonderfully cast as has been actors reluctantly caught up in the surreality of an intergalactic battle where the good guys have designed their technology around the original TV Series. This one only gets better with repeated viewing. Worth shelling out the 15.95 for your permanent copy. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining movie.","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie struck a very good balance between satire, comedy, and adventure. The (good)aliens were very touching, and makes one rethink about the fact that what is taken for granted to be normal behavior for one group or society, might not be so for another.Its also says a lot that you don't even have to be a sci-fi fan to enjoy this movie. This is one of the movies where it's content is so entertaining that it does not have to resort be overly violent, vulgar, etc... I put Galaxy Quest high on my list of favorite easy to watch and enjoy modern movies.  "},{"Title":"Fun for Trekkers and non-Trekkers alike.","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm an avid Star Trek fan and I haven enjoyed Home Improvement, so I was pleased to hear that Tim Allen was going to make a sci-fi parody movie. I was particularly eager to see it, because the story writer was from my native Utah, and this was his first Hollywood film. (What a way to start, with a big player like Dreamworks and with stars like Allen and Weaver!)In the movie, Galaxy Quest is a classic sci-fi TV show with a cult following, much like the original Star Trek is today. The actors make their living now by appearing at Galaxy Quest conventions, with which they are not content, but they are resigned to their fate of signing endless autographs and dealing with obsessed fans with esoteric questions about the show. The cast does not get along well with Jason Nesmith, the show's lead, who is arrogant and irresponsible, but loves his fans and receives their unwavering adoration in return.He realizes at one point, however, that his career's at a dead end and that he has alienated (no pun intended) his friends from the cast. But the next morning, some of his biggest fans lead him and his crewmates into an adventure that will turn their careers and lives around. The story of just exactly how this happens I will leave to the movie itself.Although this movie is funny for just about anybody, it's particularly hilarious for those who are familiar with the sci-fi genre and with Star Trek in particular. There are quite a few in-jokes that makes the movie especially amusing in the eyes of a Trek fan. Examples include Nesmith getting his shirt torn off in a fight on an alien planet; Weaver's character, Tawny Madison, not having anything important to do on the ship besides talk to the computer and look pretty; a cold, calculating first officer; transporters turning things inside out; fans who believe the show is real; discord among the Galaxy Quest cast; parts of the ship that serve no useful purpose except to provide danger for the episode; etc.It should be noted that the movie does poke some fun at Star Trek and its obsessive fans. Some Trek fans may not like being object of some good-natured ridicule, but the majority of fans (those who don't take themselves too seriously) will enjoy and join in on the jabs at their own sci-fi enthusiasm.The story, sound, music, special effects and humor in Galaxy Quest are all excellent. Especially interesting are some of the added features on the DVD, including scenes cut from the final version of the movie, and dubbing of the entire film in Thermian, an alien language in the movie, for that oh-so-geeky touch.If you've already seen Galaxy Quest, see it again and catch all those in-jokes you missed the first time around. If you haven't seen the movie yet, what on Thermia are you waiting for? "},{"Title":"A Gem of a Comedic Spoof","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved 'Galaxy Quest'! I usually catch up on movies at my local blood bank; I can watch a film on my own individual VCR while donating platelets, a process which takes about two hours. (I highly recommend this, BTW.) I was laughing out loud all the way through the movie - other donors and blood bank personnel were wondering what the ruckus was!The writers have perfectly captured the way people can get caught up in a movie or television story, and the juxtaposition of 'reality' with the fantasies was wonderfully done. For instance, I loved how the teenager had to take out the garbage before helping to save the universe! Not to mention, the 'aliens' were written with great wit and warmth. Hard to believe that one's heart could not be tugged when Balthazar realizes that his hero was only make-believe.Tony Shaloub was a treat, as was Alan Rickman. Tim Allen was hilarious.I have read the negative comments that some folks have posted about 'Galaxy Quest.' I think this movie is a wonderful comedy, and its humor and satire would probably be lost on anyone who isn't up on the 'in' humor of 'Star Trek' and the campiness of the 'Trekkies' who congregate regularly in memory of the show.Maybe one has to be older and weary of the reality-based cynicism of youth to appreciate witty fantasy. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just recently saw this film on HBO and I was blown away by how funny it was.  I avoided seeing it because of Tim Allen.  I always found Home Improvement to be quite annoying.  But he ended up being one of the reasons that I liked this movie so much.  He played a great Shattner-like character.  Simply, the best performance I have seen him give and to top it all off he looked great!  Did anyone else notice how buff he looked in the scene with the rock monster where his shirt comes off?  He's actually kind of hot in this movie.  Alan Rickman is absolutely fantastic as the bitter, stuffy Shakespearean actor.  I was a fan of Wings and I have a soft spot in my heart for Tony Shaloub.  He does not disappoint, he turns in a very funny, heart-felt performance.  Sigourny Weaver was better then ever and Sam Rockwell stole the show for me.  I think he is a major rising talent.  I don't think you have to be a fan of Star Trek to enjoy this movie.  I can't stand Star Trek and I thought Galaxy Quest was excellent.  Check this movie out!  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great little underrated gem","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was much better than I had anticipated.  It's about a real-life adventure by the cast of a Star Trek-type TV show.  Tim Allen plays Jason Nesmith (Commander Taggart) and gives one of the best performances of his career.  Sigorney Weaver plays busty Gwen (Lieutenant Tawny Madison) and is extraordinarily funny.  She was easily the strongest part of the movie.  Alan Rickman (Alexander Dane and Dr. Lazarus) was also quite good.  Disappointing was Tony Shalhoub (Fred Kwan and Tech Sergeant Chen), who's best-known for Antonio the cab-drive on the TV show Wings.  I couldn't tell if his character's flaws were scripted or if he just did a poor job, but he appeared to be on drugs the whole show.  It was very odd.This movie will be most enjoyed by Star Trek fans, especially those who always make fun of themselves and the trekkies.  Very well done.  Well acted.  Great script.  Everything was good.I gave it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I was amazed it was that good","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was not a Star Trek fan and may have seen only one or two episodes and just as many of the movies.  So I do not have a whole lot of nostalgia in me about any of that.  But this movie was a big surprise, as I did not feel like it spoke only to fans, but to anyone who ever liked and was attached in some way to any television show. I was also not interested in seeing this due to Tim Allen, who I also never saw on television, but he is actually perfectly cast in this movie.  He has to carry a lot of the scenes alone and does a good job.  The other actors, especially Weaver & Rickman, also get their chance to shine.  The best of all is Tony Shalhoub, in a very funny turn.  I did not expect the ending to be as touching as it is, but it capped off a pretty great movie, for me at least. "},{"Title":"So, so, so, so funny","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm very upset at not having gone to see this at the cinema - Tim Allen was my reason for holding back. I'd seen Home Improvement before and hated it but this film shows that he's really quite talented.  The script is so well observed that i'm going to have to watch it again (in a few minutes actually).  The acting is first rate - Sigourney Weaver is tremendous - proving her ability (I repeat what the computer says, it's my only job and i'm gonna do it!) in comedy. Robin Sachs as Sarris is so funny my sides ached. But, obviously, Alan Rickman stole the show (whilst complaining that Dr. Lazarus was undermined by Jason Nesbitt) - he is such a great actor and he is absolutely top notch in this film. This is a film for everybody - it can be appreciated on so man levels... but it is too short! "},{"Title":"What Now, Commander Taggart?","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**		The stars of a cult television series are recruited by real aliens to help save them, in `Galaxy Quest,' a top-notch parody from director Dean Parisot.  For four years it was a hit show, the crew of the NSEA ship `Protector' keeping the Universe safe on a weekly basis; then it was canceled.  Now, twenty years later, actor Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), better known as Commander Peter Quincy Taggart, and four other members of his `crew' are on the convention circuit.  When he is approached by a small contingent of aliens (they've taken on human form, or course) at `Quest 18,' he understandably looks upon them as just so many more obsessed fans.  The next day, however, they show up at his home; soon Jason is aboard their ship in deep space, where he discovers that their entire civilization, apparently, is based upon the `Historical documents' (weekly episodes) of `Galaxy Quest' they've intercepted over the air waves.  They also have the real technology by which they are capable of inter-galactic space travel, and have built an actual version of the `Protector.'  What they lack is leadership; a true Commander.  They simply do not possess the wherewithal to oppose the aggression of the evil Sarris (Robin Sachs) who is threatening the very existence of their race.  Jason returns to earth to gather the rest of his crew, and they're off to `negotiate' with Sarris; Jason being the only one who knows that it's all real.  The others agree to come along only because they think Jason has scored a good gig and they don't want to be left out.  After all, work is work;  you take what you can get. 	It takes a number of things to make a movie like this work, not the least of which is the right cast; and this one more than fits the bill.  Tim Allen lends just the right amount of bravura and ego to make his Jason believable, while demonstrating the restraint needed to prevent him from becoming overblown into a mere caricature.  Alan Rickman is perfect as the dour British thespian, Sir Alexander Dane, who portrayed the Spock-like Dr. Lazarus in the show, as is Sigourney Weaver (Gwen DeMarco), the actress who had little else to do on the show but look good.  Tony Shalhoub (Fred Kwan), imbues his character with a singular eccentricity which adds that `something extra' that makes him so memorable, and Daryl Mitchell (Tommy Webber) is engaging as the pilot who finally gets to do it for real (and much to his chagrin, initially).  But the versatile Sam Rockwell (Guy Fleegman) very nearly steals the show as the actor who only appeared in `Episode 81' as `Crewman #6' (and was killed off before the first commercial), and who is thrilled to finally be one of the `crew.'  At least until things start going for real much as they did in that fatal (for him) episode 81.  Rounding out the supporting cast are Patrick Breen (Quellek), Missi Pyle (Laliari), Jed Rees (Teb), Justin Long (Brandon), and Enrico Colantoni, who does an especially fine job of bringing Mathesar, the leader of the aliens, to life.   	Parisot must be given credit for not resorting to slapstick nor playing the comedy too broadly here, either of which could easily have been an option with a project like this (and would have been to the detriment of the film).  Instead he has taken an intelligent (and very funny) screenplay and made the most of it.  The timing is excellent, and the action tight.  Writers David Howard and Robert Gordon have sprinkled detailed bits throughout the film, with which Star Trek fans especially will be able to identify, and they have managed to capture the look and `feel' of the original Star Trek series, particularly in the scene which takes place on the alien planet.  `Star Trek' may have been the main course, but now `Galaxy Quest' is the delicious dessert; and, as such, it will keep you coming back for more.  This is a movie you will want to watch over and over again, without ever tiring of it.  As Commander Taggart would say, `Never give up, never surrender.'  I rate this one 9/10.                        "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable Light Fare","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out and was laughing from the beginning all the way to the end.  Tim Allen does a surprisingly good job playing the (yes) Shatneresque star of a defunct cult t.v. series.  The parodies of the Sci-Fi conventions are dead-on, as are all the cliches we have grown up with in books and movies.  My only quibble with the film was that it was too light; we really don't learn enough about the characters to care about them, and the film makes the villains so doltish our heroes really don't have to be that heroic (rather intelligent) to beat them.  I very much enjoyed the film the first time, but there is nothing in it to make me see it again. The movie is very polished and moves at a brisk pace throughout, so I am probably asking a lot - but I would have loved a little more meat and substance to the heroes, the hapless aliens, and even the villains.  However, it is still (forgive me) light years beyond most movies out there.  Seven out of ten stars.  And rememberNever Give Up!  Never Surrender!   "}{"Title":"M.A. Rogers comments","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  M.A. Rogers' comments are spot on.Everything he said is 100% right. One thing though,it seems that the writers work is a labor of love as if they were ones fans of Star-Trek and in this film they try to give their tribute and respect to that period in their live.And yes, you really don't have to be a fan of Star-Trek to enjoy the film.I went to the film with a friend who literally hate Star-Trek and he has enjoyed the film as much as I did.  "},{"Title":"Light-hearted and Totally Enjoyable","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest succeeds on all counts. It parodies Star Trek and its fans known as Trekkies. The more you understand these phenomena, the more enjoyable the film will be. It's a light-hearted, almost sweet send-up of Star Trek that hits all the right notes, especially the casting and the acting. They're spot on. I recommend this highly when in the mood for something light. "},{"Title":"Infectious","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie!I guess as a closet Trekker (what right-minded Star Trek fan would call themself a Trekkie?), there were a great number of inside jokes that maybe a lot of the negative reviewers missed.  This is a comedy first, action movie second.  If you go in thinking the reverse, you'll be disappointed.One thing I would like to mention is that this story is not quite original. In one of the Star Trek short story collections, there is one story that has the Star Trek cast changing places with their REAL counterparts.  While it isn't really a comedy, the plot point is very similar.The only thing that really bothered me about the movie is Tony Shalhoub's character.  His behavior is never really explained.  In the movie, he's either not really bright, a stoner, or mentally unstable, but we never know why he acts the way he does. Still, he has some of the best lines in the movie, but you can't help but wonder if his character was a bit better developed if his lines would have had an even funnier impact.There are some movies that I just love, although I know I shouldn't. Major League is one of those movies.  This is another.  I can't decide why, but I think it is just that all the actors look like they are having the best time of their lives.  It's infectious.  "},{"Title":"Adorable","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Little known science fact  when you brodcast a television show, it still beams out into space until it's intercepted by an antenna.  The theory goes that, if there are aliens and they have built some kind of antennae, they may know about Earth culture via old television shows.  Joe Dante had fun with this idea in his wierd movie Explorers (where the young River Pheonix is contacted by a pair of space muppets) and now we have Galaxy Quest, in which we learn what aliens might think of Battlestar Galactica.  Other than that, I won't give away what happens in the movie.  Just don't watch it if you're afraid of killer Teletubbies!  EEK! "},{"Title":"To affinity, and beyond&#133;.","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My affection for sci-fi has never been even lukewarm fanatical. I enjoyed Star Trek TOS, but was never close to being a Trekkie. I certainly loved the spoofs in Galaxy Quest of Star Trek as well as other films (such as the scene of the hung-over mucous-covered Tim Allen, flying  through space a lá Buzz Lightyear in the opening of Toy Story 2). But `Galaxy Quest' worked for me on all levels, in fact, it was (IMHO) a better movie than many of the Sci-Fi movies it was parodying, certainly better than the odd-numbered Star Trek movies.  I don't know why people try to find deep meanings, or intriguing plots in every movie they see. Sure, `Galaxy Quest' has some plot holes, but what Sci-fi movie doesn't? Even Star Trek&#133;I remember as a kid, having some grasp of physics, knowing what kind of explosive energy release an anti-matter/matter bomb would have, chuckled at how a photon torpedo explosion only caused a few sparks on a ship's computers...  Some movies are simply made to be enjoyed, to watch with a bag of popcorn and a big, goofy grin on your face. `Galaxy Quest' is one of these films. "},{"Title":"This film has it all!","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't say enough about Galaxy Quest.  It is truly the perfect Sci-Fi spoof.  From the subtle humor and little jabs, to the all out, in your face comedy. It's all done so beautifully it's almost scary.  I can watch this movie over and over and never get tired of it. Maybe I need to get a life or something, but I'll be quoting lines from this movie for years.  This film will remain a cult classic for years and years, while films like American Beauty will gradually become obscure memories of film genre.  The obvious parallels to the original Star Trek are handled with such fun, I envy the creativity and wry humor of the writers on this one.  Hey, we need a Berilium Sphere, and there happens to be one on a nearbye planet and we can get there if we reconfigure the solar matrix in parallel for endothermic propulsion.....We'll do that!!!  And how about the chompers....priceless!!!   And check out Sigourney Weever's reaction to see what they overdubbed.  Her reaction to the chompers is not exactly, Screw that!!!.  Watch that part again, and you don't have to be a lip reader to see what she was actually saying.  It's hilarious.  They could have actually done away with phrases like, Screw that, and, There is no Goddamn ship, and not have lost a single bit of the family quality which makes this movie truly great.  I can't think of a better family movie aside from Toy Story 2 for best family films of 1999.  One could go on quoting all the best lines from Galaxy Quest and still not scratch the surface of what makes this film truly amazing.  Add this movie to my all time top 20 list.  One of the few I can watch along side my 9 year old son, and share a laugh.  That's what it's all about, right? "},{"Title":"A very pleasant surprise","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't let the fact that Tim Allen is the star, or what you may have already heard about this movie keep you from watching.  It is actually quite funny and well done.  I've never been much of a Tim Allen fan on the big screen, but he is not the reason to watch (or avoid) this film (although he does a good job).  The reason to watch this is the the story's premise and supporting cast.The premise of the movie is inspired.  Aliens intercept the TV signals of a Star Trek-like TV show that is no longer on the air, but still has a cult following that provides the cast with steady, if not completely dignified, source of income at conventions and opening shopping malls.  The aliens interpret the TV shows as historical documents and believe everything they see is true.  When the aliens are faced with a threat to their race, they turn to the Galaxy Quest cast for help.The supporting cast is an ensemble of mostly-familiar players, well-suited to their characters.  An almost unrecognizable Enrico Colantoni (Just Shoot Me) plays Mathesar, the reluctant alien leader.  His vocal inflections and pitch changes are hilarious.  Alan Rickman (Die Hard) as Dr. Lazarus is great as a cynical, disillusioned stage actor who must stoop to a lowly TV role and can't seem to escape it.  His dignity (along with his make up) disintegrating along the way.  Tony Shalhoub (Stark Raving Mad, Wings) plays an ersatz Scotty, engineer-type (an actor named Kwan playing a character named Chen???), whose matter-of-fact reports to Capt. Taggart provide some great laughs.  Sigourney Weaver (who apparently/obviously submitted to some cosmetic surgery) is the token sex-object, Tawny Madison, whose only purpose on the Galaxy Quest crew is to repeat queries from Capt. Taggart to the ship's computer.  There are many parodies on the Star Trek, sci-fi TV series genre that many people will find amusing.The bottom line is if I had been better informed, I would have payed full price to see this in the theater.  This is must rent and something I plan on watching again. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi comedy puts a feel-good smile on your face. Engage!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is the sort of movie that puts a smile on your face right from the opening scenes and keeps it there throughout the film.  It may be because I am a bit of Star Trek fan and have been to one (just one) convention that this film uses as a starting point.  The film-makers have managed to capture the spirit of the Trek religion, combining elements of parody and homage, all packaged into a story that would satisfy most fans of the multiple incarnations of the TV show.  If you're not a fan of Star Trek, don't let this put you off for a minute.  You will still get a brilliantly entertaining film, just without the multiple in-jokes scattered throughout. If you are at all familiar with Star Trek I don't need to recommend this film because you have probably already seen it.Galaxy Quest is one of those films that provides so many wonderful talk-about-after-the-movie scenes that you keep interrupting one recount because you are in danger of forgetting another.  Like all good Star Trek episodes, the greatest force in the film is derived not from special effects and blasting lasers (although these are top-notch), but from the characters. All of the actors make excellent contributions, especially Sam Rockwell as the hapless extra.  He manages to steal a large number of the movie's comic scenes.  (He reminds me a lot of Bill Paxton's nervous and jumpy character in Aliens)  Alan Rickman, as always, combines pompous humour with dramatic depth.  His scene with a diehard alien fan near the end of the movie was surprisingly moving.Overlook the major plotholes (such as, why did the aliens think that they had to make a spaceship when they believed everything in the show was real! The actors would already have a ship!)  Getting caught up with the details of this movie is to become the butt of the movie's major joke.  It is just a movie, but much more.I rarely see a movie twice and enjoy it equally both times.  Galaxy Quest is such a movie.  Never give up!  Never surrender! "},{"Title":"Great Spoof of Star Trek, more accurately, Star Trek's cast","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest spoofs Star Trek, Trekkies, and aging stars who are type cast by their roles 20 of years past.  It also poses the question  What if extraterrestrials viewed classic commercial television programs as factual?Alan Rickman is terrific as the stuffy, shakesperian actor who ended up being type cast as Dr. Lazarus forever.  Signourey Weaver plays the blonde space bimbo character, although I did not recognize her, even though I knew she was in the movie.I wasn't a Tim Allen fan, but this movie sure made me one.  Tim is great in his portrayal of the self-absorbed, ego-centric Captain Taggart.  His character changes are amazing.  He is a hero, a cynic, and a coward all within the confines of one film. To explain this would probably constitute a spoiler.Robin Sachs is cast as Sarris, a somewhat funny and somewhat scary villain.  Enrico Colantoni brings Mathesar to life.    This movie is witty, entertaining and has a few moments of drama.  My kudos to the cast and writers.  If you remember the original Star Trek, the Trek Conventions and all the rumors of angst among the actors; rent this movie.... You'll love it. "},{"Title":"A perfect 10!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not a Trekkie, and I've never even seen an entire episode of Star Trek, so I think it's safe to say that I missed a lot of the in-jokes when watching this movie.  However, I still found it to be absolutely hilarious! One scene, in particular, which has Tim Allen's character in a limo with four aliens (even though he doesn't know they're aliens!) who came to earth seeking his help, had me laughing for days after watching this movie for the first time.  But not only is this movie funny, it's intelligent.  How many comedies can you say that about?  In my opinion, not many.  All of the actors and actresses in this film were fabulous in their roles, and the overall movie was nothing less than excellent, which is why I rated it a perfect 10 out of 10!  Recommended to EVERYONE ... Trekkie or not! "}{"Title":"This parody of Star Trek tried to be one so hard that it became a quality movie!!","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this one of of the best parody's I'd seen in years.  In fact I wouldn't even consider it a true parody. (like Space Balls or Naked Gun)  I personally loved it.  A great family movie.  Recommended!! Kinda does to Star Trek fans as Monty Pythons Holy Grail did to Arthurian fans. ;) 10/10 "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard my nacelles fell off!","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  True Star Trek fans will find humour in the title of my review, just as they will find humour in EVERYTHING in this wonderful movie. A friend of mine and I saw it together and had wet collars on our shirts from the tears of laughter.I am about as hard-core as trekkers get and what I don't know about trek trivia could fit on a pin head, every visual joke, every background scene, every bit of musical score and every line uttered.....i got it all and laughed non-stop. The only jokes I would have used that they didn't wouldn't fall within PG rating parimeters.Tim Allen's character was obviously the best Shatner impersonation I've ever seen......well done Tim! From the stature, the tanned chest/shirt off slight blood fight scene down to the roll from rock to rock way of moving 10 feet on a planet, he was perfect!Sigourney Weaver was obviously 7 of 9 the Borg babe on Voyager who doesn't really have a ship board function except for regulation 12 subsection 4...Wear the catsuit with boobs lifted up gravity defyingly high!, the fact she she said she knows she doesn't REALLY do anything made her all the funnier!Alan Rickman has always made me laugh, from Die Hard and Prince of Thieves to this gem, he is brilliant as the combination of Patrick Stewart's shakespearean actor and disgruntled star (ala Leonard Nimoy being peeved as being called spock in the street for the last 30 odd years) accusing the lead actor of stealing lines over the years.Tony Shaoulab was the big surprise though, apart from Men in Black hadn't seen him before, his Anti-Scotty demeanour was spot on! When he announced an imminent explosion like he was asking for headache tablets instead of Scotty's ravings about being unable ..ta' change tha' laws o' physics!!!!!! was 10 times funnier than if he had played it over the top like Jimmy Doohan did.I also loved the dark actor from veronica's closet (name gone-mental block) who was a hybrid of wesley crusher (since his character was a child pilot in the earlier ep's of Galaxy Quest) and Geordie La Forge (smart mouth and quick wit) ....and crewman 6, the expendable red shirt? What a brilliant idea to put him in EVERY conceivable death situation and let him keep going to the next, he was like Kenny in South Park. You just kept waiting for his demise with baited breath, but in a NICE way (you know?).The Thermians? They RULE!!! They absolutely made this movie great. Every time they spoke, walked, ran, smiled or even entered a scene I was doubled over with laughter......excellent idea creating these guys!On a different note, I LOVED the ship! It was visually very impressive and the space battle scenes did not look cheap, a lot of effort went in and it showed........where can I buy the model the kid had on his desk??????Best comedy of ANY genre since LIAR LIAR!!!10/10  "},{"Title":"A great movie if you want to laugh","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest ones I've ever seen. The special effects are also very good. I recommend this to anyone who likes comedy of any sort. If you like more dramatic movies I suggest Life Is Beautiful. A good comedy/drama hybrid is Pleasantville. "},{"Title":"Story Quest","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest wants to be many things and for the most part is enjoyable. It starts out as a biting satire of Star Trek, then becomes a child like space fantasy with sight gags and ends as a sci-fi action picture. It is a light weight entertainment done reasonably well.Since this is mainly a comedy, was it funny? I thought the beginning was but found myself only laughing with one or two people in the theater. Was it exciting? Not until the last half hour. In the middle part you wonder if this is a dream. Also there are physical comedy gags with transporters so it's not serious yet. The ending is a straight action/fantasy picture. You know the kind where you kill 20 bad guys, don't get a scratch and you realize that you love the woman beside you and start kissing her madly.The actors do their best to try to keep up with all of the plot shifts. One problem for me was that to be funny in the beginning their acting had to be over the top. This didn't blend well when toward the end they try to act sincere. Sigourney Weaver does the best job being sexy, funny and believable. Tim Allen handles the comedy well but as an action hero? I don't think so. And the poor aliens that are being saved, the Thermians, got on my nerves after a while but this is sci-fi after all. The film making, special effects and music were alright. The crash landing ending is completely unbelievable but so what, this is a comedy, I think. Galaxy Quest is a juggling act blending sci-fi, comedy and action. It's kind of like The Wizard of Oz in outer space. You definitely know you're not in Kansas but you never forget you are in Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"Not what I expected, but quite enjoyable nonetheless","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I expected to be more of a biting parody that ripped the Star Trek franchise to pieces.  On the contrary, it was more of a loving parody with the sharpest digs coming perhaps in the beginning of the film which pokes fun at the convention and even then, its nothing to get offended over.I also expected this movie to be laugh out loud hilarious.  It didn't deliver on that score, but I still found this movie to be charming and humorous and yes, suspenseful and even touching.  For halfway through the film, the parody gets downplayed and the action gets straightforward treatment (Spaceballs this ain't).  In fact, I would have to say this film does Star Trek better than Star Trek.  It certainly had my attention, while I could hardly suffer myself to watch more than five minutes of a Star Trek episode or movie.  Also, its aliens are more believable; great effects, too.  And GQ simply had more PERSONALITY than ST.  Everyone in the cast is great.  Sam Rockwell and Tony Shaloub were especially good. "},{"Title":"Star Trek meets ... ?","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Witty.  Clever.Fun.Some things obviously ended up on the editing floor....  Tony Shaloub's character had the 'munchies' throughout the film and a comment was made about what have you been smoking but what ever it was he was smoking did not end up in the final edit.Tim Allen is not a favorite of mine -- but he was great as the over-blown, out of work, less than perfect star of this movie.Much to laugh at -- and a bit to think about too.As a friend of mine said -- There are three stars of this film Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver's breasts.  I enjoyed and had a great time with all of them.This one pokes fun at EVERYONE and we enjoy it all the more because of it.See it. "},{"Title":"Good fun.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galxy Quest does two things at the same time.  First, it pokes fun at the whole sub culture of  sci-fi conventions and gets every little detail right.  Then at the same time, it also states that  this fantasy life, is a positive force in peoples lives.  Sometimes, it's good to have role models  that stand up for what's right.  Even if they are only characters on a TV show.  Tim Allen is  perfect in the Shatneresque role.  Once he's kidnapped by aliens who think he's the real deal, he  slowly starts to become the character he played for so long, but without the pomposity.  The  rest of the cast is perfect.  Sigourney Weaver shows that she can still play comedy and tries to  make the thankless role of repeating a computer worth something.  Alan Rickman is a hoot in the  Spock role.   Sam Rockwell has the thankless role of being Crewman Number 6 and he knows  that if he goes anywhere, he's going to die.  Why?  Because that's what always happened on the  show.   Tony Shalhoub and Darryl Mitchell finish off the cast and each member slowly grows  beyond their character they played on TV to become what the aliens truly believed them to be,  heroes.  The effects work is top notch and the makeup from Stan Winston is great.  Galaxy  Quest gives the right amount of zing to the fans, but at the same time treats them with  respect.   All in all, a good, entertaining ride.                           "},{"Title":"Outstanding parody of sci-fi genres","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is the rare movie that succeeds on all counts it shoots for.  Hysterical comedy, decent enough sci-fi film, and stellar parody of Star Trek, its fans, and the friction existing between its  stars.Tim Allen leads the cast as actor Jason Nesmith, who in turn played the fearless commander Peter Quincy Taggart.  This is clearly a Shatner/Kirk reference, and Allen plays the part perfectly.  His initial shameless showboating and eagerness to turn his one major role in life into a lucrative self-industry is quickly transformed into a real-life space adventure as aliens from another planet take the Galaxy Quest series as historical fact, contacting him to save their people from evil.Sigourney Weaver plays Gwen DeMarco/Lt. Tawny Madison.  Her Lt. Madison basically had nothing to do on the show but show off lots of cleavage and repeat everything the computer said.  As Gwen she comes off as a woman who was frustrated by that fact, but refuses to let the fans down, and goes above and beyond to make sure that doesn't happen.  Excellently played by Ms. Weaver, letting her sci-fi hair down after the Alien series character Ripley.Alan Rickman stars as Alexander Dane/Dr. Lazarus.  His character is Spock to Allen's Kirk, and he is quite resentful of all the attention Allen receives.  His signature line is also tiresome to him (as Nimoy's live long and prosper must have been) and he refuses to say or hear it.  Rickman always does good with whatever he is handed, and plays comedy as well as anything I've seen him do.The rest of the cast is top notch, Tony Shalhoub, Daryl Mitchell, Enrico Colantoni, Sam Rockwell as crewman no. 6.  Most sci-fi fans will recognize that as the sign that he always dies as soon as the crew explores a planet or ship, and he plays that role expertly.Galaxy Quest succeeds so well because you very quickly believe everything put on screen.  The rabid nature of the fans, the cast in their dual roles, and even the aliens who recruit the crew are wonderfully played and easily believed.  Will this work better if you're a trekkie or Star Wars fanatic?  Yes, I think it will, as you will see yourself or someone you know in the sea of fans.  Is it necessary to be one of those to love this movie?   No, it is so well written and acted that if you just show up expecting a good time you will end up with a better time than you expected.5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Never give up! Never surrender!","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a great movie. It was one of the few movies I've seen where the audience actually applauded at the end of the film! A really funny sci-fi soppf about a group of actors from a cheesy 70's sci-fi series whose episodes of the show are mistaken for historical documents by a group of aliens and brought to outer space to help then fight off an evil alien menace. Tim Allen does a great William Shatner impersonation for his character. Sigourney Weaver (in her first comic role since GHostbusters) and Alan Rickman really shine in their roles as well. It's an entertaining movie for just about anyone but if you've ever had great (perhaps even obsessive) admiration for any sci-fi series, you'll get even more out of it. It kind of gets off to a slow start, but the pace really picks up as the film progresses. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This affectionate spoof of Star Trek and its devoted fansis one of the best comedies I have seen in a long time. It is great fun, and I highly recommend it.The cast is right on the mark, and the story is not only satiric but also quite well done -- touching and delightful. "}{"Title":"Lots of Laughs for Both Adults and Kids","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You Trekkies will no doubt appreciate this much more than the rest of us.  And does Sigourney Weaver do  lot of duct-traveling in her other space movies?  But there's enjoyment enough to go around for all the rest of us as well.   I can't help but believe that Alan Rickman wrote some of his own lines, You HAD to get your shirt off, didn't you? to Tim Allen, the leader of the pack was priceless, as well as But what's his motivation? anguishedly rendered during an otherwise life-and-death situation.  Coming from a RADA-trained actor, it made his role even more endearing, as his consternation at playing this has-been actor is almost palpable.The shame Tim shows in the john, overhearing the fan's true and cutting attack on his fan show appearances makes understandable his welcome to the aliens who want him to save their space ship. And the satire on bit players without a name, which signals the audience that they will be wiped out in the first reel is right on!!  The ending is made even sweeter because.......can't tell.Rickman can't seem to get away from strangely constructed monsters, first the excremental Golgotha in 'Dogma' and now, the 'Rock Monster'!!!  Oh, well, it IS a family movie.  Give yourself a break.  Don't give the kids money and drop them off.  Go WITH them.......they might even converse with you, wonder of wonders!!!  Are there any moral lessons here?  Maybe...teamwork, bravery under fire, what happens when the transponder doesn't work well!!!!  Go. Enjoy.  Don't wait for video, you'll dilute the special effects. "},{"Title":"Funny and 'Adventureful', Excellent!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest was GREAT!  Anyone who's spent most of their life watching Star Trek in some form or another will identify with the characters and the story line.  This movie is hilarious and touching.  Sigourney Weaver is a star in this fun, comedic role.  She doesn't loose her dignity but inspires it, as do all the cast. And when it's all over, Guy is a name to be remembered. A must see! "},{"Title":"Like Star Trek?  Parodies?  Galaxy Quest is a great one!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was one of the most fun movies that I've seen in a long time.  Caveat I am a long-time trekker and S-F fan! My 9-year old son thought it was pretty good, too, although he thought that Stuart Little was better.Galaxy Quest poked fun at the old-style Star-Trek and Next Generation episodes without the tired tongue-in-cheek scenes done by many others.  Tim Allen was great as a washed-up cancelled-tv show space commander, and the in-figting between the second bananas were great.The movie even manages to stand on its own, but is much better when you 'get' the in-jokes.The special effects by DreamWorks were really well done, but there's an obvious hole near the beginning...the piloting of the ship out of space dock has a physical error in it...but hey, it's just a movie!  (Not A T.V. show ;-))I can heartily recommend this movie to anyone who's waiting for the next Star Trek movie to come out.  Worth seeing on the big screen, too!  I give it 9 out of 10 buckets of tribbles!  "},{"Title":"Go see it","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very clever idea. There are actually very few plot holes in this one, even with its implausibility. Acted very well with some very funny lines delivered with some near perfect timing. Alan Rickman steals as always. "},{"Title":"This movie is HYSTERICAL!!! A must see!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is absolutely hysterical! If you're a Star Trek fan or a big fan of spoof movie i.e. SpaceBalls...this is definitely your kind of movie. Tim Allen is wonderful, and his supporting cast is unbelievably funny!! I give it a 9 and 2 thumbs up!!!  "},{"Title":"This movie is HYSTERICAL!!! A must see!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is absolutely hysterical! If you're a Star Trek fan or a big fan of spoof movie i.e. SpaceBalls...this is definitely your kind of movie. Tim Allen is wonderfully, and his supporting cast is unbelievably funny!! I give it a 9 and 2 thumbs up!!!  "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't know whether to credit the directing or chalk it up to inspired casting (and not just the lead roles, but all the way down the line), but it's safe to say the movie achieves everything, great and small, to which it aspires.  A fine line and just the right touch between poking fun at and embracing the cheese.  Hey, it's not Ghandi, but ya can tell that from the poster, right?  After the show I looked around and everybody I saw leaving the theater was smiling.   "},{"Title":"One of the funniest, smartest parodies ever made!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Strictly speaking, it's not just a parody.  There's a really fun story in there, for adults and kids alike.  The truth is, this movie works on a lot of levels.  Oh, all right -- it's mostly a comedy!  But, it's an intelligent one, full of digs at movies, television, science fiction themes, legitimate theater, and special effects.  Oh, and especially Trekkies!From the opening scenes, with an inconsolably miserable Alan Rickman, the has-been supporting-actor who played a Spock-like alien on a cancelled Star Trek -like TV show, trying to drag himself out of the dressing room to yet another unbearable fan-vention, we know that this is something special.  Rickman is wonderful, harnessing his hilarious talent at playing sarcasm to a non-evil, even sympathetically pathetic, part for once.It's hard to recognize Sigourney Weaver in a similarly-hilarious fluffy-haired role as some sort of cross between Uhura and Jane Fonda in Barbarella.  Ms. Weaver has always been good at light comedy, but rarely gets the opportunity any more.  This film should reopen that door for her.Tim Allen has a great role as the totally egotistical actor who used to play The Captain of an Enterprise-like ship on the TV show.  Like the others, he keeps us in stitches, as we try to figure out his character's grasp of reality.  I've never counted myself as one of Mr. Allen's fans, but I thoroughly enjoyed him in this romp.  Great comedic energy, combined with a natural flair for being real adds up to a terrific performance. But, if those three weren't enough to make a side-splitting comedy, there's always the aliens!  Not too many different kinds to keep track of, and each more hilarious than the other, really brings this picture over the top.  Throw in some great special effects, and it's an easy film to recommend!  I doubt it will make the list of the top 10 films of all time, but it's got pretty good cult potential.Bring your friends, bring the kids, bring a date. "},{"Title":"Poking fun at Trekkers, enviously","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is just a fun film.  No Oscar (tm) nods here, but the cast is having great fun.  The writers obviously are both sympathetic to the lives of Star Trek actors (at Conventions) and hopeful that there really are adventures to be had in deep space.The feeling of the movie is best summed up when a young Questerian (having been told in no uncertain terms to Get A Life) is told it's all real and shouts I knew it!!I felt the same way. "},{"Title":"Funny of course, but also sexy, thrilling, surprisingly touching; a real movie!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow! This movie is sexy, exciting, thrilling-- and funny, of course. What came as a surprise was that it is also touching. I expected a farce-- Spaceballs type slapstick-- and that's cool. Farces are fun. The shockeroo was discovering an actual story about actual people that was the stuff, the heart and soul, of Galaxy Quest-- and even on a big scale (that's the galaxy part).This was great! Please do yourself a big favor and go see it. It's whimsical, and a little bit surreal-- but Hey-- It's a movie! In a palpable way, though, it is more real, more human, and more meaningful than most of the Star Wars and Star Trek movies. You'll see why when you check out the flick-- Galaxy Quest is about us, actual us, with a little space stuff thrown in. I gave it a well-deserved 10. Oh-- tremendous acting performances by all. I'm not necessarily a fan of the cast members, particularly. I like them, but do not go to movies just to see them, or anything like that. But they all shown and sparkled here. Good job! This is the best thing I've ever seen Sigourney Weaver in, however she spells her name. And this is Alan Rickman's best role since Truly, Madly, Deeply. And Tim Allen was great and enjoyable, too. Just like with his current voice job in Toy Story 2, he is exhibiting more humanity, humility, and depth than ever before. Yaay to all. "}{"Title":"AS GOOD OR BETTER THAN ANY OF THE STAR TREK FILMS","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  GALAXY QUEST is a terrific send of the STAR TREK franchise. Containing characters which are composites of STAR TREK and STAR TREK TNG, the movie does a terrific job of poking harmless fun at the both the cast and the devotees.The basic plot is a rehash of many other movies, most notibly THE THREE AMIGOS.  A group of washed-up actors are invited by a special group of fans to make a personal appearance; However this special group of fans actually believe the actors are real heroes, capable of protecting them from their nefarious enemies.What distinguishes GALAXY QUEST from other films of this ilk, are the sharp writing and performances.  Tim Allen captures the almost childlike pompousity of William Shatner, giving his character a believable dignity.  Alan Rickman is a hoot as the Shakespearean ACTOR! disdainful of the character which has absorbed his identity.  Rickman gives perhaps too much credit to Leonard Nimoy, who was SO good BECAUSE he was SO wooden. Sigorney Weaver, looking terrific in bleached-blonde and Wonderbra (is this woman REALLY 50?), fares possibly the best by flashing a likability she rarely generates (last time, I recall, in DAVE).  In this film she represents ALL the woman of the STAR TREK franchise (most notably, Nichelle Nichols, Marina Sirtis and Gates MacFadden), who have been shortchanged dramatically by misogynistic executives, more interested in legs and bustlines than real people.This is an extremely funny movie which NEVER shortchanges its audience.  This is the most fun I've had at the movie all year; and, as one of the other attendees noted, contains not one swear word.  Such a deal!  "},{"Title":"By Grabthar's Hammer, Galaxy Quest is amazing!  Never quit! Never Surrender!","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pedal to the metal, Commander! I have to say this comic sci-fi parody film is hilarious. Directed by Dean Parisot, and written by David Howard & Robert Gordon. The film is about a troupe of cast actors of a once-popular television Sci-Fi/Star Trek homage/parody spoof series called Galaxy Quest who been call upon to defend a group of aliens against an alien warlord, Sarris (Robin Sachs) when mistaken as real heroes. The acting is awesome in this movie, all the cast members of Galaxy Quest really were well-written. This is one of the few, Tim Allen's movies that I didn't find stupid or bothersome. He was awesome, as Jason Nesmith, the actor who played Cmdr. Peter Quincy Taggart, the captain of the Protector on the fictional series. He really does command the scenes in which, he is in. He's looks like he's having a blast with this role. Sigourney Weaver as Gwen DeMarco was pretty damn sexy! It's nice, seeing her in a Sci-Fi movie, besides Alien, where she can show her feminine side. Alan Rickman as Alexander Dane, the actor who played alien Dr. Lazarus. A trained Shakespearean British actor, Alexander resents both his catchphrase and being typecast. This was the movie that help Alan Rickman get the role for the Professor Snape, Harry Potter series. You really see it, here. Tony Shalhoub as Lt. Chen, the character is obviously stoned the whole time. He was funny as hell. I love all the characters, but my favorite had to be Sam Rockwell as Sam Rockwell as Guy Fleegman, an actor who had a minor role as a disposable character like a redshirt from Star Trek. He wasn't irritating to watch, when he always fretting about his imminent demise since how minor, he is to, the main show. If Sam Rockwell wasn't the actor, that help made this character, this character might indeed, be pretty awful annoying. 'We got to get out of here before somebody kills Guy!' What a great line. Even the actors that play the aliens, were great. The continuous melodic yet monotone voice of Thermian Commander Mathesar (Enrico Colantoni) was remarkable. This was also, actor Rain Wilson's first movie, so look for his cameo. The only actor, I wish, he wasn't in this film was Justin Long as Brandon, a devoted Galaxy Quest fan with an encyclopedic knowledge of the show. In my opinion, a better actor, could make this film, better. The film originally received an R rating, before being re-cut due to harsh language, extreme violence and drug use. Honestly, you don't really see much of it in the PG, but hints to it, like Gwen mouthing the F-word or Lt. Chen always eating in most of his scenes. I think the movie works with a PG rating. Its shows that you can make clever jokes, without crude language, or being over sexual. Still, there are some frighten things that might scare, children, like aliens being killed off, torture, or decapitated. The whole teleporter accident scene was a bit gross, but funny. Some people think the movie was too crude on the fans of sci-fi. In my opinion, the story playfully pokes fun at Trekkies while still maintaining their ability to honor the genre. It even got the blessing of Star Trek actors. The good reviews weren't limited to Trek actors either; virtually every actor who's worked in sci-fi treats it as a good film. The visual & special effects were just as good. Despite the movie having great CGI for the 1990s, there was still room for Stan Winston's work. I was deeply surprise to hear that he work on this film. If you take away the humor, you still come out with a great Sci-Fi experience. Great actions scenes that play homage to certain episodes and movies such as Episode, #1, season 1, 'Arena, Season #2, Episode 6 'The Doomsday Machine', Season #2, Episode 22, 'By Any Other Name' and others from the Star Trek TV show. There are homage to the films as well, like 1982's Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan. The rock monster was homage to 1989's Star Trek V The Final Frontier, in which William Shatner wanting to fight with, but was cut in that movie due to budget reasons. The scene when Tim Allen is in a men's room overhearing how the cast of Galaxy Quest are nobodies and all the co-stars can't stand him mirrors an actual event in William Shatner's life attending a Star Trek convention. It's really a touching scene. The movie does have a lot of emotional scenes that mixed well with the comedy.The plot remind me of a mix of 1986's ¡Three Amigos! , which is nice. The movie sound track is just beautiful to listen to. Compose by David Newman. The DVD is just as great. Look for the Galaxy Quest E! Mockumentary, there. There is a feature on the DVD simulating the Omega 13, by reversing the opening sequence to the main menu. That was pretty cool. Some editions have an alternate audio track in which the dialogue is spoken in the Thermians' language, except for one English word spoken by an alien. Then the Blu-ray version feature have the Galactopedia, which expands upon the universe of Galaxy Quest, much like&#x97;and written by the writers of&#x97;the Star Trek Encyclopedia, including backstory for the planets and characters, explanations of the Techno Babble, and references to things that happened during the production of the show. Overall If you are a fan of Sci Fi, go see the movie! If you are a fan of Sci-Fi that can't laugh at yourself, don't go see it. Lt. Chen pretty much sum it up for me, with his quote 'That was a hell of a thing. Indeed, it was. "},{"Title":"Galaxy Quest","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have heard of and seen obsessive and over the top fans of certain cult things, e.g. Bruce Campbell and The Evil Dead, and obviously Star Trek has a huge cult, so that is what this film cleverly picks on, from director Dean Parisot (Fun with Dick and Jane remake). Basically Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver) and Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman) lead a cast of actors on a sci-fi adventure show that ended 18 years ago. They still get together for sci-fi conventions and store openings in character and costume. Soon enough some guys, including Mathesar (Enrico Colantoni), Quellek (Patrick Breen), Laliari (Charlie and the Chocolate Factory's Missi Pyle) and Teb (Jed Rees) calling themselves the Thermians take Jason on board their alien ship, and he thought they were just overactive fans. When the others eventually follow they go along with the fact that they think they are a real crew, so that they can carry out some missions to defeat Sarris (Robin Sachs). Also starring Tony Shalhoub as Fred Kwan, Sam Rockwell as Guy Fleegman and Daryl Mitchell as Tommy Webber. Obviously they find out eventually, and they do prove to be the crew they are in the show, and their show is brought back. Very good! "},{"Title":"Trekkie fun","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Can Trekkie's laugh at themselves? I hope so.Qalaxy Guest is quite funny flick about actors, who were stars of Star Trek like TV sci-fi show Galaxy Quest. After their show is canceled they are reduced to run around in Sci-fi conventions and hardware store openings, dressed up as their characters. Then a real alien race comes to ask their help, because they believe, that Galaxy Quest is real documentary show made from their adventures.Best role in this film has to be Alan Rickman's Spock parody Dr. Lazarus, who tiredly throws his famous catch phrase. Sigourney Weaver plays eye candy Lt. Madison, who never has anything important to say, and who is quite angry about that. And last there is Tim Allens William Shatner mock up commander Taggart. Agreed, I'm not fan of Allens comedy, but he is surprisingly funny in this movie. Other actors do deliver. I can't actually pin point any bad character from the cast, all are entertaining in some level. Other thing I was surprised about was the special effects. Normally comedies don't do those very well, but in this case they were actually quite good. So, if you know something about Star Trek and can laugh at the banality of it all, this just might suit you. Oh, and I might recommend this for Trekkie's too, it's good to laugh at yourself in once of a while. "},{"Title":"Never Give Up! Never Surrender!","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peaceful alien race being systematically hunted and destroyed pick up TV signals of old Star Trek-esque show. They model themselves after the show then seek out the (aged) characters on Earth for leadership to avoid their final extermination. Tim Allen is on target, if obviously so, in Capt. Kirk role and is well-supported by Rickman as a reluctant Spock-type and a pre-Monk Shalhoub as unflappable engineering officer Chen. Weaver has never looked better as female crewman and Rockwell might as well be David Arquette in amusing role of forgotten crewman. I'm often uncomfortable during Tim Allen movies, they seem to have an odd combination of schtick, schmaltz and the bizarre, and this one travels part way down that road. But the take-off on the Star Trek culture, including their obsessed fans, is so accurate that minor sins are forgiven. "},{"Title":"Better than most of the Star Trek movies!","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The cast of cancelled sci-fi TV show Galaxy Quest are making a living doing conventions and acting out the show for fans.  When Jason Nesmith is approached by yet more geeks he goes along but finds himself on a real spaceship with aliens who have seen the broadcast and mistaken it for a historical record.  Jason returns to the ship with his crew to find that the alien he thought he killed is still alive and ready to do battle with the ship - for real.This film is a superb spoof of the Star Trek that is as funny as it is enjoyable as a sci-fi film in it's own right.  The plot affectionately digs at the world of Star Trek, although I wonder how Shatner must have felt seeing a very thinly veiled pastiche of himself on screen - full of himself, living off the one role, hated by the rest of the cast etc.  This spoof is not overdone but it is very funny and really starts the film off well.Once the `doing it for real' gag has been done for a while it is moved to the background and a proper sci-fi film is blended with it to make for an exciting second half.  It still spoofs the conventions of Star Trek (the fight on the alien planet for example) but the action makes it more than just a silly spoof.  The effects are great and really back up the film's drive to be an exciting film as well as just a comedy.The cast all do well spoofing the Star Trek cast.  Allen does great as Nesmith and he manages to make fun of Kirk without ever really putting the boot in or being cruel.  Rickman was a perfect choice for the serious British actor who is stuck in what he considers to be a silly role that is below him.  Rickman gets all the best lines and his bitterness is very funny.  Shalhoub has a strange role but he again is funny.  Weaver is fun and seems to enjoying her and, not to be a typical man, but she looked very, very hot once she got her top all ripped!  Rockwell and Mitchell are good stuff and the alien Sarris rivals Star Trek's Kahn for the impact he makes.Overall this is a great comedy but also an exciting film in the second half. The script really cleverly spoofs the Star Trek world, fans and actors without being cruel or unpleasant to them.  A surprisingly great film that is unassuming and is all the better for the fact that there hasn't been a sequel (and hopefully won't be). "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very good spoof of Star Trek films and the fandom they created. The effects hold up excellently even after 16 years and the acting is fantastic. From the wonderfully deadpan legend that is Alan rickman to a fabulous shatner impression by Tim Allan the cast feel like they are having fun all the way through. The script is tight with great jibes at the tropes of sci if films, something even the latter day entries have yet to move on from..... Sometimes a movie like this goes under the radar and doesn't get the credit it deserves. I haven't seen a better sci-fi comedy film in the last 10 years. A great Sunday afternoon family movie and a great use of a lazy afternoon. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Quest to Lose This in Any Galaxy.","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest (1999) Dir Dean Perisot / Cast Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub, Sam Rockwell An idea blown away with stupidity. It regards a cast of Star Trek clones who celebrate their show within a film that is as lousy as this one. Tim Allen is the captain who takes it all too seriously. Sigourney Weaver plays a woman who annoyingly repeats everything the computer says. Alan Rickman resembles Worf from Star Trek Generations. Eventually they are sucked into space by alien beings who seek help in a battle against an evil empire. Fine idea that plays off the phenomenon created by fans particularly at conventions. Unfortunately the production is cheesy and about as visually creative as a commercial for lego. Directed by Dean Perisot who previously made the much better Home Fries. Allen is the one performance, given a role that survives the corniness especially when his reality is warped and his destiny becomes so much bigger. Weaver is a fine actress but here she is given a most annoying character. Rickman and Tony Shalhoub have seen better days. Disappointing comedy that had potential in its satire presentation but instead faltered to lame formula writing and situations. It celebrates the fan phenomenon and anticipation of these programs, characters and actors while delivering something that should be lost in space. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Does art tell lies, or a higher truth?","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a very witty and funny evaluation of Plato's claim that poets (fiction makers) are just liars. An alien race takes a defunct sci fi TV show (think Star Trek) at face value and begs the befuddled cast to help save them from an intergalactic threat. They believe the show is a historical chronicle rather than a work of fiction. Does art tell lies, or does it express a higher truth? You be the judge. It's wonderful to see how even the actors start to believe in their own roles. An entire society models itself on myths of heroism. This movie is about the need to believe in a great narrative that gives meaning to existence. Alan Rickman, as a frustrated Shakespearean actor stuck in rerun and fan convention hell, is hilarious. Tim Allen plays the William Shatner-type captain with the right kind of slightly ridiculous swagger. Sigourney Weaver plays against type as the designated bimbo who is appreciated more for her breasts than her brains. A popcorn movie with some philosophical substance. "},{"Title":"Clever But Flawed","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The alumni cast of a space opera television series have to play their roles as the real thing when an alien race needs their help.I know I'm in the minority, but I just don't think this is one of the funniest films out there. Clever, but not the best. Maybe it's Tim Allen, who seems miscast to me. I don't know. When I first saw it in 2001, I didn't like it at all, and the second time (2016) I found it not as bad as I recalled. Maybe it could grow on me? The real shining light of the film is Tony Shalhoub, who is funny in every scene he appears. That guy really needs more praise. Since Monk ended, he doesn't have quite the exposure he should. Justin Long is also great in his debut, though it may have typecast him as the nerdy kid a little bit. "}{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is amazingly funny sci-fi comedy starring Sigourney Weaver, and Tim Allen. It has hilarious lines of pure comedy that really deliver and are executed very well by all the actors. It also has impressive special effects and well made sequences of fun action for all to enjoy. The violence here is not graphic or brutal at all. This movie is a fun thrill ride full of laughs! It's not for the whole family though, there is some profanity and slight sensuality involved, so don't think it's 100% kid friendly family film. But tweens and up, feel free to tune in to this incredibly entertaining well acted funny science fiction comedy! 10/10 for Galaxy Quest! An absolute classic! "},{"Title":"Galaxy Quest (1999, PG)","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is a SF-comedy gem and a hilarious parody of Star Trek antics and Trekkies. It revels in ridiculous situations and has a lot of fun doing it. Ben Stiller's Tropic Thunder has one such situation that pushes unprepared actors into an all-too-real adventure. Mel Brook's Spaceballs is similar in another way. Its characters also stumble through exaggerated SF plots and themes (Star Wars mainly in their case). But Spaceballs doesn't seem quite as absorbed in its idea and the broader fan base for imaginative worlds like Star Trek or Star Wars as Dean Parisot's film.The film is as much about fans of Star Trek, the Trekkies, as it is about Star Trek itself. It features former crew members in a popular TV series. The out-of-work actors sign photographs at Trekkie conventions and appear at ribbon cutting ceremonies. We are told, but never see, that Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), the Commander, participates in paid garage reenactments of the show alone. The other actors resent the Commander for leaving them out.Tim Allen is believable enough as the Commander, but he excels as an actor coming off a popular TV show and as a dejected past star (especially as a couple critics of the Trekkie convention laugh at him behind his back). As events unfold in the more ridiculous moments, he's at his best. Eager to become a true Commander and go boldly across the solar system, through a worm hole, and into space and alien worlds, he genuinely believes he could act his way through commanding a Star Ship. Being hung over and mistaken about his surroundings helps, though.His other cast members are the heart of the humorous parts. Sam Rockwell has some of the funniest scenes as a miscellaneous crew member without a last name, simply called Guy. Tony Shalhoub (as Tech Sergeant Fred Kwan) has the nonchalance of a Bill Murray (Ghostbusters). Sigourney Weaver (as Gwen DeMarco, the eye candy), Alan Rickman (as Alexander Dane, the intelligent adviser), and Daryl Mitchell (as Tommy Webber, the youthful helm) round out the rest of the crew.Enrico Colantoni as Mathesar, leader of the Thermians, comes close to stealing the movie with his robotic mannerisms, off key vocals, and fascination with human culture. Thermians are an alien race able to engineer great feats of technology and science, but awful at operating their gadgets and even worse at dealing with deceit or defending themselves against their enemies. In the plot, they mistake the Galaxy Quest TV show for historical documents and, consequently, they mistake actors for astronauts.However, a real version of them would quickly detect the absence of any Star Ships around Earth, and make the deduction that humans are not capable of such technology. How could the Thermians become so advanced in the first place while being so easily duped? How can an entire species fail to work its own technology and come to need humans? Well, it's possible of course, but highly unlikely. But it doesn't matter because the Thermians have so many redeeming qualities. They are the biggest Trekkies of all.The Thermian mistakes make for subtle comedy. They add ridiculous elements and allow us to relish the equally ridiculous reactions to the unlikely situations. Guy (Sam Rockwell) constantly thinks he's in a show (where lovable aliens will surely turn vicious, and expendable crew members will usually die), Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver) defends parroting the computer (and the computer will only respond to her), and Tommy Webber (Daryl Mitchell) suddenly becomes an expert pilot. Many such odd things happen in the final parts. Some are just plot devices, but others are truly funny.The best moments are the realistic responses to absurd situations. Guy exclaims in horror as the crew lands on an alien world and opens the landing craft without testing for air. Later, Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver) yells in disgust at having to navigate a course of chompers or mechanical traps that a bad writer tossed into an episode to keep the tension high (and that the Thermians were duped into reproducing).The movie doesn't dwell on the deeper messages of Star Trek. Instead it focuses on the ethos of the crew and repeating phrases (never give up, never surrender) as central to the human parts of the show. Usually such themes about our humanity are deeper and more interesting in actual Star Trek. But it does depict a group of super Trekkies who ask riddling questions about logical holes in the show. They would be the future scientists or engineers that write about their love of Star Trek (such as Lawrence Krauss in The Physics of Star Trek). "},{"Title":"Have Passion for What You Do, Because It's Important To Somebody, Somewhere!","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe Some Spoilers This movie sends the message written in the Summary. It is powerful, uplifting entertainment that resounds that message from beginning to end. The movie also has great comic delivery from the actors throughout, as it would be impossible to cast a better group of comic actors.The uplifting ending has the power to make one feel great when one delves into this movie. The movie begin with a group of actors struggling to perform at the sci-fi convention dedicated to a show they appeared in decade prior. They struggle due to a lack of passion and interest. The actors go through an ironic situation that brings out their passion, forcing them to live the type of adventures, that they have acted on screen for many years. The movie ends with the actors having passion and fire to bring the crowd alive for their performance causing a ferocious audio climax of loud cheering and exuberance. "},{"Title":"Quest Accepted","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As funny as it's clever, as original as it's an homage and as adventurous as its movie with heart, 'Galaxy Quest' was simply brilliant. Yes, I'm Trekkie, but never actually got into the original series. (Sue me, I'm a 'Voyager' fan. If you're still reading&#x85;) I simply cannot reprint all the great quotes and everyone's got at least three, but the best are from Weaver, Rockwell and Shalhoub. I never knew Weaver could be so hilarious (and blonde) and though I'm not the biggest Allen fan, he and the rest of the crew were perfect not just spoofing William Shatner's 'Star Trek' on/off set personalities, but truly showing respect to the actors and fans alike. Historical Documents or the 'Galaxy Quest' TV show, reached another universe and an alien race takes it for real, even building the Enterprise, sorry, Galaxy Quest's ship inside and out. They now need the help of the original cast members to ward off an evil cockroach-alien race attempting to obtain the Omega 13 weapon. I cannot express how much I loved this film. Unlike normal spoofs, this actually one's actually original, fun, funny and has pretty good action. Never does it talk down to the source material and even adds adventure of its own. As Shelley Long was perfect as Mrs. Brady, Allen was equally riveting (basically Kirk) as was always enjoyable Rickman as the Spock role. And as 'A Few Good Men' gave every cast member (okay, aside from Nicholson) equal screen time, so did 'Galaxy Quest.' Every character was explored and expanded, and actually showed depth with heart. Best scenes the Chopper hallway, Justin Long's garbage, er, recycle bin, and the cute little aliens. Highly recommended for Trekkies and non-believers alike. "},{"Title":"Galaxy Quest celebrating the sci-fi geek.","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The most dedicated sci-fi fan not only loves their chosen genre, but lives it too, frequenting conventions where he or she can obsessively discuss their favourite defunct TV show with like-minded individuals, dress in poorly constructed home-made costumes, and jostle to get the autograph of an actor or actress unknown to most sane people.It's a way of life screaming out to be mocked, and Galaxy Quest does just that, but in a respectful and good natured manner which means that even the most joyless of nerds should find it hard to take offence.Tim Allen plays actor Jason Nesmith who, along with the rest of the cast of 80s sci-fi show Galaxy Quest, scrapes a living making appearances at conventions. Life takes an unexpected turn for the washed-up star and his pals, however, when Nesmith is approached by four strange people who request his help in defeating the malevolent alien that has been terrorising their people.Believing the foursome to be obsessive Galaxy Quest fans offering him and his co-stars employment, Jason agrees to help, but soon discovers his mistake his new-found friends ARE aliens, and their plight is very real.Whether you're a sci-fi fan or not, Galaxy Quest is excellent fun from start to finish, offering loads of well observed and very witty one-liners, tons of amazing special effects, some welcome pathos, and some even more welcome shots of Sigourney Weaver in a push-up bra (she can be surprisingly sexy when she wants to be).The film's greatest strength, though, is its excellent cast Tim Allen is great as heroic Shatner-style star desperate to please his loyal fans, Alan Rickman excels as the wonderfully acerbic Spock-alike Alexander Dane, Justin Long is suitably geeky as a Quest fan with an encyclopedic knowledge of the show, and Sam Rockwell gives the film's funniest performance as show extra, Guy, who spends his time in space continually worried that he will die, just like the expendable character he played in episode 81. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Star Trek Clone Comedies.","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you've ever seen Star Trek and enjoyed it, Galaxy Quest is jest the right stuff. Sure, the characters that Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, and Alan Rickman play in this exhilarating science-fiction spoof behave idiotically at times, but so did Captain Kirk, Mr. Spock, and Dr. McCoy. As somebody who grew up watching the voyages of the Starship Enterprise during its abruptly abbreviated run on NBC-TV, I can say that I was there when Gene Roddenberry charted TV history. No, I'm neither a Trekkie nor a Trekker, but some of my close friends are. Galaxy Quest pokes fun at Star Trek as much as it praises the vintage franchise. If you love Star Trek, you'd have to be an asteroid to hate Galaxy Quest. The premise is sweet and simple. What if aliens somehow intercepted transmissions of Star Trek and thought they were historical documentaries about our space program? Moreover, what if they thought the people on the program could save their own civilization from extinction? Happily, Fun with Dick & Jane director Dean Parisot and co-scenarists David Howard and Robert Gordon of Men in Black 2 waste little time beaming Tim Allen's crew out of drab reality into a galaxy far, far away. In their inspired script, Galaxy Quest' was a sci-fi hit that went into syndication twenty years ago, but the stars never recovered from the typecasting. These sad souls earn their keep now from the autographed photos that they sign for $15 each for adoring fans at conventions. One of the cat, Tommy Webber (Daryl Mitchell of The Black Knight), has even outgrown Lieutenant Laredo, the adolescent ship's navigator that he played on the program.Meanwhile, Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen of Wild Hogs) still gets a blast out of being Commander Peter Quincy Taggert. No so with the rest of the cast. They despise Nesmith and his scene-stealing shenanigans. Shakespearean actor Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman of Die Hard) despises his own alter-ego Dr. Lazarus, a Spock-like alien with a nautilus for a head instead of pointed ears. Not far behind is Gwen DeMarco (a surprisingly blond Sigourney Weaver of Alien') as Lieutenant Tawny Madison, the ship's communications officer doomed to repeat anything that the computer blurts out.Just when they have had enough of Nesmith, a bunch of Conehead like aliens known as Thermians abduct Nesmith and zap him to their galaxy to negotiate a treaty with the insidious Sarris (Robin Sachs of Ocean's Eleven), the leader of a cannibalistic race of scaly reptiles. At first, Nesmith thinks it is a joke until he realizes that Sarris wants to liquidate him, too. Convincing his crew to join him, Nesmith finds himself at the helm of a fully functional replica of the 'Protector, an Enterprise like starship they flew on their series.Galaxy Quest boldly succeeds where other sci-fi send-ups, like Mel Brooks' Spaceballs, have flopped, because GQ qualifies not only as a first-rate farce with incredible special visual effects, but also as an exciting adventure with characters who win our sympathy as well as our support. "},{"Title":"The Seceret of Guy!","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy quest is easily one of my favourite silly movies of all time, and Sam Rockwells character Guy is totally hilarious. There is an interesting aspect of him though that I have never seen commented on anywhere before (probably because the rest of the world has better things to do)... I'm not sure if this counts as a SPOILER or not, probably not.Guy is pretty much a paranoid, narcissistic, overly freaked out snivelling idiot all rolled into one. Most of what he says and does in the context of the rest of the movie bares out this description of him accurately. He's the over the top nut-job always out of his head with fear, the slapstick relief, the silliest of the silly.But,if you actually examine what he actually does say against a real world context, you will see that everything that comes out of his mouth is 100% accurate and true. In fact, you could quite fairly argue that he is in fact the only sane and reasonable member of the entire crew.There are heaps of examples of this but my favourite is when they are in the little ship going down to a planet in search of a Byrillium sphere.SPOILER After a very harrowing descent and landing, which scares the pants off poor Guy, but no one else, seemingly, the crew motions to open the doors. This causes Guy to launch into a paroxysm of fear.But what guy actually says and does is completely sensible. He screams Don't open the door! Is there air? You don't know! and as the doors open, he takes a final big gulp of the ships air, like a child about to dive into a kiddies swimming pool. He's dead right! The crew made no appearance of testing the air. It is an alien planet that looks to be forbidding and weird. Who knows what the atmosphere will be like. It could be methane for all they know! This, following close on the heels of another rant in which he rightly observes that as the character no one knows the name of (surname, anyway) he is likely to be the one to get killed pretty soon after stepping foot on the planet had everyone I know in stitches. And it's not until later on, and after other similar instances that it dawns on you that this gibbering idiot is in fact always right!! For me, that was pretty much the best joke in the whole film, and it was seemingly undercover.I'm not saying that is necessarily earth shattering, but it is another layer of quality woven into the movie that makes it truly one of the most satisfying comedies I have ever seen. The craziest and idiotic of all the characters, is actually the one closest to being a normal person.I'm not sure if this was in fact intentional, but I suspect it might have been, since everything else in the picture is note perfect, it seems only right to pressume they meant it like this. "},{"Title":"Space Trek erm Galaxy Quest ...","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a sadly mispromoted movie. When it came out I didn't watch it because it seemed like the worst Star Trek-ripoff ever. Plus, despite the pathetic aftermath (all those spin off series), I really enjoyed the original series and didn't want to see it ridiculed. But I was far off the mark, Galaxy Quest is a really good, side-splittingly funny comedy, and a great satire too. I was really gut-laughing all the way through.OK, the plot is pretty obvious the ageing cast of a successful Star Trek clone TV series get abducted by aliens who haven't discovered irony yet and believe that the allotment of washed-out thesps can help them with intergalactic warfare. The jokes, although predictable, are creative and sharp and well written and REALLY well acted, especially by the supporting and B-cast actors. And especially the nerdy aliens. And at the end the story wraps up in a surprising twist. It's a movie I genuinely enjoyed watching. "},{"Title":"The truth and entertainment value are remarkable","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When doing parody, you have an important choice to make; whether or not to pay respect to the source. The difference is impossible to miss. The Scream trilogy does... the Scary Movie series doesn't. Spoofing genres is reasonably easy to do, for those of comedic talent... observe the clichés, point out the things that everyone knows are ridiculous, and need to be said out loud. It becomes harder when it is based entirely on a franchise... especially one that so many people love. This pulls it off(and goes the right route, in not mocking). The plot plays off ST(whilst using the on and off-screen personalities of the show in much of the material)... in most, if not all, facets of it, and the humor is mainly surrounding that, with some references to other efforts, typically also sci-fi. The self-awareness is magnificent. There are a few instances that qualify as being at least a little bit gross, but they are so few, far between and easily ignored that it doesn't impact the overall enjoyment of the film. The puns and in-jokes are plentiful. Though the idea may not be completely original, the script is very well-written. It fits so many great gags in, without lacking character development or dramatic moments. The pacing is really good, I didn't find it boring for a second. The acting all hits the mark. Allen, Weaver and Rickman are spot-on. Rockwell's role is such a marvelous idea, and it works so well. It has a larger budget than you'd expect. The special effects are excellent, throughout. There is a small amount(less than in even the Star Trek feature mildest in that regard) of language(and as my fiancée put it, don't let your children read lips), and violence. A minor complaint is that, as a result of the re-editing when they decided to tone down how dark it was, Tony Shalhoub appears stoned for the entire running time for no readily apparent reason. In spite of that, this is a gem of a picture, and it stands on its own. The DVD holds nice extras, including a featurette, several interviews of varying length(as low as mere seconds) and deleted scenes, all of interest and worth watching. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys TOS, Next Gen and/or science fiction... and people who know the first two well... and don't take it too seriously, mind you... are going to get more out of this(albeit it is by no means a requirement). 8/10 "},{"Title":"A parody film that is... intelligent?","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is a story about the ageing cast of an old science fiction series of the same name. They have been struggling to find work since the show ended eighteen years ago and have been eking out a living by signing autographs at conventions ever since. Seriously, they might as well have called the series 'Not Star Trek, repeat this is not Star Trek'.Anyway, things get interesting when Jason Nesbit (Tim Allen), who played Captain Peter Quincy Not Kirk Taggart, is visited by some real aliens who have received the Galaxy Quest broadcasts, mistaken them for historical documents and have proceeded to build a functional replica of the ship, the Protector (theirs being the Protector II) and all of its workings.It basically ends up with the cast being taken for the heroes they played on telly and getting thrown in to a real life space war, which leads to our band of has-beens finding themselves in many fun and assorted sticky situations. It's good stuff, and genuinely funny.In terms of overall quality, Galaxy Quest gets all the good aspects from the really good episodes of Star Trek (intelligent and logical story, good villain, good character development, pseudoscience that isn't too ridiculous) and puts them together in one film, adds in the irony that none of it should be real, and strangely enough by sending up Star Trek it manages to be the sort of adventure that we all wish Star Trek could have been more often.But don't think for a second that you need to know a single thing about Star Trek to enjoy this - everything you need to know is right there in the film. I just keep mentioning it because it's the most obvious real life comparison.Overall, Galaxy Quest is a wonderfully entertaining space adventure comedy than anyone can enjoy, and is, unusually enough, a film that some real thought has been put in to. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have watched this film about 20 times and still find it hilarious. It is littered with brilliant acting performances and is wonderfully crafted. Anyone who enjoys the Sci-fi genre will appreciate the multitude of allusions to other works. I read some of the film critics reviews when the film came out and they simply didn't get it. Nice to see that the film is finally getting critical acclaim as they have slowly caught up with the somewhat greater imagination shown by the film's paying public. As a fan of comedy I rate this in my top five films, up there with Airplane, Blazing Saddles, Animal House and Groundhog Day. A sign of a great film is that you pick up new things when you watch it again. This is one of those films. Watch it and then watch it again. It's even better second time around. "},{"Title":"Alan Rickman's Dry Genius","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems unclear to me how Tim Allen ended up in the starring role with pros like Alan Rickman and Sigourney Weaver, but he does much better than I expected. There are so many details about this story that in any other circumstance would be dreadfully predictable, but because the humor is so well done, I didn't really notice them until after many viewings. The entire film is good, but having Rickman's dry humor gets this film at least 2 stars more than I would have given it without him. The conversation about episode 81 is absolutely hilarious, and the interaction of the characters from that point on in the film leans more toward a committed team and away from cynical actors from an old television show. Worth watching more than once. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When the television show Galaxy Quest is canceled, the five out-of-work actors decide to travel across the country and visit sci-fi conventions in an effort to keep their popularity from being zapped out of existence. Meanwhile, on another planet, some desperate aliens are in a heap of trouble and begin seeking help. In their search, they come across transmissions of the classic Galaxy Quest show from Earth and believe the cast to be genuine heroes.Before the crew of the show can say beam me up, they are kidnapped by the aliens. The crew must now give the performance of their lives, or the inhabitancy of an entire planet will suffer the consequences. Galaxy Quest 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fun, fun and then some","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is a hugely enjoyable take on primarily the Star Trek original TV series. Whereas a lot of spoofs fail to be either clever or funny this achieves both. The characters fit all your clichés nicely and while one dimensional the excellent casting and funny script allows them to add that necessary depth. Of particular note is Tim Allen and Alan Rickman. Both at the time of the films making were at the time at the peak their popularity and relish the opportunity to ham up full time. They are at the peak of their comedic skills. The film does not lull at all from the beginning and ending a fan conventions. If you are in the mood for a light movie that does not take itself at all seriously and in doing so entertains hugely (and actually looks like the actors were hugely entertaining themselves in making it) then you can't go past Galaxy Quest. "},{"Title":"A very funny spoof, that gets STAR TREK right","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am glad to see that there are a lot more positive comments on this film. When I first read the reviews here, there were far less. In addition, it is somewhat rare to find any friends that have really appreciated this film. I think that this film did a great job, and in spite of it not standing out at the box office, it rivals many of the better movies in many genres -- not just comedies.One of the main things that made this movie great is that it was taken very seriously. Often the approach to comedy is an approach that has been used for years, in about everything comedic. Basically the performance is merely a platform for jokes. For small scale performances, you have a small stage & perhaps a few props. For a slightly larger scale, you might have bigger, low-budget sets. The point is usually to make the audience laugh. Hopefully, you can keep the laughs going, so the audience doesn't turn the TV off or leave the theater. On the movie scale, a humorous movie is usually written, so that all the gags that have been chosen can be showcased in the alloted time. Usually it seems, from the viewer's standpoint, that the script/story is then written after the gags are chosen. The jokes & gags are inserted at the appropriate points.The thing that separates this movie is there is actually a good story behind the whole thing. Of course, the story isn't new. Such a story has been a topic of fan-fiction for ages. A writer will often try to find a way to insert his or herself into the story somehow. It is also natural for us as human beings to identify with actors that suddenly become part of something bigger. In some ways, you can see the problem of the traditional approach to comedy. Tim Allen delivers some of his typically funny lines full of malapropisms. In some ways, it's hard to believe that a normal person would be oblivious enough to so badly misunderstand conversations. This affects believability, but it's forgivable & minor. Most movies rely on extreme humorous dialog & slapstick to entirely float the movie. Instead, Tim Allen transforms into a believable and formidable commander, that many sci-fi movies might be proud to have in charge. Even though the movie had far-fetched concepts in it, the concepts were presented in a way that it was perfectly believable -- more believable than more serious sci-fi movies.Without getting too technical & taking itself too seriously, yet still giving credit to the audience for grasping complex concepts, I think that Galaxy Quest delivers a very entertaining & well balanced movie. It was a complete and entertaining movie with a good story, and not just skits pieced together. "},{"Title":"The perfect parody","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I used to loath science fiction series. The silly make-up and cardboard sets just made me laugh. Until my friend pointed out that some of these silly programs handled some serious themes being an outcast, not being able to feel as other people do. Star trek then became one of my favourites. Almost every episode a very human theme was tackled and I grew to like it. Therefore, when I watched Galaxy Quest on TV I had loads of fun and laughed out loud several times. It is based upon reality, there seem to be Trekkie meetings and fan-meetings everywhere. It is just the perfect parody. All the actors are perfectly cast, in my opinion. I never liked miss Weaver a lot, but here she gives a good performance. Mr Alan Rickman is wonderful, mysterious and handsome whatever he does and this film is no exception, even when he is wearing a silly plastic hairdo all the time Very funny, a good laugh, I suppose one has to know Star Trek to fully appreciate it, but even when you've never heard of captain Picard you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi comedy adventure spoof.","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest starts at a sci-fi convention where fans of the cancelled TV series Galaxy Quest get to meet the stars of the show, stars who are in reality has-been actors who make a living from the show by signing autographs & attending conventions for a fee. Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen) who played Commander Peter Quincy Taggart in the show is contacted by an alien named Mathesar (Enrico Colantoni) whose race the Thermians have seen Galaxy Quest & are convinced it is real & have based their entire society & technology around the show, they persuade Nesmith & the rest of the Galaxy Quest cast to help the Termian race from the evil warlord Sarris (Robin Sachs) but this isn't TV it's the real thing...Directed by Dean Parisot I thought Galaxy Quest was a delightfully amusing sci-fi spoof with more than enough of a story to stand on it's own. The script by Robert Gordon & David Howard is a full on spoof of Star Trek, the show's, the films, the actor's & the fans. There are so many funny little moments, clever visual gags to witty written one-liners. Galaxy Quest is affectionate & funny without ever being disrespectful or vicious. It plays around with the standard sci-fi clichés & has fun with them as it builds the entire Thermian alien race around the show, it pokes fun at the fans & the money grabbing actor's as well as having a neat story of it's own. I loved the character's, the whole washed up actor thing who make a living on just one cult sci-fi program without even liking the show or their character's & milking the fans for all they can get is pretty much bang on the money isn't it? The early convention sequence is again funnily written without ever going too far into full blown insults. Some of the dialogue is hilarious, the part when Taggart is fighting the rock monster & someone tells him to look around for stuff he can build a primitive weapon with is just funny if your familiar with the sci-fi genre in general & it's weaknesses & shortcomings. Despite constantly trying to make sci-fi geeks laugh & poke fun at them Galaxy Quest also has a strong story of it's own, it's very light hearted but it still has it's fair share of battles, alien monsters & spectacle to be enjoyable in it's own right.Director Parisot does a good job, he handles the special effects scenes competently enough & he keeps the pace going. There are some impressive CGI computer effects & some cool alien monsters. The production design is great & the film is obviously modelled on the look of Star Trek from the bridge to the costumes to the phaser guns & communicators. It looks great & it's funny, what more do you want?With a supposed budget of about $40,000,000 this had a pretty healthy budget but by Hollywood standards it's not mega huge, it's very well made with that Hollywood gloss & impressive special effects. The acting is very good & everyone plays their parts to a tee, Sigourney Weaver should do since she's been living off the Alien films for like ever but it's Tim Allen as the William Shatner type character that really nails it.Galaxy Quest is a fantastically funny send-up spoof of the world of the washed-up sci-fi series actor & their fans, it feels like it's a film made for the fans by fans & I think that comes across in spades. Maybe if your not into sci-fi a lot of the jokes & gags will pass you by but there's still enough here to enjoy while any self respecting sci-fi geek will surely lap this up. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi fun with meaning","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a film that I seem to enjoy more with each viewing, which is a rarity in this day and age and almost never happens to me with a comedy.The lovable Star Trek spoof has much to be complimentary about, and should be enjoyable to fans of Star Trek, fans of comedies and fans of a good moral tale.The premise is an interesting one where a race of aliens has been picking transmissions of a now defunct Earth sci-fi show (ala the original Star Trek) but believes them to be historical documents. The race of aliens comes to Earth and manages to persuade the crew of actors to help them with a mission to save their race.A stellar cast led by Tim Allen giving what I believe to be a career best performance and incredibly well supported by the always dependable Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman and a great under cast of supporting character actors give the film real purpose, and although the is broadly a comedy the film manages to stick very well to the moral themes of Star Trek about basic goodness especially embodied by the human race.I recommend this movie to everyone. "},{"Title":"A Sci-fi classic that will stand the test of time.","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Astronomy and Astrophysics are my passion, good Sci-fi is my pleasure. Galaxy Quest is an excellent Sci-fi, entertainment film. The film has a great cast and an equally great story.I am aware the film had a great deal of criticism from some Star Trek purists, but I say give it a chance and you will find that on some level you may actually enjoy it.I am also a great fan of Star Trek and I feel that Galaxy Quest is complimentary to the Star Trek universe and not derogatory.I believe that Galaxy Quest will stand the test of time. The only sad thing is that there was never a sequel.Has the world really changed that much that there is no place for the genre of the Trek universe any more? "},{"Title":"A Star Trek Farce Which Is Surprisingly Good Entertainment","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A couple of years ago I had heard of a movie called Galaxy Quest and on first impressions, I have to say I thought it didn't look interesting enough to sustain my interest in this film. With a cast in Home Improvement's Tim Allen, Alien's Sigourney Weaver, Brit Alan Rickman and Monk's very own Tony Shalhoub to name, this movie was destined to be a load of tripe. Suffice to say, it didn't perform well at the box office, both in the US and the UK. However, in spite of all this, Galaxy Quest is surprisingly enough, really good actually and good entertainment it was and is too.A bunch of washed-up actors from a sci-fi TV show, who attend sci-fi conventions, are embroiled in a Star-Trek like adventure of their own, when a group of aliens, who mistake them as heroes, plead for their help, after they find themselves up against an real-life alien nemesis.It is basically a send-off of the Star Trek films, with Allen playing the Captain Kirk role and Weaver as the attractive blonde who repeats what the computer says. Rickman played a Spock- rip off of an alien with a very interesting and witty sense of sarcasm on his part, Sam Rockwell takes on the role of a guy, who seems to take this whole sci-fi thing to the extreme, Shalhoub is the engineer on the ship, who eventually falls for an alien woman and Daryl Mitchell of the US 90s sitcom, Veronica's Closet plays tommy.Although this is essentially a comedy film, one has to be a fan of and has an interest in sci-fi films to be able to understand the jokes and genre conventions in this movie. Therefore, there is humour but it is a certain type of humour that makes Galaxy Quest a good film of its type to be enjoyed.The narrative is interesting but original- Tim Allen and company play sci-fi fans and they are portraying them in a honest and likable fashion. The film acts as vehicle for the actors to perform as their characters, whilst at the same time not perpetuating or reflecting certain stereotypes of for instance, Trekkie's for example in a demeaning way.In any other circumstance or sci-fi movie, this formula wouldn't work effectively, but with Galaxy Quest, it pokes fun at the whole Science Fiction concept in a humorously dry, witty and satirical way through good characterisation and character diversity, in terms of their personalities and the qualities that each of them possess themselves, and funny jokes and one-liners.It is a fun, exciting and humorous adventure of which isn't too short or too long but succeeds in both entertaining and enlivening its audience. It is not often that the juxtaposing of comedy and Sci-Fi works wonders - and yet with Galaxy Quest, it does exactly that. This is an amusing and enjoyable romp that people of all ages can enjoy.Sci-Fi nut or not, this is definitely worth adding to your DVD collection "}{"Title":"No Dreck on this Trek.","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In its swinging skewering of that TV series which featured that Vulcan guy, *Galaxy Quest* is everything that the *Scary Movie* franchise is not well-produced, well-written, well-acted &#150; and funny.Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen) is the ex-captain of a television starship not unlike that one that boldly goes where no man has gone before, from a show which was canceled 20 years ago, *Galaxy Quest.* He and his crew, typecast for eternity as the crew of The NSEA Protector, fill their weary, laurel-resting days appearing at science fiction conventions, mall openings and autograph signings. In what must be closer to the scathing truth than any real life series typecastee would care to admit, Nesmith's crew moan *en masse* at their fate, which is double-edged forced to dork themselves and recite lines from 20 years ago, but able to pay the rent for it. Living long. But not prospering. All except for Nesmith, who enlivens his role as action captain just a little too over-dramatically, not unlike that enterprising captain from that 60's show.There is ex-Shakespearean, Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman; though the loudest wheel in disparaging the *Galaxy Quest* legacy, never thinks to remove the ludicrous latex headgear that buries him in the role of his alien character - the obvious Science Officer to Nesmith's Cheesy Captain); Sigourney Weaver, a world away from Ripley, giving a Breasts-First performance as Gwen DeMarco (whose sole space-faring job seems to be repeating the captain's orders to the computer and repeating the computers replies back to the captain), and the underrated Tony Shalhoub as Fred Kwan (parodying that Scottish engineer fella, but on 'ludes); and we all know Sam Rockwell's character - the crewman who is sent down to the planet with the major stars &#150; only to NOT make it back to the ship alive (you know &#150; for that touch of realism), appropriately named Guy &#150; as in Guy #6. As Dane might have elocuted 20 years ago, There are more things in heaven and Earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy. Shocking them out of their stupor, the Galaxy Quest crew is abducted by an actual alien civilization &#150; who over the years picked up transmissions of the series broadcasts, believing them to be historical documents rather than fiction &#150; and seek their aid in defeating a real intergalactic villain named Sarris (Robin Sachs, in a fantastically diabolical performance).These real space sequences are where *Galaxy Quest* pulls its biggest surprise. No quarter is spared in creating stunning space effects and authentic-looking alien monster villains (courtesy of legendary Stan Winston). For the satire to run on steel-biting wheels, it was necessary to make this real-life intergalactic fracas as realistic as possible &#150; otherwise director Dean Parisot would have had just another B-Movie on his hands with the cheapness and artificiality exhibited by the actual series he was spoofing!The Protector crew must assimilate into their television personalities to weather the real intergalactic battle, as the benign aliens (the Thermians), led by Mathesar (Enrico Colantoni, fleshing out his extraterrestrial role with decidedly alien flair), have based their culture on the *Galaxy Quest* canon - from its technical details (the NSEA Protector in operational full scale) to its slogans Never give up. Never surrender! This movie is to the 60's series as Spinal Tap was to metal Dane disdainfully notes Jason's Shirtless penchant; a hallway for no reason has chompy, crushy things just to serve as obstacles; engineer Kwan's method for assessing the breathability of an alien planet's atmosphere is to open the hatch and take a sniff; all the while, Guy wailing whenever unnecessary risks are taken, as he &#150; being credited only as Crewman Number 6 - will definitely be the first to die. The hero-worshiping of the Protector crew by the Thermians lends itself to unexpected poignancy, when Dane, who holds his most famous phrase in contempt (By Grabthar's hammer, you will be avenged!), unwittingly finds an opportunity to utter it, in grave sincerity, to someone for whom it carries worlds of weight - a dying Thermian who regarded Dane as his otherworldly father. *Galaxy Quest* affectionately gives the fanboys their due as rocket scientists trapped in dweeb bodies, as ubergeek Brandon (the stammering Justin Long), with fan-researched tech specs, aids in saving the Protector and bringing it Earthward.But when Sarris appears at the film's finale, it is up to Jason Nesmith to save the day with a cheese-alicious duck-and-roll and phaser power-blast worthy of&#133; that guy in the yellow jersey (occasionally Shirtless and body-oiled) who made an art form of melodramatic pausing between lines &#150; you know who I mean&#133; by Grabthar's hammer, the name's on the tip of my tongue&#133;(Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"Possible story lines for sequel?","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK fans....By Grapthar's Hammer, by the Son's of Warvon you shall have your sequel. If there was ever a movie that demands a sequel my vote is for Galaxy Quest. The possible story lines are endless. So put on your thinking caps Quest junkies and tell us if there is a sequel, what would be the storyline? Has to be good or they should never do it.If there is one how would they incorporate the real disability of Daryl Mitchell AKATommy Webber/Lt. Laredo. In 2001 one he was in a bike accident that left him paralyzed from the waist down and wheel chair bound. "},{"Title":"The best sci-fi comedy EVER!","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The special effects are right on, the cast is perfect, and the jokes are well timed. Every thing about this movie screams out to any body who has ever been a Star Trek fan. My particular favorite in this movie is the character Guy, who is the perfect example of what happens when you have no name on a sci-fi show. Every time a bad situation arises Guy believes he will get the worst of what's to come. I came into watching this movie because I simply liked Tim Allen's comedy bits in his TV show Home Improvement. If not for him I probably would have never seen this. And man am I glad I did. What I found was a gem of a comedy that never fails to get a laugh out of me or any body I know that has watched it. Of any comedy I've ever watched I'd have to say this one has the most memorable moments and quotable scenes. If you have nothing to do and are bored, Galaxy Quest is definitely what will quench your thirst for amusement. "},{"Title":"Very funny and entertaining movie","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie follows television actors post a very successful series that resembles Star Trek. Their life now consists of going to conventions and opening computer stores. They then find out that their fictional life has been made real with the help from some stupid aliens.This is a very funny and entertaining movie. Sam Rockwell gives an outstanding comedic performance as Guy, and the rest of the cast is hilarious as well. The visuals in the this movie are also very good. Industrial Light and Magic did the visual F/X and Stan Winston provides some very cool creatures. "},{"Title":"Could we be this lucky?  A sequel to GalaxyQuest?","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I came across a website that reported that the Great Minds behind GQ were planning a sequel; no details as of yet, but what I'd love to see? Jason Nesmith's acting teacher taking him to task for overacting...said teacher played by Bill Shatner!! WOULDN'T THAT JUST ROCK? I'm checking to see if I can get verification on this, and will update this comment as soon as I have that verification. As far as this movie is concerned, I would've loved to see some merchandising come out as a result of this movie...uniforms, toys, maybe even a model kit? I just totally fell like a ton of bricks for Missi Pyle...I want to see her return as Jane Doe, and see some other alien menace threaten the stability of the galaxy, and have the Galaxy Quest group charge in once more to save the universe. I wonder if there are any other science-fiction clichés left untouched that could be mercilessly exploited...ideas, anybody? "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was a fun movie, but like most movies over the last several years, it was unoriginal. It was not exactly a remake like most, but check out 'Three Amigos. 'Movie stars from low budget series kick butt thinking it is a movie then find out it is the real thing, then kick butt again'. The overall reference to 'Star Trek' was better than most (and more entertaining than 'Star Trek'). Tim Allen, of course, was his usual funny self. Sigourney Weaver was (as mentioned in other comments) very ghost-buster like, but it worked for this movie. 'Monk' (Tony Shalhoub) was the straight guy and Alan Rickman was the I did Hamlet and now I am reduced to this guy. If you are looking for a film to sit down and watch while laughing with the family, I believe you will like this one. "},{"Title":"Excellent spoof on Star Trek and Sci-fi.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I do not consider myself as a fan of science fiction, but once in a while I will watch a movie with a good story. Galaxy Quest is a well made sci-fi comedy movie. It make fun of Star Trek without saying the two words. I remembering watching in the movie theater a long ago when it was release. This movie is worth renting in local video store, even if you are not in sci-fi you will enjoy it for the comedy. "},{"Title":"A must see for all Star Trek fans","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is ingenious to say  the least, and it is also smart enough  not to drown itself in low brow humor.  Ideas and satirical moments only  seem obvious to Trekkers, which is  why some people probably didn't like  or get this film. The characters also  brought out an interesting parellel top  the real life Star Trek crew their  careers were rather poor after the  series. Nonetheless, this a fun film,  and I can't believe this film was  originally meant to be dark and disturbing.  "},{"Title":"good, harmless fun","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Engaging comedy about a group of disgruntled, out of work actors who were stars of a once popular sci-fi television series. Now they make a living by going to fan conventions to please series devotees, even though it's been canceled for nearly two decades. As if that weren't enough, they're unexpectedly recruited by a naive, endangered race of aliens&#x97;who believe their show to be the real deal&#x97;to do battle against a sinister alien tyrant. On paper it may sound silly, but the film is cleverly-conceived, enthusiastically performed, laugh-out loud funny, warm and good-natured in spirit. A sweet, witty, and amusing film for all ages. *** "},{"Title":"...and what you should know about my ship is .... (SPOILERS)","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  By far the best of the Star Trek series - an astonishing accomplishment when the expression Star Trek is not used at all. The story is remarkable. It is as if the Galaxy Quest characters are all slackers, ne'er do wells, children even, but when the moment arrives,they live up to and even surpass the characters that they played on that all too familar show that we remember (you do, right?) from the early 80's.Insprired casting.  SPOILER.  Alan Rickman plays an actor playing an alien, who not only hated the character, but even more intensely hated the catchphrase that the character said, despite that that very phrase has kept the mortgage from being foreclosed for the past twenty years. And yet, when one of the aliens is dying in some pain, he realizes that the comfort that the alien wants is to hear the one thing that he hates to say.  And he gives the catchphrase all that his character has.SPOILER AGAIN (sorry) - And while the characters seem offended by Allen's character taking control (and why shouldn't they? This is teevee, not the Navy) close to the end, Captain Nesmith pulls off a stunt that a lesser space hero not only wouldn't have thought of, but certainly wouldn't have chanced.I want to watch this film with William Shatner, but I figure he must have seen it a thirty or so times to see how it is really done. "}{"Title":"a pleasant, feel-good film","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film surprisingly delivers the goods with an intelligent, funny, and sweet story. It focuses on canceled television actors who become unlikely heroes. They must ban together to save an alien civilization(who thinks their show is real) from destruction. Viewers will probably get a kick out of all the comical situations, but the film's feel-good quality is what really makes it succeed. 3/4  "},{"Title":"Excellent spoof sci-fi","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a Trekkie I was a bit apprehensive before I watched this film, but I thought it was great. This was a really funny, but quite gentle satire. I particularly liked Alan Rickman's character, who obviously is partly based on Patrick Stewart and though there are quite a lot of in jokes, there is enough general humour to keep non trekkies happy as well. "},{"Title":"An endearing space show spoof","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked the idea behind this movie. Tim Allen leads the crew of a TV space show which has found a cult following, such that their lives now consist of showing up at conventions, store openings, and the like. It's an obvious spoof of the original Star Trek and the Trekkie conventions which followed after that show was cancelled. However, it just turns out that another species, many light years from Earth, has been tuning in religiously, and believes every part of the show to be part of an Earth documentary, and in their time of need they turn to the crew of Galaxy Quest to save them from extermination from a bunch of evil Lizard people. It has a definite 3 Amigos quality to it, in which a bunch of actors are called in to live out their roles in real life, to defend people who think they are the Genuine Article, and who invest their hopes in their saviors. There will be letdowns, but in the end Tim Allen and his crew will save the day, actors or no. Corny as it all sounds, it actually works, and works well. Allen is a self-centered goof, but somehow he manages to rise to the occasion when required (an obvious reference to Captain Kirk). Alan Rickman is the classically trained British actor who seems to sneer at his role in a Sci-Fi TV series, which to me seems a comment on the way Sir Alec Guinness viewed his role in the Star Wars movies. In short, these Brit snobs might know their Shakespeare, but it's American space epics that fattened their bank accounts and gave them worldwide fame. And then there's Sigourney Weaver. I never thought she was good looking, until I saw her in this movie and didn't recognize her because she went blonde. She should have done it years ago. We knew she could do comedy from the first Ghostbusters, it's a shame she's waited this long to do more of it. This movie is by no means perfect, but it does blend the genres of satire and sci-fi quite well. Obviously they are poking fun at all the space movies and TV shows out there, but it shows a lot of affection for them as well.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable spoof","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed watching this movie. It has a good cast, great fx and an original story that works on many levels. The story stays coherent through the movie, which is pretty rare for a spoof comedy. The jokes are good if not great. And mainly it is fun to watch the normally serious actors like Weaver and Rickman have a laugh.  "},{"Title":"One of the most satisfying comedies I have seen in years","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I consider Galaxy Quest to be one of the most delightful American comedies in years. The entire cast is superb, including the aliens. This movie is extremely well directed and written and never looses its charm and wit. Sigourney Weaver once again shines; it is just incredible to see how well she can play any role. A must-see for anyone! "},{"Title":"Galaxy Quest, the laughs are out of this world!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great way to spend 102 minutes, however, if you have never seen a Sci-Fi film (as unlikely as that sounds) you will not laugh once.  It is worth seeing the 'cutting room' floor stuff on the DVD too, if nothing else it explains how Sigourney Weaver's top mysteriously became unzipped to her navel.......  The only puzzling thing for me was Alan Rickman - he seemed to be doing a Peter Cook impression throughout. Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable and hilariously funny","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a brilliant spoof on science fiction fandom and will most likely be thoroughly enjoyed by everyone who likes the genre.Brilliant performances from Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman. "},{"Title":"The 'Three Amigos in outer space","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based upon essentially the same premise as the Steve Martin/Chevy Chase/Martin Short spoof of 50's Hollywood and the oat-burners, this one takes on television Sci-Fi, but , as with Three Amigos the satire is affectionate, the performances are hilarious and ultimately it's a very fun movie.Sigourney Weaver is great, as always, and look also for wonderful, quirky performances from Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub (late of the sadly short lived TV sitcom Stark Raving Mad) and Enrico Colontoni (Elliot from Just Shoot Me). Tim Allan is, well Tim Allan, but it would take more than one merely adequate performance to spoil this little romp.Not rocket science, but a good laugh and even the special effects are pretty good, considering that they are not really the point. "},{"Title":"Funnier than the series it spoofs...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As far as parodies go, this movie ranks near the top of the list!  The cast is a perfect ensemble, working well with each other while allowing each individual member to shine.  Tim Allen gives a stand out performance.  No one could have played that character better than William Shatner himself.  While the movie was obviously aimed at Star Trek fans, people without even a vague knowledge of the series could still find the movie funny.  With great fake special effects, a great script, and a plot as believable as any other science fiction movie, this film combines two often combined movie genres sci-fi and comedy.  This is a must see for anyone who's ever donned a communicator and Vulcan ears, and for those who have no clue what a Vulcan is.   "},{"Title":"To boldly laugh like no one as laughed before","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fantastic comedy on the world of television fandom, with several in-jokes regarding the fans themselves, but full of love too for the guys and the girls that make the television series actors the icons they become. This splendidly cast movie tells the story of the crew of the Galaxy Quest (an Enterprise clone) and send them really in space, with hilarious consequences. Sigourney Weaver is terrific as the blonde haired bimbo of the series, while Alan Rickman is really hilarious as the Spock alter ego, full of doubts about is role in the real life. Reccomended "}{"Title":"Wonderful irony","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a delightful movie this Galaxy Quest is! The irony just drips off the screen and as a sci-fi parody it is even funnier than Mars Attacks. I especially loved Sigourney Weaver in this as the blond bimbo who never gets any intelligent lines... A very far cry indeed from the intelligent and assertive Ripley from Alien!  "},{"Title":"Spoofs float my boat, and this film is no exception","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a sucker for spoofs.  Hence some of my favorite movies of all time include The Freshman, The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad, and Airplane!  This one does not disappoint.  What I consider to be an all-star cast graces this wonderful send up of science fiction TV series, but in reality it's like a spoof within a spoof.  We get to see what happens to the stars of a late seventies/early eighties show called Galaxy Quest after it goes off the air.  The fact that they're making the sci-fi convention rounds is enough to make one chuckle, but then the preposterous notion of fiction becoming reality really drives the film to its eventual climax.  Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver (wow, is she ever wonderful as a blonde!) are good in their roles; Alan Rickman even better as the cauliflower-headed Olivier-wannabe; Tony Shalhoub droll as the Mr. Scott-type; and Enrico Colantori exceptional as Mathesar, the leader of a hunted race of squid-like creatures who, in human camouflage, walk around like constipated geese.  Colantori is reason enough to view the film as it is refreshing to see him work outside the box to which he is normally confined on NBC's Just Shoot Me.  Definitely a must for both science fiction and spoof fans...the DVD will soon be entering my collection. "},{"Title":"Much better than i expected.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is a very good movie , far better than i expected. This was labelled as a Sci Fi spoof movie which automatically worries me because most of these American spoof movies stink to high heaven (anybody who has seen Scary Movie will know what i mean)  . Galaxy Quest is more than a spoof movie. ok it does have a laugh at Star Treks's expense but in a funny way. The comedy acting is top drawer and the special effects put Star Trek to shame. It is hard to criticise Galaxy Quest but if i had to i would say that Sigourny Weaver was maybe the wrong person to play her part. Not that she is bad in it but maybe someone younger (and bustier) would have fitted the role better. Recommended. 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Wonderful Star Trek Spoof","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"     What if.....someone had to say.......that with all the signals we've been sending into space that some clearly advanced but impressionable race became convinced that William Shatner, Patrick Stewart and company were the actual heroes they seemed to be so they created a real Enterpise and brought the actors to fight in a real inter-galactic war. That had to be the conversation that created this movie. It pays a wicked and clearly precise spoof of Trekkies and fan worship as it turns into a comedic outer space adventure. Filled with references to Star Trek, Star Wars, Lost In Space and all the truely horrible science fiction shows of tv history (yes, even Space1999 and Battlestar Galactic), it even takes a stabbing jab at the behind the scenes tomfoolery. Tim Allen, Allan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub and the rest are all wonderful, but even with blonde hair and a heavily padded bra, Sigourney Weaver proves once again that she is just not attractive (maybe if the role went to someone with sex appeal like Emma Samms or Markie Post). The film is wonderful; it's not overwhelmed by special effects and it does have a very human plot beneath the sci-fi nonsense as well as some very genuine laughs in it. I give it a TEN!   "},{"Title":"I was suprised","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was suprised this movie was as good as it was, at least in my opinion it was good.  At least big names in the main cast of actors, most notable, Tim Allen.  It has comedy, action, sci-fi of course, and they all blend well together to hold the viewer's intrest.  I ejoyed watching this movie, even though at 1st I thought it was going to be pretty boring and unexciting. Needless to say I was mistaken.  This is a good movie and I would love to see a Galaxy Quest II. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first time in YEARS that I laughed at a film until I couldn't catch my breath and my eyes watered.  Thank goodness I was at home watching on cable, so I didn't embarrass myself.  This one's a keeper, that I'll be taping next time it runs. "},{"Title":"Never give up, Never surrendor!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have a certain distaste for Star Trek, and that makes this movie even more enjoyable to me. It's been said that lots of Trekkies liked it, but I as a huge Star Wars fan and avid Trek-hater loved it! I can understand where the fans are coming from still. And it's hillarious. The actors in this film do a GREAT job. I'm just here to say that even if you gag and choke at Star Trek, this movie will be great for you! It's one of my favorite movies, and anyone who dismisses it as a corny parody just doesn't know what they're talking about. "},{"Title":"Good Natured Spoof about Trek and Trekkies","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Big Surprise here! There's some actual good acting in this action spoof.  If you COULD have liked Last Action Hero but thought it went a bit far, you will probably like this.Of course, Tim Allen plays himself playing a role but he is as effective, and likable, as he was in the Santa Clause The only exception is Sigourney Weaver who is merely adequate... and this is understandable as she is undoubtably disappointed - and tired of - being offered only SF vehicles. Alan Rickman is great!Especially noteworthy are the efforts and attention paid to the casting and direction of the good-hearted, simplistic aliens.  It is this element that really makes this rise above the level of SpaceBalls. And there's no tired doo-doo or junior high double entendre jokes either. Very good FX; Comix Fans.. doesnt the RockMonster look familiar?I voted 8 (weighted for intent).If you ever got caught up in any of the Trek series and liked The Last Starfighter, you'll really like this.Rent it... make some popcorn ( and/or get a six-pack).. and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Unexpected gem","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When my friend mentioned that we could watch this on HBO, my reaction was to be very underwhelmed.  I thought this would be sorta mediocre and that there was a good chance we'd flip channels.  As it turns out, I was amazed at its non-stop hilarity, original, clever and well-written screenplay and the solid acting throughout.  What a great surprise.  Tim Allen is totally on. Sigourney Weaver is as sharp and beautiful as ever and showed great comic ability as well.  Great stuff... "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm afraid I really did not enjoy this film at all, it was tedious and just seemed to be an a series of in jokes for trekkies (or trekkers) and as I am glad to say I have never been to any kind of Star Trek convention, it seemed to me that they were flogging a lame duck with this film. "}{"Title":"Out o' Space","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thank you, Gene Roddenberry, for creating Star Trek. And thus inspiring a director for creating Galaxy Quest, a movie dominated by a fast and funny story, with good special effects. Thanks to Alan Rickman, too. He played an egocentric crew-member, and really did well. Thinking back to his hilarious gestures and face expressions, I still have to smile.  "},{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think I liked this movie because it was funny without having to be vulgar or just annoying. It's humor is clean enough that the whole family could enjoy it! It pokes fun at all of the Star Trek fans out there without being very rude about it. A great movie, for the kids or you! "},{"Title":"You'll love it too!","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best and entertaining movies I've seen. I went in thinking I was going to see a dopey sci-fi with Tim (the Santa Clause) Allen and instead was greatly surprised at the movie I saw. Lots of fun, action, fun times and sad, this picture will become a classic.  Stars of Star Trek, all I can say is, remember it's just a movie. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best movies of the year.  It's not only funny, but tightly written and the actors are the best!  I loved not only the major cast members (Weaver, Allen, etc) but also Calatoni and the woman who plays the female alien, especially.  But the entire cast was terrific!I'm not a Tim Allen fan, especially, so I put off seeing this movie for six months; but now I own the video!  Absolutely love it! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the funnier movies I have seen this year. This is much better than Mars Attacks! I fell asleep during Mars Attacks, I laughed all the way during Galaxy Quest. Great modelling of, and acting by all alien species! "},{"Title":"Delightful Spoof of Star trek","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Movie was Very funny, with all of the parodies of Star Trek. especially with that Guy being afraid of becoming the Expendable Extra but turning out to be the Plucky Comic Relief and Sigourny Weaver's part was parallell to that of Uhura on Star Trek, having one Soul Duty. Pretty Funny "},{"Title":"A really delightful movie","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is a delight and a true surprise. I had not seen such a funny movie in quite a long time. I cannot stop being surprised by Sigourney Weaver. She can be splendid in all kinds of roles and she is superb in this movie - funny and intense.  "},{"Title":"TARGETED","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know I have seen this movie at least twenty times. I may not be qualified to comment on it. Unlike other great movies I have seen starring SIGOURNEY WEAVER I know I have seen at least a hundred times. SO please forgive me if I seem to fall short of such a conquest of not thourghly having the wet brain. The title itself gains reconition as far back as JOHNNY QUEST when I was just a little worm. BUT its truly a great movie, magnificent, torn in all the right places mind you, and hilariously funny. ITs great for all Audiences, and very well put together in simulated masteredly detail. A great cast of stars,and fanfully lovingly. I loved it at the theaters, and love it at home. "},{"Title":"Pleasant and well-done sci-fi spoof","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The basic plot A group of disgruntled actors from a cult sci-fi TV show that suspiciously resembles Star Trek  are picked up by a group of Aliens who that theyr'e adventures are real to fight a universal menace.The praise It is intelligent enough,pleasant and charming , with well-done performances by Tim Allen,Sigourney Weaver,Alan Rickman, and Daryl Mitchell.Actually the characters glow with humor and perhaps this is the films best feature. The opening convention scene is cultishly fabulous, with a true geekish air. The special effects are intended as a joke probably.The air is bright and i think you'll enjoy this.The flaws Sometimes a bit convoluted, and when it gets too much away from the characters, it gets considerably less funny. "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Movies Ever!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I actually hated this movie the first time I saw it, but after seeing so many good reviews and great comments, I decided to give the film another go. When I came back the second time, I loved it. My sides hurt so much from laughing and I wished it could of gone on for longer. The acting was full of joy, Sigourney Weaver and Tim Allen were a joy to watch, while the aliens were hysterical and the screenplay was funny and well written.If you want loads of fun and heaps of laughs, Galaxy Quest is the movie for you!Rating 8 "}{"Title":"Amusing.","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Aliens request the help of actors who are mistaken for real heroes.Clever,funny show is a hoot to watch.Alan Rickman is hilarious.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Flick his all the right buttons!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are a Star Trek fan, and don't take yourself too seriously, then you must see this this movie.It hits all the right buttons and Star Trek fans will appreciate all the inside humor.I highly endorse this movie if you want an evening of good fun and lots of laughs. "},{"Title":"Worth a sequel?","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The sci-fi spoof to end all sci-fi spoofs, a satisfying satire of the whole Trekkie thing (about time, don't you think?) that never takes itself too seriously.  The problem with most of the genre (like Spaceballs) is that they don't take themselves seriously enough.Jason Nesmith / 'Peter Taggart' (Tim Allen) is a splendid William Shatner analogue, the one rah-rah member of the jaded and weary cast of a TV series called Galaxy Quest, all of whom are doomed to Post-Cancellation Hell making endless rounds of the sci-fi conventions.  But salvation descends literally from the heavens in peaceful-but-gullible alien fans who think it's all real, and needing salvation themselves from the evil Sarris (Robin Sachs as a convincing kind of half-Klingon half-crustacean). No doubt 'Commander Taggart' can save them!   That the gawky aliens fit in fine with the usual freak and geek conventioneers is funny commentary in itself.  It is a succulent transition when the crew make the shocking high-speed career-move from stilted has-beens to starship hotshots.Speaking of casts--Sigourney Weaver (as Gewn DeMarco / 'Lt. Tawny Madison') has never been more gorgeous or droll.  And picture Captain Kirk and Mr. Spock in a fist fight--there you have Nesmith and Sir Alexander Dane / 'Dr. Lazarus' (Alan Rickman). Few actors play snide embitterment as well as Rickman, and one wonders if he had Chevy Chase in mind, the Spock in a now-legendary SNL Star Trek parody.  (A sneering Dane to an about-to-be-martyred Nesmith Yes, it's all about yoooou, isn't it?) Rickman deserved at least a Best Supporting nomination.  Why didn't he get it?Some surprising scene-stealing by Tony Shaloub, as the possibly psychopathic Fred Kwan / 'Sgt. Chen'.  Shaloub is a wellspring of dry wit that toys hilariously with Guy Fleegman (Sam Rockwell), a tag-along nobody as frantically certain of his expendability in real-life as his bit part was in Episode 82--like those Star Trek crewmen who you knew would get killed early.  Something of a pity, however, that the sole African-American principal player has a role that is almost back-of-the-bus, and it is a missed opportunity (Daryl Mitchell as Tommy Webber / 'Lt. Laredo').But a missed opportunity as well if you don't see Galaxy Quest, one of our better comedies, and certainly one of the classiest . . . do I smell a sequel? "},{"Title":"Perfectly on target..never misses","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had anticipated this film for some time..and I was not dissapointed.  As a closet trekky (one who never dresses up or goes to conventions)and huge scifi fan..I was very pleased.The show displays a perfect balance between humor and loving homage.  It's predictable when it should be predictable, though it twists out from under you on many occasions!A fine performance from all cast members, especially the supporting cast. Superb special effects..attention to detail..and high dollar production values.Even a typical but fresh John Williams style musical score perfectly accompanies the film and sets the mood well.  Loved this movie.. for all the right reasons! "},{"Title":"Wasn't expecting a lot; was pleasantly surprised.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My wife and I went to see this movie because I like science fiction, we all like to laugh, and, frankly, we tend to feel slimed by a lot of the R (and even PG-13) flicks -- and there aren't that many PG's around. On the night we went out, Galaxy Quest was practically our only PG option.Galaxy Quest was a pleasant surprise. I had quite a bit of difficulty picturing Tim Allen as a starship captain, but the whole thing just flew surprisingly well.It's not what I would call one of the classics, but even my wife, who's not into science fiction, enjoyed this movie. So that says something. "},{"Title":"Galaxy Quest will have you out of your seat and cheering","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With exception made for the choppy editing done at the last minute for a PG rating, Galaxy Quest is just about perfect.  The comedy is decent, even though it's a little used.  The action is all in good fun, even if you've seen slight variations of it somewhere before.  What makes Galaxy Quest the wonderful trek (get it?  Trek?) that it is, is the childhood fantasy of finding out that all of your heroes are actually real.  This is a premise that even the most cynical among us could fall in love with, and, by the end of the movie, Galaxy Quest will have you out of your seat and cheering.  This is the kind of movie they invented popcorn for. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly very funny","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was hesitant to see this movie because I wasn't a particularly big Tim Allen fan(I disliked Home Improvement).  But, he is excellent in this movie.Along with being hiliarious, this movie also has some touching moments which really sets it apart from most films out there.  I would highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Amusing and Enjoyable","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The has-been cast of a cult science fiction series much like Star Trek are mistaken for real space warriors  by a group of aliens who need help fighting off an angry warlord and his troups.  Never quite as funny or sharp as it could have been, and the good cast (especially Alan Rickman) isn't used to its full advantage, but it's  amusing and enjoyable. Stars Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver.  "},{"Title":"A favorite of 1999!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a pleasant surprise -- I certainly didn't expect to LOVE this movie as much as I did.  It works on many levels;  it's a truly hilarious comedy (and a loving parody of sci-fi geeks everywhere), but the dramatic situations also pulled me in totally.  It's rare to really care about characters in such a laugh-fest, but I found myself earnestly rooting for the good guys while laughing out loud all the way through. "},{"Title":"imaginative sendup","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A group of former actors from a low-budget sci-fi TV show are recruited by benevolent aliens to destroy an evil alien warlord. Clever, inoffensive satire of television sci-fi and its fans with fish-out-of water theme. (Rating B+) "}{"Title":"hilarious!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My Star Trek fan status I've seen a couple of TOS episodes and marvelled at how bad they were (I think I managed to catch Shore Leave last time I watched one *shudder*); I watched quite a bit of TNG and watched it get better and better as it went on, and haven't seen much else.  I also read about the first 60 TOS Pocket series books, and liked several of them VERY much.  I've never been to a convention.I thought this movie was hilarious.  Maybe it was just the mood I was in, but I had to pause the DVD after the test of the digitizer, and the line and it exploded!, I was laughing so hard.It's predictable and somewhat cheezy throughout, but it still manages to be really funny.  Alan and Tony put in _great_ supporting cast performances. I've missed Tony since Wings was cancelled. "},{"Title":"Smashing!","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just in my taste, perfect movie! It's really funny, and sometimes really serious. Done in a very good way. It's also a great parody on Star Trek. As all good movies, this one has some really golden scenes. Like the one where the crew is being examined by giant squids with tools. I still laugh when I think about it. Don't miss out! "},{"Title":"This movie should be enshrined...","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is how a spoof should be handled! Galaxy Quest should be elevated to the ultimate heights of Comedy and left there forever as an example! Austin Powers pales in comparison! Galaxy Quest is the funniest thing I have EVER seen with me laughing so hard tears were coming out of my eyes on a regular basis! I don't care if you aren't a Science Fiction fan - this is one comedy EVERYONE should see!And the suprising thing is, although Tim Allen is magnificent as the ego-maniac captain, Sigourney Weaver sensational as the underrated bimbo who repeats everything the computer says, and Alan Rickman is oh so dry as the jaded shakespearean actor who has become the type-cast and bitter half alien, the funniest scenes go to the supporting cast. Particular kudos go to one scene involving the ship doing something no space-faring vehicle has ever done in a film before, Sam Rockwell as the 'extra crewman who gets killed before the first commercial break and mucho mucho  kudos to Tony Shalhoub for the dryest and funniest performance ever... "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'd been waiting months to see Galaxy Quest, and I finally got to rent it. I was expecting a lot more laughs and a lot more spoofs. I mean, you have Ripley from Aliens and the voice of Buzz Lightyear in this space movie. How could they not have milked it for all it was worth?? Then again, I'm not a science fiction fan at all, and not a Trekky (even though quite a few loved ones are), so maybe you have to be a sci-fi fan to enjoy it. I don't know. I was expecting more of a laugh out loud parody and was disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Hey!  Don't open that!  It's an alien planet!  Is there air!?  You don't know!!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hilarious!  A beautiful mix of parody and movie.  Everything you ever thought about Star Trek is made fun of in this movie, from the stop at 1 second countdown to the Crewman #6 always dies conundrum.  A must see!  This is an EXCELLENT film!  All the characters are perfect, though Alan Rickman steals the show!9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"The greatest Trek movie that never was","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This comedy didn't miss a single beat.  Fine writing by David Howard and Robert Gordon, excellent ensemble work from the cast, and good use of special effects are all brought together faultlessly by Dean Parisot in a comedy action fantasy that both roasts and celebrates Star Trek culture. I took my whole family and they loved every minute. "},{"Title":"WillfulSuspensionOfDisbelief makes this movie one of a kind and amazingly enjoyable","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a blast!  I haven't enjoyed a movie this much in quite some time.  If you are familiar with Star Trek (both the original and TNG) then the humour won't be lost upon you.  The story is fun and quirky, but the jokes and jabs are precious!  Each character added to the movie's value, and that value is extraordinary!The characters from a 'Star Trek' type show are asked to help save an alien race.  They even bring along a red shirt!  The alien scenarios are remarkably similar to the show's tv scenarios, making for great lines for the semi-abuducted cast!A kid's movie for adults! "},{"Title":"A wonderful spoof of sci-fi series and their fans","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this film would be a waste of time but I was way wrong.  This film is very funny and even a bit dramatic at times.  The storyline of some sci-fi series actors having to play their on-screen parts for real was original and very entertaining.  I am a scf-fi fan and could appreciate how the film showed the lives of type-cast actors and actresses in a fun way.  Isn't just ashame that Star Trek is not for real or is it???? "},{"Title":"Alright spoof of Star Trek","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was an OK spoof on Star Trek, but I was hoping to see a general mockery of sci fi in general.  I didn't see any references to other famous sci fi such as Dr. Who and Star Wars, which I hoped would be made fun of as well.  "},{"Title":"Actors or intergalactic heros? You decide.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well being just actors in the real world and then pretending to be intergalactic heros to help save aliens in the fight to save their people. Well I think Tim Allen was great in the film and so was Sigourney Weaver and the rest of the actors all were great. I recommend this comedy hit to friends and everyone for a good laugh.  "}{"Title":"By Grabthar's hammer, you shall be amused!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" William Shatner said it with tongue firmly in cheek over twenty years ago Get a life! Thank Grabthar the writer of Galaxy Quest never took his advice. This is a very playful satire on not only the original Star Trek series, but some of its descendents, as well. There's Sarris' ship, a mixture of Romulan Warbird and Doomsday Machine. There's also an attempted deception on the bridge á la Wrath of Khan. And the Protector interiors have more of a Next Generation feel to them. With this much affection for the characters and situations, David Howard must be a fan.Some compare GQ to Mel Brooks' Spaceballs. Not even close. Spaceballs was an outright farce with only one good laugh, several titters and not much of a plot. This is more like The Last Starfighter, plus 15 years. Here was the mistaken identity with the reluctant heroes, the fantasy ship suddenly made real, the torture of a captive that almost scares away the crew, and the leathery-skinned villain with almost identical bluster.Tim Allen turned in a surprisingly good performance which was at its best when he wasn't mugging for the camera. After the subtle seriousness of Nesmith's personal crisis at and after the convention, it was distracting to see him lapse into broad humor in the limousine and on the bridge. The only other flaw is that he's not handsome enough. It's hard to believe women and girls would have found him a sex object even during the halcyon days of the show. Young William Shatner, he's not. I wish Bruce Campbell had been in this role instead. Campbell has in the past successfully mixed dashing good looks with deadpan humor and campy, over the top action.Alan Rickman does a wonderful job as Alex Dane/Dr. Lazarus. One could almost see the loathing Leonard I am not Spock Nimoy had for his role in the early years after the show was cancelled, especially as he snatches proffered 8x10 glossies from the hands of obsessed Questerians. He does steal the scenes every bit as much as Nimoy did from Shatner.As for Sigourney Weaver as blonde bombshell Gwen DeMarco, aka Tawny Madison -- By Grabthar's hammer, you shall be aroused! Again, you could almost see Nichelle Nichols complaining that her only job was to say, Hailing frequencies open.Most of the rest of the cast underscored the comedic bent of the film. Aside from Tim Allen, it was a parade of NBC sitcom actors who know firsthand the pain of cancellation, including Daryl Mitchell of the John Larroquette Show and Veronica's Closet and Tony Shalhoub of Wings and Stark Raving Mad. Only Enrico Colantoni of Just Shoot Me is still on the air. Mitchell's Laredo was least delineated; it felt like the stock Daryl Mitchell character, the wisecracking token African-American. Moreover, the joke about Shalhoub's decidedly non-Asian Fred Kwan/Tech Sergeant Chen is completely obtuse.One caveat don't think overmuch about this movie or you'll see the plot holes. The studio would never allow the actors to attend conventions in costume and in character. Nor would the actors show up just for autograph sessions. A speech or question & answer panel would have been more likely and perhaps more appropriate for Nesmith's get a life-like blowup. Why didn't the Thermians wonder about what happened to the original Protector if they thought it was real? Why build their own instead of seeking out the original? True space heroes wouldn't be Earthbound. Finally, they crash-land on Earth in an alien spacecraft and all that happens is their show is resurrected? Not if the government has anything to say about it.Unfortunately, the ultracheesy scenes from Galaxy Quest - The Original Series fall flat. They reached just a little too far on this. By 1982, the time GQ-TOS was supposed to have aired, science fiction effects on TV had become far more sophisticated than the original Star Trek series this was supposed to lampoon. Glen Larson creations Battlestar Galactica and Buck Rogers had effects not too far below what Star Wars introduced in theaters in 1977. Also, the cinematography was intentionally amateurish, while ST-TOS usually had fine camera-work. It couldn't have been a primetime network series, nor was the first-run syndication market ready in the early '80s. The effects and set designs are consistent with a Saturday morning children's show in the same vein as Filmation's Space Academy, Jason of Star Command and Ark II. Alas, it's more difficult to imagine such a kiddie show becoming the cult classic GQ-TOS was supposed to be.But nevermind that. If you can only watch one Star Trek movie this year, don't. Watch Galaxy Quest instead. "},{"Title":"Life's too serious - give us more of this!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was a delight to just have a good night out and a laugh. I am not known for laughing out loud in cinemas - but this was an exception. Excellent casting, a fun script with a tongue-in-cheek dig at us 'SF' fans. If you are a trekkie then lighten up and watch this. Excellent!  "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud funny!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When a movie has this much hype, I'm usually disappointed. Galaxy Quest on the other hand was a great as everyone said it would be. It's been a long time since a movie made me laugh this hard. Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver were both very good, but the funniest roles went to Allen Rickman, Sam Rockwell,and Daryl Mitchell. The three of them had me in tears! For those of you who watched Star Trek, then Rockwell's Crewman #6 will keep you laughing! Daryl Mitchell is hysterical as the pilot and Alan Rickman's alien character is too funny for words. This movie is definitely a must see!  "},{"Title":"Definitely not another kid movie!!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is not just for the kids, it is a very entertaining movie that adults can enjoy too.  Thumbs up to the cast, it was a very well done movie.  I am not particularly a kid movie watcher--even though I have kids.  Sigourney Weaver, as a blond, looks good--the best that I have EVER seen her look in a movie. Tim Allen does his usual work and the special effects(rock monster in particular), were grade A.  It wasn't hilarious throughout, but then again I don't think that it was meant to be.  A good family movie that EVERYONE  can enjoy.  9/10 stars. "},{"Title":"So funny, I saw it three times.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this film. Every scene made me laugh, the characters were funny, especially Alan Rickman with his dry humour when he had to eat the bugs! I thought it was so funny, I saw it three times, which was normally reserved for House on Haunted Hill, and Jurrasic Park. "},{"Title":"Fun movie.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie.  I laughed at the jokes and was entertained throughout.  Sigourney Weaver looked great.  The story is just what you think it would be given the premise of the movie but it was done so well I was entertained.  Effects are good; no stings visible and the aliens were inventive and fleshed out, sometimes in green.  Worth seeing if you are a Star Trek fan. "},{"Title":"An affectionate nod to fans of all walks","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Never seen Star Trek? See this movie anyway! While Galaxy Quest certainly parodies the classic sci-fi series, its appeal is more universal than that. If you have ever been a serious fan of anything, especially something of the fantasy/sci-fi genre, the film will strike a chord for you. Every fandom knows is own Brandons, Kyles, and romantics, and the greatest pleasure for me was recognizing these traits in people I know. The humor ranges from kiddie slapstick to subtle in-jokes and rich facial acting, offering something for everyone. But behind the laughter and the fantastic plot are honest, human characters with real quirks and faults that make them all the more endearing. Even the obsessive fans have personality that goes beyond their character type. These are people you would easily expect to meet on the street, and I for one would love to do so. "},{"Title":"What a fun movie!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  O.K., so I'm inclined toward some campy movies, but this one is just plain fun. If you can think as if you were a kid again, just long enough to enjoy yourself, the daily realities slip away. I saw it as a cross between Star Trek and The HitchHiker's Guide to the Galaxy. Just good fun with plenty of imagination. (Suspend your cynicism for the duration, it's worth it.) "},{"Title":"What a fun movie!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  O.K., so I'm inclined toward some campy movies, but this one is just plain fun. If you can think as if you were a kid again, just long enough to enjoy yourself, the daily realities slip away. I saw it as a cross between Star Trek and The HitchHiker's Guide to the Galaxy. Just good fun with plenty of imagination. (Suspend your cynicism for the duration, it's worth it.) "},{"Title":"A remarkable use of modern humour with in-jokes","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's nice to see some a Americans who have grasped the concept of sarcasm and satire.  This movie is a complete take-off of Star Trek with a twist. The Galaxy Quest show has been cancelled (unlike Star Trek) with a three year run.  They now spend time appearing at conventions for all their obssessive fans, only to find that some of their fans are actually aliens. They are taken on a voyage to save the world as the aliens believe their show to be a documentary series rather than a serial.  Tim Allen is suprisingly funny (except for his attempt at a hang-over, Signourey Weaver delicately plays the blonde feminist bimbo stealing most of the attention but Alan Rickman steals the show as the cynical English actor who is jealous of his heroic counterpart Tim Allen.  The story can get overly-ambitious at making you laugh, but then again, so did Toy Story 2.  Well worth the visit. "}{"Title":"Is not Dead, Tim!! Is good!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah this is good, a fun spoof of Trek films and Trekkies themselves, nicely done, well acted with just the right kinds of F/X, satire and straight out action. You would think that a movie like this starring 'Tool time', Sigourney W and the taxi driver from Wings wouldn't be all that good, but it is-much better, tighter and smarter than it has any right to be.Spoofs that try to walk the fine line of satire/playing it straight tend to go wrong, ala 'Mighty Heroes' or whatever the Superhero spoof of a year ago with Garafalo, Kinnear and Pee-Wee Herman....This one gets it right, and it is funny to boot, too.I liked it a good deal. Not a classic, but certainly better than most of the recent Trek films, esp. the last one and the one that knocked off Shatner.*** outta ****, much fun. "},{"Title":"The More I Think About Galaxy Quest The More I Like It.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is a funny, adventurous and action packed film with a good story but most of all it is stupid and wild which is a reasonably good thing sometimes!Well, a bunch of actors go into space to help a bunch of hilarious aliens fight Cirius - a plant look alike monster. Their journey gets wilder and funnier and soon they wonder if they did the right thing going into space in the first place? Sigourney Weaver and those alien guys are great but Tim Allen is pretty annoying in this movie - he is seriously not a very good actor.I hear everyone thinking this is funny, cool and above average and I suppose the more I hear about it the more I like it.My rating (for the moment!!) - 7/10. "},{"Title":"Fun and entertaining","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great spoof of Star Trek like actors having to do it in real life.  EXTREMELY entertaining, fast paced, and funny.  Tim Allen as William Shatner, er, Jason Nesmith did a good job of centering the cast.  Loved Alan Rickman (gee, is he really as stuffy as he seems?). Fun effects, especially the rock man.  I'm no prude, but I enjoyed the fact that a really entertaining movie could be made without a single obscenity being uttered. By the way, Sigourney Weaver is stunning as a blonde. "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tim Allen is in top form in Galaxy Quest.  He's the unbeliever who lavishes in the praise of the crowd.  He's full of himself, and has no respect for others.  He plays this kind of role well.  Yet, when things take an unusual turn, he begins to find the good in others.  This seems to be a typical Tim Allen movie.  And, like most other work by him, it is extremely funny.If you are a Star Trek fan, you'll really get a kick out this.  However, if you're a serious, over-the-edge, fan, you might get offended.Incidentally, this isn't just a guy movie.  I took my wife, and she loved it.  She even recommended it to her friends. "},{"Title":"Great movie! A must see for all star trek fans!","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was excellent.  A good parody of star trek that was funny and adventurous.  Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, and the other actors all did a wonderful job.  The only part that I really didn't like about this movie was that Sigourney Weaver definitely was showing too much cleavage at the end of the movie.  Her uniform kept on becoming less and less of a uniform as the movie went on.  It was totally unnecessary and took away from the overall quality of the movie. "},{"Title":"Good-natured spoof of Star Trek","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very good comedy, not many of those about these days, which manages to sublimely tread the line between mocking Star trek and celebrating it. The idea itself is the old chestnut of people being taken for something they aren't and then proving that they are. However, put into the situation of washed-up has-beens from a long-cancelled TV show and it seems both new and, most importantly, relevant to anyone who likes the aforementioned Star Trek. The special effects are superb and add greatly to the 'realism' of the movie and the humour, though practically non-existent at the beginning of the film, makes the second half one big barrel of laughs. Tim Allen is superb as the obviously Shatner-inspired Jason Nesmith and he's ably supported by a surprisingly strong cast. Best of all though are the 'termites' (watch the film and you'll know what I mean) and Sam Rockwell's magnificent Crewman #6 who knows fine well just how expendable he is. Helped along by some mean looking baddies, who reminded me just a little too much of those from 'The Fifth Element', and plenty more ST references this is a must see movie for any cinema goer.  "},{"Title":"Everything Counts In Large Amounts....","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen Galaxy Quest three times now, once in my local megaplex and twice in my home theater.  I find that I have a greater appreciation for it with each successive viewing.  This is a concept movie that hits all the right notes and works on so many levels that you may want to see it more than once so you can enjoy them all. As usual, we will not discuss plot points, as you are well aware of the setup by now, and I don't want to give anything away so let's begin with what was done well.Galaxy Quest succeeds because it does all the little things right.  Plain and simple.  There is no one aspect to this film that makes it outstanding, but when you put all the components together, I can't possibly see how it could not work.The film is poking fun at anyone who has ever been obsessed with anything.  The direct correlation is with Star Trek, but let's face it, South Park, the Simpsons, X-Files and any other pop culture phenomenon is the inspiration for the story.  Any T.V. show, movie or book where the fans know every detail, even more so than the people involved, is the subject matter here.If you have never been to a Bi-Monthly Science Fiction Convention, Galaxy Quest will show you what you have been missing. From cast members re-living the show to fans getting dressed up to discuss the exact details of each episode. We see that each person attending the convention, including the stars of the show, are there to celebrate the experience and be fulfilled.  The movie is smart to not try to make fun of the actual people, it hones in on where the joke actually lies, which is in the reality of the situation.  All of the scenes involving the cast of Galaxy Quest at one of these events is executed wonderfully.Galaxy Quest then takes us into space where the former crew of the NSEA Protector (a.k.a the USS Enterprise), find themselves on a real NSEA Protector, fighting the evil Sarrus to save a race of friendly aliens who have mistaken the episodes of Galaxy Quest for historical documents.  The film executes the science fiction aspect of the film very well (the Protector is a dead ringer for the Enterprise) and the special effects help to support the world our crew now find themselves in. I enjoyed how the story employed the use basic Sci-Fi stereotypes, like  the crew beaming down to the planet to gather raw materials, and the bizarre names given to those materials ie birilium sphere.  From the music, to the set and costume design, Galaxy Quest pays homage to all those old TV shows, movies, and books. It's just such fun to watch.  There is so much here that I found myself having trouble enjoying the story as I was so distracted by all the references to it's inspiration.The performances were outstanding.  This is not a dramatic movie where there were many tense moments but the crucial element is they tap into our expectations and meet them.  The film knows most people who attend are familiar with the Star Trek phenomenon, and even if you haven't seen an episode of the show, or one of the movies, Galaxy Quest manages to play on our preconceived notions about the show and turn them into comedic moments and draw us right into the fantasy.This movie can be enjoyed by anyone, but the greater attachment you have to the Star Trek phenomenon (or any other pop culture phenomenon for that matter) the more you will find in this movie to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Better acted than the Star Trek movies they spoof","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The writer and director of this film have actually done what would have been a good Star Trek movie.  It may be spoofing the Space Opera but this film morphs into a really good example of the genre.  There are plot holes but those are easily forgiven due to the fact this is a comedy. "},{"Title":"Spoof of Star Trek genre","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Any fan of Star Trek should see this film - especially if you can laugh at the whole Trekkie thing.  Well thought out plot and very subtle humor pokes fun at Trekkies and those who take the Trekkie business just a little too serious.   Tim Allen is well cast as the captain, and he does a credible job at the part. Sigorney Weaver's talent is wasted here - her lines are few, although they add to the humor and the role she was given was well scripted for this movie.  Notice near the end of the film the obvious dubbing out of Weaver's utterance of a certain four letter word that, if it had been heard, would have changed the rating of the film.  The best roles are those of the secondary characters - they also produce the best laughs.  This isn't a very funny movie - the humor is more subtle and must viewed in light of all Star Trek/science fiction movies.  If you can laugh at them, then you will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"A rare gem homage and satire","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was surprised at how funny Galaxy Quest was. I was even more surprised at its depth. I have watched it twice (once at the theater, once on home DVD) and the skill with which Galaxy Quest both pokes fun at (essentially) Star Trek and its fans and at the same time pays tribute to them is admirable. That the movie also manages to be funny and have a decent plot are bonuses.I've been a sci-fi fan for three decades and grew up watching Star TrekThe Original Series with my dad. Though it has been hokey at times, Star Trek continues to occupy an important place in my appreciation of TV and movies. Therefore I wasn't sure what to expect when I saw the trailer for Galaxy Quest. To be honest, the trailer did not look very funny and I am not a Tim Allen fan.The humor comes from watching the movie as a whole, and its interplay with the well-known characteristics of Star Trek. There is lots of biting commentary, usually from the mouths of the actors to lessen the sting (in one scene, the Spock-like character turns to the Kirk-like captain, who has just barely escaped with his life from a fight, and says tersely, Well I see you managed to get your shirt off again!). There is also more gentle humor, most of it from the Scotty character who, in contrast to the high-strung Star Trek engineer, is laid back to the point of near unconsciousness (yet he adjusts to the sudden change of scenery better than any character except the ego-driven captain).At the same time, the movie somehow manages to uphold the themes of co-operation, courage and exploration that Star Trek has always championed. It also shows Trekkie-like fans in a positive light, as people who have a harmless obsession and often are very bright, capable and far better-suited to solve a few tricky problems than your regular non-sci fi fans.The DVD is terrific, with a funny interface and several extras, including eleted scenes. One bonus is a soundtrack in Thermian, the idea of which is actually funnier than the experience(try watching more than a few minutes of the movie in that language).Galaxy Quest is also a good family movie, with very little (if any) swearing and only cartoony violence. To many this may have been a big film, but to me it was a hidden gem that was much more enjoyable than the trailers indicated. "}{"Title":"A Fine Thoughtful Homage/Parody","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A quite enjoyable look at fandom and how people's lives turn out.  Obviously based on the post-Trek lives of the 7 main actors from Star Trek (though 'Galaxy Quest' appears to have had no movies, and appears to be on the level of a 'Great American Hero'), this movie, while fun and entertaining, is also a very considered look at personal identity.  Tim Allen, while never the greatest actor on the planet, does a very credible job as a William Shatner clone, trying to live life as a guy who caught a lucky break on an old cheesy show and is riding it for everything he can.  Sigourney Weaver also appears to be having great fun, as she gets to play a less-than-inspirational character than her Ripley roles from the 'Alien' movies.Alan Rickman.  What can I say?  Nothing, except that he had two of the most heart-rending moments in movies in 1999.  The first is the death scene (not his own) in this movie, and the second being his relation of having to tell Jesus that he was the chosen one in 'Dogma.'  Have to love the man; he can really act.However, the hidden gem in this movie is Tony Shalhoub.  Though he has been hidden in minor roles on 'Wings' and The X-Files' before, here he shows a wonderfully subdued comic brilliance as the only on of the cast who is actually comfortable with the situation.  He saves the day and cracks me up (especially with the best use of FYI that I have ever seen).  Just lovely understatement all the way.  "},{"Title":"Cream me up Scotty...","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very rarely has &#145;art imitated life imitating art imitating life' as well as in my &#145;film of the month' of April 2000 &#145;Galaxy Quest', a very funny space adventure, & a wicked but affectionate &#145;Star Trek' satire.Apparently director Dean Parisot's all-time favourite movie is &#145;The Three Amigos'; &#145;Galaxy Quest' is basically the same story translated to space.Phasers are set on &#145;laugh' as Tim Allen (the voice of &#145;Buzz Lightyear'), a bimboed-up Sigourney Weaver, England's Alan Rickman (&#145;Die Hard', &#145;Robin Hood Prince of Thieves') hamming it up to the max, scene-stealing Tony Shalhoub, Sam Rockwell & Daryl Mitchell play actors of a &#145;Trek'-like TV series that was axed 18 years before & who now have to content themselves with fan convention appearances & tacky store openings.Thinking they are being taken to a gig by organisers who are just taking their roles very seriously, they end up on an alien spaceship in the middle of a war with a very nasty species of warlike aliens. The aliens have been monitoring Earth TV & have taken the heroics of the &#145;Galaxy Quest' TV show as fact. With their civilisation under threat, in desperation they have turned to the great Commander Taggert & his crew to once again save the day. Unfortunately they don't know this yet, then the jokes fly as thick & fast as a photon torpedo through butter as a bunch of has-been actors have to try to be the real space heroes they've for so long pretended to be&#133;It might sound pretentious & cliched, but this really is a film that works equally well on several levels it's an extremely funny comedy, it's a brilliant send-up of &#145;Star Trek', but it's also well-done & affectionate enough in it's satire to actually work as a straight example of the very genre it's lampooning.You don't have to even know &#145;Trek' exists to enjoy this, but if like me you're a bit of a &#145;Trekkie' but with a sense of humour, you'll love it. The in-jokes are spot-on Weaver's character's only role on the ship being just to repeat what the computer says; the actor whose one role was as an expendable crewmen on an away mission who becomes terrified of dying when on a &#145;real' away mission, etc. etc. Die-hard &#145;Trekkers' get a particularly hard time - but it turns out that even the worst of the geeks have their uses&#133;This film is a joy from start to finish it's clever, exciting, has great special effects, is hilariously funny & even quite moving in places. My verdict go see it!   "},{"Title":"A most excellent spoof - with a plot","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is difficult to find a good spoof movie that still has a plot, but Galaxy Quest does it!!! - There are so many in jokes within the movie, not just based on the Star Trek phenomenon, but also personal in-jokes from the cast. There are many opportunities for a good belly laugh, as well as times when it makes you stop and think.  An all round fun film. "},{"Title":"Two tentacles up ...  way up!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a very good movie for me to spend the evening watching with my two daughters who are 10 and 12. I'm always impressed when we all enjoy the movie equally. Some of the funniest scenes of the movie center around the fanatics that attend the conventions of cancelled sci-fi shows. The main characters from Galaxy Quest portray the actors from one of these shows and they do a great job of showing the frustration and disappointment in the way their careers have turned out. When a group of real aliens (who are extremely funny) recruit the actors for actual space battle, Tim Allen as the commander must convince the other actors that they need this as a chance of redemption for their boring lives. Sigourney Weaver is fabulous, spoofing her Ripley character from the Alien flix. The special effects are top-notch and even though the story  is predictable there are plenty of laughs throughout to keep you interested.  "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE OF 1999","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We were and are still crazy about this movie!  We can't wait until it goes on sale to add to our collection!  All of the actors were superb. The script was hysterically funny.  The directing was flawless.We honestly thought it that it blew Star Wars Phantom Menace out of the water, (We thought SWPhantom was the worst movie of 1999).Please make more of this type of movie.  Thank you for making this movie. It was long overdue for public viewing pleasure. "},{"Title":"An Alan Rickman vehicle, again!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A Star Trek spoof has enough material in being that alone, but this one was billed as a star fest with Allen, Weaver and Rickman in it.Every time he is in a role, Rickman steals the film, and he doesn't fail to do it again as the Spock figure - his indifference to the whole Sci-Fi phenomenon was brilliantly portrayed.Sigourney Weaver was also good as the token bimbo, and Tim Allen did well in the Kirk role.The story was a little weak in places, but this film was worth seeing for the cast alone - and Rickman especially. "},{"Title":"Take note - this is so much better that SpaceBalls!!","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So there we were - the confirmed trekkie and moviephile (me), and my two buddies, the serious family man with an eye for details, and the loon, who for some reason absolutely HATED Airplane, and feared that this movie would be another just like it. Boy were they wrong!At the opening of the movie, we started laughing, along with everyone else that sunday night in Wycombe. We just never stopped. Tim Allen is OK, I'm not much of a fan, but he was good as the Kirk character. Alan Rickman is superb, as always - he's at his brilliant best when playing himself! Sigourney Weaver - woof! The rest of the cast are great, and fit in so well. But what really does it for me is the attention to details, like I was sitting there, and whenever something happened, I laughed, and also thought 'Oh that's from Wrath Of Khan ' or whatever. The spoofing is so good, it's almost like the real thing was a piss-take of Galaxy Quest!If you have any feeling in your soul, either as a die-hard trekkie, a lover of the ridiculous, or even just wanting to see how fun movies should be, go and see Galaxy Quest. Oh, and by the way, my summary above is in response to a review by my localnewspaper, The Maidenhead Advertiser, who said Go and see. However bad this is, it can't be worse than SpaceBalls.   "},{"Title":"One of the best Sci-fi spoofs you are ever likely to see","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To start with a cliche, and this film as every sci-fi one in it, if you only see one film this year, see this one! Galaxy Quest is a superb take on Star Trek a must see for all fans of the genre. I won't spoil any of the comic situations by telling, just take my word for it, the film gets it right every time. all the acting is superb, Allen, Weaver and Rickman are spot on throughout. So stop reading this get down to your local cinema and see this picture. "},{"Title":"Spoof or not A spoof, that is the question?","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is basically a star trek spoof, but without any mention of star trek in it or anything named like that in star trek. Some comparisons are, the Enterprise being taken out of the docking bay like in the The Undiscovered country, the convention at the start of the show with everybody dressing up like they do at Star Trek conventions and the fact that after 5 minutes of beaming down all the extras are dead. This is a VERY funny film. I larefed more in this film than in Something About Mary and Men In Black put together. If you are a fan of Star Trek you will love this film. Because it just shows the reality of things. "},{"Title":"To boldly go ?","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I am a Star Trek fan of many years, so why do I enjoy this ?It is a good film, in short it is funny.The cast is first class, Tim Allen is a personal favourite of mine, and his TV show Home Improvement is always a must watch, but with Ms Weaver and Mr Rickman in the cast too this had to be more than the 'average' movie comedy.To see such high profile stars such as Alan Rickman in a role far from how most remember him (the villain of Die Hard) makes you laugh in it's self, only my opinion but he should attack more comedy roles !There are enough satirical swipes at sci-fi movie culture to make you laugh and think at the same time, the film like to poke it's tongue at fans of shows, and how involved they can be (and Yep I own a Star Trek suit so there).If you are out to see a good comedy, then you can look forward to seeing this. "}{"Title":"A clever, satirical look at Sci-Fi cults","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This a is a very good film. It is enjoyable from the beginning to the very end. The thing which stands out over the plot and special effects, is the performances. Rickman is (as usual) is brilliant and just strolls through the role. Allen and Shaloub also bring a great amount of humour the plot. AND WHAT ABOUT SIGOURNEY WEAVER!!!!!!! She looks absolutely gorgeous!!!! It is so refreshing to see her not looking like a very butch Ellen Ripley (Although Ellen is a legend). Weaver really seems to enjoy the role, as do all the other characters. The creature effects are also brilliant and add a certain 'realism' to the movie. All in all, this is a very funny spoof of all those cult Sci-Fi classics, like Star Trek and Star Wars, and of the people that worship them. This is a clever movie that the whole family can enjoy. "},{"Title":"sci-fi-spoof of the better sort","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I quite liked Galaxy Quest it is an amusing take on Star Trek which treats its subject with respect and offers a lot of visual references Alan Rickmans alien doctor reminded me with his look very much of Spock of the classic Star Trek and Neelix from Voyager while all the special effects are basically similar to those used in the Trek series (not to mention the alien ships), yet up to date and quite convincing. Especially in the first 45 minutes or so, offers the movie some really hilarious scenes, the long introduction scene at the Galaxy Quest fandom meeting where the crew turns up to give autographs, is one of my favourites. The cast was perfectly chosen with Tim Allen (unexpectedly good and subtle performance), Sigourney Weaver (showed that she has no problems to make fun of the character she became famous with, Ripley from the Alien series) and Alan Rickman. Yet I'm not quite convinced for one thing I found the friendly aliens too much protrayed as caricatures and secondly the ending is too stretched (I don't want to spoil it, I think when you watch the movie, you'll guess what I mean). It doesn't come close to the likes of Toy Story 2 and is not really good overall, but yet I could sit back and enjoy it despite the slightly flawed script. (6,5 out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Culturally Important","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At the risk of sounding pretentious, I think that this film will be a crucial one to political and cultural theorists in a couple of years.  The film's balance of friendly cynicism with almost neo-romantic idealism will soon become the dominant mindset in our information age.In this world where Virginia can find out that Santa Claus doesn't exist in less than thirty seconds by surfing Yahoo, Galaxy Quest provides the model of holding on to a sense of innocence and wonder without ignoring reality. In other words, the message of the film seems to be It's just a television show, but it's okay to truly *believe* anyway.  Kudos to Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver for seeing something truly sublimely beautiful beneath something so fun.     "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an excellent satire on matured actors and the audiences suspension of belief. Above all however, it is great fun and has some great comedy in it. Trekkies should of course find it especially appealing as long as they have the humour to laugh at themselves. Alan Rickman executes an excellent performance as the disaffected actor playing the Spock like figure and Sigourney Weaver looks sexier than ever as the female lead.  The film should have something for everyone and is highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a big fan of Star Trek and science fiction in general, I didn't know if I was going to like this movie or find it silly. It was great.  The movie was funny from start to finish.  It made lite of Star Trek and all it's fans but in a really endearing way.  The cast was just great and it was one of the best surprises of 1999.  Just great fun.  "},{"Title":"VERY VERY FUNNY !!!","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie in Brussels festival of fantasy film and the whole screening room was laughing ! The characters are really good just as their actors. Sam Rockwel is very good in this movie. If you haven't seen it...just go, you won't regret ! "},{"Title":"Haven't enjoyed a film so much for ages","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How lovely to see a comedy where the main characters were all my side of 35, particularly in view of the number of twentysomething comedies there have been around lately.I've just seen the film at an advance preview screening in the UK - and it has been a long time, if ever, that I've heard an audience laugh so much.And, more importantly (-)) isn't Tim Allen's body gorgeous! "},{"Title":"Fabulous dead on funny movie","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I laughed , I cried, I nearly wet my pants. No other movie has made me glad I love the Sci-fi Genre quite as much. I am looking forward to purchasing it on May 2 . Never give up! Never Surrender!Love it "},{"Title":"If you have low expections you will like this.","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday and having read poor reviews of it I did not have any great expectations for it.Well I was pleasently suprised.This is a very entertaining movie....BUT and it's a big but it should not be seen as JUST  a comedy. The advertisement for it proclaimed it was a comedy.but if you are expecting a laugh a miniute then you will be dissapointed. It IS funny but only in some parts.I would therefore regard this movie as a si-fi adventure that had star trek satire in it. Even if you removed the comedy it would still be a good movie (not great mind you but watchable)I was expecting far more satire in it thoughm,  I mean the jokes could be limitless.The acting was good and the special effects were of a high standard. Alot better than the latest star trek movie.I give 2 thumbs up for the makeup department. The bad guys had extreamly good quality and IMAGINITIVE costumes. Thereticaly this could have been made into a serious movie (just make them real heros instead of actors) and it would still work. I give this an 8/ 10  you will be entertained "},{"Title":"Star Trek is real","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is such a great idea it's amazing no-one had it before. The gags just fall into place and they're perfectly timed.The bizarre thing is that, on top of the industry in-jokes, there's a sci-fi plot, too - which some may argue is stronger then many episodes of Star Trek. In fact, this is how the Trek should have been; why didn't Scotty ever group-hug with the rest of the engineers?Meanwhile, the effects are strong in a Men In Black kind of way. And Sigourney looks great as a blonde.  "}{"Title":"Like the old Star Trek but intentionally funny","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When my husband realized that we were the only adults in the theatre not accompanied by little kids, he wanted to leave.  But I later heard him laughing out loud as we watched Tim Allen and Alan Rickman spoof James T. Kirk and Mr. Spock.  I'm an old Trekkie, so I enjoyed every minute of this delightful spoof. Truly a light-hearted good time! "},{"Title":"Three thumbs up, way up, earthling.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really had a good time with this movie.   This was a much better way to spoof the Star Trek genre than Airplane like movies like Spaceballs.   Not only did they knock the stuffing out of we Trekkies, especially those of us who obsess about it, but the gave back by adding some cool special effects and a rather slimy villan.   And it was great that they made the very thing they were making fun of, the detail oriented trivia that has surrounded the cult, the very thing that saved the day in the end.I highly recommend you enjoy this movie.  I will definately rent it when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, humourous, great special effects, action packed!!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was wild. I was impressed by the special effects, the story line, the acting and the humour used. It had a pinch of Star Trek to it, which suggested it was a sort of spin-off, which didn't bother be at all. The movie had a lot of elements that were similar to Sierra's video game Space Quest. I almost thought that the movie was originally based on this but because of the copyright, it would cost too much to base it on the video game. I think that there could easily be a sequel to this film. I also believe that Space Quest would become a good movie as well, who agrees? "},{"Title":"Out of this world.","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is a great fun movie that takes the mickey out of Sci/Fi fans sooooo well. It is good clean fun...and let's face it, if we Sci/Fi fans can't laugh at ourselves...who can we laugh at.Great stuff...go and see it for sure. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie with lots of heart","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With so many serious movies out at the same time, I knew that Galaxy Quest would be an escapist movie at the very least.  I had seen two dramas in a row (Bicentennial Man, Talented Mr. Ripley) and was *desperate* for some humor.  This movie was not only funny, but before the ending credits finished, I found that I thoroughly enjoyed myself.   So much so that I saw it again two days later!The biggest asset of the movie is that Tim Allen was believeable as the heroic Commander.  Instead of dreading another convention full of people with no life, he embraced his celebrity to the fullest and accommodated all his fans.  While his crew fed off his enthusiasm and stayed loyal to him throughout.  Allen was definitely at the heart of this movie, and he made it work very well.The most humorous scenes were the ones where the actors tried to portray their roles for their alien allies and failed miserably.  But once they realized how *important* they were in their respective roles, they easily fit into them like a glove.  This metamorphosis was fun to watch!The supporting cast was excellent, particularly Sigourney Weaver and Tony Shalhoub, and it was obvious that they all liked working with each other.  Though the plot felt a little thin at times, the actors definitely made the majority of the movie enjoyable.  And I found myself feeling like a kid again when the NEW adventures of Galaxy Quest was shown at the end.  I almost wished it were a real series!  I highly recommend seeing this one.  I can't wait for it to come out on video/DVD.  It's well worth it! "},{"Title":"A wickedly amusing movie","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't laughed so much in a theatre in a very long time.  Galaxy Quest is simply a superb movie.  The casting was great, the interaction between characters was all you could hope for, the special effects were appropriately cheesy, the script was terrific, and Tony Shalhoub turned in one of his greatest performances.  For a die-hard Star Trek fan, this was simply the greatest film of the year.  Like all good spoofs, it made fun of its subject on the the surface level, but deep down it was really a vindication.  I absolutely loved it and can hardly wait for it to come out on VHS.  It's mine!!! "},{"Title":"1999 year-end's pleasant surprise, Galaxy Quest has everything a really fun movie needs, minus the cheese.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rarely do we see a movie like Galaxy Quest- one that combines various genres and emotions so well that you are left with a sense that you've seen something truly special.  This movie has it all- action, comedy, sci-fi, drama.  Fun for all ages is a sentence that usually means only kids will like this movie, but in this movie's case, it really is for everybody. Brilliantly directed by Dean Parisot and containing one of the best ensemble casts to date, Galaxy Quest manages to poke light fun at the Star Trek actors and fans, but goes much further in praising both.  This movie is simply a must-see.    "},{"Title":"A definite 9; would have been a 10 if they could have cast it with the original Star Trek cast.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is it a spoiler if I say The good guys win?  After all, it's billed as a comedy. Which it is, of the knee-slapping, screaming with laughter kind. Half of the predicaments the crew gets into, you'll immediately see how they'll get out of, and the other half will surprise you hilariously.  If you have a slight hearing loss, as I do, go see it on the big screen anyway for the special effects, which are up to the highest current Hollywood standards, yet don't overwhelm the story.  Then rent or buy it when it comes out on video or DVD and enjoy it all over again with captions to help you with the lines that are covered by music, background sound effects, or other actor's lines.  That's what I'm going to do!  It's THAT good! "},{"Title":"To Boldly Do What No Man Has Done Before.","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a funny movie.  If you don't like Star Trek you will love this movie or if you like Star Trek you will still like it.  This is a great parody of Star Trek and has your favorite Tool Man, Tim Allen.  Galaxy Quest is also now a novel and a very good one I might add.  I would give Galaxy Quest four stars or two thumbs up.  When it comes out on video this movie will be another good movie to add to your collection.        "},{"Title":"One of the best movies!","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this movie should get a lot more attention than it has received. It is a great movie and I think it should have done better in the box office then it did.  The characters are fabulous and the story line is hysterically original.  Go see it!!! "}{"Title":"Okay, but *look*...","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't going to comment on the movie until I read some of the complaints that it wasn't Airplane or Naked Gun.  God forbid a movie should stake a claim of its own rather than following set routine.  And, by the way, the Airplane/Naked Gun space story has already been done; and we all know how memorable Spaceballs wasn't.My wife and I delayed seeing this movie because we thought it might be okay, but nothing to rush out and see.  WRONG.  This is the best space movie I've ever seen, especially compared to a piece of drek like Phantom Menace.  A space movie where you actually grow to care about the characters and really get wrapped up in the story?  Say it ain't so!The film has much in common with Waiting for Guffman.  In both movies, the writer clearly sees the faults and foibles of all its characters, but loves them anyway.  This film was the best time I've had in a movie in quite a while. "},{"Title":"Excellent Satire","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At first glance, one would expect this to be just another bad spoof, but the writing and performances keep this moving and humorous the whole way through. Just when you see something on screen that seems cliche and overdone, another character will make a comment to criticize the person who did it. Nothing escaped the screenwriters. And Sigourney Weaver was especially impressive in this. Her character is the bombshell stuck with the throw-away role, but she doesn't let that stop her. When you see this film - and you must - keep your ears attentive for the quick jibes that fly by so fast you risk missing them. This is one of the better comedies I've seen in a few years, perhaps ever. It stays clever throughout. "},{"Title":"Its Great","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love the movie. I wish it was real. I love all the cast. I would love to complement THE WHOLE ENTIRE CAST on a good job. And that also goes for producers etc. Even the side characters. If there is ever to be a good movie this is it. I am glad I had seen it.  "},{"Title":"Nice, good-hearted movie","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  GALAXY QUEST takes its time -- a pleasant enough forty minutes or so -- setting up its much funnier second half, and the rewards are worth it.  Some of the best lines feel improvised (a disgusted, Oh, that's not right! being the funniest), and the cast does well enough with even the thinner material.  Tim Allen is quite good here (I've never seen him in anything else, so I have no idea of his range, but he's actually more effective here than Weaver or Rickman Rickman, I think, is usually outstanding).  I also enjoyed Tony Shalhoub, who plays the engineer role (a la Scottie); it's a kick to see how much he and Allen's characters are enjoying their adventure, and Shaloub's line readings are hilarious (Group hug!).  Enrico Colantoni is wonderful as Mathesar, creating mannerisms and quirks which are illogical and inconsistent mimicry of the historical documents, but funny and forgivable as all this movie's plot holes.  I went into the theatre expecting a minor movie which I hoped would at least be diverting.  This is more special than that, and if it doesn't reach the comedic heights of, say, TOOTSIE or NAKED GUN, there is a great deal of good feeling and genuine humanity here -- even among the aliens.  Nice work. "},{"Title":"Just great ...","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As someone said, it spoofs the Star Trek genre while  embracing it.  Beautifully done.  Favorite line, That's not right.  Whether you like Star Trek or you think everyone should get a life, this movie is for you.  Tim Allen is a spoof of Kirk-man.  Sigorney Weaver is a macho Yeoman Rand. Wesley Crusher has grown up.  Alan Rickman is some sort of cross between Mr. Spock and Worf, but he looks like he escaped from the Membari home world on B5.  What can I say, it's just a fun couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Fun family entertainment","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've noticed from reading past reviews that the people who enjoyed this the most didn't expect it to be very good.  Those who expected it to knock them out were disappointed.I loved it.  I figured it would be a silly/stupid comedy and that's what I got.  I didn't expect to laugh as much as I did, but then I grew up on Star Trek, so I really appreciated the humor.  I also happen to like Tim Allen.My 11 year old son, who has never seen an episode of Star Trek, loved it as well.  (mild spoiler ahead -- skip the rest of this paragraph if you don't want to read it!) He liked the heroes getting help from younger fans, and while there weren't as many special effects as other movies, he loved the rock monster and the teleporting effects.  He also got hysterical every time the Thermians laughed.This is just plain 'good entertainment.'  If that's what you expect, you'll get your money's worth.   "},{"Title":"A great film - the most fun I've had at the movies in a long time!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie!  As a science fiction/adventure fan, I enjoyed the setting and the action.  As a former convention worker and attendee, I enjoyed the depictions of the actors.  These guys were slap-on, especially Tim Allen as the captain.  This is a fun film for the whole family.  You don't have to be a sci-fi fan (but it helps)! "},{"Title":"First of all....I loved it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all....I loved it. Never give up, never surrender is definitely the motto for audiences who love sci-fi and/or comedies....never give up hope that someday someone might make a great sci-fi comedy. That day has arrived.Galaxy Quest is by far one of the funniest movies this season. Tim Allen is Commander Peter Taggert or at least has played him on TV for four years. Now Allen and the careers of his crew have been limited to electronics store grand openings and/or sci-fi conventions.That is until one day when the Thermians, led by Enrico Colantoni, arrive at a convention to recruit Commander Taggert to lead them against their enemies. Add the supportive crew of Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub, Daryl Mitchell, and Sam Rockwell to Tim Allen and you have one hilarious film.The simplest way to describe this movie is imagine the Star Trek crew being recruited to fight off evil today....imagine Captain Kirk, Spock or Bones (well maybe not Bones because he died this past year for real), but imagine the others truly getting on a real Enterprise. For example, Sigourney Weaver's sole job is to repeat what the computer says, while Sam Rockwell or Guy is the guest appearance guy that always gets killed. One of my favorite scenes involves the crew on a strange planet looking at aliens who appear to be miners and the lines that are delivered are just hilarious. This is movie making at it's finest, it truly is.For everyone who has religiously watched soap operas or any television series on a weekly basis knows how easy it is to identify the actor solely as the character they play on television. Be honest here, when we watch William Shatner doing Rescue 911 we all know that it's really Captain Kirk just taking a side job until the next Star Trek movie comes out. It's the same as saying that we would rather have Martin Sheen of West Wing be our President than Uncle Bill. I promise you that there is not a minute of this film that you won't enjoy.Bottom line....young or old, this is one film you won't want to miss out on. "},{"Title":"A REAL HOOT !!!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I, too went to this on a friend's recommendation as so many others have as was rewarded with a clever, well-acted, funny movie. Not being a sci-fi or a Tim Allen fan I was still highly entertained throughout. The plot is well-paced. Sigourney Weaver is a very good comic actress as well as being stunningly attractive. The special effects are amazing and are well-blended with the frequent sight gags.The evil Sarris is an incredible, life-like alien lizard and Enrico Colontoni is just perfect in his speech and mannerisms as the chief alien Malthasar. A very enjoyable and (for a change) actually funny comedy.  "},{"Title":"This was a movie that was meant to be humorous, but had more.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I expected, when I went to see this movie, alot of slapstick comedy, with absolutely no story line.  I found out that, even though the slapstick was present, the movie still had heart.  It was good to see a happy combination of the two.  If a person is interested in comedy but doesn't want to walk out saying what was the movie about? then this is a good movie to see. "}{"Title":"This one is a keeper!!!","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a surprise.  My friends and I went to see this, not expecting much, after all, this movie wasn't promoted very well.  What we found was a very entertaining movie that had a little bit of everything.  The cast was perfect and the humor was fresh.  I'm not a Tim Allen fan but he did fit the role perfectly.  Sigourney Weaver was incredible.  Hopefully, this movie will be released on DVD.  If so, I will be one of the first in line to buy it. "},{"Title":"Only homo-sapiens between 7 and 107 would enjoy this picture","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest was an unexpected delight. I'd written a friend that I was planning on an uncerebral evening...  I was wrong.  I got all of the sophomoric humor one could want from a Star Trek parody ... and a whole lot more ... I got to face the older generation's fears about the young, and a younger generations fears about the oldsters... got to accept people (and aliens) as they are NOT as they're 'supposed to be'... I got to see how good loving an alien might be ... and just for fun, I got to ponder ... what is reality?  I might be wrong but I think I got ALL that matrix had to offer PLUS a sense of humor ... not a bad deal...  see it!  Next time I wanna pay more attention to Tech Sgt. Chen ... seems he's figured out how to approach each moment ... I think he's my hero! "},{"Title":"Who says movies aren't fun anymore?","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Went to see this on a recommendation from a friend . . . would never have seen it otherwise.  Looked like a kid flick.  I'm still thanking her.  It was a genuine, good-natured, fun movie. You don't have to know a lot about Star Trek to see it.  I mean,  I've seen the show but that's about it. Alan Rickman and Sigourney Weaver are excellent and Tim Allen plays his part with the right combination of straight and goofy.  If you want some light entertainment that's got laughs and action, go see this movie.  And recommend it to a friend.  They'll thank you for it. "},{"Title":"If you didn't find this film funny, perhaps you should check to make sure you are not dead...","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Definitely one of the best, funniest movies in a long time. The acting was great, the plot fairly original, and the theme of the film light-hearted and non-offensive. I took my friend along to see it - and she HATES sci-fi - and she laughed the entire time.I guess we should thank God or someone that every now and then Hollywood gets it right and makes something good. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see galaxy quest really expecting the worst. I was extremely pleased to see how good this movie was. I laughed throughout the movie and enjoyed it fully. The three people with me were all different ages and personalities and all enjoyed the movie as well. I think this is a movie that a whole family could enjoy together. Male, Female, Adult, Child... It doesn't matter.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie for Baby Boomers!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great flick for us Baby Boomers who grew up watching Star Trek!  It's a friendly spoof, and very well done.  The movie stands alone if you weren't a Trekkie, but if you were, you'll get more of the laughs (check out Tim Allen's posture in the captain's chair!). It's great to see a movie that's full of laughs without being crude!  A pleasant surprise and tons of fun! (Not necessarily a movie for kids - some harsh language plus lots of Sigourney Weaver cleavage.) "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a movie I went to strictly to accompany the kids, but I was pleasantly surprised by the high quality of this film.  It has a great sense of humor, the special effects were very good, the acting was first rate and the story was well written.And the movie stayed with us after we saw it, eliciting comments from everyone in the family.  It had a respectful view of life, much in the same way as a good Norman Rockwell illustration in that it brought out the best in every character.It is one of those movies that brings out a joyful attitude after seeing it. "},{"Title":"as good as it gets","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest does what it does just about as well as it can be done--if you don't love it, you don't love that sort of thing.  It's like perfect meatloaf--wonderful, unless you just hate meatloaf.  And I love this meatloaf. "},{"Title":"This Succeeds Very Well as a Fun Movie.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked Galaxy Quest a lot.  I knew from the beginning that it would be a straight parody of the Star Trek phenomenon, but it was handled in a manner that really captured that cheery gee whiz attitude of the sci-fi juggernaut.While I saw a lot of resemblance to the Star Trek television show, Galaxy Quest captured more of the relaxed humor of the film series in that these people had been around each other so long that they knew each others eccentricities and had an open camaraderie with each other.  Tim Allen did a great Shatner impersonation, right down to the dramatic gestures, and Sigourney Weaver's performance was really amusing as an officer whose only job was to relay the ship's computer messages.Actually, the whole cast was great, and the story was a lot of fun.  (Alan Rickman was perfect as the irritated Alexander Dane forever stereotyped to play Dr. Lazarus)  For a parody, it had a few surprisingly sincere moments in the film in its depictions of reality versus fantasy.  The one-liners were great, and even the fan boys of the film were given a chance to be the hero instead of being ridiculed.  Galaxy Quest was silly where it needed to be, and didn't push the boundaries to cheapen the overall experience.I hope this film does well enough at the box-office.  It deserves the chance, and I'll definitely be adding this one to my DVD collection.  Here's hoping they can come up with another great adventure to make a sequel.  Galaxy Quest succeeds simply because of its ability to be a fun movie.  "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing, but not the hilarity I expected.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (caution mild spoilers ahead.)When I first saw William Shatner's Get a life! skit on SNL, I was literally rolling around on the bed, jumping up and down on the floor, whooping and laughing out loud.  And I was alone in a hotel room.  Now that's comedy.Here we are, how many years? later, and I came into this movie expecting I'd react the same.  (Well, except for the rolling around on the bed part, the movie theater not being so equipped.)  So I spent too much of the movie disappointed that it wasn't funnier.Now that's an unfair comparison.  If a 100+ minute movie WERE that continuously funny half the audience would die of convulsions.So how does it work on its own?  Well... there were dozens and dozens of great bits.  Ah, great bits, great bits... that guy down the hall, the one you can't stand because he's forever quoting favorite lines from his favorite movies at you, will have a field day with this one.But great bits alone do not a great movie make.  And for the movie as a whole, I'm afraid that while the concept was fine, the implementation just didn't do it justice.It would've been a LOT better to go into this one not knowing anything about the plot.  Of course, that guy down the hall makes that impossible.  So I'd already heard the essential gimmick, and laughed at it, WEEKS before seeing the movie.(ok, here's the actual spoiler, not that it's a terribly big surprise to tell you that the good guys win...)But I think where it really started to unravel was when Our Heroes turned the desperate situation around and started winning.  See, the problem is, there is nothing in the film to tell us that Jason Nesmith, or even the whole group of bridge crew actors combined, really was clever enough or resourceful enough to come up with any of the saves... let alone all of them.  I'm just an actor!, remember?  They don't recall the original scripts that well, right?  (Well, except for Guy.)  A throwaway line that referred to some past job of Nesmith's, a job that required some thinking on one's feet and some physical ability (maybe firefighter, or mountain rescue team, or some such) could've helped a lot.Oh well, obviously bunches of other folks don't seem to care about such details.  And I'm not saying don't see it.  On the contrary.  Just don't expect it to be the thigh-slapper I did.   "}{"Title":"Campy sendup of Star Trek, an excellent 'beer movie'","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I give this movie a 7 out of a possible 8 for B-grade movies, a perfect 8 being _Big Trouble in Little China_. It's funny, not too deep, and even casual Star Trek fans will get a kick out of some of the satirical elements. Best line a witness to a guy making out with a girl who slowly turns into a giant squid That's... ...that's just WRONG! Tim Allen does a great Early Shatner, Sigourney Weaver's breasts figure prominently in the picture, and Alan Rickman's disaffected Spock/Worf is priceless. I used to be an ~actor~. I PLAYED RICHARD THE THIRD! All in all,  an enjoyable flick, and worth the seven bucks. "},{"Title":"Bugs Life meets Star Trek","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Entertaining movie, especially for Trekkies. But I was amazed at the parallels between Galaxy Quest and A Bug's Life.  I can't believe that the movies couldn't have been any more similar than if the writers tried.The villian in GQ looks like a large grasshopper as in ABL.  The timid aliens requiring help almost look (if not act like) the ants in ABL.  And the cast of the TV series parallel the circus bugs of ABL. Uncanny.  "},{"Title":"Killing time turned into side-splitting laughs","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was waiting to kill time, decided to go to the movies.  Hmm.  Cider House Rules or Galaxy Quest.  Decided to go light hearted.  I really hadn't seen the promos so I didn't know much about the film. Just that it was a spoof. There were four of us in the theater at 230 on a Thursday afternoon.I had no expectations.  I was just hoping to be slightly amused.  I was hysterical through the whole thing.  It has every cliche, every predictable event that could happen, but it is written and acted so well that it's funny, not annoying.I actually made my husband go with me that Friday night.  He kept shushing me because I was laughing aloud.  Tony Shalhoub is a hoot.  Sigourney Weaver did such a good job, that I forgot it was her.  Tim Allen rocks as the kirk-alike head of the group.  And Alan Rickman's portrayal of spock-like officer was superb.If you are into scifi, you'll love it and the second time around will catch more nuances to past tv shows, but even if you're not, you will have an enjoyable time watching a well balanced comedy. "},{"Title":"A great film, very well done!","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the better films I've seen come along in quite a while! It's definately at '10' in my book. Not only it is funny and fast moving, but it is also very well written. As a convention organizer myself, I can appreciate the high level of accuracy as well as humor of the various convention scenes with the fans and actors. A great job! "},{"Title":"Great ride, Lotsa Fun","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As brief as possible  This movie is much better than the trailers make it out to be.  If you've ever seen anything Star Trek, this movie is a must see.A spoof indeed, but very good-natured and very well done.  Tim Allen is a great Kirk-ish personality, and Sigourney Weaver turns in a fabulous performance as the show's blond bimbo.  In her character's own words...It may be a stupid job, but I'm going to do it right...All in all, all of us who went to see this movie were very pleasantly surprised at how much better is was than we were expecting. "},{"Title":"Surprised at how enjoyable this was","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Dallas Morning New gave a movie named Galaxy Quest a D. There must be two movies by that name because I would give this one a solid B or A-. What would happen if the cast of the Enterprise had to actually fight evil aliens? What would happen if another civilization took their ethics, technology and lifestyle from Star Trek? Most importantly, how do you tell the geeks at a Star Trek con from real aliens? Galaxy Quest takes all of those questions - and more - on, with terrific style, momentum, and a lot of affection. A Captain Kirk-like Tim Allen leads the has-been cast of the cancelled Galaxy Quest TV show through personal appearance gigs at conventions attended by dressed-up and made-up fans - and, in this case, some real aliens, who need the cast to save the day the way they always do on TV. Of course, the cast saves the day, but not before going through just about every cheesy sci-fi convention in the book the Battle the Monster to the Death, the Booby-trapped Interstellar Chase, the the Ship'll Break Apart if We Keep This Up! scene; all this and more! Like Scream, this movie is self-aware. There's even a guy (named Guy) that knows the genre so well that he's afraid that he's the expendable cast member with no last name that's going to die on the alien planet. And, true to the form, Sigourney Weaver's cleavage exposure increases with the passage of time and increasing suspense.  One of the things that I really liked about the movie was how much it didn't do wrong. This really walked a fine line in many ways. You had to have the cast of the TV show be has-beens that couldn't get a gig, without showing them as real dissipated losers. You had to have a lot of friction between the cast members without it getting real ugly. You had to paint Tim Allen's character as an undependable jerk without making it unbelievable that he could actually grow into a leader role. And you had to have the convention attendees depicted realistically without making too much fun of them.In the end, though, this cements Tim Allen as an actor that fits just fine on the big screen after being a total success on the little one. His Shatner imitation was totally believable, and so was his regret near the end as he admits to one of the aliens that they weren't heros after all. The rest of the cast was excellent as well, especially Tony Shaloub, who didn't utter a line that didn't have us in stitches. It was great to see Sigourney Weaver in a light role, and all of the aliens (with their little puppy-dog walking affectation - that was great!) were superb.  I wasn't expecting to like this movie as much as I did, but I would recommend it to anyone who has ever wondered why the digital timer that tracks the bomb that's going to blow up the ship always stops at 000001 - and doesn't take Star Trek too seriously. "},{"Title":"Good movie.  Entertaining and fun.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a very well made movie.  Story line about out-of-work actors going to scifi shows to remain popular with the fans and their interaction with each other before and after they are taken aboard the alien spacecraft is entertaining.  Pretty good special effects.  This definitely will be one I add to my DVD collection. "},{"Title":"light hearted humor","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a blast to watch. If any of you ever used to watch any of the old TV Star Trek episodes with William Shatner in it, you will definitely see the humor in this movie. If you didn't, don't worry, you'll still find this movie amusing but it helps if you're familiar with Captain Kirk, Spock and the rest of the crew.Galaxy Quest is about a group of actors who perform in a TV series that is amazingly similar to Star Trek, which is to say the crew travels around space engaging in a variety of meaningless adventures. This TV series has developed a cult like following that has people dressing up in costume attending Galaxy Quest conventions and are so involved in the show that they have problems discerning real life from fantasy. The leader of this group of actors, Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), is an arrogant, self-centered actor who has let his fame get to his head and like his fans, begins to think of himself as the charactor he portrays. Unexpectedly, Allen's character doesn't realize that the broadcasting of this TV series reaches far beyond the local earthlings. A good natured but innocent society of aliens also recieve this TV show but they instead interpret these episodes as historical documents and truly believe that the adventures are real. They travel to earth to ask the great Nesmith and the rest of the crew for help in a little galactic war that they are engaged in. Despite the fact that they are actors, they do help the aliens with their predicament.The movie moves a fairly quick pace and the humor is consistently present throughout. Quite a bit of the movie pokes fun at Star Trek related cult behaviours but it does so in a good natured way. The downside is that if you are not familiar with Star Trek, some of the humor will be lost on you. You may still find it funny but it will not be as funny if you do not know the context of what the director is poking fun at.Tim Allen does a very good job in this movie as does the rest of the cast. Quite surprisingly, I found Sigourney Weaver rather humorous. This is the first time I have seen her take a non-serious role and she did a good job. The special effects were not bad either...the aliens looked a little funny but I have a feeling that the director did that on purpose. Throughout the movie I got the feeling that he was poking fun of not only the Star Trek cult but the aliens and other creatures that you see in the original Star Trek episodes. One other actor that I feel should be mentioned is Alan Rickman. He is absolutely hilarious as disgruntled Alexander Dane. His stuffy prentious theatre actor personna comes through loud and clear which creates an odd humor that I enjoyed quite a bit.If you want are looking for a light hearted movie go see Galaxy Quest. It will definitely make you chuckle. "},{"Title":"Better than I hoped","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know why, but rarely since Monty Python and the Holy Grail has a film described as a comedy made me laugh.  This one did.  It had more substance than I expected, poking fun not only at infamous acting styles and personality traits of notable Star Trek cast members, but the peculiar role of women in space in the original ST series and the hordes of adoring fans. And, on top of everything else, real space aliens.  What a treat! "},{"Title":"A Send-up and a Tribute All Rolled into One!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest was my husband's idea.  I wanted to see Any Given Sunday. But I figured that the film at least had to be worth the popcorn, so I went.My low expectations were demolished within the first five minutes.  This movie is dead-on in its depiction of fandom and of acting has-beens.  But as other viewers have said, it's not mean-spirited.  The ultimate fans--the aliens--offer the actors a chance to become true heroes, and some human fans help the actors in the process.Galaxy Quest walks the fine line between send-up and tribute, and it succeeds brilliantly at both.  What can I say?  It was even better than the popcorn! "}{"Title":"Buck Rodgers goes Star Trek","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's the little things in life that excite us the most. Like all the tiny details about the technical manual of a TV starship that only survived a couple of seasons before the show was cancelled and became one of these ultimate SciFi cults we all grew up with. Galaxy Quest pretends to be one of these shows, and, of course, it obviously draws a lot of its irony from the fact that the real-life Trekkies warship their Captain Kirk and his crew as if they would have really discovered the skies above us. But that is only an illusion. In reality the space heroes are out-of-work actors who barely make their living by touring from one convention to the other and repeating their famous lines all over again. Jason Nesmith is unlike William Kirk Shatner the only one who does not care about the repetitive hype about the long past show that made him famous. As long as he has his great entrance onstage in front of an enthusiastic crowd of geeks his world seems to be okay. On the other hand, his first officer Alexander Dane is pretty fed up with his alien outfit. A long time ago he was an expiring Shakespeare-actor, but nowadays everybody knows him only from his avenging hammer-speech. The rest of the crew likewise has little enthusiams about their typecasting. Especially, Gwen DeMarco whose only duty on board was to repeat the computer's responces to the Captain's commands ans requests. First-time feature director Dean Parisot who knows about all of the mechanisms of the TV genres from his previous jobs for ER or Northern Exposure focuses on the Star Trek-phenomenon without ever even quoting one scene or character. But that is not the most surprising thing about his movie. That is that despite the fact that the distribution company mistook his subtle parody with a teen comedy the humor truly works. It even survives a rather basic plot about some aliens who misunderstand the concept of TV and think that the actors are real historic figures who are able to help them against a sinister evil enemy. The dialog gags vary from silly word jokes (e.g. when Tony Shalhoubs ingenieur misinterprets the job description minor with the age description minor) to very sophisticated side-jokes on the type-casting of Tv series like Star Trek. It is to no surprise that Sam Rockwell's Crewman #6 constantly fears that he will be the first one who will die during their adventure, because the producer's of the original Galaxy Quest never even thought of giving him a name in the show. It is the interaction between the big names like Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver who obciously enjoyed playing less fortunate colleagues and no names like Daryl Mitchell who perfectly portraits the grown-up former Teenie sidekick to the captain that keeps the movie going. A very intelligent and stringent parody of the genre and its fans.  "},{"Title":"Great spoof on space the final frontier...","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fun, cutesy, sci-fi snippet with not a lot of substance but a rollicking yarn for those who are somewhat disenfranchised by the Trek franchise.  Tim Allen makes a great William Shatner!  Go see it!  Bring the kids!  Get your bread-basket stuffed with popcorn and prepare for quite a few deep guffaws, yucks, and the occasional belly roll, because this is rich in satire.  "},{"Title":"By Grabthar's hammer...what a movie!","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The surprise in this film is Tony Shalhoub, who was mostly new to me.  I'd seen him only once before, in Quick Change, but his part was too brief and limited to be a fair test of his abilities as a comedian.  (I see he was in Barton Fink, but I don't remember him.)Here, too, he is a supporting character, but his comedic timing and delivery are impeccable and he comes close to stealing the show as the IQ-challenged Fred Kwan (a.k.a. Tech Sergeant Chen).  I hope a smart movie exec will sign him for a staring role in a comedy feature.  As to the rest of the movie, I think this is likely the sort of thing that will certainly play well to people like me in the late 20s/early 30s set, people i.e. who grew up with Captain Kirk as THE Star Trek captain, but it will likely have broader appeal as well, especially since ST IV, which also sought to make fun of the Star Trek characters in a similar way, was and remains such a success (don't be fooled, although the names have been changed to protect the innocent, it is clear throughout the film who and what is being parodied).Also, who knew Sigorney Weaver and Alan Rickman were such talented comedians?  And, although I'm the last person to consider himself a Tim Allen fan, I thought he was very on-point as an aging, washed-up William Shatner type.  The relatively unknown actors who play the aliens are brilliant, especially their fearless leader, played by Enrico Colatoni whose mannerisms and alien-vocalisms are inspired.There are *enormous* plot holes, which I won't bother to explore in the interests of non-disclosure of spoilers.  I have to mention one particularly disturbing one, however -- a scene in which a spaceship crash lands in a parking lot, smashing into dozens of cars, and, finally, into a crowded building.  The occupants then exit the ship with no apparent concern for the fact that they probably just killed or injured dozens of people.  Shouldn't they make sure?  Shouldn't they call an ambulance? I happen to be the sort of person who can easily suspend disbelief and enjoy the fun, but then no one who can't suspend disbelief belongs in a world of hand held laser pistols, tele-transporters, and faster than light speeds in the first place, right?  "},{"Title":"Very funny parody...life imitates art imitating life?","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a funny take-off on many subjects conventions, TV, fans and fandom, having a career, and many others.  The humor is pointed but not cruel, and the major points of the film are wrapped around a TV episode of Galaxy Quest. Tim Allen seems much nicer than the original as the somewhat clueless William Shatner character (apparently many of the original Star Trek regulars intensely dislike ol' Captain Scene-Chewer), and Alan Rickman and Sigourney Weaver get their licks in as the Nimoy/rest-of-the-lesser-cast members struggling against the Captain's domineering, boorish success.  The film is notable in that it restricts gore and profanity enough so that a broad audience can be included, although younger kids may not get all the references.  And, despite the many jokes at their expense, the fans who keep this industry alive with letters and conventions and dollars get their moment to shine.  On another note, the most interesting character I saw  was the evil Sarris, who is in fact highly intelligent yet quite malefic, seeking to destroy the nice aliens (who don't understand deceit or the historical documents despite incredible technological advancement)simply because they are...nice and simple and without artifice.  Interesting.Anyway, it's fun and worth a couple of hours, even if only to see what level of SF fan you are.  A 7. "},{"Title":"By Grabthar's hammer...what a movie!","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The surprise in this film is Tony Shalhoub, who was mostly new to me.  I'd seen him only once before, in Quick Change, but his part was too brief and limited to be a fair test of his abilities as a comedian.  (I see he was in Barton Fink, but I don't remember him.)Here, too, he is a supporting character, but his comedic timing and delivery are impeccable and he comes close to stealing the show as the IQ-challenged Fred Kwan (a.k.a. Tech Sergeant Chen).  I hope a smart movie exec will sign him for a staring role in a comedy feature.  As to the rest of the movie, I think this is likely the sort of thing that will certainly play well to people like me in the late 20s/early 30s set, people i.e. who grew up with Captain Kirk as THE Star Trek captain, but it will likely have broader appeal as well, especially since ST IV, which also sought to make fun of the Star Trek characters in a similar way, was and remains such a success (don't be fooled, although the names have been changed to protect the innocent, it is clear throughout the film who and what is being parodied).Also, who knew Sigorney Weaver and Alan Rickman were such talented comedians?  And, although I'm the last person to consider himself a Tim Allen fan, I thought he was very on-point as an aging, washed-up William Shatner type.  The relatively unknown actors who play the aliens are brilliant, especially their fearless leader, played by Enrico Colatoni whose mannerisms and alien-vocalisms are inspired.There are *enormous* plot holes, which I won't bother to explore in the interests of non-disclosure of spoilers.  I have to mention one particularly disturbing one, however -- a scene in which a spaceship crash lands in a parking lot, smashing into dozens of cars, and, finally, into a crowded building.  The occupants then exit the ship with no apparent concern for the fact that they probably just killed or injured dozens of people.  Shouldn't they make sure?  Shouldn't they call an ambulance? I happen to be the sort of person who can easily suspend disbelief and enjoy the fun, but then no one who can't suspend disbelief belongs in a world of hand held laser pistols, tele-transporters, and faster than light speeds in the first place, right?  "},{"Title":"Let's get out of here before they kill Guy...","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's quite unusual for me to be pleasantly surprised by a movie that I expected to enjoy, but Galaxy Quest exceeded my expectations by a mile. Comedy is a difficult art to get right and the thing that makes outstanding comedy is real characters.  In Galaxy Quest, that is exactly what you get.  "},{"Title":"A healthy dose of fun & fantasy, wholesome & good for teenagers, adults, sci-fi space fans consumption","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's real, unreal, and surreal to be really happening! It was such fun watching the whole movie. The storyline of a group of TV Star Trek series like actors, mistaken for real by an alien nation, seeking for help to fight the evil and, yes, to save their star planet sounds familiar yet refreshing. The ensemble crew was having great fun themselves indeed! It's like we are truly following the actors beamed onto the spaceship for real and experiencing this unexpected adventure in space. Somehow the Trekkie convention reminds me of writer-director Lucas Reiner's 1991Spirit of '76 (a time-warp sci-fi spoof, quite fun and disco lively), where they have a science fair scenario populated with similar nerds and super whiz adolescents.This definitely ranks high on my stress relieving movie list ample fun and laughter, yet with suspense, classic chase in space, and mind you, the F/X are not at all sloppy, in fact well-conceived and computer generated with care (evident in the Behind the Scenes documentation on the cable AMC's Cinema Secrets program introduced by special effects master Stan Winston).The perfect ensemble cast includes TIM ALLEN as the leading TV star Jason Nesmith - you get to see a brief scruffy side of Allen, followed by demonstrations of his quick-witted leadership as Commander Taggart; SIGOURNEY WEAVER, never disappointing - thanks to her willingness to poke fun at herself, as actress Gwen DeMarco playing the deadpan blonde beauty of space crew Lt. Tawny Madison; ALAN RICKMAN, his fans would be proud of him - donning a head gear throughout the whole movie and far from the villain roles he played since 1988 Die Hard opposite Bruce Willis, here he tops it all by being the nervous Alexander Dane as the much respected Dr. Lazarus; TONY SHALHOUB is surprisingly funny - his subtle comedic acting and verbal delivery of his character Fred Kwan as Tech Sergeant Chen was added tastiness to this space journey (he even tasted alien connections); SAM ROCKWELL as Guy, a much light-hearted role vs. his loaded one in 1999 The Green Mile; and DARYL MITCHELL as Tommy portraying Lt. Laredo in the spaceship driving seat rounded off this uncouth crew of this well-intentioned rescue mission. The rest of the cast is just as indispensable, including the aliens - the good, the bad and the ugly, sci-fi computer youngsters, Trekkie fans and parents of the nerds. The final scene was a glorious ending, ha! Simply fun and hilariously enjoyable! Kudos to director Dean Parisot and writer David Howard. DreamWorks finally delivered a successful family film for all.  "},{"Title":"A fun trek","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  GQ (no, not the magazine) is a fun and engaging spoof of Star Trek and its (sometimes insane) fandom. While not entirely hilarious (I DID laugh at the garbage-taking out joke, however. I could relate to it), it is an extremely amiable and amusing film that makes fun of Star Trek cliches (The Red Shirted Ensign, no seatbelts on the Bridge, etc.). All in all, this movie's a galactic winner (sorry about all the Brackets).*** (out of ****)  "},{"Title":"You've seen the movie. Now see the website.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fear not earthlings. Intelligent life really does exist on other planets, and it's just a matter of time before the power of television will draw them to our lonely blue planet.For proof, one need only see Galaxy Quest, a movie that takes to a new level the inter-planetary schtick about the alien asking the inanimate object to take it to its leader.Eighteen years after the television show Galaxy Quest is canceled, the crew that comprises the command deck of the USEA Protector remains caught in the show biz version of the time loop. So deeply enmeshed are they in the trap that every actor tries to avoid, the typecast, they seemed doomed to spend the rest of their days hamming it up at Galaxy Quest conventions to thrill of thousands of deeply devoted and hopelessly nerdy fans.As if dealing on a consistent basis with people who have serious trouble discerning fiction from reality is not enough, our heroes find themselves in a whole new dimension of predicament when the inhabitants of the planet Thermia mistake their shows for the historical documents of a real-live Commander Peter Quincy Taggart (Tim Allen) and his crew.Quicker than Taggart can say his trademark never give up, never surrender, full speed ahead, the crew, plus Guy Fleegman, whose character, crewman #6, was killed in a past episode, are beamed aboard a real-live and fully operational version of the Protector that the Thermians built to scale by carefully studying each and every episode.The crew members were the only remaining pieces, it seems, in completing the puzzle that the Thermians believe will finally lead to the overthrow of their tyrannical oppressor, the green, slimy, and lobster-like Sarris.There is a problem of course. They're actors not astronauts as becomes apparent when the Protector is launched out of space port with the smoothness of broken glass on sandpaper. So they do what they do best, and fake it.Galaxy Quest oozes with comic potential. And at times, like the excruciatingly long scratching sound during the aforementioned space port scene, it hits the mark.But in the canon of spoof, Galaxy Quest remains well behind such classics as Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein (albeit well ahead of a long-forgotten Mel Brooks project, Space Balls) largely because it lacks the relentlessness it takes to produce scene after memorable scene.Instead, our actors to the third degree get caught up in the heroics they're trying to satirize, resulting in often predictable action-comedy fair.Nevertheless, there still is a good reason to see Galaxy Quest -- so that you can see the movie website afterwards. Dial-in www.galaxyquest.com (or click on official site on the menu on the left)and you'll uncover Travis Latke's Galaxy Quest page, an absolutely dead-on spoof of made-by-fans-for-fans website genre.My particular favourite is the section in which Travis offers in-depth analysis of his five favourite Galaxy Quest favourites, analyzed for their deeper symbolism and meaning. It definitely goes where no man has gone before. "},{"Title":"A real charmer","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is not the type of film where you would normally expect the audience to applaud at the finale, but when I saw it this afternoon, applaud they did.  This is what they call a real sleeper  smart, funny, filled with heart, and genuinely uplifting.The film, written by David Howard and Robert Gordon, takes off from one of those so-simple-it's-brilliant premises.  A group of squabbling stars from a long-cancelled schlock sci-fi TV series called Galaxy Quest are contacted by a group of real aliens.  They have seen the TV shows, which they believe are historical documents, and have created an entire culture based around Galaxy Quest and its teachings.  They are, in essence, the ultimate Trekkies, and they need help defending themselves against an evil group of lizard-like alien pirates.  There's just one problem  they don't know the actors are just actors.Fortunately, however, everything in their culture, having been based on the show, works just like it does on the show, and the actors find themselves surprisingly able to ease into this world.  And as they face off against the evil beings for the fate of their new interstellar friends, they find themselves falling back in love with the roles they had grown to despise.Galaxy Quest is a film that rewards quick ears.  Its best punchlines are often thrown out as asides.  The film is very savvy about the logic of science fiction, and uses this to create a number of terrific jokes, as well as a credible and entertaining sci-fi plot.  Much credit must go to the actors, who inhabit their roles with effortless panache.  Special shout-outs to Sam Rockwell, as a loser who played a nameless cannon-fodder crew member in one episode of the show, and Alan Rickman, as a classically trained thespian mortified that he has been typecast as a sci-fi alien, and who keeps letting his irritated-actor persona peek out from behind his alien-doctor facade. The director, Dean Parisot, effectively creates affection for these losers who have forgotten the need for heroes, and have their faith in themselves restored by beings who need them to be  the heroes they've believed them to be...and give them the means to do so.The laughs are what will draw many people to see Galaxy Quest, but I think many people will be surprised by the genuine heart at the core of this film.  It's a picture that loves sci-fi and the people who love it, and it understands that Trekkies and other obsessive sci-fi fans are not desperate losers grasping onto a fictional world.  They just haven't lost the child's faith in heroes the way some of us have.  Galaxy Quest wonderfully tells the story of people who lost that faith, and how they get it back, in most spectacular fashion.     "}{"Title":"A very hilarious and original movie that even trekkies should love.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Going in I was skeptical of this movie.  Hero's and villains battling in space may seem all to common but this is clearly superior to any like entries in the comedy genre.  I loved Tim Allen in his series but did not know and could not imagine how well he would take to this story.  I also loved his movie Jungle 2 Jungle.  This is a very original piece that seems long overdue and that as a trekker I thoroughly enjoyed.  My sides literally ached from laughing so much.  (And I hope this isn't a spoiler!) I was struck by the way the aliens became the trekkies leading to the whole plot.  It is they who fail to distinguish fiction from reality and are taken in.  I also thought the Kyle character was very well done. "},{"Title":"Solid, fun","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest seemed to have little promise from trailers I had seen...Cheesy costumes and alot of effects.  Instead, it is a great surprise. A fun, fairly intelligent move that spoofs sci fi fans and the whole culture of fandom, without resorting to cheap shots.Granted, there are some pretty big holes in the plot. But they are forgiven pretty easily. The acting is all top rate. Even the one element I thought would annoy the heck out of me, the droning accent of the good aliens, wears off.The performances are uniformly solid, and it feels like a pretty good star trek movie. I'll take it anyday over Lost in SpaceWould have been a spectacular Summer movie. I will rent it and watch for hot weather fun. Highly Recommended! "},{"Title":"Great for older kids, however some small kids would be disturbed by the sci-fi stuff!","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Older kids who are into sci fi, and adults who will be able to readily place the crew of the Enterprise into the slots of the Galaxy Quest crew will really enjoy this movie! The laughs almost always have meaning for both groups.  The Thermian crew really grabs the viewer's heart - the underdogs! Tim Allen does a brilliant job of being Shatneresque.Younger children will definitely get spooked by the alien costumes, and while there is no out and out GORE, there is the suggestion of it. There is also blasphemous expletives, which you might want to keep the kids from hearing.Too bad...it keeps this movie from being sterling. "},{"Title":"a very fun send-up of Star Trek","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, so they couldn't use Star Trek, the Enterprise or Kirk, Spock & McCoy but the veils are very thin in this delightful comedy.  Tim Allen plays William Shat...er Jason Nesmith a faded actor from a long ago canceled Sci-fi TV show who can't get work outside the conventions for the show, attended by fans who know the designs of the ship better than he ever did.  Signorny Weaver, Alan Rickman & the highly under-rated Tony Shalhoub are the other cast members stuck in eternal exile as their characters, Rickman forced to endure a ridiculous piece of head gear & insipid catch phrases.What I truly enjoyed about this film is that while it obviously is meant to be about Star Trek it is not a parody, making fun of the conventions or the geeks who attend them, but instead draws it's laughs from the interactions of the characters and then for the majority of the movie the fish-out-of-water premise of actors mistaken for space-fearing heroes.  While this approach means the movie isn't as drop-dead funny as it could have been had it decided to generate laughs at the expense of the characters, it also mean Galaxy Quest isn't as mean-spirited as it would have been either had it made fun of sci-fi, sci-fi fans and corny shows.  Ultimately, the movie offers the same positive outlook that the faux-Galaxy Quest (and real Star Trek) TV show did.  This is a movie where on-line technical blueprints and remembering what happened in epidode 17 actually saves the day (and the bomb-timer countdown is perhaps the best countdown joke I've ever seen)!From a technical standpoint, the effects are great (with some aliens even better than what turn up on the real Trek), the music & cinematography are good also, never distracting from the film, with a bright, cheery look throughout. "},{"Title":"I really liked it","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having attended some of the conventions for old television series (Star Trek, Dark Shadows), I could really relate to this movie. The atmosphere and the attitude of the fans at some of these conventions are captured exactly by the director.In this movie, the actors from on old television series very much like Star Trek, attend a convention. They are harangued by the fans and peppered with questions about the science in some of the more obscure episodes. Tim Allen is the William Shatner like character of the series and he meets some weird fans that ask him for help. Tim laughingly agrees. What he doesn't realize is that these are not fans but in actuality real aliens that think Allen is his persona in the TV series. On their planet they do not know what a lie or acting is so they accept Allen's offer of help and whisk him to a spaceship in another part of the solar system.Allen then has to convince his co-stars to help the aliens and they agree not realizing what they are up against. They must battle an alien warlord who is ruthless as Star Trek's Khan.There are some hilarious scenes in this movie that literally had me splitting my sides, especially with the actor who plays the ship's engineer (he is the same actor from the Monk TV series).Much funnier and better conceived than Spaceballs! "},{"Title":"Excellent Parody for ANY Science Fiction Fan","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing this one for the second time today, I thought it was still a great movie going experience.  As a old Trek fan, I acknowledge this tribute and parody for what it is... fun. Once you are watching the movie, there are comments, jokes, etc about a multitude of various science fiction movies. Tim Allen portrays several different movie Captains not just the Star Trek one. Sigorney Weaver has the babe role down to a fine art.Allen Richtman (sp?) was terrific as the unappreciated Alien type.The rest of the supporting cast did exactly that - they supported each other.. as is appropriate for the crew of the NSEA Protector. "},{"Title":"Cleverly written and very funny","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A science fiction picture in space is always a tricky genre to produce, as the nature of the beast means that a large budget is required to produce anything worth watching. A spoof of a science fiction series? starring Tim Allen? and bells start to ring in my head saying this is the one to miss. Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman as co-stars tip the balance and I decide to see it.How do you write a story that takes a swipe at Star Trek? write a story that has a swipe at SciFi fans? and write a story that takes a swipe at the whole SciFi world? Easily. But how do you do all this and make it very funny without offending anyone, that is the challenge that David Howard tackled and succeeded brilliantly.The story follows the crew of the USEA Protector as they struggle to survive in the real world after their TV show 'Galaxy Quest' has been cancelled. During one of the SciFi conventions they are approached by aliens who have mistaken their adventures as historical documents and want them to save their people.Tim Allen typifies the macho captain down to the rolling on the floor and loosing his shirt. Sigourney Weaver plays the woman who just repeats what the computer tells everyone and shows her bra. Alan Rickman has kept his feet on the floor and understands that he isn't really an alien, he just looks on with disgust, handing out wickedly funny sarcastic comments at regular intervals. My favorite role was played by Sam Rockwell who played the role of the expendable crewman who dies on his first mission in the series and spends the entire movie thinking he's going to die.This is a movie that everyone can see and laugh at, or should I really say laugh with. "},{"Title":"Rave  the most satisfying parody/comedy since Blazing Saddles!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is a rare comedy that touches on all the points that make a movie knock-down entertainment 1.  Rich theme (not a one-joke wonder but something that can be exploited in many ways) 2.  Excellent script 3.  Talented actors with great comic timing and acting choices 4.  A dash of (believable) pathos for contrast and seasoningGalaxy Quest has all of that.  And some scenes have me laughing just thinking about it  Awwww, that's not right!  This episode had BAD WRITING!Tip  read the review on Salon.  They got it right...Bottom line  SEE THE MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Galaxy Quest.  It was Great!!","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a terrific movie everyone could enjoy!  My whole family laughed out loud.  Tim Allen was excellent.  Even if you weren't a Star Trek fan or don't know who William Shatner is you can appreciate the humor and fun of this show.  It stands on its' own merits as a comedy.  It was a joy to watch and I was sorry when it was over.  The time flew by too quickly. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Movie","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I did not expect this movie to be nearly as much fun as it turned out to be.  I thought it would be goofy and stupid and boring.  But, it held my interest all the way through and I was sitting on the edge of my seat a couple of times.  I was not a Home Improvement fan and really had no previous knowledge of Tim Allen except that he can be an X-rated comedian. He was excellent in Galaxy Quest as a Captain Kirk type from the original Star Trek TV series.  Signourny Weaver sure looked good as a busty, blond sidekick.  The aliens are a delight and viewing the old Galaxy Quest shows through space as historical documents is a great foundation for the plot. This movie is good entertainment and you will genuinely laugh from the sheer pleasure of having a good time. "}{"Title":"I rate this film a 10!","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a loyal fan of Sigourney Weaver's (I'll see anything she's in at least once), I was looking forward to seeing Galaxy Quest.  I went with my mother, and my seven year old niece.  That's a span of three generations right there, and every one of us absolutely LOVED this film!  Not only did Sigourney Weaver give us a wonderful, comic performance, but the rest of the cast was terrific as well.  I was especially impressed by Alan Rickman's Alexander Dane role of the frustrated thespian.  And by Sam Rockwell's paranoid Guy Fleegman (he's really cute, too!)  I must admit, that besides being a Sigourney Weaver fan, I'm also a fan of science fiction in general, which includes, of course, the Star Trek series.  I have even been to a few of those crazy conventions myself, and thought that the film makers did a good job as portraying the overzealous Galaxy Quest fans as fun and maybe a little goofy, but also as intelligent and loyal.  That's a fine line to walk, but the entire production walked that line with flying colors.  I rate this film a 10!  Any film with the talented Weaver deserves that, anyway, but this one is funny, exciting and full of affection all the way around.   "},{"Title":"Better than some of the Star Trek films it's making fun of","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's a sign of how bad-off the Star Trek franchise is that a movie that parodies the series manages to have better special effects, better action, a more coherent story and a more clever script than the last three Trek films combined.  Stan Winston's creature creations here are especially impressive and David Newman's theme music beats the heck out of the un-hummable fanfares written for Deep Space Nine or Voyager.Tim Allen is perfect as the Shatner-esque leader of the troupe.  Alan Rickman is also terrific and Sigourney Weaver looks great while managing to poke fun at herself.Some of the punchlines fall flat, but comedically, there are far more hits than misses.  The screenwriters manage to exploit their brilliant concept to its fullest.  Beam yourself out to see it. "},{"Title":"Cool movie! You gotta see it!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie could not be closer to the truth, about conventions and fan support. If Galaxy Quest were a real TV series, I'm pretty sure Star Trek (to who I'm a fan as well) would have some pretty tough competition on the small box! I loved the movie, Hyper cool, One of the ones you should see even twice! (like I did!) "},{"Title":"Absolutely Inspired","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With Galaxy Quest out in tandem with Toy Story 2, audiences get a one-two punch of Tim Allen doing his best Star Trek/sci-fi sendups - and though the latter is the better movie overall, the former throws so MANY inspired spoofs of Trek cliches at you that you'll be laughing from beginning to end. It's for all ages, for Trek fans and non Trek fans, and generally has exactly the kind of broad appeal that makes for a truly great movie.Oh, and I usually subtract a point when a movie uses the time-worn bomb with a digital countdown plot device - but Galaxy Quest brings this to such an inspired, hilarious resolution, that it proves the exception. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly funny look at science fiction.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well I was going to wait to rent this movie, but a friend wanted to see it, so I decided what the heck. Run, don't walk to your theatre if you like science fiction movies. This movie impressed me because it didn't try to be anything more than it was which was simply a funny look at science fiction television characters, much like those of star trek.  "},{"Title":"Was utterly surprised","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw that Tim Allen was starring in the Sci-Fi movie of the season, I cringed and told myself i would never see it.  However, fate would have it another way and i found myself in the theatre watching the credits roll by.  I was going to hate this.  But then, i see the opening scene.  A convention.  I see the costumes, the merchandise...i recognize all of this because its all real.  Have you seen the people that worship these shows?  Star trek, Star Wars, Babylon 5...these people take these things too seriously and here we have a movie that acknowledges it.  I am then introduced to the cast in their after years still milking the cash cow that is Galaxy Quest.  One is the child star of the show, the other is the chesty communications officer who had no real purpose but to look good and show cleavage.  We meet the British actor who got the job (probably for money) and he has now been typecast and will never break away from his character or the line every one remembers him for (i wonder if Nemoy relates to this character at all?)  We meet the Scotty Lite character (who i wish was more explored here) and finally the Kirk.  Allen was surprisngly good here as Jason Nessmith.  He played the character to a T.  I was laughing at the costumes and the realism of it all.  It didn't make fun of itself either.  That's comedy.  Not once did anyone over play their role nor once did the jokes get out of hand with slap stick and what not.  The jokes were well played and well achieved.  Great movie.  Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"Laugh, Laugh, Laugh","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're looking for a release, and a simply enjoyable film, this fills the bill.  I never realized how great Weaver looks as a blond.  Under the category of documentary films, this is one of my favorites (you have to see the movie to understand).  Go to the bathroom first (you don't want to have to leave), get a large popcorn, a large soda, sit back and remember never give up, never surrender!  "},{"Title":"The best sci-fi spoof to date.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see this film on New Year's Day.  Unfortunately, I slept through the first 45 minutes because I'd been up so late.  I will definitely go to the movie again to see what I missed because what I saw was excellent!I have seen many sci-fi spoofs, but this one is definitely the best so far. I've been able to laugh at the ones that have poked fun at sci-fi fans before (I am one myself), but never this much.  I think it was ingenious the way the fans were incorporated into the plot--yes, I said plot!  This is the first sci-fi spoof I have seen that actually had a completely independent, original plot!  Sure, it made parodies of species and lines from some of the mainstay sci-fi hits, such as Star Wars, Star Trek, and Blake's 7, but for the most part, it was very creative and original in its spoofing. I recommend this movie to all sci-fi fans, especially the ones who attend sci-fi cons.  This film touches on everything that sci-fi fandom is about.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"This was a pretty good satire","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a pretty good satire of the whole Star Trek/sci-fi phenomenon. Many people seem to think the movie is flawless in every respect, but I think the movie has both strengths and weaknesses. You can't take it seriously at all.  Star Trek fans may enjoy it more than others.  I thought the premise of aliens abducting actors who once played space heroes to be much better than the typical goofy space adventure.  The special effects were good, and supported the story rather well.  The parody of unlikely situations and technobable was great.  The satire of sci-fi conventions and fans was dead on and hilarious, but if the producers of this movie really think that Star Trek is as cheesy and stupid a show as Galaxy Quest looked to be, then as a Star Trek fan myself, I am a little insulted.   I would never like a show as dumb as this one looked to be, and neither would most sci-fi fans.  It makes us look more stupid than weird.  We deserve to be mocked for our extreme devotion, but not if we like a show as dumb as Galaxy Quest.  The acting in this film was pretty good.  The portrayal of old has-been sci-fi actors was great.  The frustration of typecasting, being annoyed with the fans, etc.  It was fun to see, but not all that original. Sigourney Weaver has never looked better, although I would have liked it more if her character Gwen DeMarco was more intelligent .  The romantic chemistry between her and Tim Allen was confusing, especially considering that their characters were supposed to have known each other for over 20 years?  They should have worked out those issues by now.  Definitely an enjoyable movie, but it might be getting a little more praise than it deserves. "},{"Title":"Great Spoof!  I Loved It!","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a very funny movie.  I loved Tim Allen playing Shatner playing Kirk playing Nesbit.  And as far a Ms. Weaver... well, gosh!  She was a major league hotty!  No wonder they wanted to make wonderbras illegal a few years back!  But one thing I really need to know... Didn't those aliens say that they were from the Gamma Quadrant of Sector Five?  Hmm...  As I recall, wasn't there another Space Ranger from around that same neck of the galaxy? If you hear any BUZZ on this, please let me know, as I am really not sure if I heard it wrong or not while watching the show. "}{"Title":"Fun, exciting, a great time!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is the cast of the original Star Trek TV series really like, and what would they do if needed in space by real aliens? This movie fits perfectly with my image of the real cast and how they relate to each other.  I like to think they would handle this situation they way this cast does in the movie.  Lots of great jokes, wonderfully created and acted alien race, a definite feel-good movie.  Best I've seen in years. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie since Young Frankenstein!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, I avoided this movie like the plague but while my wife and I were waiting to see 'Any Given Sunday' we had a last minute change of heart and went to see this.  I am totally serious when I say this is the funniest movie I've seen since 'Young Frankenstein' with the possible exception of 'There's Something about Mary' Sam Rockwell is a blast as the extra who thinks he's going to get killed (We've got to get out of here before Guy gets killed!) and Tony Shalhoub is wonderful as a type of bizarro-Scotty (Oh, thats not right!).  It was really great to see Sigourney Weaver do something besides kill aliens or play the liberated, professional, Murphy Brown type. This movie has the convention scene down pat.  The geeks, the hangers on, the pathetically lonely, the washed up actors...  If you've ever seen a Star Trek con you know what I mean. So even though I thought it would definitely be a dud, I thoroughly enjoyed going to the theater for a change and not seeing a movie that felt like it had to solve all those great problems facing man.  Be advised though, check your brain at the door, you won't be needing it.  "},{"Title":"What a sweet movie...","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For anyone who grew up in the 60's and 70's ... when everything in our culture had some sort of space age spin to it ... from furniture to Tang, this movie was a sweet little Hallmark card of love.It captured perfectly the feeling of awe (and awwwwww) of that age, when the universe seemed to be in our grasp, if only we knew what to do with it.No one performance tops any of the others, though I have to give special recognition to Tim Allen; the only times I really saw any Jim Kirk in his performance was when he was seated in the captain's chair.  He nailed the look, the gestures, and the voice perfectly.  Kudos also go to all the actors playing the good aliens.  Their sense of wonder and innocence at meeting their heroes, who are after all, nothing but TV stars, was perfectly played.While not one of the best comedies ever made, there's enough belly laughs in the movie to satisfy kids, sci-fi fans, Trekkers, sci-fi *fanatics*, and people who laugh at sci-fi fanatics.  A completely unxpected sweet little movie released amongst much heavier fare.  Let's hope it does well on video...I'd love to see a sequel. -) "},{"Title":"How could anyone not love this movie?","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, I can see how American Beauty wasn't for everybody even though I loved it, but this? What's not to love? I was skeptical at first about seeing this, as I am not a big sci-fi, Trek, or Tim Allen fan, but then I read several reviews that I trusted and decided what the heck. One said it was critic proof and they were right! Someone else compared it to Ghostbusters (as far as people's reactions to it, and sort of the genre) and I agree with that too...as I said, all I know about STar Trek I read in some Harlan Ellison books and Nichelle Nichol's autobiography. I never really was a fan of this show-didn't hate it, but not my thing. And I still absolutely loved this movie! I can only imagine how much a fan of the show would have loved it-and got all the in jokes (I got some, but I'm sure I missed plenty). I have more respect for Allen now as a performer, he did a great job (and a great Shatner!). Sigourney Weaver looked gorgeous, the best I've ever seen her look in fact. I especially respect a movie that casts a female love interest opposite the lead male WHO IS ACTUALLY THE SAME AGE AS HIM. In fact, instead of being 20+ years younger as the norm is, I think at 52 she's even OLDER than he is. Good for them! Too bad that's so rare these days. Alan Rickman was great, as the classically trainer Actor who will puke if he has to say his trademark line one more time. I knew there would be a moment where he would, and mean it, and I was right. The line made the audience cheer (and some of them also get a little choked up). If you've ever been obsessively devoted to any TV show, (I have, though I'm not gonna say which one or you would probably laugh so hard you'll pee your pants)like the fans in the movie are, then this movie will definitely strike a chord with you. You'll know just how the fans feel when they can easily bring up trivia that even the actors on the show don't know or have forgotten, or when Allen's character needs a fan's help and tells him the show is real, and his reaction-well-I'm starting to sound like Harry Knowles here, but the fan's ecstatic reaction made the audience go nuts and really hit home with me. The audience, which included more adults than kids, actually stood up and clapped when the movie was over-haven't seen that for a while! If you're a Trekkie-uh, I mean Trekker- don't worry about this movie jeering at or making fun of you. IT treats the fans with humor but lovingly and with respect. It's not super-deep, it doesn't have a message other than the obvious one, it's probably not something that will be nominated for an award (too bad). But it's great, mindless, fun entertainment for pretty much any and all. If you want to escape for 90 minutes or so this is the movie for you, one of those movies that transports you and is so entertaining that you get so caught up you forget about everything else other than the flick. You can't go wrong- take my word for it. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Sci-Fi Spoofs ever made!","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be one of the best spoofs ever made.  In fact one of the best spoofs within a spoof.  It was a riot to see.  Especially knowing that many of the cast are not know for comedy or humorous roles before.  Well cast, well directed, great new characters, excellent special effects.  Fun to see what happens next every minute. You wanted it to be a little longer.  Ending was a stretch but who cares.  They all pulled it off so well.  We would see it again in a heart beat.   "},{"Title":"So much better than I expected","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I entered the theater expecting something really silly, but this is a darn good flick!  Tim Allen does a first rate William Shatner impression as Captain Peter Quincy Taggart, and Sigourney Weaver is enchanting playing against type as a space bimbo.  Alan Rickman, Tony Shaloub and Daryl Mitchell have always been three of my favorite actors, and all are quite funny here, as well.If you've never watched Star Trek, you won't get this movie.  But if you've watched enough to be familiar with the stereotypes, you'll laugh out loud several times in this film. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was hilarious! I was very entertained and laughed throughout the whole movie. If you like or dislike Sigourney Weaver (I dont like very many of her movies) this is still a movie you'll have to see. I give this movie two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Good fun!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film really lived up to its hype. As a hardcore Science Fiction Fan from the fifties, I of course loved Star Trek and hated Trekkies. This movie has something for everyone, from Trekkies who have learned to laugh at themselves to people who hate Sci-Fi (not to be confused with Science Fiction).I don't think it will win any Oscars, but it should do well. One note - I saw things in the broadcast trailers that didn't show up in the film.Galaxy Quest is predictable. It is also funny, entertaining, and reminiscent of a time when the good guys always won and nobody felt sorry for the bad guys. It's a fun movie. Go see it.  "},{"Title":"Star Trek send-up that stands out on its own.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't say enough about Sigourney Weaver in this movie.  She grabs your attention and makes you believe.  Tim Allen is good but it's Weaver's performance that carries the day.  I also like the depiction of the good aliens--there's an E.T. gentleness there that proves charming.  Tony Shalhoub(the cab driver from Wings), who seems to turn up in every movie that comes out, is wonderful here, as well.  Plan the sequel! "},{"Title":"Better than the trailers would have you believe.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is graphic proof that trailers can be a detriment in selling films to audiences. This film had a great plot, great cast, tight direction, enjoyable editing, and a very subtle soundtrack. What's not to like? The trailers - the trailers made this film look like it was going to be Spaceballs 2 or something. My advice is ignore the trailers, see the film, and buy the DVD in the summer.Re-watchability index = 8.  "}{"Title":"Laugh at Yourself...","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've watched this movie twice so far and laughed heartily each time.  The in jokes about the sci-fi community are precious.  My fiancee and I are deeply devoted trekies and found ourselves and our friends abounding.  My ten-year-old picked up on the whole parody immediately.  We're all waiting for the action figures.  My eleven-year-old wants the space ships.  I'm going to see it many more times and then wait for the DVD!! "},{"Title":"Good idea, great execution!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even better than we thought it would be, this film never falters in being true to itself.  Tony Shaloub is a stand-out in a group of wonderful performances.  The characters are convincing and very likeable.  The plot line hits all the right notes and absolutely no wrong ones.  The additions or variations to traditional Star Trek lore all work beautifully.  We left smiling and very, very pleased. "},{"Title":"Outstanding, a very funny and entertaining movie.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a huge Star Trek fan I found this movie to be outstanding, far beyond any expectations I had going in. I thought the movie was brilliantly conceived, perfectly written, and expertly executed. A wonderful movie and a MUST SEE... "},{"Title":"A great time!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great, funny movie.  This movie succeeds as comedy where Men in Black fell flat.  It had just the right mix of action, comedy and good characterization.  The depiction of sci fi fandom at the beginning of the movie is a little harsh (we're not all THAT bad), but this is after all a comedy, and not a subtle documentary.  The set up works and the movie delivers a wild and funny ride.  The special effects were surprisingly good as well. I'd put this film on a par with Spaceballs and Princess Bride, two other great genre parody movies that also succeed in not taking themselves too seriously and delivering laughs and in jokes without seeming tired or hackneyed. "},{"Title":"A leaden disappointment","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is one of those movies that suffers from its hype. The ads flacking it as the funniest movie of the year make one wonder just where the reviewer has been for the last 12 months.This is what's called a high-concept film a naive group of extraterrestrials see old episodes of a long-cancelled science fiction series, think it's real, and come to earth to seek help from the intrepid spacefarers, who are in reality a bickering, whining bunch of has-been actors who dislike themselves only slightly less than they dislike the series' diehard fans. Gee, I wonder what TV series they're talking about?And that's the biggest flaw in the the movie. What could have been fun ends up 90 minutes of nudge-nudge, wink-wink, we-know-you'll-figure-out-we're-talking-about-Star-Trek-here. From the cardboard bridge sets to the sexy female lieutenant with no real function beyond window dressing to the awe-stricken flyby of the ship in spacedock ... well, let's just say that the director and cinematographer obviously spent some time looking at the original series and the movies it spawned. Say ... 3 ½ minutes total.The notion of science fiction actors and fans losing track of reality and/or getting tangled up in real outer space adventures isn't new, and it can be hilarious. Witness Sharyn McCrumb's Bimbos of the Death Sun or Niven & Pournelle's Fallen Angels or Ruth Berman's Visit to a Weird Planet, Revisited. But it needs to be done with wit and style and a rapier rather than with smirks, grossout humor, and baseball bat.There are a couple of laugh-out-loud moments in this movie, but unless you're a rabid Tim Allen fan, you're going to spend at least two-thirds of it wondering how they dragooned Sigourney Weaver into it. And the other third wondering where she got that bra.Enrico Colantoni does a wonderful turn as the leader of the hopelessly inept aliens, who can't quite seem to get the hang of breathing OUT when he talks, and newcomer (?) Missi Pyle simpers and flirts fetchingly when she's not revealing herself as something that looks sort of like a giant pink squid. These two come closest to putting real sparkle in this otherwise plodding would-be satire. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy, Bring the kleenex for the laughter!!!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really, really, enjoyed this film. It was a spoof on all of the Trekkie fans out there, but it was pure enjoyment. My kids loved it also. They could not stop laughing. Alan Rickman, he was the best. Tim Allen was also funny but Alan took the show!! Take your kids, especially 10+ age, younger children may not understand the humor as much. "},{"Title":"I wanted to see it two times in a row!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is terrific! I wanted to see it again as I was walking out of the theater. Those of us who saw the movie talked about it for hours. This is a must see movie. It simply raised the notch for other comedies and set a new standard in funny. I wouldn't be surprised one bit if this doesn't take the cake for comedy of the year.Most of us agreed that Tony Shalhoub (Fred Kwan) and Missi Pyle (Laliari) were our favorites. Yet, how can you not love every single member of the cast? From the nerdy fan who played in one episode (Sam Rockwell playing Guy Fleegman) to the man who hates his type cast with every fiber of his being (Alan Rickman playing Alexander Dane) the fun never stops. Needless to say that Tim Allen (Jason Nesmith) and Sigourney Weaver (Gwen Demarco) steal the show with a wonderful performance. The cast works so well together that you can help but cheer them on.This movie has the makings of a cult classic. Those who have known, seen, or been part of the trekies have something to laugh and laugh about. All thumbs and toes up! It's a non-stop laugh fest from the moment the thing starts. DreamWorks does it again with class and style.And if Missi Pyle doesn't get a fan club... we just may be tempted to start one for her. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed it very much.  I've been a sci-fi fan since the early 80's.  I wasn't a trekkie, so I'm biased in that most of the movie made fun of Trekkies.  I hope they have a good sense of humor.  Just one thing though, they could have made the aliens a little less dorky and silly. "},{"Title":"I was shocked.","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this would be the most pointless movie ever made.  It was.  But in a really good way. It was hilarious.  Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub, and Enrico Colantani prove to be comic geniuses.  I laughed so hard I worried I would not have a chance to catch my breath.  This wins my vote for best farce of the 90's and should take its place along side Spaceballs in the annals of great sci-fi comedy "},{"Title":"A very good movie, but only a fair comedy. See it in the theater!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not a GREAT movie, but a very entertaining bit of modern film making. All the characters (I'm not going to rehash all of this) are so beautifully crafted, that their counterparts in Star Trek are instantly identifiable.   The special effects are stunning and will not transfer well to the small screen; see it in the theater for maximum effect!    Only the comedy was a little weak. I would classify this movie closer to si-fi than to comedy! I did get a few laughs, but would have enjoyed it sans-laughs almost as much. I am sure the film makers will            Live long and prosper... with a sequel!!                           3 1/2 stars out of 4. "}{"Title":"Great sci-fi comedy","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a big-time Star Trek fan and I enjoyed this movie betterthan the last two Trek movies combined.  An obvious sci-fi comedy that mirrors a well-known cult icon, this movie was enjoyable for our entire family.  Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver have a chemistry that makes me want to see them work together in other movies.  See it!! Enjoy it!! "},{"Title":"Empty Calories","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film had a killer premise going for it.  Just imagine if William Shatner actually had to become mankinds savior for the 587th time, except this time for real.  That is what kept the movie rolling for me and saved it from mediocrity.I was pretty impressed with Tim Allen in this movie.  I'm glad he can move on from Home Improvement and do something that is actually entertaining.The problem was that the concept wasn't fully developed.  I wouldn't go as far to say this film was a satire.  There are probably other films on a similar subject that have transcended the obvious elements of scifi and society.I'm glad that the aliens were pretty much totally non-human in appearance.  I'm sick of the Star Trek it's too expensive to create convincing aliens, so we'll take an ordinary human and put ridges/patterns on their brain/forehead area trick.It was clever for so many sitcom stars to appear in this movie. From  Home Improvement, Victoria's Closet, Stark Raving Mad/Wings, Just Shoot Me.  The whole movie had an extreme television feel to it keeping in line with its theme. "},{"Title":"Beautifully witty!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I initially dreaded seeing this movie.  As a fan (although not rabid) of Star Trek myself, I winced at the thought of the original series being parodied, and as I walked in I braced myself for cruel jokes and pot shots at an industry and an ideal that I really care about.I was in for a pleasant surprise.  The characters of Galaxy Quest (and their parodied counterparts of STar Trek)  were treated with humor and the kind of tenderness that can only be found when the entertainment industry salutes its own.  Tim Allen's Jason Nesmith seemed to love his character for the same reason his fans did-- he was the hero that all boys want to be. It's the reason people watch Star Trek and the reason this movie struck such a humorous chord-- the difference between human ideals and human actuality is hilarious in its absurdity, and it was this humor that Galaxy Quest caught dead-on.The supporting cast was spot on as well-- and kudos should go to Alan Rickman for not only playing a convincing Spock-like counterpart, but for spoofing the stereotyping that has been his curse in American Movies.  (We can't help it Mr. Rickman-- you're delicious when you're over the top!) Sigourney Weaver was refreshingly naive as the character whose only job was sport cleavage and repeat the computer, and Tony Shalhoub takes the audience completely by surprise as the burned out (and zoned out) engineer.This was a great movie-- made even better by its gentle parody in lieu of the much easier (and crueler) cutting sattire. "},{"Title":"Great spoof on Trekkies","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is must viewing for Trekkies young and old. This refreshing and highly entertaining movie takes-a-slice-of-life look at five actors 20 years after their popular sci-fi TV series Galaxy Quest retires into syndication reruns. With no real acting jobs to fall back on, they eke out a living making special guest appearances at malls and sci-fi conventions. The plot turns as Jason Nesmith, Tim Allen's character, is greeted by a group of costume-clad GQ fans at a GQ convention who want to take him on a urgent mission to save their home world. From then on it's high-flying special effects, laughs galore and edge-of-your-seat suspense rivaling that of Star Trek--Wrath of Khan. Galaxy Quest is great, clean family entertainment and a hilarious tongue-and-cheek look at Trekkies. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Real Good Movie","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was great. The action was good and the comedy. I was laughing the whole way through. Also its a movie for the family!! A lot better than Stuart Little. The acting was great  especially Tim Allen and it wasn't too long like recent movies. I didn't want to see this movie because of the corny previews but I really did like it. Just go see it and you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"A hysterical, surprisingly touching sci-fi comedy","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have not seen a film this enjoyable since The Holy Grail.It's silly, but surprisingly touching at points, the casting was remarkable, and once the film kicks into high-gear, there isn't a wasted frame.Loosely based on the cult-following of Star Trek, the film manages big laughs without losing reverence for the material. "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS!!!","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just got back from seeing Galaxy Quest, and must say that it was very good. I absolutely laughed my head off. You really should go see this. Anyone who has ever been to a convention needs to see this. At the end, a guy said,That movie stunk. I guess he didnt understand it and was to serious about the whole film. SEE IT! 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Wickedly Funny Satire","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just one week before seeing Galaxy Quest, I had the great fortune to have borrowed a friend's DVD of the documentary, Trekkies, which gives an in-depth look at the weird world of fandom as it relates to the Star Trek phenomenon.  I'm so glad I saw that first, as it made even richer the experience of watching the bored and jaded cast of washed-up actors who had populated the Trek-like series, Galaxy Quest.  Taking the basic idea from the film The Three Amigos in which actors are mistaken for real-life heros and recruited to fight the bad guys, then applying it to the world of science fiction produced a riotously funny, yet credible action film that was entertaining from the first frame to the last.Tim Allen is the perfect Shatner surrogate, while Sigourney Weaver demonstrates a flare for light comedy that should be exploited more often.  Alan Rickman as the Spock-like Dr. Lazarus is wonderful.  Tony Shaloub made the conscious decision to play his character perpetually stoned.  While this is barely commented upon, it makes for delicious humor throughout.  And Sam Rockwell, so loathsome as Wild Bill in The Green Mile, racks up an impressive number of laughs with his portrayal of Guy, the actor who did one episode of Galaxy Quest and was killed five minutes into the story. (Star Trek was replete with such actors, played by an entire parade of nameless actors).See Galaxy Quest and enjoy this rara avis -- a comedy that really does make you laugh. "},{"Title":"All the great themes and hooters (****)","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The more I think about it, the more I think it's a **** movie.It's funny (Why is it always the ducts?). Good guys and bad guys (Good guys win.). Heroes. Hooters. They get past the whining about their lot in life and get the job done. Guy gets the girl. Hooters. Not boring. Clever juxtaposition of quality and cheesy special effects. Brains as well as brawn to defeat the enemy. All the great themes and hooters. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully cast and well scripted.","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The casting of this picture is wonderful. All of the main characters, especially Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman, are superb. Special accolades to Tony Shalhoub and Sam Rockwell. Watching this cast work together with the clever and sharply written script is pure pleasure. An initial impression of cardboard cutouts, present only as stereotypes or to advance the plot, is swept away as these characters actually learn and grow (what a concept) over the course of the picture to be revealed as fully 3 dimensional characters indeed. I was truly sorry to see this movie end - I wanted more. "}{"Title":"A Bugs Life with real people","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Probably the best movie I have seen this year and one that I will buy when it comes out on video.  What really got me were the kids were having a good time watching but the adults were laughing their heads off. It was a good spoof of most Sci Fi movies. I'm not a Tim Allen fan but look for a sequel on this one.  "},{"Title":"Awesome! A hysterical StarTrek spoof!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We saw Galaxy Quest last night, and are still giggling this morning. It's been a long time since we laughed so hard at a movie (although we just said the same thing about Being John Malkovich). Our favorite line was Sigourney's We've got to get out of here before Guy gets killed! If you were ever a StarTrek fan, go see this film! "},{"Title":"Laughter, Laughter, Laughter, But w/ More Depth Than Space Balls","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The entire audience in the theater was roaring and howling with laughter through 90% of the film. And for 2% percent of it, everyone was about to jerk tears until we were interrupted by another witty comment by Tim Allen which sent everyone into laughter heaven again. And for the remaining 2%, we were cringing w/ suspense (Will they make it alive? Is the ship going to explode? What will happen to the 'Galaxy Quest' cast/crew members?)This movie is IT!  Forget all the other movies! You haven't seen a movie 'til you've seen a movie playing a movie playing a movie. The results are good, hilarious humor and fun. This truly is a Comedy of Galactic Proportions. It's the most satisfying movie I've ever seen!Tim Allen is really funny. Sigourney Weaver is funny in that she successfully portrays a stupid, blonde babe. Allen Rickman is funny in that he never really cracks a smile, yet just by his serious demeanor in contrast to the humorous mood of the film, it makes us laugh. The entire cast shows a great deal of teamwork that works really well for the film. And each character goes through a change. They all break out of their shells to become better people.After watching this movie, I can gladly call myself a Questarian.  "},{"Title":"A must-see for anyone that's been to any SF convention!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are a science-fiction movie fan or if you've been to any science-fiction convention, especially the cheesy little ones where the entire focus is on seeing stars from your favorite show or movie, you should see this movie.  Galaxy Quest hits all the stereotypes and spoofs them gently.  I especially liked Tim Allen's character, living life according to the rumors about William Shatner; attention-hogging, drinking, really needing to get-a-life of his own.  Go see this movie.  Laugh as the actors from a long-dead show try to find it in themselves to live up to the promise of their characters.  While the movie drags at times, the laughs are worth the price of a ticket.  Stay to the end of the credits, you'll walk out saying never give up, never surrender   in a whole new way... "},{"Title":"Best FUN Show of 1999","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I never laugh out loud in a theater.  Sort of a personal issue.  This movie had me giggling and laughing throughout.  In fact, the entire theater was clapping and getting into the show.  It is so refreshing to just have fun at a movie.  Well written and colorful.  We will see this one again! "},{"Title":"A funny, funny film","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one is funny. Some of the strangest aliens around.  Kudos to the designers of the humanoid aliens (the ones on the ship). Everything in this film is tight no loose ends that often plague other comedy sci-fi films.I want to see it again. "},{"Title":"My wife hates Sci-Fi, and she loved it!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not only is it tremendously funny, but Galaxy Quest delivers a rousing adventure (plus a little romance) along the way!  Tim Allen captures the swagger of a Shatner-wannabe just right, and Sigourney Weaver is spot-on perfect!  The biggest laughs of the film come from Tony Shalhoub as Kwan/Chen-- he has the best line delivery I've seen in a long time (and they give him some wonderful lines).  Alan Rickman is always a treat, and his performance as Dane/Lazarus combines exasperation, anger, resignation, and ego in just the right amounts.  Great effects, a well-told story, and (best of all) the right amount of satire/respect for the fandom being parodied. My wife is not into Sci-Fi at all, and she can't wait to see Galaxy Quest again.  Don't believe those who would say GQ is ONLY for fanboys.  Fanboys will get an extra chuckle or two, but Galaxy Quest is great for everyone! "},{"Title":"A huge and pleasant surprise","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit that I didn't go into this film with high expectations, but Galaxy quest delivered a lot of laughs.  It was smartly written, and the jokes were very well acted.  I thought it would be silly, and it was for a little bit, but the funny quota far outweighed the silliness. Galaxy Quest has big laughs for everyone in the family.  It's a good time and a wild ride. "},{"Title":"Terrific fun, good acting, and no loose ends","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All of our group of 4 grown-ups over age 50 who saw this film really recommend it to anyone who has enjoyed any space operas like Star Trek or Babylon5.  The story is well thought-out, some of the acting is truly superb, and there is none of that annoying How did he know about that! or How did she get that?  You will love it!! "},{"Title":"Fun and Better than STAR TREK's last movie","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First and foremost -- I AM NOT A TREKKIE!   I have seen the show a couple of times, and get the gist of it...but by no means am I part of the cult that has seen every episode.  Guess what?  I still enjoyed this movie!  It's fun, fun, fun!  Sigourney Weaver is a blonde, and so funny -- nice change for her.  Alan Rickman deadpans his way through the film, and is also great!  Tim Allen does a great Shatner!  All in all -- it's just what you thought it would be -- an enjoyable ride.  Definitely worth seeing!  "}{"Title":"Fun flick!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not a big Star Trek fan (gasp!) but I thoroughly enjoyed the gentle satire presented in Galaxy Quest. The special effects were satisfactory - not Matrix-quality perhaps, but nevertheless completely acceptable - the cast was well-chosen and the plot and dialog entertaining. The movie is rated PG, but much of the humor may be lost on younger children. "},{"Title":"Funny, light sci-fi comedy","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I  didn't have high expectations for Galaxy Quest, but really enjoyed it. This film stars Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, and Tony Shalhoub as actors from a `Star Trek' type show whose professional lives are reduced to lame store openings and nerdy conventions.  Aliens (led by the hilarious Enrico Colantoni from TV's Just Shoot Me) need these heroes to save their planet, since they've watched these heroes from space. The aliens, however, believe that the show was real, (they refer to the show as the `historical documents') and now this ragged team of hack actors is in for a fight with some nasty space creatures.  The special effects are terrific, Allen enjoys spoofing space movies and his Buzz Lightyear persona, and Weaver, usually a dramatic actress, lightens up well.  Alan Rickman is also good as a Shakespearean-trained actor who is constantly complaining that he is only recognized in his alien garb.  Galaxy Quest is a light comedy that is definitely worth seeing, especially in this season of heavy dramas. "},{"Title":"Excellent Science Fiction/Comedy, must see! 9+","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed, Galaxy Quest very much,I rated a 9 plus, making it a (Must See) movie. It is light, funny and full of action. If you are a Star Trek, follower, you love this movie.Tim Allen & Sigourney Weaver, at their best and funniest! However, I thought Alan Rickman, made the movie as he did so well, when he played the Sheriff of Nottingham, in Robin Hood.This is a movie, I looked forward to purchasing on DVD or Video, when it becomes available. "},{"Title":"Absolutely dead on brilliant","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hate to use the words feel good comedy of the year but this film was just that.  For anyone who is or was a Star Trek fan or for anyone who has ever laughed, made fun of, or beaten up a Star Trek fan, you will love this film.  Galaxy Quest is a great send up of the Star Trek films and a great parody of its stars and Galaxy Quest performs this feat without condescension and with love for its subject.  I can just picture Shatner laughing his toupee off. "},{"Title":"Most fun I have had at the movies since Raiders of the Lost Arc","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was great entertainment. Funny, adventurous, well acted and directed with A-1, BIG SCREEN, special effects. The previews do not lend justice to the entertainment factor of this movie. Tim Allen could not have been a better choice for his role. The combination of his comedy and expression nailed the part. It was great to see Sigourney Weaver on the screen again with a smile. Alan Rickman and Tony Salhoub kept me laughing where most movies would slack off. The dialog was refreshing, proving again that a movie does not require the language of ignorant, drunken sailors to entertain and make a person laugh out loud. Galaxy Quest was the most fun I have had at a movie since Raiders Of the Lost Arc. A must see for the entire family. When I went, the theater was packed full, and at the end, everyone clapped and cheered. What else can I say besides I give this movie a 10 of 10 rating. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Great comedy for everyone.","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a Star Trek fan and having attended a couple Trek and B5 conventions before, I must say this movie rings true in many levels.  It's all a fantasy, of course, but finally someone has written a great story to tell about it.  It's great to see Tim Allen finally got a hit on his hands and Sigourney Weaver like you never seen her before!  I highly recommend this movie for everyone.  "},{"Title":"This movie is Trekrific!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this flick and I intended to see it again. First let me say that if you are not a fan of science fiction like Star Trek, Babylon 5, or Battlestar Galatica then don't see this movie, but if you are some variation of trekkie you'll get all the jokes and it is funny. On a more critique note it is a solid movie with great special effects and fabulous acting to sell the film, Alan Rickman is great. The best way to describe this film without spoilers is this is a comedy for sci-fi fans like Mystery Men was for comic book fans. Now I'm not saying this movie isn't enjoyable if you didn't like star trek I just don't think you will get a lot of the jokes and with a PG rating it is definitely a family film. I saw a some kids in the theater when I went and they seemed to enjoy it quite a bit. I give an A for writing, acting, and....ahh heck just take my word for it you wont waste your money.   "},{"Title":"funny premise, hilarious execution","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All right, it's a funny idea.  That's easy.  But hitting the tone... just the right tone... that's not so easy.  The writer and director (and designer and fx person) all hit the bullseye!  Usually films like this drip with phony sentiment as a way of, perhaps, making up for failed comedy.  Not so here.  There's plenty of laugh out loud humor to be had with just enough sweetness to make the concoction go down smooth.  If you like broad comedies, you'll walk away from this one with a smile on your face, trust me. "},{"Title":"GQ nails it cold","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My wife and I took our 19-YO niece and her boyfriend to see GQ last night. While I am a huge SF fan, the same can't be said for any of them.  All of us had a rip-roaring good time at this good-hearted spoof of so many of our favorite sci-fi TV shows. The whole con scene (fans dressed as their fave actors; groupies; the autograph lineups, etc.) is played perfectly, as is the worry on the part of the actors who have been pigeonholed due to their part in a successful sci-fi series.  The FX are great - both CGI and live (courtesy of FX wizard Harry Winston).  It is amusing to see nee' serious actor Sigourney Weaver play the sexpot - courtesy of what apparently is a souped-up Wonderbra.The interplay between the characters is perfect.  Tim Allen does a great William Shatner, including the famous Shatner roll and stuttering speech. Alan Richman turns in a great performance as a Shakespearian-trained actor who hates all this SF sh*t, but that's all he can do anymore.  Everyone else plays their parts convincingly and with great heart.Even the obligatory we-saved-the-universe big ending is appealingly done and worked into the overall story line.  Whether you are a SF fan or not, this movie will work for you and perhaps even touch you in a spot or two if you're not careful. "},{"Title":"A truly funny comedy that's also a good action-adventure, sci-fi film!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first time I've dragged the whole family to the movies after Christmas dinner. Everybody thanked me The sci-fi fans loved it, the action adventure fans loved it, we all enjoyed the comedy, and it's been the first movie I've seen since Young Frankenstein where the audience was laughing out loud throughout and applauded at the end.Then on Sunday other friends wanted to see it so two of us went back, with the advantage that this time we were able to listen to some of the lines we had missed from laughing too hard the first time. On both occasions the film played to an almost-full house.Those who want their entertainment to carry meaning will find this film a wonderful fable on the power of fantasy and imagination. Everybody will have a fun time. The movie is good action adventure, good science fiction, and good comedy.The ensemble cast is terrific, with the good aliens getting great sympathy from the audience (little kids left the theater saying You must save us). Tony Shalhoub as the anti-Scotty engineer is great. Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman were magnificent in roles that are a (very welcome) departure from their more intense work. Tim Allen and Sam Rockwell were a riot, just like the rest of the cast -- bad guys included.Galaxy Quest rocks! "}{"Title":"Science Fiction at it's Greatest","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest opens to quickly reveal how the cast of the show aren't really the heroes that their fans want them to be, but rather a bunch of has-been actors that can't establish anything else to move their careers onto. With that situation comes a feeling most people can't really understand until they are past thirty years of age; and in this fashion, the movie quickly perks your senses that it's not going to be your average no-wit sci-fi parody.Good science fiction stretches the mind and the imagination. It asks you to imagine the possibility of amazing inventions such as starships, laser weapons, or Dick Tracy-style wrist phones.Great science fiction goes beyond trying to get you to believe in gee-whiz technology. Great science fiction asks you to open your mind and examine yourself Do you believe in the possibility that there was an alien influence to human development? 2001 A Space Odyssey asked that question three decades ago, and we still ask that question today in The X-Files. Now that scientists have crossed the genes of a monkey with a jellyfish and have found a gene to make mice more intelligent, what will we do if we create an intelligent monkey? Planet of the Apes asked us that question long ago; we have to deal with that reality today. With the threat of global climatic change and strange new diseases such as mad cow disease suddenly evolving, what if our food supplies suddenly disappeared? Would it be acceptable to use humans as a food source, as in Soylent Green? Scientist have decoded a human chromosome, and are contemplating using pigs as a source of human replacement parts. Would it be okay to make a new type of human slave like in Blade Runner? And would enslaving them be okay, even if they are genetically superior to us?Now Galaxy Quest is far from being as epic as any of these movies, but it is still great science fiction in the same sense. The movie innocently asks would we humans help save a naïve, yet technologically superior culture from harm? In presenting such a simple question, Galaxy Quest leads the characters - and more importantly us - to examine our inner selves and our values as a society.Without revealing the plot, there is a point in the movie where you understand that the enemy in the movie is really ourselves, in earlier historic times. Mankind has always used technology to vanquish and enslave other humans that we found 'non-important'. It wasn't until the twentieth century invention of the atomic bomb - a technological device which can destroy all life - that we really began to wonder if greater weapons was really the solution. Mankind now realizes that we have the power to permanently destruct habitats and make species extinct forever. However, the end of the twentieth century really marks the beginning of the realization that more important than greed, destruction and conquest is the importance of preserving the earth, it's fragile environment and occupants.That this movie shows how much everyday humans have changed in our inner values is probably the greatest homage that can be made to Gene Roddenberry and his vision for mankind in the third millennia. Star Trek, the original series, was a big risk for a network in a time when westerns were the most popular type of television drama. A vision of an international crew of humans working together when the Vietnam war was raging. The first interracial kiss at a time when civil rights were being fought for. These are just a few examples of how Star Trek was a bold and courageous vision of the future in some of our most distressing times.The writers and producers of the movie must be commended on how they ride the edge of believability and plausibility without crossing it, and kept the movie humorous without resorting to brainless antics. In addition, the release of Galaxy Quest at the transition of the second and third millennium, right after Christmas, could not have been more ironic. (We are at the height of the Y2K millennium madness; and at a time when some of us need to explain to kids about Santa Claus.) Galaxy Quest's own 'interspecies' kiss was also a brilliant touch hidden in a humorous gag!Don't worry about seeing this movie if you never have a taste for science fiction, don't understand science or never watched Star Trek. Galaxy Quest is on its own, a great fictional tale of humans and who we are today. It's the kind of story anyone can appreciate.  "},{"Title":"It was great escapist fun, a good date movie","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Four of us went to see this film on the spur of the moment.  Since it had just opened, we didn't have any unrealistic expectations.  It was silly, funny, had some great jabs at Trekkies, Star Wars, and I loved seeing Sigourney Weaver doing this kind of work at her age.  I'd recommend it for a first date, for teenagers, and for adults who aren't afraid to be silly. "},{"Title":"A loving poke at Star Trek","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went into this film with very few preconceptions. I walked out very glad I saw it. Galaxy Quest is a loving poke at Star Trek, its fans, its cast and its writing.  Tim Allen plays the commander as puffed up and ego-centric as Shatner; Sigourney Weaver lamented her one-dimensional role as loudly as Nichols.  The effects are fun, the aliens who seek the help of the crew are a riot, and the scenes involving the convention geeks are so dead-on accurate as to make this former Trekkie wince.If there is a flaw in Galaxy Quest, it is in the predictability of the plot; then again, if you loved the 60's Star Trek, it WOULD be predictable.Galaxy Quest is a must see, very funny film for anybody who took/takes Star Trek a little too seriously (yet has the sense to laugh at that fact.) The last laugh, of course, will be the sudden rise of Galaxy Quest fan clubs, fanzines, Questheads at sci-fi conventions, etc.  This will be the final barometer of what a cult classic this movie could become. "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard that my head hurt!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movies has it all.  We've been blessed by some of the greatest movies in 1999.  I rate this one with the crowd at the top.  I want to see this one again to catch the gags I missed because there were so many.  Alan Rickman was really great as the alien crew member.  When the NSEA Protector left the starport I laughed so hard I thought I would burst a blood vessel.  This movie must be seen at a good theater with a great sound system to get the full effect.  Great scenes and SFX throughout the film.  I had gone to see Mr. Ripley but it was sold out and chose this movie at the last minute.  I was not disappointed, you won't be either.The Wise Fool says 9 of 10 "},{"Title":"A hoot.  Genuinely funny.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The actors in an old SF Star-Trek-like TV series are mistaken for actual heroes and asked to save another civilization.  The plot isn't new (see THE THREE AMIGOS), but the use of Star Trek makes it hilarious.  The more you know about Trek, the funnier it is (though you don't have to be a diehard trekker to enjoy it).  It gets laughs from the absurdities of the show and its fans, though never in a mean-spirited way.  A lot of fun from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but....","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not Great.I liked this movie and sometimes it was more entertaining and imaginative than Star Trek Voyager, but I wanted it to be funnier.I wanted to laugh out loud like I did with the best comedy of this year, Election. I liked the cast and the story was decent so Id recommend it "},{"Title":"More fun than I bargained for","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The previews that I saw on television seemed to indicate that this film would be yet another in a long line of stupid family science-fiction adventures, the most notorious of this sort in recent memory being the pathetic Lost in Space.  I was more than happily surprised with what I saw, however, in that it was a fun spoof of Star Trek and the whole Trekkie phenomenon.  Being somewhat familiar with star Trek conventions and more than familiar with science-fiction fanaticism, it was very fun to catch the references to Star Trek and the tongue-in-cheek approach to the story. This film makes a wonderful companion to the recent documentary Trekkies. "},{"Title":"Not a Sci-fi Fan but....","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I never cared for Star Trek or Tim Allen but throughout this entire film, I was smiling and chuckling. This movie is just plain entertaining. Alan Richman steals the movie with his deadpan expression and I especially liked the character played by the actor from Just Shoot Me (I forget his name) My kids and I are harsh movie critics  and when we find a film we all enjoy, it's a pleasant reminder of how wonderful movie-going can be. "},{"Title":"I haven't laughed this hard in four years","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am not a big Tim Allen fan, but this movie made me respect him as a comedian. It is not a typical Tim Allen role, and he allowed others to share the screen with him. I laughed more at this movie than any real comedy I have seen in the theaters in many years. The writing is exceptional, and the movie flows smoothly from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie for the entire family!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and thought that it was excellent.  It was a spoof on the star trek movies with the GORGEOUS Sigourney Weaver (the alien movies) showcasing her comedic talents.  I was reminded of the movie with Jane Fonda, Barbarella when I saw Ms Weaver's blond wig (she looks great in it).  Tim Allen put in a good performance as Captain Taggart. Especially good in his role, was the actor from Just Shoot Me.  The movie had all the elements i,e. funny, sad, warm, special effects etc.,  If you're looking to have a good time, take the whole family to enjoy this movie.  I gave it 10 out of 10 stars. The soundtrack was excellent also (I think that it was Randy Edelman or David Newman)?  "}{"Title":"Galaxy Quest is a laugh out riot that keeps you entertained.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest By Dean Kish	Five actors from the science fiction TV show `Galaxy Quest' are mistaken by some outer space fans as being real actual space heroes. Their television captain (Tim Allen) is captured and placed to negotiate with a megalomaniac terrorist bent on destroying the universe. The negotiation is a huge success and the captain is sent back to earth thinking it's merely hangover.  Until he finds out that it was real and they need him again. He decides to take his fellow cast members on the adventure of their lives and prove that he truly is a great leader and not a drunk.  	Galaxy Quest is one of those complicated premise comedies that delivers on so many levels and makes you howl with laughter. Not for one minute of this film do the stars think that they should leave their television personality and become an independent thinking person. That's what makes this so funny and original. With the huge success of `Star Trek' why not have the actual actors take the adventure instead of their fictional counterparts. 	Tim Allen breaks out of the mold as `Disney/sitcom father' and takes a chance here. What we get is a little mix of `Buzz Light-year' and William Shatner. He is great as the leader of this fake interstellar crew. Alan Rickman also stars as a fake alien who doesn't want to play his part anymore but instead be the Shakespearean actor he once was. Another scene stealer is Tony Shalboub as the ship's engineer. He isn't positive or assure of himself as other ship engineers which brings wonderful parody to the role. Sigourney Weaver in her blonde persona is almost wasted but still it was nice to see her acting not so serious or tough.  	Galaxy Quest is a laugh out riot that keeps you entertained. Its been a long time since we had a comedy this smartly written. The last one I can recall is last summer's `American Pie'. I look forward to seeing Tim Allen in other breakout roles. As Tim Allen says in the movie, `There are no vulnerable spots!!' (4 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie released this Christmas season","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is hilarious.  It is similar in plot to that of 1984's The Last Starfighter, except that instead of a hot-shot teen-aged video games wizard, the aliens get out-of-work actors who appeared in a Star Trek-like series in the 1970s to be their real-life heroes.   The great Alan Rickman is outstanding as a once-Shakespearean actor, who likely took the Galaxy Quest gig 20 years ago to make some fast coin, never realizing that this role would forever torpedo his acting career because of the typecasting and second, that he'd have to make a living by resorting to personal appearance fees at Galaxy Quest conventions.  Sigourney Weaver looks and acts great, as does everyone, including Enrico Colantoni (the bald photographer on NBC's Just Shoot Me) as a very funny alien.  This movie is terrific, including a fine performance from Tim Allen, who, really, can act. "},{"Title":"Hilarious...an absolute movie to see","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It helps being a trekkie but it's not a must to enjoy this film and the antics within.  As a sci-fi fan it is awesome to see all the technical features that they make fun of even if you've learned to love them.Awesome special effects and great casting give it the little extra. "},{"Title":"Well-done.  Funny, and imaginative. Trek-spoof.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great movie for anyone who grew up with Star Trek.  It pokes light-hearted fun at trekies, but also uses them to make a point.  Imagination is really fun.  So is this movie.  Go see it if you want to be entertained. "},{"Title":"Everything it promised to be in the trailers","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is without question the funniest send-up of space opera ever filmed.  It sets up every cliche and convention of television sci-fi and then lovingly flattens them like ten pins, but it's done with great affection and, believe it or not, a fair amount of respect. I'd subtitle it something like Vindication of the Nerds or Freaks and Geeks Get Their Chance.  Convention-going SF fans will have a particularly fine time, but anyone with a hint of imagination and a little adventure in his or her soul will find this worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"I laughed myself sick","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't laughed this hard at a movie in years. My stomach ached when I walked out of the theater. The more you've seen (and liked) a certain TV series starring an egotistical captain and his brilliant alien first officer, the harder you will.  The special effects are very good, especially the view when gigantic clamshell doors on the NSEA Protector are opened to space. The lines that got me going are too numerous to list.  The one that made me laugh the hardest? ...It's the simple things.... "},{"Title":"A knowing and fun look at sci-fi and fandom.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed GalaxyQuest.  I was a fan of Star Trek as a kid, and this film was written and produced by people with not only a genuine affection for the show itself but an understanding of why it maintains a following to this day. Star Trek (and its proxy in the film, the Galaxy Quest tv show) always appealed to the highest motives for human endeavor altruism, loyalty, the quest for knowledge, and the desire to do good. The film has a knowing and affectionate understanding of fandom, and it puts it to good use, allowing the fans to be an integral part of the resolution of the story.If you still get a little lump in your throat when you hear To boldly go where no man has gone before..., you need to see this film.  "},{"Title":"Silly, but lots of fun!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's wonderful when a movie gives you *exactly* what you're in the mood for, and this one really struck the bullseye for me! I was in the mood for a light, fun movie with lots of laughs and that's exactly what I got. This movie is delightfully silly, and I got to do lots of sincere out-loud laughing throughout.The cast is heavy on sit-com stars (Elliot and Glenn from Just Shoot Me, Leo from Veronica's Closet, and, of course,  Tim Allen in the lead) as well as a couple of big-screen names,  Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman (I guess Tim Allen qualifies here too!), who all handle their reasonably simple roles with the right balance of broad humor and believability.The plot is also pretty simple (which is appropriate), but the dialog and jokes are generally well written. Although I might quibble with how they present a science fiction convention (in my experience there are more women, fewer costumes, and the media guests usually seem genuinely happy to be there and are never in costume), this is a mild quibble. More on-point was the parody of a Battlestar Galactica/Buck Rogers-type science fiction show of the '70s (Galaxy Quest is more like those than like Star Trek). But it doesn't matter if you're not a science fiction fan -- the jokes are easily appreciated by anyone old enough to have watched the '70s sci-fi shows being parodied, even if you didn't actually watch them much. Kids will enjoy the plot, action, and more general humor. The kids in the audience I was in certainly seemed to be enjoying the movie, although I think the adults were laughing even louder. I know I was! "},{"Title":"Fun spoof of the Star Trek movies and it was very funny!!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is about the crew of Galaxy Quest. It is a TV show that is now off the air. The actors must now do conventions and open computer stores to make ends meet(keep earning money). During one such convention, Tim Allen is approached by a group of aliens. He thinks they're there for the show's convention. They later whisk him off to their spaceship, where he encounters some very strange creatures. After that the crew of the Galaxy Quest goes off to help the aliens save their race. This movie has many funny moments as the humans keep trying to explain that there just actors on human TV show. It spoofs Star Trek several times thoughout the movie!!The special effects are quite good.I especially liked the rock gaint and the little blue aliens!!I laughed at the actor's situation a lot though out the movie, it made sense of the attention we as humans pay to our TV/movie shows!!Overall, it's the best laugh riot I had since Toy Story 2 came out last month!!! "},{"Title":"By Grabthor's Hammer...  Not Bad!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is worth seeing.  More than that, it's worth seeing again. Galaxy Quest is, of course, a send up of the whole S*** T*** phenomenon (duh!)--but it goes beyond that.  It's about actors who must become the characters they portray.  While this is nothing new (Dave, Moon Over Parador,  and even The Inspector General come to mind) the story is well written and engagingly done.Good performances by Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, et. al., especially Sam Rockwell, whose Guy Fleegman/Crewman #6 is wonderfully over the top.Whether you love (that spacey TV show), hate it, or don't even know which show I'm talking about, you'll find something to like in this movie.  "}{"Title":"It's wonderful escapism","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I broke off part of a tooth during Galaxy Quest while I was eating popcorn. That normally would bias me against a film, but I won't hold it against Galaxy Quest.It's wonderful escapism. The movie begins darkly, though, since the cast members of Galaxy Quest, the television series, are caught in a hellhole called fan club conventions. They have to be the Star Trek-like characters they haven't been in almost 20 years, and you really feel for what their lives have become.The movie lightens up when the aliens show up. They need the help of the Galaxy Quest crew to deal with another race of ruthless aliens, whose names I forget. The good aliens are  called Therians, I recall, and they are blissed-out always, even in the face of death. Something in their programming won't let them be unhappy. There's an innocence in these technologically superior beings that's quite touching. Their hearts are so pure, they just don't understand that the Galaxy Quest tv shows they've been studying weren't historical documentaries, but pretend.I won't give up all the details of the plot or why the show works. I had doubts going in that I could accept Home Improvement's Tim Allen as a former television space commander, who must rise to the role of real space commander and deal with the evil aliens. He does it though, as do Sigourney Weaver and the other cast members. It's worthwhile seeing the characters adjust from their roles as former tv stars to real spacecraft crewmembers.I give this movie a strong rating. I saw it on Christmas day morning, and left feeling pretty good. I did black out of my movie attention for a few moments when I felt the piece of my tooth in the mouthful of popcorn and had to fish it out, and then worried what I'd do on Christmas if the discovery was followed by a howling pain in a molar or cuspid or bicep or whatever tooth it was. Fortunately, it doesn't hurt.So, go see Galaxy Quest, have a good time, but make sure all the popcorn seeds that didn't pop are at the bottom of your popcorn bag. Learn from the error of my ways.  "},{"Title":"Good characters...","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Did you like Spock, Captain Kirk, McCoy, Checkov, Ohura, and Scotty in Star Trek?   Then you'll love --Galaxy Quest-- It's a funny Star Trek send up, that rewards us in the know Star Trek fans with hysterical bits by Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shaloub, and Sam Rockwell. Character actor Sam Rockwell takes the honors for G.Q. studmuffin.  Plus it's good for kids without being sappy, unlike Bicentennial Man  "},{"Title":"DeForrest Kelly would've loved it!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a send-up of the highest caliber!  With fantastic casting (beautifully overacted), great sets, and plenty of humor, Galaxy Quest is a must-see for anyone who has ever even remotely liked Star Trek or its genre.  Then again, see it even if you don't like science fiction.Sigourney Weaver vamps it up while tossing and fluffing her platinum locks, Tim Allen captures the essence of his Shatner-like character, and Alan Rickman (in a bit of casting GENIUS) exudes enough sarcasm and self-hatred (I played Richard the Third!) to last a lifetime.  For me, Rickman is the star of this movie, turning in another fantastic performance, even better than his role in Dogma.It was a bit over-edited in a blatant attempt to pander to the family market; however, in the theater I was in, the younger kids couldn't grasp the humor (the back of my seat was kicked on and off for 90 minutes), but the adults were loving every minute of it.So go see this movie!  You won't be sorry, and your sides will probably hurt when you leave. "},{"Title":"The best space adventure since the original Star Wars","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fun filled blast-off,Capt Kirk rides again. Will never be able to look at Star Trek or even Star Wars again without smiling. A perfect holiday movie for all ages.Should be the sleeper hit of the season with perfect cast and loads of ILM effects. Was that really Sigourney Weaver-WOW! Having just seen Sam Rockwell in the Green Mile and now this role,his transition from a psychopathic killer Green Mileto comic sidekick was especially enjoyable. If you were not before you will sure be converted to a Tim Allen fan for his role as Capt Kirk/Taggart. Go see this one ,you will be chuckling for days. "},{"Title":"For the fan boys","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are a casual movie goer that sees the occasional science fiction movie, then you may get a pleasant evening out of it.  However, if you can quote any episode of any given science fiction TV series frontwards, backwards and sideways, this movie is for you.  No cliche is left untouched, no nuance unmentioned, and there's room to turn all of them on their ear and give us an entertaining show!  The whole cast are wonderful as actors typecasted as sci-fi actors (especially Tim Allen and Alan Rickman) and the story doesn't forget to give us a story to care about!  This really is a heart felt valentine for the fan boys and girls that spend their weekends dressing up in costumes and attending conventions.  And this one was received with open arms. "},{"Title":"This is one of the coolest parodies of the Sci-Fi Genre.","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see a sneak preview of this movie and I have to say that it is HILARIOUS.  If your a Sci-Fi nut like myself you will be looking at the scenes from the Sci-Fi conventions wondering where they hid the camera at the last one you attended.  If you are not a Sci-Fi freak you will still enjoy this movie for the sheer comedy of it.  Quest takes a poke at every old series that I hold dear, but it does it in such a way that it makes you realize how silly they were, but you love them all the same.  This movie is a just great fun for all. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, with great special effects.","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was especially funny for those familiar with Star Trek fandom and conventions, but is hilarious even for those who aren't. The acting was good.  The pacing was right on.  And the special effects were impressive. While the acting for the Galaxy Quest crew was good, the acting for the aliens was even moreso. "},{"Title":"A riot of syndicated proportions.","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A troupe of actors forever stereotyped as characters from a cheesy space show, are forced to meet their greatest fans in a real life war. This is definitely a movie for anyone who loves or enjoys those old '60's Star Trek episodes. Based on the premise of What would happen if this hokey technology were taken seriously and the actors were given a chance to prove themselves? this movie takes a lighthearted look at a massive part of our pop culture. The ensemble acting is terrific. It is so nice to see Alan Rickman again. Special effects and graphics are wonderful. Great representations of those classic cardboard and foam cutouts we remember. This is a must see comedy to see. "},{"Title":"A Great Ride!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First let me tell you that 1.  I'm not a science fiction fan.  2.  I'm not a Tim Allen fan.  3.  I thought this would be a one-joke movie.  Having said that, I have to tell you that I LOVED THIS FILM!  Very well written, acted and the visuals were excellent.  Fun for the ENTIRE family, I could not praise this film more.  Sam Rockwell, hopefully, will become a star as a result from this.  He steals every scene he is in! "},{"Title":"Hilarious send-up of Star Trek, and a great adventure-comedy.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is a wonderful, hilarious send-up of Star Trek, Trekkies, actors and TV shows in general, and it's a great adventure-comedy to boot. It's obvious that the writers are as much fans of the original material as the people they poke fun of, making you laugh at the same time as they make the material endearing, and even bringing the occasional pang of nostalgia. The film is a roller-coaster ride of events full of sci-fi clichés with a smart script that manages to make them all seem fresh and funny. Of course, many other episodic elements are included there's melodrama, action, adventure, silly heroics, lots of special effects, and a whole lot of FUN (did I say that already?). The cast is just perfect and Allen, Weaver and Rickman have never been funnier. If you've ever seen Star Trek you'll laugh yourself silly, and even if you haven't, there's still much to enjoy in Galaxy Quest. "}{"Title":"Fun Movie with many laughs!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Galaxy Quest at a recent sneak preview.  This is a very funny movie. It spoofs the original Star Trek in my opinion.  The characters all have some funny lines.  I expected to be mildly amused, but I laughed out loud a lot.  Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, and Alan Rickman do a wonderful job. True Trekkies may not appreciate all of the little tweaks at the show, but I thought it was good natured and a lot of fun.  I think this movie is suitable for kids.  Although very young kids may have a problem with some of the violence. "},{"Title":"For anyone who has ever loved a SF-TV Show...","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A hilarious look into a what if situation. A true treat for all fans of the genre and enough humor to please anyone else. Obviously made by people who love and understand the SF Fan community. Definitely a gem in this holiday season's movie picks. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" GALAXY QUEST is a nice little STAR TREK spoof that also doubles as a decent Hollywood film, and that's a surprise as I went into this expecting not to like it. Instead, from the outset - with the has-been cast of an aged TV show reduced to appearing at conventions populated by deranged fans - I realised I was watching a loving spoof of not only STAR TREK but the actors in it. So we get Tim Allen as a pompous Shatner, Alan Rickman as an aloof Nimoy, etc. etc.Funnily enough, GALAXY QUEST also turns out to be a lot better as a piece of entertainment than many of the real STAR TREK movies, such as INSURRECTION which came out at around the same time. It's action-packed, tells a funny, interesting story with plenty of workable jokes, and it has some great early CGI and physical effects by the likes of Stan Winston. The film is also well-cast, with an against-type Sigourney Weaver working well as a token bimbo character and Sam Rockwell quite hilarious as a red shirt. The only way that they could have bettered this was to make it an out-and-out STAR TREK spoof starring Shatner et al. "},{"Title":"Cult comedy for Trek junkies","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Better than most Star Trek feature films is Galaxy Quest, a gentle satire of Gene Roddenberry's science fiction franchise and its entourage of aficionados and fan-boys. The film manages to function well as both a traditional space adventure and a parody, a juggling act which is rare, and probably a result of the love its creators have for that which they're lampooning.Director Dean Parisot is mostly a hack, but he has a long list of TV credentials and knows how to handle what Galaxy Quest requires, which is essentially sitcom level humour with a dollop of camaraderie. In this regard he's assembled a very good cast, Tim Allen playing Space Captain Decker (an amalgamation of William Shatner and his now mythic character, Captain James T. Kirk), scifi queen Sigourney Weaver playing a busty communications officer, Sam Rockwell a disposable crew-mate and Alan Rickman a cross between actors Patrick Stewart and Leonard Nimoy. Rockwell would make another giddy love-letter to bad scifi with Gentlemen Broncos some years later.Galaxy Quest's plot is shamelessly stolen from Three Amigos, but Parisot's film is more affable, he plays his parody straight, and his comedy is gentler, never quite rising to the level of satire and staying firmly at the level of good-natured elbow ribbing. Those unfamiliar with scifi and Trek lore may not get the film's jokes.8/10 &#x96; Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"galactic","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Galaxy Quest first came out, we thought that it looked a little strange - maybe idiotic - especially seeing Sigourney Weaver with blonde hair. But we later saw it, and we couldn't stop laughing. Portraying the cast members of a canceled TV show having to help a civilization based on their TV show, the movie really knows how to keep it coming. You can certainly see how they're poking fun at Star Trek and Alien, maybe even others (particularly at their cult followings). I think that my favorite part was when Tim Allen first meets the evil monster character, and...well, he really needs to talk more softly! How they come up with these things, I'll never know! As for the other cast members, Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub, Sam Rockwell, Missi Pyle and Justin Long all do very well. It certainly seems that they're having fun filming this. A truly hilarious movie. "},{"Title":"The Replacement Killers","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Concept 'Willow' meets 'Bug's Life' meets This film gives me a strange feeling of happiness.  Sure, the humor is on the level of 'Spaceballs', but this better understands its material than Brooks.This is your only spoiler warning...We have the idea of a bad TV show being made into a movie--all to obvious what it's parodying--while actors become fighters.  Strangely, there's a bit too much typecasting going on.--Allen, literally born on TV, does his usual banal bit.  It's actually funnier seeing him imitate Shatner's intensity during the serious than the obvious spoof moments.--Weaver is in her 'Ghostbusters' mode again.  After coming off 'Resurrection', I think she's still a little mad about getting cheated by Jeunet.--Rickman, ironically, is Alec Guiness and not Leonard Nimoy.  He sticks his finger into George Lucas' eye better than Nimoy himself did with 'Voyage Home.'Just as 'Star Trek' and its ilk are simple stories with poor production values, this adopts the same mentality.Many humor elements are boiled down to a third grade level (I was disappointed by the lack of 'Alien' references), but this film shows that Hollywood knows it's stupid.  Just look at the Top 10 grossing films for the year this debuted, only 'Toy Story' understood the idea.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"Better than you would expect","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wasn't expecting this film to be all that good from the trailer, but it was suprisingly funny and the performances were very entertaining, esp Rickman's character.  I did think that the first half hour was the best part and that the film did drag a little once the whole crew went into space but that was only because most of the situations they found themselves in were overtly familiar from other films, but in a way you can't really fault them for this as it was intentionally done. All in all one of the best sci-fi spoofs I have seen, although its not like I've seen many! "},{"Title":"An affectionate and very funny film","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Earth is now a brighter radio object than the Sun. When Carl Sagan once remarked on this to Johnny Carson on the old Tonight Show, Carson began to muse about the fact that hundreds of years from now, he will still be bombing on the small screen somewhere way out in deep space. In the film Contact, aliens from 30 light-years away communicate with Earth by beaming back to us one of the first TV programs ever broadcast The 1936 Berlin Olympics, presided over by Adolf Hitler. In Galaxy Quest, we have the same idea made into a comedy. The previous reviewers have pretty much said all there is to say about this movie. What else is there? The best thing about Galaxy Quest is the filmmakers' obvious affection for their subject. This is not a spoof, like Mel Brooks's Spaceballs, which is a leaden sendup of Star Wars. Galaxy Quest is inspired not just by Star Trek, but by the entire Star Trek 'phenomenon' (see the excellent documentary 'Trekkers'), and the lunatics who have elevated Star Trek to the status of a quasi-religion. The original 'episodes' of Galaxy Quest we glimpse in the film are actually a lot cheesier than the original Star Trek, but the Galaxy Quest conventions are a wonderful replication of a real Trek con. What struck me about Galaxy Quest is that the 'show' looked not only like Star Trek but like most other TV space operas since, so profoundly has Star Trek influenced all of TV science fiction since the 1960s. Galaxy Quest plays on the notion of Star-Trek-as-career-suicide William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy (who is not, really, a very good actor), no matter what else they have done, have never shaken their identification with Star Trek, and most of the supporting actors on the show (George Takei, Nichelle Nichols, the late DeForest Kelley, Grace Lee Whitney, the late James Doohan, Walter Koenig, etc.) have worked little or not at all outside the Star Trek universe since the original series. Galaxy Quest goes one better NOBODY from Galaxy Quest has had a real acting job in 20 years. They are reduced to appearing at conventions and making bleakly unglamorous celebrity commercials. (This expository material was actually almost painful to watch, and it dragged a little bit, because you know what's coming and want to see it.) However, the Thermians of the Klatu Nebula (in joke here Klaatu was the name of the Michael Rennie character in The Day The Earth Stood Still) have been receiving broadcasts of the original series and have been inspired to reshape their entire civilization around these 'historical documents' (the Thermians have no concept of fiction). When their race is threatened by Sarris of Fatu-Krey, they build a REAL starship, the Protector Two, based on the IMAGINARY starship Protector (= Enterprise) and come to Earth to appeal to Commander Peter Quincy Taggart, who is really Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), to aid in their struggle. It goes without saying that he eventually discovers that they are not Galaxy Quest nuts but real aliens, and it goes without saying that he and the rest of the 'crew' eventually find themselves on Thermia and then on board the Protector Two, and it also goes without saying that, almost in spite of themselves, they go on to defeat the Fatu-Krey and slay Sarris. And best of all, Galaxy Quest is revived, and so are the careers and spirits of the cast.This was a very enjoyable entertainment, but I wonder about the casting. Tim Allen was good as the slightly sleazy has-been actor Nesmith, but I found myself wishing that a more intense actor had been cast, someone like Kelsey Grammar. Sigourney Weaver was good in this film, but I wonder why she was cast; she is almost too intelligent for the role she plays, and someone more stereotypically glamorous would have been better. The real laugh-stealer is Alan Rickman as Alexander Dane, the once-promising Shakespearean actor who is awash in self-pity and self-loathing due to his inability to get work since he played the role of the humanoid Dr. Lazarus on Galaxy Quest. Indignity is added to injury when he boards the Protector Two, since the Thermians have prepared his food and his living quarters as if he were a real alien.The main scientific problem is the time frame. If the show Galaxy Quest was on the air 20 years ago, the transmissions would have traveled out into space only about 20 light-years. How far away from Earth is Thermia? You get the impression from the movie that it is much, much farther away than 20 light-years. And how long did it take them to reshape their entire civilization? The numbers don't add up, but this is a minor quibble about this very funny movie. "},{"Title":"The plan is to make 'em laugh!","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is there any Hollywood genre more ripe and untouched for parody than science fiction (with the exception of Mel Brooks's Space Balls)? A little affectionate teasing is healthy in any relationship, and it's nice to see a Hollywood production playing with the image of one of the more successful franchises. There is no way the actual franchise name would be used, but we all know which one is being talked about in this polite send-up.A long and successful run of a space adventure show, called Galaxy Quest, had come to an end 15 years before the start of the movie, but the crew of actors find themselves with dead-end careers as they toil making public appearances to appease the fans of the show and to make a meager dollar endorsing discount electronics outlets. When they encounter a couple of enthusiastic fans at a convention, they see them as just that. However, that group of fans actually reveal themselves to be aliens who have been viewing the TV transmissions of the old show as historical records. They have patterned their entire society after the sci-fi adventures and now expect the crew of actors to help save the race from another alien threat. With appropriate emotional punctuation, it's all fun from there on in.In the process, we meet overly enthused fans who are mining for every minute detail in each episode and asking the actors what it all meant. The actors are all at odds with each other behind the scenes feeling frustration with their career limitations and each other in high contrast to the image of the well-oiled-machine of a crew that they portray. As the actors enter the realm of outer space, there's a good deal of extreme fish-out-of-water situations and with the special effects, which are at a convincing production level. The actors are subjected to a very high-speed trans-galactic trip in customized bubbles. One actor must face off against a towering creature made of rocks, and the alien hosts, who have the appearance of large octopus have a high-tech solution to disguise themselves as human.The human characters are all basically on the same emotional journey, trying to plumb some self-respect out of their situation, but the actors portraying them make it all worth watching. Tim Allen has a wounded machismo as the captain. Sigourney Weaver plays an actress hired for her sex appeal and is tired of the notoriety of it. Allan Rickman has quietly humorous notes as a highly-trained actor who has a character known only for a single catch-phrase and is more than a little annoyed after 15 years of hearing it. Tony Shalub makes his character distinctly ethnic for the show and seems to have used his real-life character as a warm-up for his series, Monk. Over-the-top jokes are supplied by a hilariously low-ball Sam Rockwell , whose character seems to have answered the question of what happens to used car salesmen who become actors. A movie like Galaxy Quest really isn't about characters, though they are exactly portrayed as the script requires. It's more about taking the audience on a ride. This gets us to simultaneously laugh at the situations and get a bit of a thrill from the fact that the writers are spinning new twists on old clichés, and we're not quite sure what will happen. In the middle of it you may even find a brief note about the importance of inspiration - even a little fictional inspiration - in the challenges we face in real life. "},{"Title":"Fun, fluffy movie","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before seeing this, I had read many reviews and was given the impression that this movie was a work of genius. While it is a fun movie worth watching, it is not as good as some reviewers would lead you to believe.Taking a jab at popular sci-fi (with a very obvious poke at Star Trek), this movie is full of cliches, but they are presented with a wink and a grin - they are there to be laughed at. There are plenty of jokes, many of them clever, but there's not much that is hysterically funny; I'd say most are worthy of a chuckle or a grin.The ending is predictable, but then that's part of the genre's cliche, isn't it? Still, the neat and tidy finish, with everything being set right at the end, could have used a bit more punch; the movie coasts to a finish, when a more spectacular climax could have elevated this movie to 'great'.One cliche which this movie manages to swerve away from a little bit, perhaps pointing out tv-sci-fi's shortcomings in this department, is that the aliens are not simply humanoid with lumpy foreheads (although the bad guys are big mean-looking bipeds). Even more interesting is that the good guys are the ugliest ones, although we don't see them in their normal state very much (probably a budgetary concession).Should you see this movie? Yes. It's worthwhile, light and fun. It pokes obvious fun at television sci-fi, but don't expect gut-clenching hilarity. "}{"Title":"Above and beyond the script. Fun and excitement.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Action, comedy and sci-fi blended and fine tuned to perfection. The aging cast of a cancelled space TV show are called upon by a small band of aliens to protect them from a powerful foe.Truthfully I did not plan on watching this movie, but I am glad I did. I thought it sounded stupid, but it really turned out quite funny and entertaining. Real good special effects.Tim Allen plays the egotistical space Commander Taggart. Sigourney Weaver plays Lt. Tawny Madison and was flawless. This is the most attractive I have seen her in a long time. Blonde and a little sassy equals mighty fine. Alan Rickman is outstanding as the former Shakespearian stage great turned non human space crew doctor. Enrico Colantini is short of exceptional as the leader of the good aliens. Robin Sachs plays the ruthless enemy leader, Sarris.Give this one a try. It is better than you might have thought. Remember to give it your best and never give up! "},{"Title":"Just a fun movie","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has it's overall funny moments, but more than that it is entertaining, in a Ghostbusters type of way.  It was a pretty good effort.  Not only that, sure kids will like it because of it's stars (Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver) and it's sci-fi stuff, but adults and film buffs will just love the constant references to Star Trek and even a poke at the documentary Trekkies, which looked at the same type of conventions they have here.  In this film though, while it does follow a Trek formula in sci-fi mode, in story we see a group of actors (Allen, Weaver, Tony Shalhoub, Daryl Mitchell, Sam Rockwell and best of all, Alan Rickman in a british Spock character) who were once members of a successful TV show (Galaxy Quest) who are now reduced to being at conventions and appearances at car places.  Until a group of actual aliens, who think the TV show is historical documents, come to the actors thinking they are the real people they played and get them to help out with there cause.  OK, so that plot may be confusing for some, but if you just want to have fun watching it, that's cool too.  Cast is good as well.  A "},{"Title":"Spoof of Star Trek","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Right at the beginning, let me say that I love Star Trek. And I especially love the original show. This movie is completely aimed at exactly such a person as myself, so if you don't like Star Trek or are unfamiliar with the ORIGINAL series, I imagine much of the movie would be lost on you.As a Star Trek fan, the scenes of the Star Trek-like convention that opens the movie is a riot. The portrayal of fans knowing and caring more about the show than the cast is dead-on! And the mixed reaction of actors grateful for a show that made their career but resentful that they are known for nothing but that same show is astutely shown as well.The show arguably focuses on Captain Taggert (Tim Allen) too much, but then again, didn't Star Trek always focus too much on Captain Kirk! Tim Allen gives a fantastic performance. His vanity and inflated ego, but wonderful leadership qualities are an accurate reflection of one William Shatner.Sigourney Weaver (virtually unrecognizable) plays Madison, the Uhura-like character who has little to do but look pretty (Hailing frequencies open, Captain!). Alan Rickman plays Dr. Lazarus. His satire is less obvious and not as well-done. He almost certainly is meant to spoof Nimoy and Spock, but then why is he a doctor? The Spock element was weak, but I liked how Rickman captured Nimoy's well-known ambivalence at playing Spock. All in all, most everything rang true-- even the cheesy special effects and barren alien planet!That the Thermians show up at a convention dressed like all the other Star Trek geeks, but turn out to be the real thing is great! The reaction of the Star Trek-like cast as they find out it's real, not a T.V. show is well-done as well. The shots of the ship loudly scraping the side of the space-dock as it departs is a hoot!The movie has a lot of in-gags. From the fateful man in the red shirt to Kirk-- oops, I mean Taggert!-- losing his shirt during a fight, they were enjoyable. Having said that, though, a lot of this movie doesn't connect. As a Star Trek fan, there was so much more that could be done-- where were some laughs making fun of things like Dammit Jim, I'm a doctor, not a ..., or Kirk's ridiculously innumerable relationships with so many females, or breaking the Prime Directive for the 100th time, or what not. For a movie so aimed at Star Trek fans, they should have done more.Still, it's a good if not great watch for Star Trek fans. And I do mean fans. Those wanting to watch to only make fun of Star Trek will probably be disappointed. The movie also pays homage to Star Trek in addition to spoofing it. In fact, the last 20 minutes, in which comedy is replaced by drama, are just like an actual episode-- and not a 3rd season episode!  "},{"Title":"Makes a good point in a hilarious way. Great film!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the sharpest comedies I have seen in a long time. I myself is a man who hates those people who watch Star Trek all day long and then spend the time when they are not watching it studying it and collecting all sorts of s**t. That is why I found this movie even more fun because it portrays those in a very true manner. Those people even study why one gizmo works differently on two separate episodes like anyone cares.Every character in this film is just brilliant. Tim Allen plays Jason Nesmith (Peter Quincy Taggart on the show) who was the leading actor on those shows called Galaxy Quest and he plays Nesmith with such brilliance. He is this ironic and self-loving ultra-celeb who just loves getting publicity for something lame he did 18 years ago until he overhears some to fans talking very negatively about him. Something happens to him, he just snappes and decides to go help those aliens from a far away galaxy. On the other hand there is Alan Rickman who plays Sir Alexander Dane (Lizardy mutant Dr. Lazarus on the show), who is this snobbed British stage actor who regrets nothing more than accepting the role on this lame sci-fi TV-show. He is overfed with his catch-phrase and is about to explode every time he hears it. Rickman also does a great job with his role. Tony Shaloub is hilarious as Fred Kwan who played a technician named Chen on the show and spends the whole day now 18 years later stoned and doesn't know if he is coming or going. The funniest of them however is Sam Rockwell's character who keeps whining about being the expendable character on the crew and therefore he will soon meet is creator. All the jokes in the movie are related to the fact that sometimes people take television materials way to seriously and it is a propaganda on that subject and it does a good job at that. The special effects are great and it is rare to see a movie of this caliber deliver so well visually.You absolutely must see this one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"lighthearted parody","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Galaxy Quest,' a good-natured bit of sci-fi parody, plays upon a universal fantasy most of us have nurtured since childhood  what would happen if all those action/adventure fantasy games we spent hours acting out in the backyard suddenly became reality?  What if we were called upon to actually perform the feats of heroic daring-do &#150; battling evil enemies, securing last-minute rescues, saving entire galaxies &#150; which comprised many of the idle waking hours of our misspent youth?  In `Galaxy Quest,' a group of actors gets this chance.  The stars of an early-80's pseudo-Star Trek adventure series, these performers are reduced to spending their time making appearances at well-attended retrospectives, replete with fans who dress in costumes, recite whole lines of memorized dialogue and demonstrate a decidedly unhealthy inability to differentiate between the world of reality and the world of the `Galaxy Quest' series.  The film pokes gentle and affectionate fun at this strange subculture of obsessed fans that seems to attach itself inexplicably to these examples of mind-numbing mass media creations - yet these fans get the final laugh.  For suddenly, some benign, terminally cheerful, genuine aliens, initially indistinguishable from the earthbound fans of the show, kidnap the actors, believing them to be the genuine articles and just the heroes they need to defeat their evil enemy, the malevolent Sarris.  Before we know it, the stunned actors, after an initial state of understandable hesitation and insecurity, discover the inner strength and knowledge to emerge as bona-fide heroes for the occasion.`Galaxy Quest,' handed a clever premise, manages to generate a sufficient number of genuine laughs to compensate for the occasionally wearying effect of redundancy that invariably accompanies comedies based on a one-joke formula.  The cast - Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub, Sam Rockwell, Daryl Mitchell - seems to be having an enormous amount of silly fun, as their characters all assume the roles they have been playing so long on TV, even though logically, no one actor should be the natural commander more than any other.  This sense of formalized logic manifesting itself in the decidedly illogical context of this story provides much of the giddy fun of the film.  The special effects are spectacular and the set design pays clever homage to all the `Star Wars/Star Trek' productions that have come before it.  Yes, the film is loopy and, as with most comedies, the jokes that work don't come fast and frequently enough to fill in all the dull passages that, unfortunately, seem to be inevitable in this genre.  Still, for a bit of mindless fun and a few hearty chuckles, `Galaxy Quest' is worth donning your World Federation uniform and strapping yourself in for. It turns out to be a pretty enjoyable ride.  "},{"Title":"Good, dumb fun","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of course I like films such as American Beauty, Citizen Kane and The Godfather.  But every now and then, it's good to see a movie that's unpretentious stupid fun.  Galaxy Quest is such a movie.Tim Allen plays Jason Nesmith, a Shatner-esque star of a long-cancelled sci-fi TV series.  He and his co-stars have not had any kind of work since the cancellation of the show, except to appear at Galaxy Quest conventions and such like.  His co-stars--especially Sir Alexander Kane (Alan Rickman)--resent his prima donna attitude, and he tends to be a bit brusque with his fans.Then one day, they all get kidnapped by aliens who can't grasp the concept of fiction or entertainment.  They have seen episodes of the show, and believe the program to be an accurate historical record.  They think the actors are real-life space warriors and want them to help defeat the evil Saris.The movie is pretty predictable, and there's a few scenes of cheap sentimentality, but I've seen worse episodes of Star Trek.  And this film is a lot funnier.  And besides, Sigourney Weaver is a much better actress than Kate Mulgrew, and Tim Allen makes a more convincing spaceship commander than Jonathan Frakes.This is not a great movie.  It doesn't pretend to be.  What it is, is a very funny send-up (it's not intelligent enough to be called satire) of Star Trek and the surrounding hysteria.  I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"A Fun and Good Natured Trip !","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A cast of aging science-fiction TV actors , find themselves in a battle of galactic survival ! Set in the present day, Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver, headline this cast of misfits, as they are contacted by the Thermians, an alien race bordering on extinction.The Galaxy Quest crew mistaken by the Thermians, for real expert spacemen, , find themselves piloting an actual spacecraft, designed after their TV show. After reading William Shatners book, Up Til Now, you can see that this film was clearly based on the turbulent relationships , Shatner had with the rest of the cast on Star Trek. Apparently, he was acting like a total ass, and that Spock had a severe drinking problem. these are all reflected in Galaxy Quest. The Thermians need Tim Allen and Crew to combat their real life nemesis. the Evil General Sarris . The first half of the movie deals with the confusion of their roles. But after an initial confrontation with the Evil General Sarris, it becomes apparent that not only their lives are in peril, but even the purpose of their existence. There are many moments of self-realization and they work nicely. Unfortunately, there are some tedious moments that dwell TOO much on the Thermians, and their state of naiveté'.Wonderful performances Dr. Lazurus by (Alan Rickman) as the acerbic TV alien, who has a real identity crisis. TV Tech Sgt. Chen(Tony Shalhoub), plays the understated engineer with great skill. TV Commander Peter Taggert(Tim Allen) who relishes the opportunity to lead this rag tag group across the universe. Lt. Tawny Madison (Sigourney Weaver),shows why she is Academy Award material, she toys with the role with the greatest of ease, and her references to her Alien experiences, will leave you rolling on the floor ,Also credit to Sam Rockwell as a one-tine extra on the Galaxy Quest show. The second half of the movie is a lot of fun, and maybe there will be a sequel! A must see for Sci-Fi fans who like a spoof or two ! One word  Chompers ! "},{"Title":"By Grabthar's hammer, go and rent it!","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I say? One of the best movies I ever seen. It's outstanding - very funny and done with love and respect for the sci-fi genre. I can see it again and again and... again.I just love it! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever made","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sigourney Weaver is great, Tony Shalhoub is great and Alan Rickman is even better. This is one of those films that you can see over and over again and never grow tired off. Just see it, it's hilarious!!!! "},{"Title":"3.5/5 Stars - A Nice Satirical Family Comedy With More Hits Than Misses","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is a bit of a mix between Star Trek and...well...Star Trek.It stars Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver (in a blonde wig) and Alan Rickman as the crew of an ex-Star Trek-type show, who are contacted by real aliens who picked up the television show in space, thinking it was real. Allen and crew are taken to the alien space craft in space to help out the aliens with their problem--a large grasshopper-looking creature and his band of baddies is trying to take over the ship, or something like that. I haven't seen this movie in a few years.So Allen and co. try to help out, but cause more trouble than anything, until the climax of the film--that gets a bit long but is still pretty fun.The first time I saw this movie I really hated it. I'm not a Star Trek freak; in fact, I don't believe I've ever been able to sit through a whole episode of the television show, much less the dull films. So I didn't really pick up on many of the film's gags. The second time, however, I had more fun, although I still missed out on some jokes because I'm not a Trekkie.The performances by all the actors and actresses involved is great. I'm not a fan of Weaver, but I suppose she did fine in this film. Allen is himself--quite funny, but not over the top. My personal favorite, however, was Tony Shaloub, the comic relief--even though the whole film is a comedy, he provided more of it.The whole idea for the film is pretty original, if a bit contrived, and there are good opportunities for jokes that are not wasted. Good potential carried through for a good film.Galaxy Quest isn't a great movie, but it's pretty funny and I enjoyed it.3.5/5 Stars -John Ulmer "}{"Title":"Not my cup of tea","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quick summary would be that it spends too much time being clever that it does not deliver on interesting characters. Tim Allen's character is the only character with an arc but does convincingly deliver any real growth. The rest of the characters are barely interesting even though a top notch cast does their best with a script that puts its characters second to making Star Trek references. It can be amusing and at times it is very clever, but I do not think Tim Allen can carry a movie of this ambition. Characters can be goofy and not take themselves seriously without being one- dimensional.Overall I enjoyed watching it, but it did not blow me away. I understand why it is such a cult classic, but for me it did not really resonate. I was never into Star Trek, but I get a lot of the references. "},{"Title":"Star Trek ?? - The Search for Spoof","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a fan of both Star Wars and Star Trek. Galaxy Quest is an excellent and fun spoof on Star Trek, and though not quite as clever as Spaceballs was to Star Wars, it is an enjoyable romp.There is plenty of sarcasm as well as the fun generated from the reality that these former television stars end up in, as the aliens in need think the television broadcasts from Earth were meant to be historical recordings. Once recruited to fight a real galactic threat, the fun ensues as the actors now must really learn to pilot, fight, and repair their star ship. In the process of the film they make fun of Star Trek, primarily the TNG series, but also TOS; Sci-fi conventions; the geeks that attend these conventions; fan films; and sci-fi actors who rely on appearing at conventions to support themselves.Galaxy Quest features an all star cast who perform beautifully, and never take themselves too seriously. The special FX are fun and appropriate, and the musical score is pretty good too. All in all it is an enjoyable film, especially if you are a sci-fi fan. If you are a Star Fleet uniform wearing, convention attending, NCC 1701D Specifications spouting, hardcore fan with a sense of humor, you will really appreciate this film. However if you're hardcore without a sense of humor, you would probably find this film highly offensive, in which case I'd suggest a slightly less offensive material from one of George Carlin's concerts. "},{"Title":"Affectionate Trekkie-con homage comedy","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A perfectly pitched, nicely cast, warm and very funny sci-fi romp. It's not specifically about Star Trek although that's clearly the intention and though it laughs at the trappings of the TV show's great and enduring appeal, it does it with affection.Tim Allen's Kirk-a-like Nesmith loves the shows conventions, being the bigshot that he is. His co-stars aren't quite as enamoured, having to dress in dated costumes and troll out the weary, dated and mindlessly silly one-liners. Alan Rickman's Alexander Dane is the ultimate case-in-point, a highly distilled misanthrope made to dress in prosthetics. Their perspective is shaken and challenged when real aliens come and enlist their help to resolve an actual intergalactic incident the adventure reminds the cast why they took the job and why their characters connect with so many (human fans).Naturally there are any number of solipsistic gags which I, as a non-Trekkie didn't get but it's a function of the film that this doesn't matter. There's clearly a lot of fun being had and not simply for the benefit of Dean Parisot's cameras. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Will this upset Kirk and Spock?","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Good comedy with zany antics and a nice takeoff on Star Trek and all the trekkies. I wonder if some folks really do believe that stupid TV show was for real. Why not? Otherwise intelligent people believe rasslin' in on the up and up. Lots of excitement, fun graphics, weird looking space creatures, and as always, Tim is just plain hilarious.  "},{"Title":"Another good spoof (after Scary Movie)","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a pretty good movie folks. The only thing which I thought was weird that for a comedy &#150; spoof, there was not much to laugh. But I was entertained anyway, because the actors were all good and the characters likeable. One thin I did not like though was some of thee things thee Thermians did. Like talking, in a very stupid way and laughing like complete nutcases. Except that, however, no complaints can be made about this one. By the way, Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver (this time a dumb babe rather than an a.. kicking b..ch) ROCKED!!!7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable.. but could have been better","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sending up Star Trek and Trekkers was a great concept, but ultimately the most memorable thing about this movie is Sigourney Weaver as a blonde. The movie does have some good gags in it, however, and these make it worthwhile to see it. "},{"Title":"Not a great film, but great fun","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a great film, but great fun; it's essentially the same plot as Three Amigos, with a good bit of gentle satire on Trek obsession. The thin plot satisfies because the acting is almost without exception just right.  Tim Allen is perfectly suited to play pseudo-Shatner, and Alan Rickman as the actor confined for life to drivel is delightful.  Not to be missed is Sigourney Weaver's oddly intelligent portrayal of a dumb blonde playing a dumber blonde. The great joke, of course, is that everybody's illusions are in the end entirely true; the aliens, the nerds, and the actors really are right about everything.  "},{"Title":"Really nice try, but lazy Hollywood ending","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I actually enjoyed this movie overall, but my one beef is the same complaint I have about most Hollywood movies.  That is, if you are going to create a story, no matter how improbable or ridiculous, you simply have got to map out the rules, then follow them right to the end. Alas, the Galaxy Quest writers seem to have given in to that old temptation to give the audience a big finish, but one that breaks the rules, thereby wrecking any suspension of disbelief they might have previously achieved. In the film the thing that keeps you believing in the story -- and the characters -- is that nothing that happens to them is seen by the wide general public.  A bunch of washed-up T-V actors find themselves on board an alien space ship. Nobody sees them leave earth.  The only people outside their group that finds out about their alien adventure is a handful of young sci-fi computer geeks.  But they already believe all the T-V stuff is real anyway and don't even tell their own parents. Without giving anything away, the end of the movie steps outside that tight group of people with an event so public and chaotic that you know (as ridiculous as this sounds) it would wreck everything if that happened in real life. The events would surely involve the police, ambulance and fire departments, and be covered by every media organization in the world.  Explanations would have to be made. The very end of Galaxy Quest suggests that somehow nobody would ask about these events at all. I'd love to see this film taken back, and the last ten minutes reworked to a satisfying and more acceptable ending that sticks to the logic the writers originally created. "},{"Title":"Good... not excellent","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went expecting to see more biting satire, but it was funny none the less. Some characters (the engineer, especially) needed more development. Great special effects and creature make-up sort of make up for it though. If you're a fan of Star Trek I would highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Pure Fun","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" During the height of the Star Trek Craze, someone decided to make a movie about a bunch of washed up actors who find themselves on their ship for real.Some very good actors (Weaver, Shaloub, Rickman) play these characters who are homages of Star Trek actors. Best of all was Sam Rockwell playing Guy, an bit player who played the expendable red shirt, who figured he was likely to be killed in all the situations they find themselves in.What makes it fun is that these actors get over their petty disagreements, rise to the occasion, and defeat the bad guy and have a lot of fun doing it in the process. So will the audience. "}{"Title":"Decent","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest (1999) ** (out of 4) Tim Allen plays a Star Trek like actor who gets taken to space to lead a real battle against aliens. This was a nice attempt at a comedy but it just didn't work with me. This girl picked this out of her collection for us to watch and she was laughing the whole time but I was sitting there stonefaced. I enjoyed what they were going for but it just didn't make me laugh. Alan Rickman was very good here. I'm not really a fan of Allen so that might be another reason I didn't like it. However, if you're a fan of Allen or the subject matter then you should love this. "},{"Title":"The Magnificent Seven Meets Spaceballs Meets A Bug's Life","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" GALAXY QUEST (1999) Starring Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub, Sam Rockwell, Daryl Mitchell, Robin Sachs, Enrico Colantoni.When I first saw this movie, I thought it was funny, although I truly didn't understand it. The plot involves one of my favorite themes... A Ragtag group, facing superior numbers. The Thermians hire a group of actors, whom they believe to be great starfighters. Allen is average as Jason Nesmith, the traditional bad boy type actor, who's past his prime. Weaver is Gwen DeMarco, who felt she was being wasted on-screen (And later on the ship), with the stupid job of repeating the computer, and serving as eye candy. Rickman is Alexander Dane, a Shakespearian actor, who now regrets his choice to be on the show, and longs to return to his old ways. Shalhoub is wonderful as the continually stoned Fred Kwan, who spends most of his time with the munchies. Rockwell's Guy Fleegman is a glaring reference to The Magnificent Seven character Lee... Fearing a violent death, he will eventually pull himself together, with Fred's help. Mitchell's Tommy Weber could have been done by any African-American actor in the business, but he pulls the role of loud, somewhat obnoxious Weber down pat. My only regret is the casting of Allen. He is adequate (As I mentioned) but nowhere near strong enough to carry a film like this. He still comes across as Tim Tool Man Taylor.... 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Brilliant film.  It nicely skewers all sci-fi cliches while still maintaining a human element.My personal favorite bit, though, is the self-referentail Ducts.  Why is it always ducts by Ripley herself... "},{"Title":"A well-conceived plot, sadly missing at the final stretch.","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the basic sci-fi flick that requires only the statutory minimum special effects, but one that, on account of its unique premise makes those otherwise mundane effects eminently watchable.  This premise, what if a sci-fi cast got into a real outer space adventure, is definitely a good hook, and does get the film moving at a great pace. Unfortunately, the sub-plot of the fans has been left absolutely underdeveloped.  This seems all the more strange when confronted with the fact that the premise takes off with one set of alien fans from outer space. The human fans the pre-teens and teens could have received a bit more development not just to provide self-identification for the major audience of this movie, but also to provide a more complex weave toward the climax. As it turns out, this film built on a promising premise is like an aerobatic bird that merely lands on one wheel, when it could have made an awesome three point touchdown on tricyclic gear.My verdict10/10 for the unique premise.3/10 that's an F for the plot development.The actors are okay, the direction is standard, the cinematography is suitable for a standard sci-fi, as well as the special effects.  But, had the plot been beefed up in the manner I have suggested, it would have been one great movie.Dreamworks SKG has failed to develop this script adequately.  That's a huge minus for a major production house. "},{"Title":"The most intelligent (and yearning) Hollywood film in ages.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess you would need to have seen at least one episode of 'Star Trek' to even begin to get this - I haven't, and so was slightly bewildered as to what was going on, why many people already consider it a classic.  I enjoyed it because some of it was funny - the silly accents of the Tertians; the moving bravado of the washed-up Nesmith; the performance of Sam Rockwell as Guy, his name signifying his function as a kind of everyman link between the different layers of reality the film portrays.  The visual effects, supposed to be tacky, still rise to some spectacular moments the desert ghost world where the crew seek berillium, intensely orange after all the uniform grey; the climactic scene where Nesmith and  Gwen must run through a corridor of huge rapidly punching lever-things. As the film moves towards its climax, it is difficult to gauge the tone.  It clearly starts out satirising the imagination-defeating banality of nerd-conventions - the fans dressed as aliens unable to tell the difference between a tacky show and reality, or who have willed it into a reality, are mirrored by the aliens who mistake the show for historical documents, and despite their scientific brilliance (like their human counterparts) are dubiously figured as mentally retarded, with their stupid laughs and jerky movements.  If we have gotten reckless or intellectually threadbare enough to call 'Being John Malkovich' Borgesian, than the same epithet can more validly be applied to 'Galaxy Quest', where a whole series of times, realities and representations, initially separate, conflate, leading to the bizarre finale, as the space heroes return to another Convention, this time genuine adventurers - the difference between actors and roles; actors and their roles of 20 years ago; actors who must play, and indeed become their roles of 20 years ago; fans who create an actual reality from a non-existent fantasy; fans from the real world who become indispensible figures in the fantasy which is now a real world (phew!).  The end is quite mind-boggling, where it is impossible to untangle the boundaries of reality and fantasy.  So what began as satire of a phenomenon synonymous with being a loser, and almost fascist (the military parade that first greets the actors in the Star port), becomes a celebration, not really of losers redeeming themselves, but of the place of fantasy in everyday life, and its power to transform it.  I don't mean politically restructure society; just the old post-modern ideas of reproduction and illusion.  After all, we live in a 'real world' where a non-existent, fantasy language, Klingon, can now be studied at universities, as a 'real world' mode of communication.  The  real world has no place for heroes and goodness, but we can still pretend these things exist. "},{"Title":"Falls just short of the mark","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest gets fulls marks for inventiveness, but misses out on being a true classic since it never really pushes its potential very far. This is mainly due to the fact that Dreamworks clearly cut the film down in post-production to make it a 'nice and safe' PG family film. It mostly feels like an extension of the meta-fictional show it is mocking than a genuine Star Trek parody.Tim Allen is Jason Nesmith, a mostly washed-up actor famous for only one role (a situation Allen himself should be familiar with) on the long-gone Galaxy Quest TV show. His life is nothing more than public appearances (in character) along with the rest of his disgruntled, weary co-stars. But an oddball race of naive octopus creatures called Thermians, from the other side of the universe mistakenly interpret the show as historical documents and beam-up Nesmith and his crew to an exact replica of their fictional spaceship to fight off the evil Sarris, a reptilian warlord dead-set on acquiring the mysterious 'Omega-13'.My biggest grievance's with Galaxy Quest is that the production design is just so b-l-a-n-d. Most of the film is gray, gray, and more shades of gray. Give us something pretty to look at! David Newman, who seems to be the go-to guy for family movie scores, offers a very poor melody for the Galaxy Quest TV show (and therefor the whole movie). I didn't expect Goldsmith to parody his own Star Trek work for this, but SOMEONE better than Newman could have worked wonders.They had lightning in a bottle with Galaxy Quest but it fizzled out when they lost sight of any epic feel. As a TV movie it would have been great, as a theatrical effort it does indeed fall short of the mark. But I'll watch Alan Rickman in almost anything and Missi Pyle is also especially cute. "},{"Title":"Decent, Mut Not Memorable Unless  You're A 'Trekkie'","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a pretty good takeoff on the sci-fi Star Trek series and its fanatical followers. The actors here play actors but then wind up being true heroes as aliens come to them for help. It's all harmless fluff.None of the leading characters are memorable, either endearing or annoying, and the humor is also so-so. As with any comedy, you get both funny and stupid material. In other words, the film is okay but nothing to get excited about.The ending was drawn out a bit much but it had a touching sentimentality to it. For the most, this a pleasant sci-fi/comedy that would be special to you if you were a Trekkie. Since I am not, the movie didn't mean much to me except a low-key 100 minutes of decent entertainment. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest captured the silliness of fandom. The main characteristic of the film is the gloomy atmosphere, emphasizing the desolate hopelessness. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. The acting is very effective. The entire cast is excellent, especially Tim Allen doing his best Shatner impersonation. Allen is a unique presence in American cinema and hopefully he will do more of these kinds of austere, gripping character pieces more often in the future. This movie didn't need to resort to cruel jokes. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. "},{"Title":"Fans of science-fiction should get a laugh or two.","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" At its most basic form, the parody is a type of storytelling that can be used to extort and expose the intrinsically humorous situations out of something that isn't necessarily anything to laugh about. While science-fiction from the 1960's onwards could certainly be deemed as something to take lightly and digest with a degree of levity, Star Trek and the many series that would follow in its footsteps would be adamant in being taken seriously. Galaxy Quest then, which is more or less a direct parody of the popular cult-phenomenon is an enjoyable romp in that it shows a direct love for the material that it draws its satire and parody from, but nevertheless keeps the throttle on drawing out the laughs. The result is a mildly entertaining piece of throw-away cinema that fans of science-fiction should get a laugh or two out of, but nevertheless fails to stand as a work of its own.Functioning as something of an oddity in the realm of the parody, Galaxy Quest, despite its large focus on farcical slapstick laughs and zaney characters nevertheless too often stoops to extremely broad and caricature forms of humour at the expense of all else. While this sporadically works from time to time, the majority of the comical side present here is tepid at best&#x97;the film certainly strives to draw out the laughs every thirty seconds, but more often than not, it fails. With that being said, it should be noted that this does not necessarily dampen the film's ability to entertain and amuse. A lack of belly laughs makes the adventure a little less memorable than one would hope, but the ride itself remains an enjoyable and light-heartedly engaging one.Perhaps the greatest element of Dean Parsiot's feature therefore lies in its performers who&#x97;although playing characters stemming largely from broad cardboard cutouts of your typical TV sci-fi star&#x97;manage to overcome their overtly flat natures to add a little personality, charm and depth to their roles. Despite there being quite a few more annoyances in this department than would be adequate, Galaxy Quest combines its overall parody of sci-fi TV with characters who feel human in spite of their fluctuating sense of reality relating to those who worship them. It's at the movie's opening sequences that all elements of the proceeding ninety minutes are set up&#x97;the stars are desperate and clinging onto their only real jobs of signing autographs and pandering to people uninterested in them as actors or people, but moreso with the characters they portrayed decades prior.This layering, although underplayed in order to avoid putting too much emotional heft onto the otherwise breezy comedy, works well and sometimes even eclipses the more light-hearted moments of the film. Yet much of the movie takes place&#x97;believe it or not&#x97;on a real spaceship in space where the crew must help a dying race overcome a tyrannical lizard guy intent on wiping them all from existence. How pampered actors and has been extras get to this point has something to do with this (very annoying) race receiving transmissions of their old sci-fi TV show Galaxy Quest (mistaking it as historical documents from Earth), but you're never supposed to be taking such things seriously. This somewhat surreal and bizarre clashing of reality with fiction provides a nice parallel between what the characters are feeling inside at conventions when greeted by fans unaware of their status as actors&#x97;and as such, Galaxy Quest comes off a little smarter than it may at first appear.The problem with the feature however is that all these little tid-bits of intrigue and compelling elements inevitably play second-batter to the situation comedy that dominates the better part of the crew's adventures. Sure enough this allows for an entertaining piece of popcorn cinema to transpire, but a distinct lack of discernible features outside of its ham-fisted parody in turn hurts the movie's ability to stand on its own two legs. In the end, Galaxy Quest succeeds in delivering a lightly enjoyable and amusing romp mixing science-fiction and comedy in a manner similar to Space Balls, but never quite transcends beyond the material that it pokes fun at. It's fun, yes, but not as remarkable as it strives to be.- A review by Jamie Robert Ward (http//www.invocus.net) "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever made","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sigourney Weaver is great, Tony Shalhoub is great and Alan Rickman is even better. This is one of those films that you can see over and over again and never grow tired off. Just see it, it's hilarious!!!! "}{"Title":"Cool movie!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot. It has great special effects created by Stan Winston, a funny script and like-able characters. It is also a great family film. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw galaxy quest I loved it. The second time it sunk in, and I thought it was a little far fetched. However, I still enjoyed it. The special effects were neat as were the costumes of the bad aliens. A great movie for everyone especially for kids around up to 12. The character development is very solid as well.I'm quite sure i would view this movie again. "},{"Title":"I found the jokes not funny, but the adventure great.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That basically sums up this movie. Supposedly Trekkies will get a kick out of this one, but I do recommend it whether you like Sci-Fi's or not. This is not a kid movie, but it's quite nicely done. My biggest complaint is that some things are unexplained, most notably why the TV show is real. (Oh, by the way, it does hurt to tell you that. I saw it coming.) "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is pure entertainment from beginning to end. It's so funny to see Alan Rickman and Sigourney Weaver send themselves up in the film. Galaxy Quest is very well-made, with great special effects, and it is also well-acted. There's no depth here, of course, but then... who needs depth when you can have entertainment like this! "},{"Title":"beyond cult and laughter","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  group of former scifi-series actors find themselves acting for their lives after bumping into some seriously nutty fans...with a subject like this, you expect to see one funny movie! of course, when expectations are high, you are more likely to be disappointed. galaxy quest was funny enough to please, but you cant help but wonder how much did they miss, with such possibilities... well, i suppose it's easy to sit on the sofa and critisize.aaanyway... great entertainment on a saturday night!   "},{"Title":"No surprises here. Mildly cute, mildly funny. Nothing terribly wrong with it, nothing terribly right with it.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Basic plot outline  Twenty years ago, they were stars on their hit TV Show 'Galaxy Quest'. Now they do 'functions' for die-hard fans. Little did they know that their most loyal fans were a group of aliens (the Thermians), who believed the show to be a 'historical document.' The Thermians have based their entire culture upon the show, and now have come to Earth to collect their heroes to help save them against the evil Sarris.Review No surprises here. Mildly cute, mildly funny. Nothing terribly wrong with it, nothing terribly right with it. Watch in a slightly braindead mode, and it will surely entertain you. Hmm... best part about the film  Sigourney looks kinda cool as a blonde P. Their tagline  'Never give up! Never surrender!'. Lets hope they don't take that to heart and make a sequel  "},{"Title":"Star Trek spoof, a silly comedy premise, well-executed.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'd like to rate Galaxy Quest 7.5 but since I can't, I give it 7 of 10. Don't see this one if you don't like a comedy based on a silly science-fiction premise. Here, aliens have been viewing TV episodes as if they were factual chronicles, then come to Earth to ask the washed-up TV stars to go and save their alien civilazation from evil aliens. The movie plot is executed and acted well by all. It is an enjoyably entertaining movie.  If you like comedy built on a spoof. "},{"Title":"Laughter Quest","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Do not get me wrong, I liked this movie.  I gave it a 7.  But this is not the laugh out loud comedy I was expecting.  I thought the special effects were incredible, the cast was good, and the plot was a good idea, but the comedy was not there.  Of course, everyone compares it to Star Trek, it is too bad this could not have been the next entry in that series. "},{"Title":"Dammit Tim! I'm an actor, not a space commander!","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For those of you who grew up watching the old Star Trek series, complete with cheesy special effects and wooden acting, or for those of you who have seen legions of Trekkies - either in person or on TV at one of those seemingly ubiquitous conventions - this movie just might strike a cord. In the movie, a long-ago TV show called Galaxy Quest rode the airwaves, starring Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver), and Sir Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman). After a short run, the series was cancelled (sound familiar?), but the legacy of the crew lives on in a neverending series of personal experiences. Sure, the ol' crew is a little long in the tooth, but hey, they need the money.   It's at one of these conventions, though, that something odd happens. Seems these aliens beam down and tell Jason how much they admire his commander skills and that they need him post-haste to go monitor a peace accord with some mean, ugly aliens. Jason, naturally, thinks it's another publicity gig, but it turns out these are bona fide aliens, and it isn't long before Jason angers an evil alien despot. It's not long before he realizes those are real aliens, so he rounds up the crew from another promotional stop he had missed, and it's back to the ship for the adventure part of the tale.   There are plenty of in-jokes to Trekkies (who aren't referred to as Trekkies in the movie, but all of the references are pretty thinly veiled. Galaxy Quest is a fun romp, poking fun at a subject that's certainly due for a poking - the lifestyle of all of the Star Trek-worshippers who attend their conventions with untethered glee, treating the long-ago actors as infallible angels. There are legions of fans who dissect each and every nuance of the Star Trek experience, from the personalities of the characters to the intricate technical details of the spaceships, and Galaxy Quest incorporates a lot of that lemming-like logic in this script.    As for the actors, all turn in fine work, with Allen and Weaver particularly appealing. Rickman is wonderfully cast as the snide doctor, a classically trained thespian who never tires of telling his fellow actors he once played Shakespeare.  "},{"Title":"The best science fiction movie ever","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Once again, IMDb has screwed up my review. It is practically unrecognizable. The review I wrote begins I love every square centimeter of this movie... It continues  I am not Tim Allen's biggest fan-but he nails this role. Or words to that effect. Continuing Sam Rockwell steals every scene he's in-but he's a natural-born comedian. IMDb, it appears, displays its heavy-hand at editing for unnecessary reasons.I applaud this movie at every possible turn-yet the frosty Kommisariat at IMDb needs to scrub my writing clean of every possible human fingerprint. IMDb must be a sad place.Gals geeks and gin-soaked space-heroes.Leather-suited space-babes who are in reality octopuses.Sam Rockwell at his very best.Sigourney Weaver in a jumpsuit.A space-TV series that is taken seriously by space-aliens from a galaxy 40 light-years from us.This is the context of this fantastic and possibly great motion-picture.Every scene in this movie is full of life.It is so full of life that I just can't stand it.This movie is a joyful gift to all humanity.It is a great reason to sit back and say I live in a great country.My beautiful countryThe United States of America,sends its love and honor and honesty and valor and courage-out to the whole world.This is a movie for everyone. It is just a strange amalgam of nutty strangeness and hearty love.This movie says to every human beingAmerica loves YOU. "}{"Title":"Funny","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie was good, i saw it in the theaters a few years back and i didnt even know what it was about, then i liked it so after it came our, i bought it and watched it a lot, if you havent watched it or seen it yet, go get it cuase its a great movie for all ages to enjoy "},{"Title":"Stupid is a stupid does","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This tremendously under-achieving film lacks any plot and barely survives its vague references to one.  The story tries to revolve around whiny, unemployed has-been actors who are beamed out of retirement into their old campy TV show and must save the world from a wrinkly wart-faced monster.  Basically, it's Power Rangers for grown-ups with the styrofoam props, the outerspace-in-a-box set, and the baked Godzilla bad guy.What's disappointing is that this movie sets itself up to be a genuinely funny parody of the sci-fi genre.  Unfortunately for everyone involved, especially the audience, the only thing that's parodied is itself.  `Galaxy Quest' tries desperately to become something greater than it is-a movie. The jokes are mostly lame one-liners, none of which will leave you rolling. It's easy to spot where `insert laugh' was penciled in because every joke is either over articulated or followed by an awkward pause.  The characters are so annoying that you don't want to remember them, although you can blame the hollow script for that too.  While they undergo something of a transformation at the end, it's hard to sympathize with the selfish crew you wish the bad guy had blown to smithereens.While there is no redeeming factor for this movie, it does succeed, briefly, as a spoof in the scenes of the Galaxy Quest television show convention. Think `Trekkies,' or maybe a spacey friend, and it's hard not to at least smile.  One good chuckle isn't worth the buying price or your two hours though.  If you're looking for a dumb comedy, check out `Dumb and Dumber' which at least generates laughs through the stupidity of its characters; the only thing this one generates is a sore butt.  "},{"Title":"Takes itself too seriously to be that funny","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a mildly amusing romp. Only problem is it fails to become an out and out parody, so falls short of being a ribtickler. It tries to incorporate all of the trademarks of a sci-fi adventure without actually sending them up. For me the picture falls between two stools, on the one hand trying to be funny - on the other coming up with too many of the cliches this sort of film is supposed to poke fun at.There are a few laughs, but certainly not of the belly-aching variety and the special effects are very good - but where is the humour in that - it was supposed to be aping Star trek, not trying to outdo it as a visual spectacular, which it manages.It's a competent film, made on a good premise, but for me it just doesn't grab me. It takes itself too seriously for my liking. No one is taking any risks anymore and this film instead of going for the real funny bone plays it safe. A cop out and only recommendable if you're not too fussy about what you watch at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Good try, but a little disappointing","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The idea of this movie is cute and clever, and it is executed very nicely, and there certainly is plenty of amusement. Unfortunately, the script really needed some help. It just wasn't funny enough. I smiled rather than laughed. I thought Sigourney Weaver would be hilarious as Lt. Uhura, but she wasn't. She tried - her lines just weren't funny. Its like they were all desparately trying to be funny, but could only do so much. Maybe I was wrong in expecting another Airplane. "},{"Title":"Very bad!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I did not like this at all.  Wasted 5 bucks and my time.  It was very pointless and stupid.  The plot is not there, acting isn't great. There were however some funny moments.  But it is not really worth it.  The worst I've seen so far.  I see that most people who posted here liked it, I suppose thats why I went. But I would not recommend it.  Just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was pretty cute but I can't say it's one of my favorites. Think of Star Trek as strong coffee and Galaxy Quest as coffee with all that sugar and cream added. It could have been a good basic sci-fi movie, but the comedy did add a little entertainment, even if it was a little over the top. It was basically the 2 Allens (Alans) who impressed me, Tim Allen and Alan Rickman. They made a great opposing pair, despite their different personalites. All in all, a good movie, but it didn't need everything it had. "},{"Title":"Almost good! Shatner would have put it into overdrive","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest probably seemed like a great idea on paper. As a movie, however, the thing is soft and toothless. Of course, I have no idea for sure if the original screenplay had more bite than what ended up on the screen--but what's up there is what counts (although you can tell that a couple of profanities were redubbed to get that soft pg-13 rating, AND it also seemed that one major character was obviously a pothead before some major editing around the subject).Since you're reading this after having checked out IMDB's GQ page, you already know the plot--aliens from space confuse the cast of a cancelled Star Trek type show with the real thing and ask them to go on a mission in space for real. What possibilities!Unfortunately, instead of a fun satire, we really only get a rather ordinary big-budget mainstream flick from a TV director (and if there are 2 groups of directors who should be having MUCH more trouble getting big screen deals, it is TV directors and their evil twin, music video directors).Tim Allen plays the Captain Kirk type role, and he is pretty good. He's still just a competent TV sitcom comedian, but the guy is funny (and could be much funnier if not saddled with the burden of having to please his legions of TV sitcom whitebread fans). There's nothing special about him in the same way as there's nothing particularly special about the movie. Unfortunately, the same goes for the rest of the All-Star and Semi-Star cast.It all seems so...ordinary.Despite the good cast of notable actors (including the fabtabulous Sigorney Weaver), a change direction in the casting is what could have pushed Galaxy Quest over the top.Imagine the added comedic, and even dramatic, dimensions which would have been added if William Shatner had been hired to play Galaxy Quest's captain! I mean, he has fun with his persona in his two Star Trek Memories books, on Saturday Night Live, and in the 1998 indie film Free Enterprise. He woulda done it if they'd asked (and I can't imagine he'd cost more than Allen these days).Of course, artistically, the perfect scenario would be to have hired all the fat old codgers from Star Trek (and maybe even a few younger codgers to be from the newer Star Trek shows--like that hot 7 of 9 gal)to basically all play themselves! BUT I don't think Paramount would allow that kind of Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein type self-Parody of the Star Trek franchise just yet (probably because they're idiots without vision).BUT, having said all that, I suggest you rent GQ and imagine what it would have been like to see William Shatner in Tim Allen's role--then tell me that Galaxy Quest wouldn't have grossed over the $2 million mark if the filmmakers had only made it so. "},{"Title":"What did we watch? Oh.","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What did we do last night? My 15-year old son and I looked at each other. Long pause. Oh, yeah. We watched the Galaxy Quest DVD.That's about the extent of this film. And, yes, I probably saw each of the original Trek episodes 20 times (favorite episodes Where No Man Has Gone Before and Mirror, Mirror), so the film's supposed to appeal to me. But the inside jokes are obvious, mildly funny, and a bit late. It's Spaceballs with cleaner special effects, but without the slapstick (except for one hilarious background visual).The DVD doesn't add much, except you can hear the entire film translated into the aliens' very funny language. And one deleted scene at least explains how Sigourney Weaver's shirt suddenly becomes open near the end of the film.7 out of 10. Not a waste of time, but quick dissolving candy.G  "},{"Title":"Nothing Really New","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw the ads to this film and thought I would wait for the rental, but was swayed by the many good reviews it garnered, many commenting on the clever plot.   HELLO?   Any one here see THREE AMIGOS??   The plot was the same....fictional heros mistaken for the real thing.  There were some clever bits (I liked the fact that the shape generators had to be turned on for the Thermans to look presentable) but the producers of this wanted to have their cake and eat it too.....there was too little spoof and too much traditional sci-fi action for my taste.....definitely worth a look on rental or second-run house but save your bucks till then. "},{"Title":"Good but very, very Lite","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"    Galaxy Quest is a parody of the original Star Trek, and how original is that?  It manages to be far better than the typical sketch at a Trek convention, but never really rises above the fact that it's about that one idea.     The plot deals with a bunch of rather dim but technically proficient aliens who mistake episodes of a hokey early-80's sci-fi TV show for historical tapes.  It would have been more interesting if they explored some of the inherent contradictions in this premise--having the aliens ask the reason behind the illogical design of the ship, or having the actor playing the alien on the show keep having to re-apply his elaborate make-up (I've been to several Trek conventions and I have NEVER seen an actor from the show appear in full make-up, as happens here).  But everything is accepted at face value; a little more self-awareness would have helped.     The cast is excellent, especially Tim Allen and Sigorney Weaver, who's never looked better I'm not sure if it's supposed to be a homage to the original Trek, but she spends most of the last 1/4 of the film with most of her blouse torn off.  I never cared for Allen much on Home Improvement, but he has great timing and comes across as someone willing to look bad to be funny.     Galaxy Quest isn't bad, but I'd save your money and rent it. "}{"Title":"Okay - it's a parody.  Now what?","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That pretty much sums up my sentiments.  There really isn't much to this movie.  If you're looking for great performances, or incredibly funny moments, forget it.  There's not much in the way of laugh-out-loud moments, even for die-hard Trek fans.  Although the movie makes a token nod to them by showing the fans saving their heroes.Part of it is that the movie just isn't that funny.  There's a lot of snickers to the knowledgeable and unknowledgeable fans alike.  But Austin Powers parodied many of these elements far better and outrageously.  And some scenes seem to parody more s.f. series of the 60's in general, rather than Trek in particular.  I don't recall any Trek episodes that had big pounding drivers in the bowels of the ship.  So the parody/reference to such a sequence here doesn't seem to make a lot of sense.The performances are average.  Allen and Rickman are probably the best, simply because they know who it is (Shatner and Nimoy, respectively) that they're parodying.  But the character Rickman is playing doesn't seem to jibe with Spock.  It's hard to imagine why this character would rate the popularity that the fans seem to give it.Shaloub's character is confusing.  His laid-back deadpan delivery has its moments, but his character switches from one moment to the next - stopping off to get a snack, killing some alien soldiers, grab a moment with an alien female.  One gets the impression he's trying to convey the wonder of the character at this whole situation without overreacting, but it's hard to tell.The boy-genius all grown up is another weird character, since again, this doesn't seem to be parodying much of anything from the 60's (maybe Will Robinson/Bill Mumy from Lost in Space?).The nameless security guy isn't bad, but the I'm going to die because my character did routine gets a bit old after a while.Overall, the movie might have succeeded if it had gone with a more outrageous approach.  There's clearly a lot of fondness from the writers and producers here towards Trek, which kind of hampers their parody.  It's more of a homage then anything, as they hit a few cliches of their own in the way of the storyline.It's an enjoyable enough movie, and no doubt there's something here to amuse your basic media-type s.f. fan.  But it really doesn't go much beyond that, or try to. "},{"Title":"Tired, neither intelligent nor funny","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The problem with Galaxy Quest, initially, is that the plot is tired-- we've seen it (or derivations on the theme) before, from skits on Saturday Night Live to articles in the National Lampoon.  But that leads directly to the movie's biggest problem  it's aimed at a 10-12 year old mentality.  That is, it's a little too advanced for kids, not nearly advanced enough for adults.  If it had more of a bite to it, say of a Dark Star type, Galaxy Quest could be a terrific, memorable movie.  Instead, it falls into a sub-SciFi channel type of movie-of-the-week, not very good and immediately forgettable. "},{"Title":"Geeky, campy, but rarely funny","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest starts out as a parody of Star Trek (although having never seen that series that's about as much as I can elaborate on it I'm afraid). The concept here is interesting and the idea of TV Actors being plunged into real life roles that they merely act out on TV certainly packs lots of potential, but unfortunately I very rarely laughed throughout the entirety of this film.I liked some of the social commentary at the start with regard to actors living on past glories... I also liked the idea that some actors hate this aspect of their lives and other relish it. I imagine this idea is probably more true than we would care to admit. Again though, it provides us with very few laughs and many of the 'Galaxy Quest' fans were really annoying and the same can be said for a lot of the dialogue here. There are some mildly amusing moments such as some of the geeks taking 'Galaxy Quest' way too seriously and asking the actors questions that they can't possibly answer. Again it's believable and again would have been great if any of it was actually funny.Even when we get to the part where the TV Actors are forced to save the day and become the real life heroes of characters that they portray the film never really shifts up a gear. The dialogue is generally dull and clunky, the Alien characters are annoying (particularly the lead Alien - whoever's idea it was to get him to speak in that annoying voice wants slapping).The idea of the Aliens believing that the actors are real life space heroes again was a nice arc to the story, but again provided no real humour. In fact, all we got from this was a nice moral message about 'being truthful' - albeit it was perhaps delivered in a slightly 'heavy-handed' manner. The villain of the piece snarls and grunts, but has no real character and lacked any real menace.To me, Galaxy Quest had all the ideas, but seemingly had no clue how to develop any of them. The dull dialogue and largely unfunny sequence of events render the film pretty much unwatchable. It's only Alan Rickman's dry humour and the good camaraderie between the principal cast that prevent this from getting a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It was a nice try...","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  According to the stories, Galaxy Quest was originally shot with a darker, more adult-oriented story in mind. One can see this in the terrible dub of one Sigourney Weaver line, or some of the antagonist's actions. What could have resulted from this is unknown, but examples of science fiction films that successfully mix comedic elements with a very dark, adult storyline include StarShip Troopers and They Live, just to give some idea.Unfortunately, the studio saw the film that was being produced under this arrangement, and decided they were taking too big a risk. The film was recut in order to emphasise comedy, and the rest is history. As a result, while the film works as a satire of Star Trek, it is unable to stand on its own merits. As a result, the viewer often finds themselves laughing not because the film is genuinely funny, but because it presents a funny twist on something they remember from somewhere else.Adding to the problem is that the cast tend to have about as much charisma as a dead wombat. Tim Allen was a perfect choice to lead this mess, but he is the only actor in the show to display any character. Sigourney Weaver has the thankless task of playing a character who is designed to be vapid, and the script never gives her a chance to rise above that, so one cannot blame her for never connecting with the audience.The problem is that none of the support cast do any better. The humans and the aliens are portrayed in exactly the same way - utterly annoying. When we see one band of aliens suffocating at the beginning of the third act, we don't care simply because there is nothing to endear them. Aside from a vocal effect and what looks like a case of Down's Syndrome, there is nothing distinct about the aliens. Given how overcrowded the cast is, this is a problem that the film just can't recover from.The main antagonist, Sariss, well, Roland Emmerich and Dean Devlin did this in their version of Godzilla. Just because a critic dislikes your previous work doesn't give you the right to attempt to insult them in your next film. It is childish, and the audience deserves better than being asked to pay to see this kind of bitchiness on the big screen.In all, I gave Galaxy Quest a six out of ten. The six points are earned by Tim Allen's nonchalant, unassuming performance. If you dislike Allen, then you have no reason whatsoever to bother. To call this an example of how playing things too safe creates films that are difficult to enjoy is being mild. As mild as this film.  "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried....  Well, I laughed...","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember when I first saw the trailer for this before a movie I groaned and thought why must the people in Hollywood torture us so?  At some point though, I started chuckling at one or two things in the commercials.So I watched a screener video of the film and a lot of it was pretty funny.  I dislike Tim Allen but I even managed to enjoy him in this film.  And the aliens, the termites or whatever they are called - I will be laughing about them for days to come.Any movie that gives me a good belly laugh is worth seeing and this one did. "},{"Title":"A good kid's movie","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest is a good kid's movie with some jokes for the adults. It's a spoof of Star Trek and its fans. With the end of the Star Trek craze the film will become hopelessly outdated in a few more years when no one gets the premise.Tim Allen brings his lightweight but likable TV persona to the film. Oddly, the film cast Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman who seem lost in space. Weaver seems to just stand around and Rickman, a great actor, tries hard and has some very dry very funny lines but also seems out of place.Galaxy Quest is Disney-style film with a message and a happy ending. A wholesome evening of fun for the entire family. "},{"Title":"A humorous but not overtly funny movie (5 out of 10)","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy quest is not overtly funny movie that will have you falling out of your chair laughing.  It does, however, have many humorous moments that poke fun at the Trekkie phenomenon.  The main problem I had with the movie is that most of the jokes were done before.  Lets face it, making fun of Star Trek is very easy.  It seems that every comedy show from The Simpsons to Saturday Night Live has had skits involving a bad overacting captain, no name ensigns being killed, and stoic sidekicks. I thought the casting was good.  I especially enjoyed Tony Shaloub's charachter.  Sigourney Weaver was also very good and not to mention pleasing to the eye. I would recommend renting this movie if you want a good chuckle at the trekkies expense.  I would look elsewhere if you want new cutting edge comedy. "},{"Title":"Decent, but I think hardcore Trekkies will find it weaker than it could have been","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to admit that I enjoyed a lot of this film, but as a pretty big fan of Star Trek, I found the jokes to be sometimes quite weak. Many of them are okay, but there's no joke that knocked me flat. Nowhere near flat. Maybe it's not just that the jokes are weak at times. Maybe it is that there are not enough jokes. The characters maybe could have been closer to the actual Star Trek characters. Or it could have been really great if they had actually made it with the actors from the original series (or even The Next Generation characters, most of whom are moving towards the same situation). Also, the script is quite predictable. True, it is a comedy, but comedies don't have to follow strict script outlines. The one thing that I thought they hit closest to the mark was the depiction of the actual Trekkies (Questers in this film, I believe). The main Quester was hilarious. And props to my homeboy Kevin McDonald of Kids in the Hall fame, finally finding some work. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Cute . . .","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very cute movie but frankly, I was looking for fun. After being forever cast as science fiction heroes, Allen and co-workers are forever doomed signing autographs at conventions. When some aliens appear, thinking their show is real in every respect, the crew do not take them literally until one bad and ugly alien shows up with blood on its mind. The movie is cute and some very clever (yet still cute) twists appear throughout the movie. Signs of improvement are the  lack of character development. Also, the actual use for the Omega 13 did not seem as cool as it could have been. Some really neat plot twists could have happened, but in a fish out of water movie, the ending is a bit too predictable. Rent it. "},{"Title":"Not as funny as I would have hoped.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From its previews, I had hoped this film would be another Starship Troopers.  However, it simply didn't have the wit, the edge, or the action of that film.  It's fine for kids, but for anyone over 15 years of age, I wouldn't waste the time.   "}{"Title":"Amusing premise; flawed by weak construction","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens have been picking up Earthling TV signals for years. They are particularly intrigued by the exploits of a space ship captain and his sidekicks saving the universe from yecchy cosmic invaders. Little do they know it's make believe, and try to get this galactic benefactor to save their planet from naughty space creatures.Obviously, a playful mockery of Star Trek. For the most part, it works. There's a Kurk takeoff, a poor man's Spock, and several other impersonated Enterprise regulars. Former alien-blaster Sigourney Weaver calms down to be the captain's (Tim Allen) latest curvaceous romantic interest. The aliens that look to them for salvation are played as jokes, but the film fools itself. These ingenuous ET's are actually likable. But, when they are violently oppressed by ruthless cruelty, the movie derails from its comic intent.The blurring of fantasy and realty of the last portion of the movie creates an awkward balance, and collapses the story. Poking fun at trekkie conventions is a fun sight gag once (due to the plot's premise), but only once. To weave the trekkies joke in to the the final climactic battle makes the wheels come off completely. The last 15 minutes of the film are utterly useless, except for a pretty clever epilogue sequence about the Galaxy Quest series coming back on the air.Poorly constructed in places, but worthy of a single viewing. You probably won't want to revisit this for a second quest, though. "},{"Title":"A parody with an identity crisis","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand why all the comments about this movie are so positive. What starts out as a somewhat decent parody on Star Trek gradually degenerates as the makers forgot they were making a parody and start taking themselves seriously. The result is a very lame SF-movie with a laughably simple plot (big bad aliens want to kill cute aliens and the heroes must save them - wow!) and no interesting character development or thematic premise.The only good thing about the movie is Alan Rickman, who once again acts superbly. "},{"Title":"What a piece of junk!","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the worst movie I have ever seen in my life!  I want those two hours of my life back, so I could do something, anything, more productive! I'd rather watch old reruns of Eight is Enough in Spanish than watch this fluffy, sentimental, watered-down pap! "},{"Title":"The Three Amigos in space (but not as good)","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even before seeing Galaxy Quest, reviews and trailers highlighted the similarity between this film and The Three Amigos (1986) - look it up for more details.  Both hinge on an identical plot core the characters some out-of-work actors used to play are believed to be real and unknowingly become part of helping a bunch of subjugated people/aliens.  Anyway, I figured I might as well see it because it was supposedly very good.  How disappointed I was.The characters are shallow and predictable, the plot is shallow and predictable, the visual effects are dated and, most importantly, the jokes are fairly average.  Unless you are a Trekkie, then I doubt you could possibly find much of this funny or entertaining.  The only truly funny parts came from the character called Guy, who was not a real member of the Galaxy Quest crew, but aspired to be.I understand this film is aimed at a wide audience, but it is more of a satire than a spoof and so younger audiences won't recognize the subtle humor anyway.  As for older audiences, they really should know better.Finally, recommending Star Wars alongside this film is just plain stupidity. There is no similarity between the two in any way (except the obvious outerspace setting).  Just uttering the two in the same breath should mean instant death in a Trash Compactor. "},{"Title":"The year was 2000. This was disappointment #18.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only part I thoroughly liked about this movie was when all those ridiculous fans of 'Galaxy Quest' asked all these ridiculous questions about 'Galaxy Quest' and I found myself thinking; do people like these exist? In a way, you could call this a thought provoking movie, then. And the rest. Special effects are decent. Story is non-existent. Great actors like Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman and, erm, Tim Allen wander through this movie anonymously. The aliens are irritating. The music/tunes are totally forgettable . The villains are not half as scary as these other damn aliens. Watch it if you must, but don't pay for it. Buy something nice for you boy/girlfriend instead. **   "},{"Title":"an Okay one time video rental","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nothing stellar here.  It was refreshing to see a movie that did NOT resort to four letter expletives or scatological humour for laughs.It was a decent one time video rental. "},{"Title":"First hour was fun!","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watch the first hour which is laugh out loud funny but skip the rest.  The movie fails when it attempts to turn serious and save the poor aliens from their vicious alien enemies.  Way too sentimental and takes itself much too seriously at the end. When I think about Tony Shaloub's FYI I still laugh. But is that enough? "},{"Title":"Some clever f/x and gags - garbage otherwise","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers.Three movies spliced together, essentially. Starts out with the now almost cliched, but still valid, attack upon the 'trekkies' and assorted sci-fi-cons, and similar unhealthy escapism and obsession. Could have been a film - in fact, I think fairly recently, it was. Then the disillusioned and desperate actors find themselves in space, on a spaceship, fighting a bad guy. But it's difficult to suspend belief after the insistence this would be a movie about burned out sci-fi actors and their annoyance with immature fans. In fact, they are still actors, at one point describing the phony sets, and so on, while still in space, you see - on a spaceship, fighting a bad guy.Finally, said ship returns, finds its way - of course - to yet another sci-fi-con (or is it always the same one?). It crashes into the parking lot of said convention, scooping up cars as goes. It breaks through the wall of the convention center and come to rest right next to the presentation stage. Uh-huh. The moderator is there at the mike. The hatch opens. He announces the actors. Oh, yeah - bad guy hitched a ride, emerges last, and the hero actor shoots him down with a real ray gun - the audience thinks it's all just a pricey effect (and - of course - that's all it is). And the former audience nerds, the annoyances, are now the heroes. Sci-fi-con is now the place to be, as it were. Film #3 - Trekkies The Redemption.I walked out at that point. I think there was more to the movie, but not much.I think movies ABOUT movies are dicey things. The whole point of the movie is to put you into a world played by actors, not to shift between the actor and the play. It worked in Olivier's Henry V because it wasn't about the actors off-stage, when it was, but _that_ was part of the play. Here, it's so pedestrian that one sees the actors (though they are playing someone else), and is sort of force fed a dialogue on the acting profession, almost - and quick cut with clever f/x that are supposed to now . . be real, in space, on the spaceship - fighting the bad guy. That doesn't work.  "},{"Title":"average comedy that doesn't make good use of its premise","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the concept is very interesting, but the execution is totally unsatisfying and uncertain. Barely ever laughed during this movie.                                                                                                                                                   "},{"Title":"6 on a scale of 10","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I consider this movie below average. And, by that I mean below average for a movie I would care to see. That's why it is still a 6 instead of a 4 or 5.It wasn't that it wasn't cute or that it didn't have a good heart. It did, but it just wasn't enough. It was too much like a cartoon or too comic bookish for me. It reminded me in some hard-to-explain way of Austin Powers. I am willing to bet that if you liked AP, you will like GQ. I can't go for either one.I figure it was perfect comedy (assuming you can call it that) for an 11 year old kid. I guess I just like my comedy a little funnier. Call me selfish.In addition to the lack of laughs, I thought the acting was very marginal at best. But, of course, in a movie like this, acting isn't really that important. Unfortunately, when you don't have much more to go on, anything would help.I didn't hate the movie at all. I watched intently and only thought about being minorly bored a couple times. But, it was TV level quality. Kind of made me think that Charley's Angels meets Lost in Space would be a good sister story. "}{"Title":"Ehh...","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Galaxy Quest does have some good actors, like Sigourney Weaver and Tim Allen, but this is no excuse for the film's mediocrity.Many of the characters are very annoying, having idiotic lines. The film was intended to spoof space movies and television, but just wasn't good enough.There were a few laughs here and there, but the film really wasn't anything special. The aliens were desirable characters, as was some bits of the plot, but many of the jokes were pretty lame.The make up for the movie was alright, Alan Rickman's to be specific. The fans that saved the day in the end were just plain stupid, where a much better ending should have been written. "},{"Title":"Allen and co boldly go","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This comedy is fun for those who are fans of Star Trek and those who aren't though I think those who are may get more from it due to the parody and the in jokes.Tim Allen shows what a great comedian he is by his portrayal of the Kirk character and steals the show with some great lines. The supporting cast is also great with Alan Rickman on top form as the Spock like figure. Missy Pyle is always fun in these type of comedies and adds lots of laughs as well.Although the plot fades in the final third this is an enjoyable romp that is full of fun and can be enjoyed by all the family. It's never going to win loads of awards but if you're looking for a genuinely fun film then you could do a lot worse than Galaxy Quest. "},{"Title":"SPACED OUT","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An excellent spoof, that unlike a lot of satires has staying power. The gags don't run out of steam, and mostly hit their targets.Weaver, Allen and Rickman are all good, bu it's the aliens who really steal the film. Notwithstanding, it's not a bad adventure story as well.  "},{"Title":"worth seeing only because of Sigourney Weaver and Missi Pyle","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As said above, worth seeing only because of sexy characters of Sigourney Weaver and Missi Pyle. Otherwise very pale, plain and out of touch. I am surprised by such a good rating of this movie on IMDb, it says I must have missed something. Perhaps. The would-be most interesting part was missed at all in my opinion there should have been said more about surprise of the actors on meeting the real aliens and so on. This part should have been extended, it might really have been a good basis for lot of humour. On the contrary, a part about actors becoming real heroes must have been shortened this is anyway a boring stuff, and it was done poorly. "},{"Title":"Good idea, but not very funny","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie could have been a real winner, instead it is just a lame spoof. Why? well the screen writers failed to grasp the spirit of parody-HUMOR! I laughed perhaps a couple of times, the rest of the humor just not funny. The writers need to watch Airplane and learn what a spoof is supposed to be about.-Elvis "},{"Title":"Stupid comedy, pretty good acting-together they don't work out","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is wrong with you people-how can you think that this was a good movie?! I thought all but some of the comedy was stupid, yet everyone in the theater was laughing-I was laughing at how stupid it was, my God! The acting was pretty good, and so was the plot but, the comedy was dumb. I figured the people who were laughing were mostly male adults, 40's-50's it seemed, so maybe it's that age group, but I didn't like GALAXY QUEST-4/10 "},{"Title":"Disparaging","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie only has two things going for it - a great concept and Sigourney Weaver's body. I was so bored I kept busy wishing for more views of her. The screenwriting should have been a lot more creative, and the cast should have been told to put some real energy into their acting. A dud. "},{"Title":"Cute special effect movie, nothing else.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, as I suspected, Galaxy Quest was a movie not made for me.  I like no brainers, but I also hate comedians trying to be action heroes - it never works.  See Trekkies for a movie that makes fun of the whole out of control star trek craze. It's funny because it is real. This movie made me feel apart of the ole' money making machine, used and abused. The special effects were amazing, but the movie itself, dull and predictable.  Nothing that you haven't seen before.   "},{"Title":"Kinda disappointing","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this film and let me tell you that I was a little disappointed with it.  I mean I get movie magazines all the time and I read so many great reviews about this movie.  Saying it was non-stop funny and other stuff.  But I didn't see any of that.  What I saw was just a dumb spoof of Star Trek.  All the jokes were very flat and just wasn't the laugh out loud kind of jokes it was supposed to have.  The movie did start to get good at the last 30 minutes but thats not enough time for me.  Let's just say that it was another overated Tim Allen movie, just like The Santa Clause.  I do like Tim Allen but he's got to find better movies to be in but this.  Even though he's a terrible actor he does have the comedy talent and he needs to use that in other better films like Jungle 2 Jungle and For Richer or Poorer.  Come on Tim! "},{"Title":"I've seen bad before, but this takes the cake.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen senseless drivel in the past, but this takes the cake.Bad, Bad, and Bad are the three best words to describe it.  Obviously it was a spoof on the Star Trek/Sci-Fi flicks that have been pandered to us in the past but still...Tim Allen as the James Kirk wannabe is bad.  Sigourney Weaver is probably the best character in the movie - mainly because of her two, uh, assets. The rest of the supporting cast follows in Tim's lead.Laughs are few and far in between.  The two times I laughed, I roared. The remainder of the time I sat there in silent anticipation - waiting for the next line that would break the monotony of the movie.Overall, I would give it three stars and NOT recommend it to anyone that might be breathing. "}{"Title":"One Joke. Two Hours. They're Not Space Heroes - They're Actors!","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having seen this at the cinema on release, and again recently on Cable TV, I was surprised to see it have such a high score here on IMDb.The premise is straightforward what if aliens saw the original Star Trek TV show, thought it was real, and came to Earth to request help from the crew - not realising that they're just actors? This one joke is stretched out over two dull, predictable, repetitive hours. The characters are one-dimensional and boring, and the conclusion apparent.Having said all that, the CGI (which was state-of-the-art at the time) has held up remarkably well - a shame it was wasted on this film. Also, I'll give a second star for the intentionally-wooden and unphasable (no pun intended) Chief Engineer. I actually cracked a smile at one point because of him.At the end of the day, though, if you want to do a comedic film, I'd advise you to include some comedy. I recommend this film for young kids only, as it is visually appealing. "},{"Title":"A relatively good science fiction movie, but of a different sort","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Galaxy Quest is a film which is sure to be appreciated most by hard-core science fiction fans. I think that the overall meaning is likely to be overlooked by people who are not familiar with the likes of William Shatner and Leonard Nemoy. In many ways it was a spoof of serious science fiction films, namely the Star Trek series, and this is very likely to be overlooked as low budget or cheesy filmmaking.I have to admit that I was surprised by the positive reviews that I have seen people give Galaxy Quest. I think that the first half-hour or so of the film ruined it for me personally. As in real life, it is difficult to enjoy watching distraught actors pitying themselves and the ridiculous parodies that they have become. Because of that, I think I did not give the rest of the film a fair chance. I also found the leader of the Termites extremely difficult to endure, the voice was a little too much for me.I think that the casting could have been better. All of the actors involved did a great job, but some roles seemed a little bit disrespectful. Sigourney Weaver was reduced to a large-breasted woman whose only job was to talk to the computer, which is a terrible thing after her spectacular history in the Alien series. Although Tim Allen was by far the most amusing character, I kept expecting him to say Welcome to Tool Time, or even better, Buzz Lightyear to Star Command, come in Star Command!! The movie did have redeeming qualities, but as a result of my own lack of tolerance for the acting, even for good measure, I give this film 2 1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Another boring sci-fi","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see this movie because of the good reviews, and I was extremely disappointed of what I saw. It's actually a very good idea that lies behinds it all, but in the end the movie turns into parody itself. You have to be seriously hooked on the genre to like this one, and it really just emphasizes the fact, that the artisticly good sci-fi movies seem to belong to the past. "},{"Title":"Even worse than I expected...","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, it was out of boredom, a chance to get out of the house with my family.  Unfortunately, I found that it wasn't too much better inside the theater.First off, in order to enjoy this (waste of) film, you must either be A) A little kid B) Someone who has actually at one point cared about Star TrekBeing neither (of age 16) I found this movie quite boring and predictable. One event VERY logically led to another, and the mostly slapstick humor wasn't all that well done or entertaining.  The spoken humor wasn't that much better, although I admit that I laughed about twice.A couple things REALLY p***ed me off about this movie.  First, the villain was your typical plastic reptile thing.  Can't Hollywood come up with something more creative?  Second, there wasn't ANY suspense at all.  I never thought Wait, they MIGHT NOT make it out alive and save this stupid alien race!  Finally, there were TONS of dull spots and groaners.  My sister (college age) started to ask me for change to go and play the video games in the theater lobby.  When I told her I didn't have any, she accepted my offer to play the always entertaining game of rock-paper-scissors.  At least I got SOME unpredictability out of this... "},{"Title":"They don't get any cornier.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If this was supposed to be science fiction, it wasn't. If it was supposed to be a comedy, it wasn't. If there was supposed to be a plot, there wasn't. It appeared that was ad libbed all the way. My two year old grandson could have cooked up a better dialog. This movie does not even qualify to be a B movie. "},{"Title":"Thought it was supposed to be funny","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Was recommended to me by Star Trek fans, but it didn't make me laugh once. One long gag that wasn't funny to begin with. Tim Allen, same tired performance. And Sigourney Weaver, I was supposed to be entertained because she had a big chest in this movie. Star Trek is culturally significant -- Galaxy Quest is stupidity in the guise of humor. "}]