[{"Title":"Why mess with Art?","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"85 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it was a mistake to watch this adaption of Mansfield Park the day I finished reading the novel.  This production is too modern.  Now I understand that they probably wanted to make it more appealing to today's moviegoers, and I know that it's hard to fit all a book into a film - but why did they change the essence of who Fanny Price is?  She is a highly moral, quiet, smart, very put-upon young lady.  While Frances O'Connor is a wonderful actress, she played Fanny all wrong.  She was smiling (constantly), having pillow fights, speaking her mind.  There was no sense of period or restraint in her portrayal.  I think the writer/director should have had more faith in the characters in the book.With so many storylines to choose from in the book, I wonder why new ones were added, such as the slave trade and opium use?  It is a shame that Sir Thomas didn't have the character arc seen in the book, that has him appreciate Fanny more and show her greater kindness when he returns from Antigua.  In the film he is just always a big, mean bully.  Jonny Lee Miller's Edmund is not nearly pious and conflicted enough.  He is meant to be joining the clergy.I am sure I would have thought it was an average film if I didn't know the original source, but it was a big disappointment.   "},{"Title":"Even cute-as-a-button Frances O'Connor couldn't save this pointless exercise...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"73 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  They say the great thing about Shakespeare's work is that it is so open to interpretation. Every director can bring his or her fresh eyes to a play and make it new. Even so, I think we are obliged to stay true to the basic tennents of the text. Are the works of Jane Austen as open to interpretation? Maybe, but I doubt it; Certainly not if MANSFIELD PARK is anything to go by.MANSFIELD was always my favourite of Austen's six novels. Many modern critics, while not denying its basic greatness, have problems with the book. Many find FANNY PRICE unlikeable, many find her judgemental, and feel that her Stoic, Augustan approach is hard to relate to. Stand-by, do nothing, and eventually he'll see the error of his ways and come to love you. Not very modern, is it?OK, so if you don't like the main character, if you don't like what she has to say, then what do you do? Look for other aspects of the story you can relate to. In recent years some critics have chosen to see MANSFIELD PARK in Post-Imperial terms, as a critique of Slavery. After all, the family's wealth is based on plantations in Antiga, which were run by slaves. Is that what the book's about? Is it? I don't know. I think the evidence is a little slim, but who am I to deny the possibility? Maybe it plays a part in the subtext of the novel.So, I'm a modern script-writer who doesn't like the novel, it's pre-occupations or even Fanny Price. What do I do? I completely re-write the story to take a possible minor sub-text (slavery) and turn it in to the driving narrative force. I then take smart as a whippet, stubborn yet passive Fanny and turn her into a ballsy version of Bridget Jones. With an attitude. I then string together a couple of scenes from the book with a few invented bridging scenes to advance the romance. Et Voila! I have a completely different story!I don't know what this film is, but it isn't Mansfield Park. Enjoy it on its own terms, but don't ever get the idea that your watching Austen on the screen. But, jeeze. I think that if you're going to adapt a novel for the screen, you ought to at least like the source material; Otherwise, what's the point? If you don't like the main character, you shouldn't be able to completely re-invent her. Or if you do, you should have the decency to be a little ashamed. "},{"Title":"Mansfield Park on speed","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"83 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This isn't an awful movie. It's quite watchable. Some of the acting, especially from Pinter is excellent.But the rest resembles those films made from classic novels in the 30s where no one concerned in making it had time to read the book. A quick treatment by a college student, a quick script conference, then off we go. Rozema has almost no idea of what the book is about but is entirely unembarrassed by her ignorance in her interview on the DVD.Austen fans don't have to wait long to discover just how far off the wavelength she is. The first contact between Sir Thomas and Fanny is a reproof for running through MP's corridors shrieking like a banshee. Lines are taken from Mary Crawford in the book and given to Fanny in the film. How's that for missing the point? One by one characters appear looking no more recognisable than if they were appearing in a literary celebrity edition of Scooby Doo.I agree with other reviewers that if the film was called something else and the characters had different names, it would be impossible to trace it's origins to Austen's book which is definitely not a conventional love story about bright young things getting together having overcome a few obstacles.There's very little to choose between the morals of Rozema's characters, so nothing of the catastrophic descent into the abyss is associated with the production of Lover's Vows, nor do we have any glimpse of Rushworth and Crawford vandalising Sotherton. Mrs Norris is one of the most deliciously evil creations in literature - Rozema reduces her part to a few lines. Thomas Betram is a modern artist - yikes! William Price, Fanny's brother and one of the key relationships in the book, is missing altogether. Susan, her sister, has been reading too many Style magazines.Mansfield Park might have been a bit like this had it been written by Georgette Heyer or even Jackie Collins. As an Austen adaptation it is execrable. But it's so far off the mark, that as something else entirely, it's not all that bad. Maybe they should just change the title. "},{"Title":"A travesty, from start to finish.","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"100 out of 146 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to wonder if the folks who are praising this film to the skies have ever read the book.  I am not a Jane Austen purist - if I were, I could not say that the Root/Hinds version of Persuasion was my favorite Austen adaptation, which it is.  This is Patricia Rozema's Mansfield Park, NOT Jane Austen's.First, Rozema gives us a feisty, spirited Fanny Price, who tells off Aunt Norris and Sir Thomas, who accepts Henry Crawford's proposal, and then rejects it the next day (a la JA herself with Harris Bigg-Wither). In this MP, Sir Thomas deserves to be told off. He is portrayed as a lecherous dirty old man, who leers at Fanny and Mary Crawford throughout the film.We have all heard about the additions Rozema made to the film. She deals with the slavery issue in a very heavy-handed way, beating us over the head with it whenever possible. Tom Bertram is not the empty-headed fop he is in JA's book; here he is just as much an abolitionist as Fanny, and it is his sketchbook filled with incriminating drawings of Sir Thomas abusing the slaves in Antigua that Fanny finds. In fact, Rozema's take on Tom is rather bizarre; in the book, his arguments with his father center around his irresponsibility and his profligacy. In the film, while Sir Thomas tries to scold his son for these faults, Tom takes him to task for his activities in Antigua. What I found odd was that, if Tom is such an abolitionist, why would he be so free and easy with money tainted by the slave trade?Rozema left out what I consider to be some very important people and scenes. William Price and the Grants are nowhere to be seen; as a result, there is no amber cross bought with prize money, no distress over which chain to wear to the ball, no one to accompany Fanny to Portsmouth. Fanny's dislike and distrust of Henry are never fully explained. We never get to see the outing to Sotherton and, while we do see Maria flirting relentlessly with Henry, we never see him playing one sister off against the other. Fanny's disapproval of the theatricals is never explained either. In Rozema's version, it seemed as if Fanny was simply not invited to be in the play, instead of being unalterably opposed to it. The scene with Fanny playing Anhalt to help Mary Crawford rehearse is also completely wrong. Mary starts caressing Fanny, while Edmund watches with his eyes almost popping out of his head. So, instead of Edmund giving in and joining the play in order to spare his family the embarrassment of publicity, we are left with the impression that he takes on the role of Anhalt just so that he can justify having Mary run her hands all over him.Next, we have the scenes at Portsmouth. Here, we have Henry sending Fanny a display of fireworks and doves, and then we see her accepting his proposal and sealing the bargain with some less-than-chaste kisses - in public, no less! The  (in)famous sex scene between Maria and Henry takes place at Mansfield Park rather than in London and, because Rozema has played with JA's chronology of events, Fanny is already back from Portsmouth, and it is she who catches them in the act. Edmund is present for the aftermath, where Maria tries to defend her actions.Another thing that galled me no end is that Mary Crawford's defense of her brother's actions is done in person, at Mansfield Park. She is patronizing towards all concerned, including Sir Thomas, who has finally stopped leering by this point. The newspaper item announcing Maria and Henry's behavior to the world is read by Fanny, and the culprits' full names are used, which is also not the way it happened in the book.A couple of people walked out about 1/3 of the way through the screening I attended, and several others walked out just as the credits began.  The Wishbone versions of Pride & Prejudice and Northanger Abbey resemble the source material more than this trash does.  Shame on you Ms. Rozema, shame on you! "},{"Title":"A good enough film, if you don't care about butchering the characters...","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"53 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a romantic comedy, this is a good film. The acting is fairly good - particularly Johnny Lee Miller, who makes an excellent Edmund. But the story is not that of Jane Austen's wonderful novel. The Fanny Price of the novel is a delicate wallflower, intelligent and warm but extremely timid. In the film, she's feisty and strong-willed, independent and almost rebellious. Fanny Price is not confident and witty; she is shy and thoughtful. This new Fanny may fit modern sensibilities, but I was severely disappointed; by completely altering the main character, the whole story seems different. I should very much like to see an adaptation of the novel that remains as faithful to the book as the BBC's excellent mini-series version of Pride and Prejudice (the Colin Firth / Jennifer Ehle version) or Emma (with Kate Beckinsale, not the Gwynneth Paltrow version). If you want a romantic movie, go for it. But if you're an Austen fan, you might want to stay clear. "},{"Title":"Wonderful novel - horrible adaptation","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I know better than to expect a pure adaptation of a novel when Hollywood gets hold of it, I was nevertheless unprepared for the horrible mangling this novel received at the hands of the screenwriter.  Having immensely enjoyed recent renderings of Sense and Sensibility, Emma, and various versions of Pride and Prejudice, I expected to receive similar enjoyment from this film.  I had not read any reviews or advance press before watching it.  I had, unfortunately, just read the book itself this summer and it was fresh in my mind.  In my opinion this is the WORST rendition of a Jane Austen work I have ever seen.  Perhaps if I had never read the book, I might have enjoyed it somewhat more, but to me it was unbearable to see a book I thoroughly enjoyed so completely rewritten.  I am astonished at the comments of some of the reviewers here opining that Jane Austen would have approved. Poppycock!I began to feel sick early on.  To me, the character of Fanny Price and other major characters bore as much resemblance to Jane Austen's heroine as Danny Devito bore to Arnold Schwarzenegger in Twins. The entire invention of Fanny as a budding writer, the deletion of her younger brother who was so important in the plot concerning Henry Crawford, the image of Fanny as somewhat outspoken and rebellious, the depiction of Fanny's aunt as an opium addict and her uncle as a brutish, raping slaveowner.... The list goes on and on.  Henry and Maria being caught by Fanny in the house, Fanny voluntarily kissing Henry and agreeing to marry him and then retracting.  Ugh!I really detest writers who want to mold everything in the modern vein. Fanny Price was not a modern heroine, but she fit her time.  There was far too much PC propaganda and feminist hogwash which you might expect in a movie about our society but is ridiculous set against Fanny's time. She was devout, loyal, quiet, humble, stubborn only in her keen perception of others' character as measured against her conviction of what was good and what was not, possessing an innate strength of character which did not rely on others' perception of her and which she refused to compromise.  Jane Austen would not have approved of this new Fanny for precisely this reason  her Fanny did not care about the new conventions of moral thought and permissiveness in her own society.  The movie downplayed the seriously flawed characters of Henry Crawford and his sister.  It portrayed him far too sympathetically, made it appear that he truly and deeply loved Fanny and seemed to blame Fanny's (non-existent) double-mindedness for his downfall.All in all, this is an extremely disappointing film if one cares about what was really written in Mansfield Park.  I think Clueless as a modern version of Emma (and which I also enjoyed) is more true to Austen than this let-down of a movie. "},{"Title":"No thank you","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"70 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jane Austen's usual themes (love, snobbery, the place of women in society) are all addressed in this film of 'Mansfield Park', but fans of the book claim that the film is unfaithful to the original.  Not having read it, I can't comment on that, but whereas I enjoyed  Douglas McGrath's 'Emma' and Ang Lee's 'Sense and Sensibility' (both praised as faithful to their texts), 'Mansfield Park' is certainly less successful, losing coherence but gaining stridency compared to those works.  In 'Emma', for example, the joy was in a precocious young heroine gradually learning that there were things she did not know; but haughty Fanny Price, the main character in this film, is always right, witty, invariably possessed of good judgment and anachronistic feminist attitudes - in other words, completely unbearable.  Some of the dialogue seems similarly out of time, the young Fanny and her sister are inexplicably played by a couple of self-consciously adorable American kids, and audience is consistently encouraged to apply modern values to judge the characters. Other things also seem odd (Fanny has lived with the family for many years, but they continually treat her as if she had just arrived; the social placement of Fanny, her aunt and mother are never explained; and as Fanny and the leading male are mutually in love throughout the story, it's hard to see why it takes them a whole film to get together).If one scene serves as a good example of what's wrong with this film, it's when Fanny catches a suitor in flagrante with another woman.  Jane Austen wrote highly subtle dissections of the social structures around her, disguised in the form of acceptable romances - that's the merit of her work.  The beauty of the story lies in the form of its telling.  The absence of explicit sex from (some) old books isn't necessarily a failing, just as you don't necessarily improve a classic thriller by remaking it with bigger guns and louder explosions. It's a small scene, but one senses that director Roezma doesn't really understand her own material.  A disappointment. "},{"Title":"Muddled and offensive","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For half or two-thirds of its length, I thought this a fair enough movie. True, it's a poor telling of the novel, bits from which are stuck together without the structure of it being clearly conveyed or, apparently, recognized. Also true, it's filled with bad theatrical ideas, such as combining the heroine of the novel with Austen herself (and then casting the role with an actress who can play neither one). And also true, it's played less like an Austenian social comedy than like a half-baked version of Tom Jones. All these things notwithstanding, up to a point it's entertaining enough. (However, enough here means, as always in this usage, not quite enough. Halfway through the movie, not seeing much I recognized on screen, I turned to the novel, and found one paragraph of it more involving, amusing, and wise than everything in the movie rolled together. But let that pass.)Then came the Social Significance - as if Austen's novels were not full of social significance. Evidently the adapter disliked the nineteenth century, and Austen, and set out to show them up for what they were. I pretended to miss the insinuation of her father's having molested her and her sister--there being no other interpretation to be placed on the looks exchanged between the two of them and their mother when he gives Fanny a hug. But then Fanny turns up an album of atrocity pictures showing what her (almost) foster father, his son, and his crew were really getting up to with their slaves. This exceeds allowable bounds. Such a device might be imposed on Fielding, or on Dickens, without betraying the author's purpose too far; but not Austen. It obliterates the story, or what's left of it. In the face of rapes and beatings and tortures, who gives a fig whether Miss Price and her Reverend get together? Yet the comedy of manners continues galumphing along as if the scene had never happened. Having forced it in, the adapter makes no changes in the narrative to accommodate it. This is film-making for MTV watchers, i.e. patients with short-term memory loss. Ah - the adapter might counter - but that's just the point! The characters act as if these horrors didn't exist! To which I would reply if she felt, reading the novel, that the squire was just the kind of man who would have done that sort of thing, white European male pig that he was, and that Austen (owing to her famous ignorance of human nature, which causes her books to continue to be read two centuries later) was too much of a booby to see it, whereas the adapter's own superior sensibility makes all things manifest, she might at least have done Fanny the justice of having her react to the discovery as she would have, given her character. The story turns on her absolute moral rectitude and her rejection of the amorality represented by the Dangerous Liaisons characters. In the face of the dark deeds of which she becomes aware, her denunciation of the others becomes itself amoral and hypocritical, for she has silently acquiesced in the viciousness of her class. This conclusion must be extrapolated, since it is nowhere stated in the film, the adapter not having troubled to stir in the muck she has tossed into the pot. But I can't help wondering, if her object was to discredit Fanny, as well as the monsters around her--if she had so little use for the character as that--why did she choose to do this book? "},{"Title":"Did Rozema even read the novel?","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Had Rozema given this story a new title, introduced the characters with original names, I don't believe that anyone would have suspected it had somehow originated from Jane Austen's appraised novel, Mansfield Park. It would have spared her the resentment I am sure that many others share with me towards her.I was perfectly disgusted by this rendition of Jane Austen's novel. I cannot believe that Patricia Rozema could have had any love for the book to create a story so blatantly ignorant of its origin.The characters, which were distorted beyond recognition, had no constancy as they were rapid-fired from scene to scene, without direction and without guide.Had Rozema at least had the decency to pace the story as it should have been, to select lines from the book which did serve as character-building stepping stones, and given Fanny the goodness, the gentility and submissiveness she carried through-out the novel, I could have looked less harshly on this film.I was also furious at Lady Bertram's opium addiction, at Mary Crawford's hints at lesbian tendencies, at Sir Thomas Bertram's motives and dealings in Antigua, and the complete unnecessary, though brief, nude scene with Maria Bertram and Henry Crawford. These were completely out of place and did not contribute to the story in the least.Altogether a great disappointment and a poor introduction for those who have never read Jane Austen's novels or seen the other (more faithful) theatrical adaptations to her stories. "},{"Title":"A lesser Austen is still an Austen","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"41 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read and loathed the book (relatively speaking of course; I usually love Austen), I went into the theater with no small trepidation.  The book Mansfield Park has a singularly unappealing protagonist in Fanny Price, a simpering and timid milksop, which was a big shock after Pride and Prejudice whose Elizabeth Bennett is surely one of the most enchanting fictional heroines ever.   The book is also dense and long without the trademark Austen lively wit.  And then, there is the confusing  play within play plot which further muddles the story.OK, I got that off my chest.  Phew.  Now about the movie. I enjoyed it very much in its own fashion.   It is rather unfaithful to the book, other than the general plot line.   That's not necessarily a bad thing.  In this free adaptation of Austen via Rozema, Fanny is portrayed as a determined woman, of intelligence, strength of character and mischief.  She is more Austen and Elizabeth Bennett than the Fanny from the book, and her appeal is magnified by the performance of the wonderfully expressive new Australian actress, Frances O'Connor.  They also canned the whole thing about the play (just barely skimmed over), thank God.  The story moves along briskly, starting with the poor relation Fanny coming to live with the rich Bertrams, then making friends with the second son Edmund whom she comes to love as she matures into young womanhood.   As with all Austen novels, it is about an independent-minded woman who finds her way into a wedded bliss, through many trials and tribulations.  Between Fanny and her heart's desires lay obstacles, mainly in the form of a very attractive but amoral pair of brother and sister, Henry and Mary Crawford.  Mary sets her sight on Edmund, and Henry, although initially interested in the empty-brained Bertram sisters, starts pursuing Fanny.  The chase begins as a challenge, but gradually turns into something resembling a genuine feeling.   In Rozema's hand, Henry is a scoundrel but is made rather appealing and sympathetic, someone who gives the annoyingly decent Edmund a fair competition.  Fanny almost gives into him (not so in the novel) and her resolution to hold onto her true love is made more courageous because of Henry's appeal.The movie is lovely to look at, and the music is appropriately frothy. The performances are variable, with the clear distinction in the outstanding Ms. O'Connor.   Embeth Davitz's turn as mercenary Mary is chilling, and Harold Pinter is excellent as the mercurial Sir Bertram, who is simultaneously affable and brutal. I had the  most problems with Johnny Lee Miller's Edmund, whose wooden delivery made me wonder why he had Fanny's devotion.The film's not a masterpiece by any stretch (and is inferior to SENSE AND SENSIBILITY in wit and to PERSUASION in heart), but nonetheless very enjoyable.  A lesser Austen is still an Austen, I guess.  The film also has a modern sensibility that's sometimes jarring.  There is a very 20th century outrage in slavery, quirky pauses in camera work, Fanny talking directly to the camera (tricky but it works) and even a hint of lesbianism that's rather uncalled forAt any rate, it's entertaining, different, and worth the price of admission just to see the luminous Frances O'Connor.   I feel I owe her a small debt of gratitude for making Fanny finally palatable, and for that, I expect grand things from this actress.  "}{"Title":"Pretty but unmistakably dull","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The location shooting at Kirby Hall is symptomatic of the film - an impressive looking shell, with nothing inside it.Mansfield Park is Austen's sharpest and subtlest satire, leavened with some splendid comedy characters. This however seems to have passed completely over the makers, who have provided us instead with an admittedly prettily photographed film that conveys nothing of the book. It's difficult of course to compress it into the space of two hours, but at least they might have tried. As it is the plot is sadly garbled; I doubt that anyone who had not read the book (or at least a synopsis of it) would make head or tail of what was going on, and anyone who has read the book would be completely baffled by the cavalier discarding of key elements of the book. What is unmistakably a 20th century cast with 20th century manners dresses up and romps through it as a bodice ripper, completely missing the point that it's meant to be a study of social power structures breaking down in 18th century England. I found myself with a finger on the fast forward butting, wanting the cast to get out of the way of the scenery. "},{"Title":"Excellent film inspired by rather than adapted from Austen's work","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"44 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Director Rozema does for film what Austen does for the novel. In place of Austen's beautiful prose, Rozema's Mansfield Park delivers delicately crafted performances, heartbreakingly poetic cinematography, and a haunting score by Lesley Barber, but still manages to capture Austen's wit throughout.Frances O'Connor and Jonny Lee Miller (as Fanny Price and Edmund Bertram) carry the film with their subtlety and chemistry, and a few scenes between the two are enough to deem the film a masterpiece. But they are not the only merits the supporting cast breathe dimensionality to their characters with interesting interpretations of Austen's work. Most notable are Lindsay Duncan in her dual roles as Mrs Price and Mrs Bertram, and Victoria Hamilton as an intensely human Maria. Sophia Myles and Justine Waddell display equal genius albeit within the limitations of somewhat small roles. It is more difficult to gauge the performances of Alessandro Nivola and Embeth Davidtz; their characters are too affected by choices made in the script (arguably, Henry Crawford for the better and Mary Crawford for the worse).One can be a fan of Jane Austen and still appreciate the film. Although it bears little resemblance to the novel itself, it embodies much of the spirit of Austen and draws from her other novels where Mansfield Park the novel might be, dare I say, lacking. I am an ardent supporter of Austen, but I must say that the film version makes a commendable choice in choosing a protagonist that shares more of Pride and Prejudice's Elizabeth Bennett's spirit than the subdued Fanny of Mansfield Park.The film does, of course, have its flaws. The slavery issue is treated in a manner too heavy-handed to blend with Austen's style, and the same can be said of the hints of lesbianism that are just painfully out of place. The sexual tension is often a touch too overbearing in the film, although I agree with Rozema in saying that the film does not create this sexuality anew but draws from the tension latent in the novel (with the exception of the above-mentioned lesbianism). Other disappointments include Sir Bertram and Tom Bertram, who are practically caricatures that mar the otherwise brilliant characterization in the film.Regardless, the film's high points far outweigh its imperfections -- all in all, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Confused Director/Writer Patricia Rozema","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's  apparent to me that director/writer Patricia Rozema never decided what genre to use for this film as she's all over the place.   The end result is a mass of confusion which attempts to focus on Jane Austen's book Mansfield Park, biographical sketches of Jane Austen herself, as well as an historical look back at black slavery issues simultaneously and doing none justice.  As if all this wasn't bad enough, Rozema couldn't even decide what time period she wanted to use for the movie.  It's not just major flaws in the script which has the various characters expressing themselves in ways which would have been much more appropriate for a character of today but also the costumes are all wrong. Many of the characters just seem to exist.  As a viewer, I find little character development to make me care one way or the other about most of the cast of characters in this film.  Even the leading female and male characters in the film seem lost among the others due to a lack of contrast.  Worst of all is the most unimaginative use of narration that I can recall seeing in any film to date.  Although this was meant to serve as a transition between scenes and to move the plot along, it fails miserably.  There also seems to be a large amount of indistinguishable dialogue in this film that was not intentional.  It wasn't until I watched this film with the director's comments which had the actor's dialogue in captions that I even understood what was being said in some scenes despite the fact that I had tried repeated playbacks.  They must have have some audio problems.  Music for this film was too loud in places and poorly chosen.   Speaking of director's comments  Her primary motivation for making this film (according to what she said on the film's DVD version) was a scene which which utilized sexually explicit and violently graphic pen and ink drawings of slaves. Huh?  For a Jane Austen film?  Yes!  Hear the comments yourself in the DVD version. "},{"Title":"I must confess myself surprised","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" at the rating of this film as well as the overwhelmingly positive messages on the board. I've even read some that claimed that this was a great adaptation of Austen's novel! I have one question...has ANYONE here read the novel at ALL? For that matter, did the screenwriters read the book? The director? The ACTORS? First, allow me to acknowledge that MP is the most sexual of Austen's books, dealing with Edmund's purely physical attraction to Mary, Fanny's rather incestuous love of Edmund (yes, I know that it was not strange to marry one's cousins in that time period, but her fraternal and romantic feelings are rather mixed up), the whole thing with Maria and Henry, and Mary's outward acknowledgment of it - she insists that the only way to get Henry to marry Maria is to let them keep living together, at which suggestion Edmund is properly horrified.However, Fanny Price was never, at any time in the book, witty, sharp-tongued, or sarcastic. She was clever and affectionate, but mild-mannered, sweet, and cripplingly shy. In fact, it's specifically stated in the book that Henry's persistence is due to Fanny's mildness and sweetness of manner, which makes her seem reluctant to refuse him. Not to mention that she was NINE YEARS OLD when she first got to Mansfield. Austen was fond of Fanny - she is the only heroine to whom the authoress refers to as her own (my Fanny) - but she was not meant to be a representation of Austen herself. From all letters and descriptions written by her family and friends, she appears to have been nearer to Elizabeth and Jane of Pride and Prejudice.I have no idea of the entertainment value of this movie, as I was too paralyzed with horror at what they had done to one of the most carefully-nuanced, well-written works in the English language by turning it into a disgusting farce. Bleargh. I'd give the movie a zero, but IMDb won't let me. "},{"Title":"A really strange adaptation","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS INCLUDED BELOW I truly can't understand why the writer/director of this adaptation felt it was necessary to inject a lot of politically loaded topics into a classic novel about a strong-minded woman who is willing to accept the consequences of an unpopular choice.The addition of lesbian overtones, drug use and images of slaves being raped and tortured really didn't add a thing to the story. Such images don't modernize the central story -- in fact they distract from it. Nor do these deviations from the original book expand our understanding of the characters in any significant way.What is the point of making Sir Thomas Bertram into a lecherous creep? Austen's depiction of him as a well-intentioned but misguided man who has been absent from his own household so much that he has no idea what his family is about, is frankly more believable and more universal in its appeal.Likewise I can't see what purpose was served by turning Lady Bertram into an opium addict. It's enough that she's just silly... we've all known someone just as empty-headed as the character Austen created.Some of the casting is brilliant, but this version of the novel is ridiculously overwrought and heavy-handed. If you're going to try improving a great writer like Austen, you'd better have some great stuff to offer. This writer/director is no Austen. "},{"Title":"Horrible departure from original story","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jane Austen rolls in her grave every time this movie is played. The film adapts the story into a dark, sexualized drama meant to attract the attention of today's oversexed audience, but the success of previous Austen adaptations should have been an indication that this is not necessary. Mansfield Park adds in a least common denominator in order to appeal to a modern viewer, but this modern view just turned it off.Horrible!! "},{"Title":"the worst of all films based on an Austen novel.","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have read many of Jane Austen's novels, which I then follow up by watching the films made from them. They are usually extremely disappointing, so after I had finished reading Mansfield Park and moved on to the 1999 film I wasn't expecting much. What I was expecting was for the film to follow the basic ideas that Jane Austen was trying to convey. This was not the case. From the first five minutes I felt like I must have turned on the wrong movie.William's place was taken by 'Susie', Edmund's role as Fanny's adviser and helper has become a cheesy schoolyard crush, Sir Thomas is some sort of vulgar criminal, and even Fanny herself isn't the modest and shy persona that she is in the novel.Besides not following the basic elements of the story, the actual film is confusing. I am unsure whether the part where Fanny is seen accepting Henry Crawford's proposal was reality or merely a dream sequence. Also, the focus on black slavery seems to me, so out of place as to distract from the actual story at hand.We must remember that, although Fanny Price may seem dull to some, it is what she wasn't and what Austen doesn't make her that makes Mansfield Park so interesting.The worst part of this film, that I saw, was the completely ludicrous sex scene involving Crawford and Mrs Rushworth. At this point, I stopped watching. I find it quite ridiculous that we are encouraged to believe that this would have happened under Sir Thomas' roof. It is believable that these sinful occurrences would be able to be screened by the circumstances in London, however it is evident that Sir Thomas wouldn't have allowed these two to be in the same room together alone in his own home. This completely cheapened the film.As I didn't watch further than this point, I cannot comment on the remainder of the film. I sincerely hope that it did not get any worse, if it is possible that it could get worse.I wonder why so many have decided to take a Jane Austen novel to the big screen with little to no regard for the actual story. It seems more appropriate to make your own films, based on your own inferior story lines, and leave the name of Jane Austen out of it.I feel as though the creators of this film have completely ruined my enjoyment of Mansfield Park (the book) as I am forever doomed to think of this hideous film instead of one of Austen's most entertaining novels.If you have not yet watched Mansfield Park, I urge you not to. Find a better version, if there is one, but do not waste your time with this movie. If you have not yet read Mansfield Park, please take the time to read it as Jane Austen meant it to be and don't let the movie ruin your enjoyment of it. "},{"Title":"Just Awful","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A misconceived effort to 'update' Austen. Embarrassingly overt sexual and political subtexts leer at you from every place the filmmaker could cram them in against the sense of the book. The acting is quite good, especially O'Conner and Pinter, but much of the production design and soundtrack seems a rip from the excellent 'Remains of the Day'. The worst is that there is nothing literary left - not the first time a director's agenda betrays that they just don't get why literature exists in the first place. Try 'Persuasion' instead, and after that ANY of the other contemporary Austen adaptations. "},{"Title":"Misguided Adaptation","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For anyone who is a true Jane Austen fan, this is a terrible adaptation.  It looks good, but the character of Fanny has been totally rewritten to appeal to the modern woman's idea of a good heroine.  This film's Fanny is feisty and challenging.  Wrong! Wrong! Wrong!  In Austen's novel, Fanny is true to herself, but is a quiet fearful person who dreads change.  While this may not be an interesting focal point for today's audience, the character's immobility is intentional.  Fanny represents England at a time of great uncertainty.  Internally, the monarchy had been compromised by years of George III's insanity and his sons' frivolity.  Externally, the Napoleonic wars were threatening Europe.  England, like Fanny, was searching for stability and familiarity in a changing world.  This film totally undermines its source.  If you watch this movie, enjoy the costumes and the scenery.  Don't be fooled into thinking, however, that this production has anything to do with Jane Austen's Mansfield Park.  There ought to be a disclaimer on the box warning viewers that this is an adaptation loosely based on 'Mansfield Park'.  This version does Jane no credit.   "},{"Title":"Can there be a worse Austen movie out there?","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Did anyone who read Austen ever see any of her work more butchered up than this one? This adaptation is complete totally beyond lawful. Besides the title and names, nothing is presented as the persons Austen wrote in the book. I wonder how the Austen family or Austen clubs all over the world didn't sue this movie, unless none of them actually saw it...... How utterly horrible a destruction of a portrait of a girl who was not born an Emma. What were they thinking when they wrote the characters? Never mind that nothing is consistent with the book, but even each character's personality is not consistent throughout the movie. Awful is not enough to say about this movie. "}{"Title":"What the heck....","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was truly disgusted! Why couldn't Ms Rozema fool around with another novel (something rubbishy and vulgar). Jane Austen would have turned in her grave. There are so many flaws in this version (if you can call it a version) that I can't name every single one. But why change the plot, the characters and their personalities, loose some key ones and still have the guts to call it after the novel? The outrageous sex scene and nonsense about slavery was totally unnecessary and out of place. Mansfield Park isn't one of Austen's most admired novels, but it is certainly not vulgar, nor did she use it as a way to show political convictions. If you really want to enjoy some good adaptations of Austen's novels, I recommend Pride and Prejudice, Sense and Sensibility and even Emma with its light plot and comical characters. Don't waste your time with this crap! "},{"Title":"A film completely untrue to the book!","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't watch this film. It is not true to the book and although follows the main story, it changes very important parts and people should not take these liberties when such a brilliant writer created it. There is unpleasant sexual content which is really not needed. Fanny is far to confident and although likable, is not how she should be and is in the book. The costume designer was clearly looking at a different period in time and should have looked on the internet for information on the fashions of the period. The house looked gorgeous from the outside but inside looked like a poor persons house or a barn- the walls bare and some random chairs placed in the centre of the room. This film completely destroys the book and should not be under this name. Having said all this is probably would be an OK film under a different name. A better time could have been spent watching Gwyneth Paltrow in 'Emma' "},{"Title":"Mansfield Park is not for the Austen purist!","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was sadly disappointed in this adaptation of a delightful Austen classic. Although the storyline loosely follows the book, many of the most important scenes were left out of the movie. What's worse, the heart and soul of the book (Fanny Price's shining character) is not portrayed well in the movie. At times, Fanny is fickle, indecisive, brash, and disrespectful, the complete opposite of the literary Fanny's character. Still, any movie based on an Austen novel cannot be all bad. If you haven't read Mansfield Park, or if you are not an Austen purist or accustomed to her superior style, you may enjoy it. Otherwise, expect to be dissatisfied with this film. "},{"Title":"pure horror","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie should have been titled inspired by the title of jane austen's book mansfield park. Beyond the name of the book, and the names of the characters, the movie bore almost no resemblance. Fanny is transformed from the unpleasant insipid and boring character in the book to a thoroughly obnoxious, totally modern, and very rude woman who would have been ejected from that century before she caused a break in the space/time continuum. Disgustingly, Mr. Bertram (the father) was changed from a decent thought unpleasant man to one who raped and beat slaves on a plantation! The writers clearly felt the need to jazz up and otherwise admittedly somewhat dull story with a twisted sexual theme. I guess they felt the need to make some sort of point about slavery. fine, but what does that have to do with Jane Austen? Just write a movie about slavery and leave poor Jane alone, or leave her to those of us her love her. It's painful to see the ongoing pillaging and distortion of her amazing body of work. There should be a law against this type of movie. "},{"Title":"Worst Jane Austen Movie Adaptation Ever","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was the worst adaptation of a Jane Austen novel that I have ever seen. After just finishing Mansfield Park I watched this movie and it was a horrible disappointment, especially since all the details of the story were still fresh in my mind. I honestly don't know where to start, but it is apparent that the makers of this film are unfamiliar with 1800 British decorum. The level of affection that is shown throughout the movie is completely inconsistent with how people composed themselves in that time period and would be looked at as completely scandalous for the slightest thing as kissing in public which made this adaptation completely inaccurate. The main character Fanny's temperament was completely inconsistent with her character in the book. I was completely shocked that in the movie she was so open about her affections for Edmound which was completely not the case in the book, she was very demure about it until then end of the book. Main characters were omitted such as William Price. The story line was not followed in true form at all, and it wasn't a simple swaying from the original it was a completely different story. They sexualized Fanny's relationship with Mary and her father which was shocking and disgusting. Words can't express how disappointed I was in this film, as others have said before Ms. Jane Austen would be shocked and appalled by this adaptation. "},{"Title":"Austin would be DISGUSTED by this adaptation of her novel !!!!","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is so totally unfaithful to Jane Austin's original novel that it should not be ALLOWED to be called Mansfield Park!!!!! I don't believe a film has to be utterly faithful to the novel it is based on. But it should at least be faithful to the spirit of the original book. This film actually INSULTS the novel it is based on, taking moral and virtuous characters in the book and turning them into lewd, disgusting caricatures on the screen. The heroine of the story, Fanny Price, is meant to be the model of a pure, upright woman. She is supposed to be the embodiment of honor and duty and decency. In the film she mouths-off to her family, the people who raised her, supported her, and introduced her to a better life. Jane Austin's Fanny Price would rather DIE than show such disrespect to the family that cared for her. Not a SINGLE character is portrayed faithfully. It is PAINFULLY obvious the liberties the director takes with the story were taken to increase the sex appeal of the story. She introduces a whole trashy element to the plot line which is quite honestly an insult to Jane Austin's legacy. Someone who HATED Jane Austin could not make more of a mockery of this story. And then to introduce the whole issue of the evils of slavery into the film is even more ridiculous!! There is one mention, one sentence, in the entire book which vaguely mentions slavery. I am sick to DEATH of hearing that issue harped on. Directors seem to think that just by mentioning the evils of slavery it will give their film depth. The ORIGINAL story already has depth without bring up such a played-out issue as slavery. I think the director was trying to cover up how much she BUTCHERED Jane Austin's story by bringing up slavery. Don't insult Jane Austin's memory by watching such a travesty of a film. "},{"Title":"Nonsense","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only someone who had failed to understand any of the subtleties and wit of Jane Austen's writing could have written such complete nonsense and dared to call it an adaptation of her work. The only aspects of this play that had anything to do with Mansfield Park were the title and the names of the characters.   "},{"Title":"Terribly disappointing, old bean.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being fans of Jane Austen, my husband and I were eager to see this movie as Fanny Price is a favorite protagonist. We had been warned NOT to see it, so we were prepared for some deviation from the original story. Some deviation would not have been a major dsappointment as Emma Thompson managed to carry that off nicely in SENSE AND SENSIBILITY. MANSFIELD PARK's screenwriter, though, was obviously NOT a Jane Austen fan and felt that her added scenes for shock value were somehow appropriate. They were not. It was terribly disappointing and we will be advising all our friends and family NOT to see this, particularly if they relish the general wholesomeness, class and style Miss Austen is so famous for. "},{"Title":"Not Jane Austen, not even a very good movie.","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The original story of Mansfield Park by Jane Austen is nowhere to be found here. Patricia Rozema ripped it to shreds. I do not say this because I am a purist. I'm NOT! I know changes are necessary for movie adaptations of books but this went too far, changing the entire tone of the novel. It's disappointing because most of the cast was great (Frances O'Connor was a little iffy for me as Fanny but the Fanny in this movie bears no resemblance to the book one so it doesn't matter, I guess). Why did Rozema feel the need to make pretty much the whole focus of the movie on slavery? There is a minor mention of it in the novel but she blows it out of proportion here. I know how many people don't like Fanny Price, including Rozema, apparently, because she makes the character unrecognizable. Fanny here is a cross between Jane Austen (writing, and doing something Jane Austen did but book Fanny would NEVER do) and Lizzy Bennet (outspoken, strong, confident, etc.) Why did Rozema pick this story to film? Couldn't she have made an original movie instead? A lot of people say they like it even though it is so different from the novel, but I can't do the same. They made some really questionable stylistic choices- odd, awkward camera angles that made me dizzy; stupid, cheesy slow-motion horse-back riding, etc. "},{"Title":"This is NOT Mansfield Park","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Had this movie taken on another title, or be a modern version of the novel, I would've been more forgiving. Let me repeat again this movie does not reflect Jane Austen's Mansfield Park, neither does the main character portray Fanny Price in the least bit.For those who have never read Mansfield Park, this book Austen's virtuest novel. Generally people don't like Fanny because she is too modest.Fanny Price is an exceptional character. Her modesty can never be properly portrayed by Hollywood. So I hope that no one will try to make another movie out of this novel. I love Pride and Prejudice as much as I love this novel, but this novel is far different from P&P. P&P can be captured on screen without boring out the audiences but MP cannot. Nevertheless, this does not make the novel any less valuable.Fanny Price may not be as attractive as Elizabeth Bennet. But if these characters existed in real life, I would trust Fanny over Elizabeth any day. As witty as Elizabeth is, her judgement is faulty (as a result, the 2nd half of the title is called prejudice). She cannot discern who Wickham is, and believed in his good appearance. Fanny is just the opposite her intuition is un-mistakable. Who, except for Fanny, knew that the handsome Henry Crawford was un-trustworthy? "}{"Title":"Jane is rolling over in her grave.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the absolute worst adaptaion of a classic novel in existence. I am very sorry that Miss Austen is not alive to defend her work for such disgusting adaptaions as this. The added sub plot about slavery was totally inappropriate. I'm not saying that it wasn't an issue at the time I'm only saying that Miss Austen chose to leave it out of her novel so who are we to put it in there. PLease I beg all fans of Jane Austen's writing to speal out against this horrid movie based ever so loosly around her classic and wonderful novel.   "},{"Title":"Read the book instead!","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen some horrible book adaptations, but this was definitely the worst.  The plot was extremely different, but regardless of that, the characters were not the same.  In the book Fanny is quiet, shy, withdrawn, soft spoken, yet in the movie she's very outspoken and even rude at points!  Mary and Henry Crawford were not shown as truly manipulative people as they are in the book.  And the bond between Edmund and Fanny is barely portrayed.  There is no character revealment or development in the movie.  Also, to truly make a Jane Austen movie, it has to be longer than two hours (that's why the A&E adaptations are usually so much better!).  Anyway, Mansfield Park is one of the best books I've ever read, so take my advice, read it and skip the movie. "},{"Title":"disappointing, but captivating","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have read the book several times (before and after viewing the movie) and agree with the one commenter who writes A misconceived effort to 'update' Austen. Fanny, the book character, would not have acted at all like Fanny, the movie character. And yet many of the people writing here call the heroine realistic.Sure enough, Book Fanny is unassuming and painfully shy and that would be hard to sell in today's movie market, but if you don't want to make the movie true to the book - to find another story idea.Although when reading these other reviewers I had to laugh at the comment it does seem hard to believe that poor little Fanny would really stand up to Sir Thomas' pressure to marry the young, well-mannered, handsome, wealthy,...etc.etc. Hey, this is one of the few things that *is* true to the novel!In the credits at the beginning of the film the story is explained to be based on the book Mansfield Park *and* the letters and journal of Jane Austen. That is the only excuse I can accept for the revamp of lead character. It also explains the addition to the story where Fanny agrees to marry Henry and changes her mind the next day.  I understand the save thing happened to Jane Austen, herself.Something that gnaws at me... The director missed a key concept. Someone below writes of Henry Crawford Why would such a mercenary seedy guy go after a dirt poor penniless girl? A crucial bit of missing information is that after Maria got married , Henry was bored visiting at the parsonage and is making Fanny fall in love with him because he had nothing better to do. It was only while playing this game that he found out how good and kind she really was, and fell in love for real. In the film, Henry isn't portrayed as naughty as he ought to be during the play Lover's Vows and so it is not made obvious to the rest of us why Fanny can't possibly marry the guy.This film is disappointing and yet, for some reason, I have been compelled to watch the movie three times now, perhaps like spectator at an accident scene. Go figure.  "},{"Title":"Godawful from Start to End","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Remember that Jane Austen book you read where the protagonist wrote nonsensical stories and ran around her uncle's house shrieking like a whackjob? No? Maybe I can remind you of a bit more.The protagonist Fanny is an older woman who falls in love with her lipstick-wearing, teenage-boyish cousin Edmund. But Edmund falls in love with another cougar, Mary, who lives nearby. Mary the Cougar's brother Henry goes after Fanny. Fanny waffles about marrying Henry. Eventually she agrees. Then she changes her mind.Edmund's father, Sir Thomas, is a rapist who likes to torture his slaves for kicks. Sir Thomas also loves to letch on any woman within ten feet of him.Edmund also has a pretty sister named Maria - oh, wait, no. This Maria is a bit of a butterface. Julia is the pretty one, this time. Momma Bertram is addicted to drugs. Mrs. Norris appears in a scene or two, but isn't particularly evil, just kind of bitchy.Still not remembering? That's because this film is unrecognizable compared to the novel. The dialogue from the book is redistributed to the characters at random. Whole personalities are reworked. The entire point of the novel - staying true to your morals - is completely missed. Instead, this is a novel about angsty people who are trying to survive in a world controlled by The Patriarchy, in the form of the Evil Overlord Sir Thomas.Frankly, the whole film's ridiculous. It's what you get when a Jane Austen novel is done by a director like Patricia Rozema (who was, before this, best known for a small Canadian film about a lesbian threesome in an art gallery).The 2007 BBC version isn't great, but it's 100x better than this mess. Skip it. "},{"Title":"Incomprehensible Directing of an awful screenplay","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" RUN, do not walk away from this mess of a supposed adaptation of a heretofore respected piece of literature. A supposed director should never attempt to direct a piece that he or she neither respects or believes in. (Personally, I think Hemingway is over-rated. I would never, however, rewrite a work of his and try to pass it off as an alternate take on the original!) The actor that portrayed Henry Crawford has much potential; he was wasted on bad writing and idiotic directing. I don't know if I should say God save the Queen or God help us all......I think both are appropriate when I think of this travesty that passes itself off as a Jane Austen film..... "},{"Title":"Where is Fanny Price?","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have no problems with cutting the book, changing the scenes and all that is necessary to make a long story into a short movie. Neither do I have a problem with change of heir colour and the look of people. (Even thought it is a point in the book that Mr. Crawford should not be handsome.) What I do find is a problem, is that Fanny Price is not Fanny Price. When the character is totally the opposite from the book, and you changing the main characters character, nothing is left of the book at all, and should not be named after the book. It is ridiculous.It is also strange to make totally new themes like the theme of slave trade. It is a good plot, but it is not a plot from Mansfield Park.What I do wonder is how it is based on letters and papers from Austen herself, I never read any of them. Is the answer for some of the changes there? Like aunts drug problem? Was it censored from her original novel? "},{"Title":"It's already been said, but...","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  if you are a true Austen aficionado, stay away from this version! Not only is it unfaithful to the book(I'm not even going to get into the slavery thing-that was beyond creepy), but it is unfaithful to the characters as well. I have no idea why they felt the need to pervert the character of >Fanny so much. Her virtue and modesty was a large part of the book and it made her quite different from Austen's other heroines. And an actress in her 30's should not be cast to play an 18 year old- a trifling point, but I couldn't help being distracted by it. I also found Edmund a bit empty- they made him serious, but without the necessary warmth behind it. I could go on for ages, but won't. I'll just end by saying that the makers of this film really did away with all the little details and subtleties that an Austen fan can hold dear. Not to even mention the gross alterations in the story that they made. When I had finished watching it, I really had no idea what I had just seen.  As a movie in itself, as long as you don't know the story, it's really not so bad. As an adaptation of an Austen novel, it's an abomination.  "},{"Title":"An astonishing adaptation","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"24 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this film illustrates the potential Austen's work offers to future filmmakers. While following the overall outlines of Austen's book, it departs in a number of astonishing but very effective ways. In many ways I find it the most satisfying Austen adaptation I've seen.Modern eyes find the traditional Fanny Price to be too much of a, well, a wuss. She shows a steely resolve that anyone would envy when faced with a serious moral choice, but most of the time she's portrayed as timid and resigned to being trampled upon. Her moments of joy and excitement pass quietly. Such a character isn't especially appealing to today's moviegoers, and it's hard to make such a character engaging.Instead of giving us the traditional Fanny, Patrician Rozema (the director/screenwriter) has built a character with parts of Fanny and parts of Jane Austen herself. This Fanny will sit in her room during free hours and write stories home to her sister or write her History of England for her own (and her cousin Edmond's) amusement. She races down stairs, expresses her thoughtful but unorthodox opinions, rides in the rain, and does all sorts of other non-timid things. But her vivacity is squelched by Aunt Norris who constantly ensures that Fanny not forget her (low) status in the household.Another important departure is the opportunity we're given to finally look behind the curtains that hide the inconvenient piles of dirt. While Austen didn't always sidestep messy things, most Austen filmmakere have. But in Mansfield Park examples abound of plain old shabbiness. Mansfield Part is a huge pile of masonry (seems almost a palace to naive American eyes) but it's partially a ruin and it's frugally decorated, especially when compared to similar homes in Ang Lee's Sense and Sensibility. Austen indicates that Lady Bertram suffers from poor health, but the film portrays an illness fueled by regular doses of narcotic medicines. Sir Thomas' problems at his New World plantation seem to be tied to his use of slave labor (with an ironic resolution at the end).As with the other '90s Austen revival works, this one shows much improved production values over the '80s BBC miniseries -- better use of musical scoring, more physical action by actors, and better use of locations and scenery.  "},{"Title":"Nice film....of something else","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is very pretty to look at. Like many period pieces (the Marple series spring to mind), it's one of those films you *look at* more than watch. The houses, the countryside, the clothes, the furnishings are all beautiful and lovingly filmed. And it's a good thing, too. Because anyone who watches this film hoping to see a dramatisation of Miss Austen's novel is sure to be disappointed. I admit it. MP is my favourite Austen novel, and the one I dip into the most often. I know it very well. That's just why I could never recommend this film to students of English literature seeking to understand the book. Or lovers of Austen's work. Or anyone else. Not only is the plot skimmed over and changed beyond all recognition, the characterisations are just...odd. WHY does every film of Mansfield Park show Lady Bertram as either an alcoholic, an opium addict (!) or, as we saw in the 1983 miniseries, plain old simple-minded? Are you telling me there are no longer any rich, idle women in the UK who prefer to shuffle off responsibility for their homes and children onto others in order to spend their time doing basically nothing? There certainly are in other parts of the world.Fanny Price as she is in the original novel starts out as a shy, frightened little girl who is trained to know her place--and that place is definitely at the bottom of the rich relations' totem pole. However in this version, she's an extroverted hoyden who speaks her mind in no uncertain terms. And why was it necessary to eliminate the important role of William, Fanny's loved and admired brother, to replace it with an apocryphally close relationship with Susan? Yes, Jane Austen and her sister were that close, but in the book Susan is almost a stranger to Fanny, having grown up in her absence.I could go on and on...but we'll end by saying that not even the decent performances offered by Mr Bertram and Mr Rushworth (who manages beautifully to be amusing and annoying at the same time without being cringe-making)could salvage the terrible way the film was rushed through to the end with scanty voice-off narration of all the important elements that were changed or totally left out, and the annoying, senseless repetition of things could have ended this way...but they didn't.This could have been an interesting, engaging film...but it wasn't. "},{"Title":"Things you never knew about Jane Austen","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Apparently, if you are to believe that this movie is at all a faithful adaptation of the book, Jane Austen was just fine with depictions of-- overt lesbianism -- interracial violence including rape -- implied incest (no, not just cousins) -- explicit adulterous sexForget the fine details of who gets whose lines and which characters or events have been tinkered with in order to adapt the movie -- these themes *being shown* are not in the spirit of Austen in the slightest.If you are going to change the tone of Austen this much for modern sensibilities, it would be better just to move the entire movie into the present day and present it as a loose, updated and heavily modified adaptation, rather than cloak it in historical garb and pretend it is anything like the fairly close adaptation of, say, the 1995 P&P miniseries.As a movie on its own merits, this is nothing really special. As an interpretation of Jane Austen's style generally, it is more a *perversion* of her spirit than any kind of faithful adaptation. "}{"Title":"Not a good film","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS Since this film is an adaptation I'll comment first on its merits as an adaptation and then as a film in its own right.Where to start?  Slavery was never made into an issue in the novel as it is in the film.  I'm not saying it should be ignored just that it makes Sir Thomas into some kind of perverted tyrant when he isn't.  The - very brief - nude sex scene is totally unnecessary, it doesn't add anything its just out of place in the setting.  There is even a hint of lesbianism from Mary Crawford.  Why?? There is never the merest hint that this might be the case in the book, can't we have films with just straight people anymore?  apart from this it means Mary is not the written Mary.  Austens charactars would also have had more decorum, some of the dialogue just isn't believable at all in the context of  1806.  Most distorted however is Fanny.  In the novel she is quiet shy and thoughtful.  In the second half of the film especially, Austen would not have recognised this outspoken heroine as her own.  Her acceptance and then rejection of mr Crawford in the film makes her seem very fickle and as for the ride in the rain! This is so out of charactar its laughable.  If you like this novel or any of Austen novels I assure you you will be very disappointed with this film.Simply as a film Mansfield Park isn't too bad.  it is fairly entertaining and does keep you interested throughout.  This is probably because of a strong performance by Frances O Connor as Fanny. Although nothing like Fanny of the novel it is a very fine believable and sincere performance and she manages to engage our sympathies like none of the other charactars.  The other actors are adaquate but noone except Fanny is remotely good or interesting, possibly because of the not very good script! There is nothing wrong with Jonny Lee Miller but he has to be one of the least charismatic actors around.  I was very surprised when I found out Mrs Price and Lady Bertram were played by the same actress(6 months after i watched it) and it is definitely one of the most interesting things about the film.  Still, both roles were basically cameos anyway.  I thought the tension was built well before Sir Thomas caught the family practicing Lovers vows but it was pointless becuase he didn't even get angry.  His lecture to Fanny about marrying Henry went on much too long and again he didn't even sound angry.  The camerawork is at points ridiculous - did the director want to prove they could do slow motion shots?  When the Crawfords enter, the camera moves slowly up to their faces and it didn't make it tense and exciting, just over the top.  As for the score.. what was going on there? one of the messiest scores ever too loud too often and didn't fit the film at all.Mansfield Park isn't awful but its nearer bad than good. Without the strong central performance it would be very poor.  For a wonderful adaptation of Jane Austen which is also a fantastic film in its own right, watch Ang Lees Sense and Sensibility. It is about 1000 times better than this.       "},{"Title":"More Daphne du Maurier than Jane Austen","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this adaptation of Mansfield Park because of the interesting plot and the pert actress who played Fanny Price. But this movie was riddled with flaws. The script had been pretty much de-Austenized; I can't recall any witty lines--perhaps there were none. Much of the costuming, though reminiscent of the Regency period, seemed inauthentic somehow, especially Mary Crawford's black dress with lacy sleeves--it looked like something off the rack in Macy's evening wear. The music was loud, irritating, persistent, and oppressive, and it didn't fit the mood or the action. The camera's repeated zooming into too-close head shots was bizarre and uncalled for. And the aura of sexual perversion was alien to the Austen genre; in fact this brooding film seemed rather more Daphne du Maurier than Jane Austen.If you are not offended by such bastardizations, by all means see the movie. Frances O'Connor is saucy and pretty. It's worth a watch.5/10  "},{"Title":"A reader's opinion-and some plot details","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having just finished the book, I was somewhat disappointed by the film. The cast was delightful, and Francis O'Connor and Jonny Lee Miller captured the essence of their characters as written by Jane Austen.  I realize that any film adaptation of a novel is bound to be lacking in some respects, but there were two major changes to the story which were too drastic for me to accept.First, Austen's Fanny Price is steady and sure in her convictions, but the Fanny in the film is lacking the strength of character that makes her such a great heroine.  Second, the film introduces an unnecessary and inappropriate subplot about Sir Thomas' involvement in slavery.  It creates tension between Fanny and Sir Thomas and changes his character completely.  Sir Thomas in the novel is a loving, if somewhat restrained, benefactor who develops a real affection for his niece; the film portrays him as a sometimes cruel and certainly callous man who feels he is doing a great service by providing his poor niece with the opportunity to better her station through a loveless but financially and socially beneficial marriage. "},{"Title":"Jane Austen is spinning in her grave!!!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What has this movie done to a book as charming as 'Mansfield Park'?! The storyline has been altered until it is virtually unrecognisable! Fanny Price is nothing like she is in the book, the other characters have been equally changed for the worst and as far as I could tell hardly any of Austen's witty prose has been retained!! It seems this adaptation is 'Mansfield Park' in name only.This is probably the most difficult of Austen's novels to bring to the big screen because the characters are so much a product of their time. Fanny is supposed to be shy, submissive, compassionate and pious. She was never outspoken, headstrong or feisty. In short, she is not Elizabeth Bennet and she never will be. To attempt to portray Fanny in this light is missing the point of her whole character. She is dull and boring by today's standards, but her disposition was admirable during the time that she lived.I really don't know what the filmmakers were thinking with this adaptation - they probably weren't!! At any rate, it is only because Jane Austen is long dead that they would dare to produce this version. If you haven't read the book you'll probably enjoy it. If you have read the book, don't bother with this. It will ruin your whole experience of the novel. "},{"Title":"An entertaining story that did deviate from the book","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised about how the movie deviated from the book.  Some of the changes seemed pointless, but I did like the change of adding the slavery aspect to the movie.  It gave Tom far more substance than he was allowed to have in the book.  I especially liked how Jane  Austen's humor was accurately portrayed in the movie.  Fanny did have some memorable and extremely witty lines. I was upset about her agreeing to marry Henry and then changing her mind. She really did hurt him very badly.  I don't remember that happening in the book.  The scene only seems to damage Fanny's character and I'm not sure what the writer was trying to accomplish by adding it.  "},{"Title":"A terrible disappointment.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had been looking forward to watching this movie since I first knew it was in production. Yesterday I saw it at last, with a friend. I was so disappointed. It started out alright. It wasn't exactly like the book but that should not really have mattered, if it hadn't been for the scene where Fanny finds her cousin Tom's drawings from his visit to Antigua or the following scene where Fanny walks in on her Cousin Maria and Henry Crawford in a compromising and very un-Jane Austen-like scene. For all the other deviations from the original I could forgive the filmmakers, but not for these horrible scenes.Other than this there where more flaws in the movie. We (my friend and I) missed the Austen-language.  For my friend, who hasn't read the book, the story wasn't always clear and for me, who has read the book, there were things in the movie that made sense in the book but didn't in the movie, like the Mr. Rushworth's garden renovation. I am sorry, but I can't recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointed","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After reading the book I immediately wanted to see the movie version. Yikes...what a shock. This was nothing like the book. The movie lacked the Jane Austen innocence that I love in her writings. Showing the character of Fanny as outspoken and daring was a complete misrepresentation. If I hadn't known better maybe I wouldn't have expected so much. The Director's comments in the extras feature of the DVD made me cringe. She didn't seem to get it at all. Again,I was completely disappointed and wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone who is a Jane Austen fan. I would love to see this movie made right and hope that someone out there will put this one to shame! "},{"Title":"Can't decide whether I liked this","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this with reservations. I had heard that it bore little resemblance to the book, but I was on the whole pleasantly suprised. The acting is uniformally excellent (apart from the Young Fanny who had the worst fake English accent I've ever heard) especially from Frances O'Connor and Harold Pinter.Although O'Connor was excellent, and the characterisation of Fanny worked in the context of the film, it would have been nice to see the character of Fanny from the book, which contrary to most opinions, I found to be very complex and interesting. This would be hard to bring across in a film, and when you remember the diabolical TV version, it is easy to understand why they did it as they did.I thought the addition of the slavery issue was a bit crass, and there were too many needless jokes, Mansfield Park isn't Emma however you rejig it) but on the whole this wasn't too bad. "},{"Title":"A Waste","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although, I had read disastrous reviews of this movie, I wanted to watch Patricia Rozema's Mansfield Park with an open mind and to see for myself. Now I wish I'd listened to the bad press.This is not a good film by any means.  It bears no resemblance to the work upon which it is based--but even someone trying to view it as something separate and distinct from Austen is going to be disappointed.The script is uneven, unbalanced and gives none of the talented performers a chance to shine.  Historically inaccurate, the costumes and the sets are a joke.  If someone could tell me why Mansfield Park looked like the aftermath of a bankruptcy sale, I'd be grateful.Rozema reportedly disliked Austen, the novel and the character of Fanny Price as she was written.  Given the way she went about showing her dislike, she must have had some say what projects she worked on.  I wish she had made an entirely original movie instead of destroying what could have been a really enjoyable film.It does boast a good score. "},{"Title":"This moving picture is like cheap champagne.","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This moving picture is like cheap champagne. It is full of party bubble in the early evening, strange lovemaking at midnight and a splitting headache in the morning. The movie is Mansfield Park, and it is reminiscent of Miss Jane Austen's longest and best novel. The novel plays the part of one Lady Scenario who is invited to a Hollywood party. When she arrives, Lady Scenario finds herself in the hands of a silent film director whose interest is to improve the story. The scenarist says, Dear, we really need to do something about you before my guests arrive. Sitting to watch, she orders her servants to strip Lady Scenario to her bodice. The director then begins the process of filming the adopted child wearing various fantastic garments.The principal fantastic garment in this film is the makeover of Fanny Price. Miss Austen's Fanny Price is pious and patient. She is a Christian woman in possession of great spiritual strengths. These guide her when she finds herself wary and unsure of the intentions of those around her. The novel generates a good deal of moral tension as the world (Mansfield Park) tries to corrupt her, to make her believe she is a prig, all the while she attempts to understand her changing feelings about Edmund and Frank. The film's Fanny is a budding author, whose writings comprise Miss Austen's juvenilia. She has some mischievous opinions about the world, an untidy disdain for Miss Norris and a certainty that she has the moral goods on the people. The problem with this approach is that the screenwriter's opinions about how things should progress keep colliding with the reality of Miss Austen's story. Everywhere in this film the bubbles fly, as the director wrings and twists poor Miss Price through one scene after another. For this film's Fanny to want to marry Edmond in the end is perilously close to illogical and hypocritical.We ought not entirely to blame the director and screenwriter for this. In the context of a two-hour movie, it would take good intellectual leaven to raise Miss Norris beyond being merely heartless and the Crawford siblings beyond the merely lifeless. The resulting Mansfield Park movie has the thrills and titillations of an old silent film. And an organ accompanies the film. This organ usually puffs out something that sounds like Miss Austen, but when it thunders, loudly, we find ourselves in a scene more like a modern morality play.One can only wonder how this loud organ cry ever found its way into a comedy of manners. The screenwriter is intrigued by black slavery, women disrobing women, and the idea that a woman who might be an author has a superior moral voice. These fetishes intrude everywhere like unwanted guests reeking of absinthe. The screenwriter would do her interests more good, it seems, if she were to make a movie about the current issue of black slavery in the Sudan. Or perhaps she could combine her interests and cleverly reverse black/white roles by filming Evelyn Waugh's Black Mischief. At the end of this new film, we could wickedly watch as the black women slowly disrobe the Englishwoman Prudence before preparing her for their dinner.Then there is the business of Fanny the budding author. No doubt there are talented alter-ego's for Jane Austen in her books (I think of Jane Fairfax in Emma), but Miss Austen's clarity of vision precluded making any of these women more exalted than one might find in general society. That meant no one of Miss Austen's rare talents could exist in her novels. To remake the retiring Fanny of the novel into an author with an attitude, and to give her the familiarity with Edmund Bertram she enjoys throughout the movie, are modern touches that blanch and spoil the terror of Mansfield Park. It is as trite and nerveless an approach as the current trend to replace Christmas Trees with Holiday Trees.What a lost opportunity. Mansfield Park is not one, but two, perhaps three movies. The first film need not taking us any farther than Chapter 10, which concludes the Southerton expedition, a gold mine of character study that properly handled could overtop a decade of European film making.But for now, I just have a splitting headache. "}{"Title":"The worst Austen adaptation ever made","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who has read Mansfield Park will know it's not exactly one of the best Jane Austen books simply because the mentality behind it is so very different from ours.The idea that a Theatre performance done at home for the family could be considered as immoral or not quite proper is a bit difficult for us to understand. While most people can enjoy reading about Elizabeth Bennet or even the spoiled Emma Woodhouse, Fanny Price has always been the irritating goody girl nobody would really want to talk to for very long. This film version, realizing this, desperately tried to make her nicer and less priggish, but totally compromised the book by doing so. It modernised it without making any sense. It introduced slavery,and what that has to do with it I don't know!! They made Fanny outspoken and sure of herself enough to speak out loud of what she saw as wrong. The Fanny Price of the book was so timid and shy that if she'd seen a murder she wouldn't have said anything!!!!! Even a book as irritating as this (and I'm a big fan of Austen) deserver's a little more respect!They had a good cast that probably thought they were going to do a Jane Austen so that couldn't possibly go wrong,but it really did!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Watch out.","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have never seen a book more grossly misinterpreted into a movie as this one.  It is misleading to call it Mansfield Park, it is nothing like Jane Austen's novel.  NOTHING.  It was like they took basic parts of her story, certain characters and events, and then changed all of the rest to such a degree that it lost EVERYTHING that the book has going for it.   "},{"Title":"They killed Fanny! You b*****ds!!!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SO WRONG! SO WRONG! They have killed my Fanny, my dear Fanny! I rented this movie, expecting only those usual changes that always occur when a book is made into a movie. I NEVER thought they would completely destroy the character of Fanny! They have made her into some mix of Elizabeth Bennet and Marianne Dashwood, to please the audiences who haven't read the books and think that ALL of Jane Austen's characters have to be bold and frank. SO WRONG!!! Lovers of Jane Austen BEWARE!!! "},{"Title":"the wrong project for this director","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got the impression director Rozema chose Mansfield Park simply because all the other major Austen books had already been recently filmed. Rozema seems interested in Jane Austen, and interested in life during the early 19th century, so I don't know why she didn't just make an Austen biopic, rather than filming a novel whose plots and characters she doesn't really seem to like. Rozema can't figure out how to handle the mild character of Fanny, so she changes her into the typical feisty heroine, borrowing material from Austen's real life to bolster the idea. Personally, I think it would be an interesting challenge for a filmmaker to create a likable character who is meek, so I was disappointed that Rozema didn't try it.Rozema approaches the material from a very modern perspective, making Sir Thomas Bertram a sexist slaveowner rather than the more complex character Austen created, and dwelling on the physical discomforts of living in the early 1800s. These issues would have been interesting to explore within a different story, but Mansfield Park is not about these topics, and in my opinion, the changes don't work. For example, we're suddenly expected to laugh at Bertram's humorous final line at the end of the movie, when we've hated him for the rest of it. Rozema's approach can also be heavyhanded Maria Bertram hisses I can't get out!, just in case the audience didn't quite get that the story comments on imprudent marriages, and when Tom Bertram gets sick, the audience is treated to closeups of him vomiting.Rozema is a talented filmmaker in some ways the visual images of the film are very memorable and unusual. But her handling of Mansfield Park does injustice both to Austen's novel and the other issues Rozema wants to explore slavery is too important a topic to relegate to a subplot.  "},{"Title":"Another Fix for Austen Groupies","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is always a pleasure to read John Simpson from Hastings literate reviews and I echo his sentiments.Mansfield Park was published in 1814 being set in 1806.It came after Pride & Prejudice but before Emma.Many of the user comments below bemoan the fact that the film departs from the novel.This is certainly not necessarily a bad thing if the producer can give us a better version; e.g.the ending of Portrait of Jennie (1948).Personally I have not read the novel but saw this tv film about a year ago before it was repeated recently.I therefore have to accept the director shows latitude with the facts of the written word but we don't know what agenda from the producers she was working from.Was she told to sex it up with the copulation scene?Was she told to mention contraversial subjects such as rape and slavery to satisfy modern prurient tastes?I was intrigued whether I would feel differently, having seen it before and therefore have the benefit of familiarity with its content.I must confess I was left with a rather hollow feeling at its end.This film gives the impression it is based on one of Austen's darker novels what with the allusions to slavery and the early stirrings of womens' emancipation but we know from our literate colleagues Austen did not mention these, only perhaps on her unwritten and subconcious agenda.I was quite impressed with the art work of scenes on the slave driven Antiguan plantation as they effectivly captured the main emotion of fear.Did Austen really write the joke about ... after all this is 1806, as if it were the swinging sixties? Slavery was abolished in Britain from 1833, so we have to assume this was an accepted but socially unspoken topic, contraversial when Mansfield Park was written The principal players headed by Frances O'Connor as Fanny Price gave measured, adequate performances but I never experienced the high emotions experienced from Jennifer Ehle and Colin Firth in the celebrated 1995 tv film of P&P.One of the highlights of an Austen outing is to hear wonderful piano-forte but I sorely missed an exposition of this by any of the ladies present.Personally, Carl Davies' original Mozartian piano theme he composed for the aforementioned P&P will take a lot of beating.Jane Austen collected her Opinions of Mansfield Park from family and friends just after its publication.This was long before public opinion polls or indeed Imdb user comments!! I rated it 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Good actors making the best of a botched adaptation","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS (but not much)*Over the years, we've seen Austen stories adapted for screen, many with liberties taken for the sake of expediency or artistic license. This film uses the title and characters from a wonderful, thought-provoking story and alters them beyond recognition. It also eliminates some key figures and plot completely (her relationship with her brother William is essential to the story, and he's not even alluded to in this film). Many of Fanny's behaviors (pique made obvious to visitors and her superiors, her feet up on a chair in a non-private room, dshabill with a near stranger) and statements are so thoroughly current-day and not in keeping with the shy, insecure Fanny Price of Austen's book that they are as much a distraction as a ringing cell phone inserted into a scene would be. There's also a great deal of sexualization of the characters which is superfluous and, again, distracting. It's not clear what story Ms. Rozema wanted to tell here but it surely was not Mansfield Park. "},{"Title":"Could have been named anything else","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anyone who has ever read Mansfield Park by Jane Austen should not bother to watch this movie. Other than the characters having the same name and the house having the same name, there is no part of the book here. It is not a bad movie, it just is not Mansfield Park. Trying to squash the book into 2 hours and 21st century it makes it vulgar and crude. So many things are left out for want of time and you never really understand why Fanny dislikes Henry so. She never accepts Henry, her father doesn't leer at her like meat, Sir Thomas is not cruel and heartless. It is a shame that such a wonderful novel had to be turned into this drivel instead of trying to keep true to the story. Fanny isn't the type of woman who talks back, even as a child. It makes me sad that I gave up two hours to watch this. "},{"Title":"Awful adaptation","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was one of my favourite Austen books, and least favourite period adaptations. The references to the period are all contradicted, and Fanny's character is quite changed and not for the better. I thought there was too much focus on the slavery angle which isn't a central theme in the book. Fanny is supposed to be a very timid, quiet girl, and her uncle kindly. Neither of these comes across in the film. Edward's straightforward romance with Fanny from the outset in this film is a mockery of the book which weaves a far more interesting and complicated story. The setting and scenery also seemed poorly thought out - Mansfield Park is described as an elegant, rich dwelling - and yet the walls are crumbling and the set looks cheap. I don't mind an adaptation that changes the story if it does it well, but all in all, I couldn't finish this movie as it was a offense to the book and a once-fantastic story. "},{"Title":"Supposed to be Mansfield Park??","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If Jane Austen were alive, she would be furious at this mangling of her work! I had never read MP, but have read Austen's other books. While watching this pile, I said to my wife, I've got a hundred bucks says Jane never had one sex scene, or one mention of slavery in MP! To verify, I read MP. Not there.This is just another lefty taking her political ax to Austen's work to make a 'statement'. For shame. Reminds of 'Field of Dreams' when they just HAD to take an otherwise wonderful movie and stick in the book banning scene. The libturds just can't help themselves. They soil everything they touch. "},{"Title":"View it as 1990's drama in early 1800's clothes. Too modern!","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Poor Fanny Price. The Creepy Crawfords as well as a leering uncle and several other dubious relations work to get her into compromising situations-- The book is 1990s society but is portrayed in early 1800's period costumes and period dialogue. For instance, both of the Creepy Crawfords Mr. Crawford and his sister leer after Fanny...A transgender moment common in 1990's to 2000 film productions.Young women were tightly chaperoned back then and most would have actively avoided the appearance of a compromising situation. If their reputation was damaged, it could vastly change their life for the worse. Even Edmund, the one pure and decent person who Fanny eventually will marry, still talks with her while she is lying on top of her bed. And later, Edmund falls asleep during the carriage ride and leans against her partly bare chest long before they even get engaged. Too modern!!! Creepy uncle has been exploiting slaves in his overseas plantation. This very developed subplot is rather graphically shown through the anguish of one of his sons and through rather explicit drawings.The film is moderately interesting, but consider it a parody on Austen, not an interpretation. NOTE to wannabee Jane Austen film makers- Many reviewers here prize those films that stay true to the AUSTEN books! Those of you wanting to make a modern film - do it the Bridget Jones way. "}{"Title":"a bit lacking","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  it was surprisingly disconcerting to see these cinematic liberties taken with a jane austen story.  although i must say that of all her stories, i am least familiar with this one, the film bore only slight similarities to her writing..  a few familiar characters and a familiar theme, but undertones i think it would be unlikely to find so overtly displayed.  and it was missing her wit, which was a major loss.  it did not work for me.  i think because i so like the subtle nuances of jane austens writing, it was hard to let go of it and enjoy this film..  there were some interesting sequences, plays on time (or should i say with time)..  but overall it seemed too affected and arty. "},{"Title":"Modern Art in 1806?","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I was not bothered by what others see as the anachronistic views of slavery & women's lib expressed in this film, my suspension of disbelief was shattered by the framed self-portrait supposedly executed by Tom Bertram.  Very modern, sniffs his aunt, Mrs. Norris.   This painting's style & subject matter (self-portrait of the artist behind his easel, and behind him the figure of a slave in chains) would have been impossible in 1806, probably even in 1906.  The sketchbook that Fanny finds later bothered me less, because it consists of quick charcoal sketches, meant to be private--but the idea that the family (or Tom himself) could have framed such a painting & hung it on the wall is inconceivable.  It would not only have been regarded as ugly, but as symptomatic of the artist's insanity.  Remember, the time setting of this movie (1806) is years before the Impressionists, even, whose early works were thought of as ugly simply because the technique was unfamiliar.  Thomas Lawrence or Sir Joshua Reynolds would have been appropriate for the walls of Mansfield Park, or an amateur daubing in style somewhat similar to these masters.  The use of this painting was supposed to prepare us for Tom's later breakdown at the prospect of being the heir of a slave-owner, & also to reinforce the caged bird motif which links Fanny, an unpaid domestic servant, with the slaves in the slave ship, but its crudity makes me blush for the director who undoubtedly had the funding--but not the knowledge of art history--to arrange for something appropriate and convincing.   I did think the parallel between Fanny's writing & Tom's art was interesting--the theme of artistic expression as a way out for the caged bird.  It made me wonder why Fanny & Tom are never seen communicating.  He seems more like a kindred spirit than Edmund.  As I recall, in the novel he was nothing but a wastrel--but it's a long time since I've read Mansfield Park, so I'm not about to compare the novel to the movie.   I'd simply like the movie to be consistent within itself.  "},{"Title":"Not for those who love the delicate and insightful.","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have loved Mansfield Park since I was a teenager--it was the first Jane Austen I really understood. I suppose I identified with thoughtful, oppressed, overlooked Fanny! My first reaction was that the film was okay, but over the next several days I got more and more cranky about it. I ended up really finding the changes distasteful. I appreciate that the director was trying to translate some of Austen's delicate points into something that modern minds can grasp. It just bugs me when modern sensibilities distort a tale to impose a political agenda. Still, I suppose the film was pretty and well acted, and the costumes and settings were commendable It beats 'Saving Private Ryan'. But I'd recommend 'Firelight' or 'Persuasion' if you want romance, and 'Welcome to Sarajevo' if you want genuine political issues.  "},{"Title":"A light period comedy on the surface but with deeper meanings","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Austen's story subtly contrasts the lot of 2 sisters; one married (for love) to a naval officer who was later wounded, pensioned at half pay, but became an alcoholic. The other sister married a man for his money and connections and this position allows her to extend some help to her poor sister's family.Using that connection, the poor sister sends her pre-teen daughter, Fanny, to finish growing up in her wealthy sister's household. This was not uncommon at the time, in a sense playing a lottery hoping that upon maturity--living in that wealthier setting--Fanny would meet and marry a man of sufficient means that she'd be able to rescue some or all of her natal family.The movie primarily shows the social life of young unmarrieds in this English gentry household while also presenting Fanny's dilemma whether to go the route of her mother or of her aunt--or, can she find (or be allowed to find) some alternative in between? Austen's works often reflected the plight of women trapped in that era's social system (& subtly encouraged change?). Those wanting a literal translation of the book into a movie may be disappointed. The director (Rozema) used the book's basic plot line but transformed this film's Fanny into one very similar to Jane Austen's actual character as well having many of the experiences and issues Austen faced in her own life. Frances O'Connor does a superb job as Rozema's Austenized Fanny and Harold Pinter as Sir Thomas was also great.While times have fortunately changed a bit since that era, there are aspects of making such marital decisions that are still present now and will be as long as people need to make choices of why they will marry and whom (or whom they will marry and why).On the surface a light, period chick flick piece but with some unobtrusive, underlying serious threads. "},{"Title":"Fan fiction","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you plan to watch this film (or have already watched it and are dissatisfied with it,) try to step back a bit from the Jane Austen novel as it was written (and additionally, the faithful-to-the-novel adaptation in the 1983 6-part mini-series) and try to look at it the way you would a well-written piece of fan fiction. The characters and their basic story lines remain somewhat the same they have the same beginnings, same names and backgrounds and the same final, end-of-story resolutions, but their personalities and attitudes as well as many of the significant incidents are given a somewhat different treatment. Fanny is the most altered; she has more spunk (waaaaaaaay more spunk, possibly more than is easy to forgive for die-hard Austen fans) and Frances O'Conner is more attractive than Fanny seems to be described in the novel (or as portrayed by the actress in the mini-series.) She is also fashioned a bit as a reflection of Jane Austen herself as a writer of love stories, and even a very subjective POV of a History of England novel much like that actually written by Miss Austen as a teenager. Sir Thomas' character is written a little darker and of course the slavery issue becomes one of the centerpieces of the story, something that was glossed over so lightly in the novel and the mini-series that it was barely noticeable. Indeed, it may be brought too much forward to forgive for die-hard Austen fans. I will leave it to others who are better informed and educated than I am to decide whether the 1990's politically-correct ideologies of the young people in this early 19th century story seem unrealistically anachronistic.However, as a movie by itself, viewed as inspired by rather than based upon the novel, it works very well. It is interesting and the characters and enhanced story lines are mostly well-thought out. Tom Bertram, Jr. is a tortured artiste, and is not just an idle playboy, but one who is desperately trying to distract himself from the great burden of guilt he carries regarding how his family's fortune is made on the sweat, tears and broken backs of forced, slave labor. The only characters who really do remain truthful to the novel are Lady Bertram and Aunt Norris. I like that it is brought right out in the open that Lady B is a borderline alcoholic (if she hasn't actually crossed over that line.) While Edmund is portrayed still very closely to how he was originally written, he, too, is given a little more of an edge. A little side observation Embeth Davidtz, who plays Mary Crawford, so much resembles Jackie Smith-Wood, who played the same character in the '83 mini-series that she could be Smith-Wood's daughter (or at least her much-younger sister.)The ladies' costumes are gorgeous, the prettiest I've ever seen in any Jane Austen film/TV adaptation. If you want a real treat of the history of the ladies' costumes in nearly every, single Regency Period film/TV adaptation made in the last 40 years, check out the Trivia section of this title page, as well as the Trivia sections of all the title pages of all the Regency Period TV/films since about 1970. Someone went to a great deal of effort to catalog all of them in minute detail. "},{"Title":"I can see this being simultaneously loathed and loved.","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a school-kid growing up in rural South Australia I hated Jane Austen as only a 13 year old boy can. I always thought her novels to be boring insipid and simpering when force upon us as unwilling students in English Lit classes. Full of dull characters, doing dull things, in even more dull times I thought. Perhaps I have never quite grown out of this, having never been able to bring myself to read Jane Austen to this day. But I have seen some wonderful movies and TV series based on her novels and have loved them - a tribute perhaps both to my growing maturity (after all I am now 50) as well as the reach of a good cinematic production. In short this adaptation has seemed to be hated by the Jane Austen true believers while loved by others. The true believers will find it not to be authentic enough no doubt. But I am one of those others. While there are aspects of the production that seem odd- the attitudes displayed do seem a little modern for Austen and why on earth did they choose such a ramshackle run down old dump for Mansfield Park? But it is entertaining and delightful. I predict most will thoroughly enjoy it, if not love it. - Even in all of its Jane Austen predictability of outcome! "},{"Title":"Decent Movie, BARELY follows the book!!!","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just don't get it. Its as if the screenplay was written by someone who didn't get past the listing of characters on the first page and even then, only the first few major characters. Then they take the names and with a few hints from the back of the book make up a story entirely on their own with little resemblance to the work of literature. Why not just write the script and make a movie and not make the fraudulent claim that it is an accurate representation of a book by Jane Austen? The only things in common with the book were the title, the names of a half dozen characters and a few scattered plot points. Decent movie, but gets an awful rating b/c its basically a fraud. Jane Austen wrote a great book that would make a great movie. Its just that the writer has to overcome his/her laziness and READ it! "},{"Title":"This is Jane Austen as if written by Edith Wharton","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Mansfield Park is Jane Austen as if written by Edith Wharton, and there is a difference between the two social commentators as to sensuality and satirical touch.The whole audience was getting fed up with the Ashley Wilkes-type hesitant male, though I did enjoy the unusualness of the flighty hunk seeming to be enraptured by the heroine before he showed his unfaithful stripes--even if he was sort of driven off the moral straight and narrow by her lack of guidance.I had seen Roczema's previous indie Canadian feature and this was far more straight-forward story-telling than that head-scratching feminist tract. The lead actresses in both save the movie.I didn't mind the talking to the camera as she reads letters and the set pieces as the narrator comments on the scene.The settings are the usual Natural Heritage Trust tourist views, but this is not the Austen touch. Much better were Persuasion and Clueless. (originally written 12/27/1999) "},{"Title":"surprisingly OK","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am the snobbiest of adaptation purists. I really am. I was sure I'd dislike this film because I knew how widely it varied from the novel, but I wanted to see it so as to be able to give an opinion of it. And I must say that I like it. Not much as an adaptation -- let's face it, there would be no modern audience for a direct retelling of *Mansfield Park*, with its Bront-ish moral underpinnings and antiquated ideals, much as I personally might agree with them. It is a very different creature from the novel on which it is loosely based, in more ways than one. Ack, the undertones of lesbian eroticism were a bit too much, really, and the slavery subtext with all it entailed was, I thought, an unnecessary addition. However, it does touch on some of the main themes quite well. What makes this movie enjoyable for me, though, when I manage to mentally separate it from the novel I love, is the pretty and somewhat unconventional directing. And unlike many reviewers here I think Frances O'Connell did a wonderful job as Fanny; in fact I thought the whole cast was well-selected and did a fine job.  "},{"Title":"Worth watching - A good solid film, a charming interpretation","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A solid film, highly enjoyable and watchable. I am a Jane Austen fan and purist, and was not offended that this version did not stick avidly to the book. The acting was solid and the characters believable (no strings, no wood) I am a big fan, have read the book many times and the characters were well matched to the actors, even if the central story deviated a bit.I give this 9/10 for a chick flick period drama with a happy ending (as all in this genre should be) and a 6/10 for a strict version of Mansfield Park. This 6/10 does not detract from the enjoyment of the film in my opinion.It states clearly in the opening credits that the film is based on Jane Austen's letters, her Juvenilla stories AND Mansfield Park so in this version the character of Fanny Price is given a generous nod to the characters and events in the life of Jane Austen, which is a new and interesting twist and nice for those who are fans of Austen and not just the 6 novels. Fanny in the film is not as reserved and put upon as Fanny of the book, but this is where the Jane Austen letters come in, and I would like to believe that Fanny of the film is just as worthy a heroine (because after all we all love Jane too).As with all movies of a good book there are omissions that some may find frustrating, but the parallels with Jane Austen's life; her early writings of the Juvenilla stories and her reading them to her beloved sister, her first accepting then refusing the marriage proposal a day later, all added to the charm of this version.I am pleased that I got over myself and the negative reviews I had previously read and decided to give it a go. It is worth watching, and to all the nay sayers out there, No it really is not that bad, there are many film version that are unwatchable, but this is not one of them. "}{"Title":"Womansfield Park","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is remarkable because of the involvement of Harold Pinter. He is the most intelligent adapter of books for film that has yet been produced, having written the wonderfully self-referential 'French Lieutenant's Woman.' 'French' is one of the ten best-written films in history -- and Streep's most multidimensional performance too!Pinter's (yet unfilmed) screenplay for Proust is studied by every film student; he has even done Kafka. So his involvement here set high promise.What is attempted is something worthy of a Pinter a multidimensional folding of making a writer equivalent to one of her characters; to make a book about the writing of a book; to submit that containment in the book is like slavery or (the feminist statement) a marriage without love. Along the way, the filmmaker further intends to expand a relatively weak (for Austin) book in ways thought to preserve its intent as if Austin were writing for film.Most of the artists involved in this film are of high caliber. The problem is that none are of the caliber needed to achieve the level required of the aspirations. An interesting attempt though. I think we should celebrate the intent even though it misses the mark. How else will we encourage intelligence and risk-taking? "},{"Title":"Interesting Love Story","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish reviewers would review movies based on their own merit and not compare it to the original book or other previously movies of the story. Since I have not read the book, I really don't care if it is true to the book. I just want to watch and enjoy the movie. This was a interesting, romantic love story with somewhat complicated plots running through the several characters love lives. Nice to see a movie without all the sex and violence director think they have to put in to get an audience. The English accents, particularly when the voices were hushed were hard to understand. My wife and I watched the first few minutes and turned to each other and we each said, I didn't understand any of that. Beautiful country side and settings. "},{"Title":"Simply uninteresting.","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not a Jane Austin fan, that should be mentioned first. Not that I find her works boring but they simply aren't my cup of tea. I read Pride and Prejudice in a first year literary class, but it was a fairly dull experience for me, and I have never picked up Mansfield Park once.As a film, it is not even an eventful one. A kind of coming to age, rags to riches and back again kind of plot line. Although there were some beautiful settings and some extremely nice costuming, I never really felt that I was witnessing this period drama in the 1800's. I was trying not to laugh at most of the actors, taking themselves exceptionally seriously in roles that they obviously did not fit in. The main character was rather blas at best. The morality of some of the characters were simply selfish, even when they were not trying to be, by simply trying to improve their social settings. By the end of the film, nobody had really changed, but just become more aged and experienced as one would expect. In the end, the women of the story overcome their respective obstacles and then it stops like an overly long bus trip. You need a meal and a nap at the end of this film.I would assume you have to enjoy Jane Austin novels to enjoy this film. If you are not into period pieces, give this one a miss.4/10 "},{"Title":"Looking For Mister Right.","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" England, 1806. The photography and production design are exquisite. What a far cry this is from Hollywood's remakes of the classics in the 30s and 40s, with everything shot in black and white on a studio sound stage. Majestic landscapes in full bloom. And what must it be like to live in Cornwall and bear the brunt of all those westerly gales? Mendocino County write large.The performances are top notch as well. I don't know how closely the characters resemble Jane Austen's, never having read the novel, but independent of her text they can stand on their own two feet. And not just the performances but the casting. As Fanny Price, Frances O'Connor looks and acts like a properly British Jessica Harper. Embeth Davidz is paralyzing cool and pragmatic. I can't figure out just who plays Fanny's mother in Portsmouth but she's emblematic of the poor around the world, pinched and weathered. I had no idea that Harold Pinter was an actor as well as a writer.I can't say that the plot is gripping. Well, I guess it is, in a way. The problem is that it's so similar to other lavish soap operas in which everybody is in love with the wrong person for reasons of affection or social status -- vide, Far From the Madding Crowd, Gone With The Wind, and on and on. Dickens worked such themes into his novels as well, but he added a dash of social commentary, of engagement with the world outside the mansion. And he played recklessly with the English language Oh, JOY! What a reversal of desolation. Austen seems sedate by comparison.Patricia Rozema is a winning director, hitting all the right notes. No fancy directorial fireworks, no razzle dazzle, and the stylistic touches come at just the right places, as in the epilogue, in which characters freeze into tableaux just long enough for a summary of their fates. "},{"Title":"Based on the novel by Jane Austen AND journals and letters","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If one reads the opening credits, shortly after the young Fanny climbs into the carriage at the beginning of film, you will find the words Based on the novel by Jane Austen, Mansfield Park, early journals and letters. Therefore the movie makers do indicate that this movie is NOT purely a book adaptation, albeit in small print. In truth, this movie is half Mansfield Park, half Becoming Jane.I would have been very upset with the film if I had not read the above-mentioned caveat (even having been fore-warned by IMDb users that this movie was highly inaccurate), but knowing this made the world of difference in understanding WHY they made the changes that they did.Fanny doubles up in character as Jane Austen herself, which is the biggest flaw in the plan, seeing as most interpretations of Jane portray a very independent woman--quite the polar opposite of Fanny Price. The problem is, the director or writer didn't quite make up their mind which way to portray Fanny/Jane, so sometimes she is outgoing and feisty, and sometimes shy and submissive, so the character in the movie is very inconsistent.Edmund, Fanny's cousin, doubles up as Jane's beloved brother, Henry. Edmund falls for Mary Crawford; Henry Austen fell for his older widowed cousin Eliza de Feuillide, against the wishes of his sister Jane and the rest of the family. This coincides with Fanny disliking Edmund's affection for Mary, and also gives an excuse for picking an actress of whom my first impression was, She's too old to play Mary. And Fanny's unladylike playfulness with Edmund makes more sense in the light of how Jane likely behaved with Henry.Henry Crawford doubles up as Tom Lefroy, the source of some speculated flirtation in Jane's life, as well as Harris Bigg-Wither, the man from whom Jane accepts a proposal one day and retracts it the following morning. This is the reason why they make Fanny in the movie accept Henry Crawford and then decline him, even though in the book Fanny declines him consistently and emphatically. It was tempting in both cases to marry someone with financial competency. And I think the Tom Lefroy side of it is why they have Fanny engage in some verbal jousting and teasing with Henry Crawford and have her enjoying his company on occasion.Fanny's correspondent and best sibling-friend in the book is her brother William. Her sister Susan is substituted in this role in the movie to play the fill-in Cassandra, Jane's only sister and her confidante, frequently by extensive correspondence whenever they were separated.Other tie-ins to Jane Austen's life is that they have Fanny being an aspiring writer. Fanny writes a History of England, as Jane did in earlier years, and it appears that the lines Fanny says in the movie about some of the kings of England may be snippets from that writing. When Edmund refers to Fanny having a new modern way of writing, it is because she was parodying older history books. The other stories she concocts and relates to her sister appear to come from other pieces in Jane's Juvenilia.Understanding that the movie makers were combining fiction with biography made the digression from the novel's plot more understandable, but I think they should have taken more effort to make this apparent to viewers. No one in their right mind should put the title of a Jane Austen book on a movie that does not closely follow the story for fear of raising the hackles of the many purists out there (myself among them). It was an interesting idea they had, but not well-advertised enough of a concept to excuse themselves. If they had even tweaked the title a little, such as Jane's Mansfield Park, it might have better alerted the audience that the movie is not just the book verbatim and has more to do with Jane herself.Now, I like the idea, once presented as such, but was it well-executed? Moderately so. The big problem was, as I suggested, having one actor filling two roles simultaneously, rolled up together. Fanny came out a bit wishy-washy. Edmund did all right generally, but it was hard to see that he ever really loved Mary with the infatuated devotion he has for her in the book, which makes Fanny's fear of losing him less grounded. Fanny's unwavering love for Edmund (in the book) is diminished, as well, because of her flirtations and temporary acceptance of Henry (in the movie). And of course the entire plot is rather rushed through to try to fit in 2 hours--a problem for any Austen novel--so many details and character development are lost.However, in spite of the negatives, and in spite of wishing this had been a purist adaptation, we still are left with an enjoyable Regency-era movie, full of great sets and pretty costumes (a few looked a bit off to me as far as accuracy goes, but we'll set that aside and try to appreciate the aesthetics as they are). It's a basic time-period rom-com, if not a true work of Austen, and as such I intend to like it for its own merits, in its own right, and not for its namesake.And considering that many readers dislike Fanny as an Austen heroine, changing her character likely made this more appealing to a broader audience; if you are one such reader, you may find this movie even better than the book. (I think Fanny is grossly underrated as a heroine, but that is another argument.) If you are on the fence about whether to watch this (as I have been for years, before finally deciding to give it a chance), make up your mind to pretend this is a different story altogether, not Mansfield Park, and perhaps you will find room to like it. "},{"Title":"A decent Jane Austen adaptation, but there are better ones out there","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's like Sense and Sensibility, if Sense and Sensibility was less lighthearted and perhaps more poorly constructed. Don't get me wrong, I liked this movie, I just had a couple of problems with it. There are several points in the film where the main character, Fanny Price, is reading letters that she wrote to her sister and they are only there to explain exactly what is happening to the audience and it rubbed me the wrong way. Thankfully it didn't happen too much though. I also didn't like the end of the film. It wrapped up way too quickly. I was honestly shocked when I realized the movie was ending. It felt like they tried to include too much content into too short of a run time, and it was really noticeable to me. I would have definitely preferred a longer movie, as long as they used that time to develop what was happening more. This movie isn't without pros though. The acting and writing are both great and the cinematography was pretty decent as well. I imagine fans of Jane Austen as well as average film goers will enjoy it. 6.6/10 "},{"Title":"Fanny Price becomes Elizabeth Bennet","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Austen's Fanny Price is a challenging character to understand torn away from her family and socioeconomic sphere at 10, she loses all sense of self-worth, and shrinks into a profound insecurity where all she has to cling to are her middle-class moral values. The novel is the story of how those eventually prove stronger than the values of the rich family she's been pushed into. It would take a talented and sensitive filmmaker to bring her character to the screen.So these filmmakers didn't bother. Instead, they sent an Elizabeth Bennet clone to Mansfield witty, vivacious, playful, and easy for the audience to like. The thing is, this isn't Pride and Prejudice, and the story and challenges no longer make any sense. I gave up after 20 minutes.I'll keep waiting for a good Mansfield Park movie. 3/10 for at least picking up (however clumsily and inaccurately) on Austen's subtle references to the slave trade. "},{"Title":"Insufferable!","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always wanted to watch this movie as it stars Frances O'Connor, and because I adore her. But, 5 minutes into the movie it became insufferable. Only the movie's title is Mansfield Park, nothing else even reminds of the novel. Frances O'Connor's character Fanny was nothing like the Fanny in the novel and it actually bears resemblances to Jane Austen's own character and Elizabeth Bennet from Pride and Prejudice instead.I don't think I might have enjoyed the movie even if I hadn't read the novel. it seems like this was an attempt to create a movie like the Sense and Sensibility from 1995, which was a fabulous adaptation, regardless of slight changes from the source. But Mansfield Park is mere torture of the audience with a bunch of obnoxious characters. God knows how this movie has a ranking of 7 stars here. I actually used to trust the IMDb ratings! "},{"Title":"The Fanny Problem","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fanny Price, the daughter of a poor family in Regency England, goes to stay with her wealthy relatives, the Bertram family, in their elegant stately home, Mansfield Park. (Fanny's mother and Lady Bertram are sisters). Fanny falls in love with her cousin Edmund, the younger son of the family, who is in training for the priesthood, but he seems to be infatuated with the beautiful Mary Crawford. Fanny herself is pursued by Mary's brother Henry, but she distrusts him and rejects his proposal of marriage.Mansfield Parkis, of all Jane Austen's novels, perhaps the most difficult to adapt for the screen. The main difficulty lies in the character of its heroine, Fanny Price, a quiet, timid girl to a modern audience can seem at best dull and insipid and at worst self-righteous and priggish Kingsley Amis went so far as to describe her as morally detestable. This difficulty has not, however, dissuaded film-makers from trying to adapt the novel, as there have been two different screen versions during the last fifteen years. This film, dating from 1999, was the first; the second was the ITV television film from 2007 starring Billie Piper. Both films adopted a similar approach to what might be called the Fanny problem, namely to rewrite the novel. Austen's Fanny is a shy, timid, sickly introvert. Fanny as played by both Piper and Frances O'Connor is an attractive, healthy, outgoing, self-confident and extroverted young woman, closer in spirit to some other Austen heroines such as Elizabeth Bennett or Catherine Morland. Both interpretations, especially Piper's, were attacked by the critics, but in my view the decision to reinterpret the character in this way was the correct one. What works on the printed page does not always work well on the screen, and a film which attempted to preserve the Fanny of Austen's novel would probably come out as intolerably dull, like the lifeless BBC TV series made in the eighties. The film's writer and director Patricia Rozema does, however, make further changes to the novel which work less well. In the original book, Fanny's family were not poor in any absolute sense, but only poor in comparison to the aristocratic Bertram family. By Regency standards they were middle-class; her father was a retired naval officer and they even employed servants of their own. In this version, however, her father is a labourer and the family live in quite genuine poverty. Given the snobbery of the age, it is difficult to imagine the Bertrams even acknowledging such an embarrassing family connection; if they wanted to do Fanny a kindness they might have offered her a position as a servant, but not as a companion to their daughters. Moreover, O'Connor's character speaks with a middle-class accent and displays evidence of a level of education far beyond that of most working-class girls of the period. Austen's novel did mention that Sir Thomas Bertram had business interests in the West Indies, from which it is fair to infer that he was in some way involved with slavery. This is not, however, a subject dealt with in the book; Austen had never visited the Caribbean and had no first-hand knowledge of slavery. The film, however, makes this into a major theme, with a whole sub-plot revolving around the issue. Sir Thomas's elder son Tom, who in the novel is a hard-drinking, profligate fop, here becomes a sensitive young man who returns home deeply disturbed by what he has seen in Antigua and it is implied that he becomes ill as a result of the shock to his nerves. There are other changes made to Austen's story. It is strongly implied, for example, that Mary Crawford is bisexual and attracted to Fanny. Henry and Maria Rushworth carry on their adulterous affair under the noses of her family in their own home; Fanny actually discovers them in flagrante delicto. The trouble with these changes is that they ignore the moral stance of Jane Austen's work without putting anything substantial in its place. Mansfield Park is an essentially conservative (with a small c) work, a critique of what she saw as the looseness and corruption of the progressive morality of her day, exemplified by the dissolute Crawford siblings. Rozema tries to turn it into something much more politically radical, touching on modern concerns such as racism, gay sexuality and the class system but it just does not work as such. Subjects such as slavery in the nineteenth-century Caribbean, working-class poverty in nineteenth-century Britain, or even lesbianism in the Georgian era, might all make interesting subjects for a film, but I would not recommend Austen's novel as the starting-point for a film on any of them. This film was not a great critical success, but was not savaged quite as much as the ITV film, highly unpopular among bilious Janeites who loathed the idea of the former teenage pop star and pin-up Billie Piper, Britain's answer to Britney Spears, as an Austen heroine. (O'Connor, an Australian actress little known in Britain at the time, carried no such unwelcome cultural baggage with her). Yet I actually preferred the ITV version which, in my view, steered a successful middle course between staying too slavishly close to the original and departing too radically from it. This version has some good points; as normal with heritage cinema the costumes and the setting (Kirby Hallin Northamptonshire) are attractive and there are good acting contributions from O'Connor and Harold Pinter as Sir Thomas. Rozema's film, however, strikes me as a classic example of a film which does indeed depart too radically from the book on which it is ostensibly based, using it in an ill thought-out attempt to support a quite different political and moral agenda from the one the author had in mind. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A Good Story Ruined","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How utterly annoying this film is for Austen fans. The writer/ director brings in a lesbian attraction between Fanny and Miss Crawford which is entirely out of context and far too many scenes between the two resort to lingering touches and embraces which give rise to much rolling of the eyes.There is also an element of loquaciousness from Sir Thomas which also spoils the story and shows Rozema to be ignorant of the historical context of both his and Miss Crawfords relationship with Fanny. Its all a shame really as the performances are good and the costumes and scenery delightful. Best avoided if you are an Austen fan. "}{"Title":"Well done although not exact","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mansfield Park is one of my favorite Austen Novels (and one of her better written ones, I think) and this movie does it a kind of semi- justice. They change some of the points of the story by elaborating some things that they merely brushed over in the book. They don't emphasize certain other things that the characters feel, say or do but they do it without alteration of the essence of the character. (I will not point them out here for those of you who haven't read the book so as not to draw your eye to it when you watch the movie.) They also change the spot of where things happen, or how they happen but you still get the core of the characters across, so no harm done.Other than those small changes I think that this movie is very well done. No book-to-movie translation is exactly like the book. They must make artistic changes because you can't see exactly what the character is feeling or thinking. The casting was brilliantly done because the actors chosen don't overshadow the character they are meant to portray; although I think they gave the audience a more favourable persona in Edmund. In the movie he is protective and affectionate of Fanny (which he is in the Novel as well) but without the pass-over kind of affection that it was. In the novel he would sometimes seem to the reader unworthy of her affections just because he was so blas towards her and her opinions that you would think him a bit of a snob. The movie cuts that out and makes him seem like the perfect man personified. Fanny was excellent, she was just as awkward and unsure yet lovely and well spoken as the Fanny in the book. The language of the script is considerably well written and the way that they speak pulls you into the storyline.Overall this is a good movie for period piece fans, but for the Austen fans who want an exact screen portrayal of their beloved book, they might be a tiny bit let down. This movie deserves a viewing no matter which group you fall under. 7/10 "},{"Title":"So NOT Jane Austen","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The essence of any Jane Austen novel is its genteelness and gentleness. This version of Mansfield Park is a disturbing, dark version, with its overt sexuality, and political overtones regarding slavery. The depiction of Sir Thomas Bertram's character as a coarse, brutal, boor was especially weird. Any work of literature is subject to interpretation, but the essence of the book, and the intentions of the author is completely destroyed in this version. Any Jane Austen fan will find this movie rather strange. This is not Jane Austen's England. It's the director's vision of what Jane Austen's view of England at that time should have been. The music is annoyingly repetitive - a single chord that plays over and over. The dialogs are sometimes modern and sometimes period - very confusing. On the positive side, the photography is good. "},{"Title":"I saw the movie before I read the book","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw the movie before I read the book. I enjoyed the movie a lot, especially the parts where the main character looks at the screen and reads some of her journal or her writings. Then I read the book. I'm very surprised how different the stories are. There is very little mention of her writings, and the book emphasizes her brother, while the movie emphasizes her sister. I actually nearly stopped reading the book because of how much emphasis was on how badly her aunt treated her. Austen made the point to such a point that I nearly put the book down. And the lectures of the aunt and her uncle just seemed to go on and on and on. Just based on those changes, I actually think the movie is better. I would consider the written version to be one of the weakest of her books because of the repetition of how the aunt and uncle treated her. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable watch, from someone who didn't read the book","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be an enjoyable watch. I know that a lot of Austen diehards disliked the immorality in this movie. Well, coming from someone who didn't read the book, I found the main character to be of pristine moral character.I admired how she went with her gut, despite how easy it would have been for her to marry the other man, and despite the opposition from the family. So far as the other points of immorality, I didn't see much of it. I mean, yes they had the love scene where the heroine walks in on the couple in bed. There was no raunchiness to this There was no erotic lovemaking that you caught a glimpse of. It didn't seem overdone and it seemed appropriate.The only thing that disturbed me and seemed unnecessary however were the pictures in the drawing book. There were scenes of rape and sexual gratuity concerning slaves, and this not only disturbed me, but seemed non-consequential to the plot. It was unclear whether or not these pictures were of things that actually happened, although the old man's reaction and appearance of shame did seem to point to that the pictures did represent something that happened. I did not like this at all.In the end, it seemed that being a moral prevailed however, as the two people who always did the right thing whom you hoped would somehow be together, did get together. To me, it seemed that the people who did evil were in some fashion punished for their crimes by the consequences that comes from doing these things. For example, the man that said it was safe to flirt with a married woman, or the woman that said that she was in an unhappy marriage so she had a right to cheat, basically ended up being out of luck in the end from the consequences of cheating.Then there was the part when heroine made a decision to marry that man and then changed her mind. I know that some people were disturbed by this. To me, it seemed realistic that she would begin to fancy the idea of him, and it was both shocking and admirable that she was able to go with her brain over her heart and say no, even after making the mistake. I thought maybe it was because she was just afraid to let herself fall for someone, but, in the end she showed herself to move forward without fear when it was with the man whom she loved and knew was right for her.Anyway, I enjoyed this film. It was an inspiration, although a small one. It wasn't something I will remember forever, but it gave me something to think about. By the way, the acting was great. I also quite liked the heroine's sister, and wished to see more of how her life turned out. "},{"Title":"Ruined the story","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This version of the movie has beautiful scenery, great acting, and good filming, but the story itself is awful and different from the book. I watched the original BBC movie and loved the story, although the sets and filming were yet to be desired. I was really excited when the new one came out, but horribly disappointed when I saw it. One of the main characters was viciously villainized and unfairly portrayed. There were unneeded and gross scenes which just ruined the movie. I then went and read the book to see which version was correct and was greatly relieved to find out that the original BBC version, which has a great story, was totally accurate. If you love Jane Austin, don't let this version of the movie taint your opinion, because it incorrectly portrays her beautiful work. "},{"Title":"Faithful to the novel?   I can't say but pretty good on its own terms","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's been decades since I read Mansfield Park and, unlike Pride and Prejudice and Emma, it hasn't stuck with me, so I can't say how closely the film tracks the novel. But anyone who has ever seen a film version of a really good book must know that there's NO WAY to reproduce the novel's intricacies or pace in a film. The script writer has to discard a lot more than he or she keeps and that means a simplified plot line and character development that the book's admirers are bound to find deficient. That's perfectly fine with a Tom Clancy novel because -- invitation to flames -- all they've got is a plot and cardboard characters. Same with a lot of other authors of pulp fiction. Jane Austen's novels are subtle and carefully observed -- and no movie can possibly match those characteristics. If you really love a book, you might be well advised to skip the film. One thing that needs to be said, however. Frances O'Connor is not a typical American girl -- she's British as are most, perhaps all, of the actors in this movie. And pay attention to the lord of the manor who is played by Harold Pinter, the famous playwright. In his subsidiary role, he's the star of the film (though nowhere near as beautiful as Ms. O'Connor). "},{"Title":"Not so much a literary adaptation as a film in its own right","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am no more surprised at the up and down ride given to this adaptation of Mansfield Park by commentators than I was of Pasolini's Salo which I recently wrote about.  In addition to the taboos about depicting perversion and depravity, apparently there is the one about being unfaithful and by implication, disrespectful to a great literary work.  But even among literary adaptations there seem to be shades of disapproval.  No-one seems to worry about what is done to works like Fielding's Tom Jones or Swift's Gulliver's Travels, but heaven help the poor person who may one day make the first feature film (it has already been done as a quite respectable TV serial) of George Eliot's Middlemarch.  Proust adaptations don't seem to cause much eyebrow raising possibly because most readers, like me, will give anything to get to grips, however simplistic the means, with the most challengingly unreadable of all great novels.  But when we come to Jane Austen we are clearly on sacred ground.  Any attempt to tinker with the Regency goddess of the written word will, if not quite up to the mark, unleash the wrath of Austen aficionados the length and breadth of the cultivated world.  Of all directors and adaptors who have placed their heads in this lion's mouth, Ang Lee is one of the very few who did not get his bitten off when he remained relatively faithful to Sense and Sensibility.  And yet is not his a relatively tame piece of cinema when compared to the high jinks of Hollywood's Victorian dressed version of Pride and Prejudice and certainly the heresies of Patricia Rozema's Mansfield Park with its nude copulation scene, Sir Thomas's frenzied destruction of his son's horrific sketches of cruelty to Negro slaves and Mary Crawford's cry of exasperation, This is 1806, for Heaven's sake!  Let me stand and be counted, I have no scruples about admiring a film that takes liberties with a great source if in so doing a new work of outstanding, albeit different, quality is the result.  I won't say that Mansfield Park is my favourite Austen adaptation - I have great affection for the sheer playfulness of the old Olivier/Garson Pride and Prejudice - but as pure cinema the new film is wonderful stuff.  It may verge on the melodramatic (the last hour in particular) or indulge in the quirky (Mr. Norris's death - just like one of Truffaut's black comedy jokes in Tirez sur le Pianiste in a way that is completely alien to Jane Austen's style, but is is a work full of heart and feeling.  I really believed that Fanny and Edmund were made for one another.  When it seemed that they might drift apart I was sad and when they came together at the end quite overcome with joy.  It is not that the director treats the relationship simplistically.  It has an internal development nowhere more beautifully expressed than in the scene where Edmund fetches Fanny from Portsmouth so that she might attend his ailing brother.  Their hands touching during the coach ride back to Mansfield Park is the film's powerful and emotional turning point, a moment so tender that all arguments about source faithfulness seem irrelevant.  This is a fine film in its own right.  "},{"Title":"On my list of top ten movies.....","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hadn't heard anything about Mansfield Park when I stumbled upon it in the video store a few years back. I love JA and most Period pieces so I took it home to try out. I love this movie!!! It is definitely one of my favorites. I know it doesn't stay true to the book, but I think it was clever, witty, and also heartbreaking. I enjoyed the cinematography. If you really like the book so much, then go read the book again. Jane Austin is amazing, but I think I like this movie better than her book. I can always read P&P again. ) It's a must see, as long as you keep in mind it isn't like the novel. Everyone I have showed it to LOVES it!  "},{"Title":"Mansfield Park","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented the movie before I read the novel. First, I don't recommend the movie; second, I don't recommend the novel. After watching the movie, I was left dumbfounded. There is no elaboration on the kinship developed between Fanny and Edmund(there is not much more in the novel either); it is simply implied. As in most all cases, a movie adaptation can never surpass or better the original work.A novel such as Mansfield Park meticulously places emphasis on character-development. Fanny Price has a disposition and temperament manifested best from incidents and predicaments she deals with throughout the novel. Austen's own interpretation and diagnosis of Fanny gives insight into the character the movie cannot. The movie does a poor job of displaying the physiognomy of a subtle, yet complicated character.The trivialities and superfluity placed in the plot made it seem incredulous, i.e., the relationship between Fanny and Mr. Crawford. The novel better explains Mr. Crawford and his disposition to Fanny and society in general.It would be a most monumental, prodigious task to show not only Mr. Crawford and Fanny's quiet histrionics, but most of the characters in the novel; especially Edmund.I'm with the consensus on the notion that this movie should not be called Mansfield Park. Doing a movie adaptation of this novel would be a thankless task; a director would take less acrimony and excoriation being president.  "},{"Title":"It's up there with the others","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I too was leary of this film, being that critics said it was a little racier than other film adaptations. These other adaptations being unsurpassed. Of course we have the wonderful masterpiece, Sense and Sensibility, (fine work given to us from the gifted actress and writer Emma Thompson), the charming Persuasion from the BBC which was brought to life by the remarkable talents of actors; Ciaran Hinds and Amanda Root, two spectacular Emmas that both boast great actresses; Kate Beckensale and Gweneth Paltrow. And at last who can ever forget the fantastic mini series of Pride and Prejudice (also from the BBC) which is the finest of all. But Mansfield Park too, is up there with the rest. Frances O'Connor played Fanny Price to perfection and the characters in this adaptation, in my opinion, were very true to the novel. This version did creep away form the novel, but it wandered in the best direction. Sumptuous acting and cinematography paved the way for this visionary splendor and the romance between Fanny and Edmond was every bit as poignant as it was in the book. Mary Crawford and Henry Crawford had a very earthy presence in the film masked by early 19th century demeanor and these characters (you know the ones who love to hate and for a moment I even pitied Henry a bit until...)were played wonderfully by Embeth Davitz and Alessandro Nivola. Truly a treat to watch again and again. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Inaccurate, but interesting","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you can somehow manage to forget that the name of this movie is Mansfield Park and that there is a novel named Mansfield Park (therefore suggesting the two would share a plot-line among other things), you will enjoy this movie. The acting is well done, and the characters are likeable that should be. I even found myself liking this film's heroine a little better than the one in the book. However, in terms of accuracy, Fanny resembles Jane Austen herself more than her original character, the whole thing is much more risqu and there is an entire issue of slavery thrust into the middle of this story that was never intended to be there.  The movie is still worth watching, though, if one can avoid comparing it to the original novel "},{"Title":"Very pleasantly surprised, great casting too.","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't have very high hopes for this film, considering what I'd heard about it beforehand, but I'm a big fan of period dramas and Jane Austen so I decided to go. I was very surprised at what I found. It's an excellent film, very well made and a good adaptation of the novel. I thought the casting was spot on too, especially the divine Henry. It's also the only film, other than Trainspotting, where Jonny Lee Miller has shown he is capable of brilliant acting. He is totally believable as his character, as is Fanny's, you really feel for them which is always a good sign in a film. It's got a lovely ending, I'd definitely recommend it to any romantics, but not perhaps those who like their films a bit faster. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a devoted fan of Jane Austen's novels, I am immediately suspicious when I hear of another novel adapted for film.  Austen's novels are slow, delicate sketches, not terribly suited for film.This particular novel, Mansfield Park, is rather problematic for adaptation, as its heroine, Fanny Price, is a quiet, introspective creature -- hard to get to know and like.  If it takes an entire novel to appreciate Fanny, how can that be accomplished in a 90-minute movie?  The filmmaker accomplished this by changing Fanny's character.  In the movie, she is far spunkier than in the novel.  It's not a bad adjustment.The key theme of the novel and the movie has to do with the opposition of modern and conservative.  Austen wrote the novel as an argument against the social and moral excesses of Regency England.  Although it is not completely clear in the movie, you do get the idea that Fanny and Edmund represent old-fashioned virtues, while the Crawfords represent modern vices.  It all works pretty well.All in all, not a bad adaptation, and worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Not as much fun as Emma but still quite watchable","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have not read Jane Austen's Mansfield Park but I've read some of her other works enough to know that there were some parts that were definitely not Austen-like or even 19th century like. There were a few scenes that would never have happened at this time or in this society - (minor spoiler!!!)the main one I'm thinking of here is where the potential love interest of Edmund, the Crawford sister, is laying out the law on what should happen to a family that she is not a part of. She is promptly told to buzz off (in not those terms) but such an action would have been unthinkable in those times.I enjoyed watching this film and I was glad when all ended well (I knew it would from the very beginning) - the acting was wonderful, the scenery nice, and the characters were interesting even though I couldn't figure them out all of the time.  For example, why would such a mercenary seedy guy go after a dirt poor penniless girl?  Maybe love is blind? There were a few other things like this which left me wondering about the film but then again it was more like a modern romance story than an old fashioned one. "},{"Title":"So Much Potential...","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You might say I'm biased, Mansfield Park is my favorite book, but the producers of this movie came SO close to getting it right. The original story is wonderful and many of their characters are perfectly cast and perfectly written, Edmund especially. Unfortunately the main character is not all she should be.  Fanny Price, although beautifully acted, is portrayed here as rebellious and headstrong when she was really a humble character, full of conviction; there's a big difference. Secondly, the movie sacrifices an accurate portrayal of 19th century England's culture for a statement too conformed to today's very different philosophies. I enjoyed the movie very much and appreciate the acting tremendously. My biggest problem is that they took the story of Mansfield Park and substituted a very different heroine. "},{"Title":"Time warp","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Get away from the twentieth century. Just sit back and let yourself be transported back to 1800AD in the company of some of the the sharpest wit you are likely to hear,as with all the other recently filmed Jane Austen novels. For the men who will avoid this 'womens romantic rubbish' at all costs my advice is don't, you miss a wonderful experience and, even more, you miss the chance to score more brownie points with your lover than you could possibly imagine. "},{"Title":"Excellent though not faithful to the book","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is almost a completely different story from the book using most of the same characters.  I initally felt some disappointment about that. But why have I been back to see it four more times?  The story is perhaps more realistic than the original.  The idea that slaves would have been employed in whatever the Bertrams interests in Jamaica might have been in that day, is never mentioned in the book.  The heroine is still very much a heroine but of a different, and I feel, a more realistic character.  "},{"Title":"This Jane Austen tale is tough and layered with emotions restrained - strong flavor of determined love with hints of social consciousness","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember her 1995 When Night Is Falling, director Patricia Rozeman wrote the script and delivered a sensitive, sensual, emotional film of two women one a university professor, the other a traveling circus performer, how they found love and tenderness towards each other. Controversial subject as it was, the film was not exploitative - simply showing the range of emotions how a woman felt in her unexpected self-discovery journey, initially reluctant and gradually succumbed to her inner true feelings.Here in Mansfield Park, though at times reminds me of the steady heroine in the 1995 Persuasion, we have Frances O'Connor (distinctly different personality portrayal from her 1997 Kiss or Kill Australian road movie) as the steadfast Fanny Price, and making this Jane Austen film very much her own. We follow her through her focused observations, interactions, inner reflections and restrained anguish; her joys and freeing moments of solitude have implied visual (typographic) poetry.  The upheld modesty and intellectual aura about her made her unique among her insensitive rich relatives but one beloved cousin and soul mate Edmund. In a way, the tale is that of a modern woman quite ahead of her times. It is costume drama with love a-mixing and matching, yet at Mansfield Park, times and people around Fanny eventually go through the rigors of change not unequal to what she's been through.Casting included a glamorous looking Embeth Davidtz as Mary Crawford, Alessandro Nivola as Henry Crawford, Jonny Lee Miller as Edmund (Jonny first appeared in the computer intensive 1995 Hackers with Angelina Jolie), and an impressive performance by young Hannah Taylor-Gordon who portrayed Fanny in her childhood days (Hannah did a remarkable job in 1999 Jakob the Liar opposite Robin Williams). I'm amazed at what this Canadian woman director can offer us - 1987 I've Heard the Mermaids Singing is one of her earlier films, which was quite different and imaginative from the mainstream movies at the time. Rozema is certainly not shy in delivering what she wanted to express and realize on the screen, even if it means taking liberty in the screenplay. If you're a true Jane Austen fan, you would not have missed the A&E 6-hour series 1995 Pride and Prejudice, with Colin Firth as a very convincing Mr. Darcy and Jennifer Ehle as Elizabeth Bennet - a perfect pair beyond the 1940 B&W film's Greer Garson and Laurence Olivier. You may also like the 13-part saga of 1978 Flambards, about an enduring and independent young woman and the various happenings on how she survived and matured in her life's journey - Christina McKenna's portrayal of Christina Parsons is one delightful heroine you'd want to persistently follow.    "},{"Title":"Romantic film about a character anybody would love to have as a friend","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this lush, romantic film.  The basic plot is about young Fanny Price, growing up in a poor English household at the end of the 18th century.  Even as a young girl of maybe 9 or 10, when the movie opens, she displays a precocious literary skill for story telling. Fanny is sent to live with wealthy relatives, the Bertrams.  They make her very aware of their class differences which, they state, lead to her inferiority.  But as she grows up, she proves, while in her humility not at all trying to, that in fact she is very much their superior in terms of her intelligence, kindness, intuition about human nature, and practical sense.Fanny is almost too good to be true.  She is generous and sweet, and doesn't seem to resent the snobbery that she meets with at the Bertram estate.  Her writing blossoms, such as in a modest history of England that she pens and her letters home to her younger sister.  What a gem of a friend she'd be!Fanny is incredibly modest and unselfish, qualities which allow her to develop an intuition and objective sense about people.  She sees right through the phoniness and pretention of Henry Crawford, a high society friend of the Bertrams who courts Fanny.  Much to her credit, she rejects Henry's advances in a setting where women were not expected to have such strong opinions.  She holds the hope for romance with a Bertram cousin, Edmund, who is pursued by Henry's sister Mary.It was disturbing to watch the idle rich wile away their time in trivial pursuits, especially once we come to understand that the Bertram wealth is due to the labors of slaves in Antigua.  The slave issue is of course quite unsettling.  Other than a more explicit scene with drawings of the inhumanity of the Bertram patriarch toward his slaves, there is one scene that I found even more powerful and which still sends chills down my spine.  On Fanny's 100-mile carriage journey to her new home, they stop for a rest and she sees a large sailing ship in a harbor below, and hears wailing.  When she asks the porters, they say it's a slaver and the sounds are just the slaves being transported aboard.   I enjoyed the music with the closing credits; it sounded Elizabethan until a voice in some foreign language started to sing.  What language and genre is... aha!  It must be African (later verified in the credits) -- and it was a powerful and moving effect to combine the African singing with Elizabethan music.I loved the scenery and camera shots, such as of Fanny's carriage journey along seaside cliffs.  I very much enjoyed Fanny's reading of her lovely prose, and liked how the director had her character several times read directly into the camera, as if she were talking to us viewers.The romance is sweet and innocent. There is no foul language and, other than a quick modest glimpse of an extramarital affair and the very sad pictures of slave torture, really nothing offensive to keep a family from enjoying the film.  I don't, however, think that the pace of the film would appeal to teenagers, which I would characterize as dreamy and immersive.It's a simple and satisfying story.  Fanny is quite endearing and the unraveling of the story to me is a welcome respite from some contemporary films which seem to cater to a diminishing attention span.  It won't appeal to everybody, but if you enjoy films based on Jane Austen novels or movies like Room With a View, give Mansfield Park a try.  I'd give the film a 7 or 8 on a scale of 10.      --Dilip 1/16/2000 "},{"Title":"Twisted -- but enjoyable -- Austen","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my biggest personal pet peeves about cinematic adaptations of novels is their infidelity to their original sources. Let it be said that _Mansfield Park_, unlike recent movie adaptations of _Sense & Sensibility_ (1995) and _Persuasion_ (1995), plays a little fast and loose with the text of Jane Austen's novel. Director/screenwriter Patricia Rozema has mixed in some of Austen's letters and notebooks along with the book-text ; as a result, the central character of Fanny Price is more a reflection of Jane Austen than Jane Austen herself may have intended. -- With this previso aside, however, _Mansfield Park_ is well worth viewing. The acting (with the possible exception of the film's Edmund, Jonny Lee Miller, who seems a trifle too bland) is top-notch, especially Embeth Davidtz and Alessandro Nivola as the worldly Crawford siblings, Frances O'Connor as Fanny, and playwright Harold Pinter as Sir Thomas. Gorgeous costumes and sets, evocative music. Costume-drama buffs need not hesitate! "}{"Title":"bad directing, not at all a wicked comedy","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't really like this movie.  Like most Jane Austen books-into-movies I've seen, you know what the end should be right at the beginning of the movie. But this telling doesn't have the humor of the others, and is actually quite unpleasant, reminding me more of Jude (though not that depressing) than of Sense and Sensibility.  I thought the acting was fine, I just didn't really like any of the characters.  I guess I'd have to chalk it up to bad directing.I'd like to see the BBC miniseries of Mansfield Park and see if that's any more enjoyable.  Actually, after having sat through the BBC's Pride and Prejudice, which was quite enjoyable, but over 5 (!) hours long, I think I might hire someone to cut out all of the dancing and unnecessary scenes before I took it on.  "},{"Title":"good movie, check it out!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed Jane Austen's now movie Mansfield Park.  Of course it is difficult for all movies to follow every excursion, plot, feelings, and thoughts into a 2 hour movie, when a book is over 400 pages. I can say that I really enjoyed this movie, it was a nice story, brought out well on the big screen and it's nice to see that true love does win out in the end. If you enjoyed Sense and Sensibility as I did, I think you'd enjoy this one too. "},{"Title":"Sweet Jane Austen Story","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film because it was sweet and romantic.  It is an excellent movie for Jane Austen lovers and romantics alike.  The direction was unique and funny, particularly in the final sequence.  It is not quite as good as Sense and Sensibility, but contains the same heart wrenching effect only with a sassy twist. I would recommend seeing this movie. Although it is not great, it is definitely charming. "},{"Title":"A dumbed-down, comic book version of Austen's great novel","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, if you like to see half-naked bosoms (now called by more common names) with great frequency, here's your chance. The actors are quite attractive and right for their roles, but they're not given any substantial roles by the vapid and totally distorted script. It was made for people with very short attention spans, which is understandable. The world and the web are so full of distractions that very few probably have the patience to read Austen's novel, her most complex and longest and, in many literary critics' views, her greatest. Far inferior to Colin Firth's and Barbara Ehle's Pride and Prejudice or Emma Thompson's (scriptwriter) version of Sense and Sensibility. Kate Beckinsale and Mark Strong also produce fine characterizations in their performances in Emma. "},{"Title":"A few additional points","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a die hard Austen fan this is a difficult adaptation. In fact I have not seen an adaptation of Mansfield Park that I think captures the character of Fanny Price suitably. The 1983 version comes the closest to the book but that is more for the faithfulness to the story rather than the portrayal of Fanny. She may be one of the most difficult heroines to get right. I love the book for its amazing depth and complexity of themes, characters and socio-political statements. I love Fanny for the unusual representation of the feminine she portrays. She must have been unusual even at the time of writing for Jane says only she will love this heroine. Fast forward to today and Fanny's long-suffering, pious, sensitive nature is positively anti-feminist.The problem is that screenwriters take those characteristics and cast them to what we think of as pious and long-suffering. In the 1983 version, Fanny is stiff and self-righteous. The literary Fanny is graceful and elegant. Why else would Mr. Crawford find her compelling? We can't even imagine these days how this could go together and screenwriters dodge the issue by re-writing the character.This was taken to an extreme here with the writer choosing to use Jane Austen herself for Fanny rather than to bother tackling Fanny at all. This was also seen the the deplorable giggly wild thing Fanny in the 2007 version. I challenge a screenwriter to produce a version of this book reasonably faithful to the text and actually explores the tremendously complex character that is Fanny.A few words about the movie itself. There are a few gems that are in the book that I have not seen in other versions. For instance slavery is a part of the book, subtly wound into the subtext. Jane was an abolitionist. And I loved the line where Edmund says  Fanny, you really must begin to harden yourself to the idea of... being worth looking at. Fanny was beautiful, not stiff and thin-lipped.Overall this piece needs to be taken as an artistic rendering, not a literary adaptation. Then it is more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"If you don't go in expecting the book, you may love it.","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Honestly, this is the last of the recent Austen adaptations I wanted to watch. The book used to be my least favorite Austen story. It's since grown on me over the years, so I wanted to see how they'd it on the screen. Now I like movies that try to honor most of the book. I'd read that it bares little resemblance to the book and had modern touches like missing plot points, personality changes, reassigned dialogue and overt sexuality.Going in expecting very little, it was a pleasant surprise. You can still see how Fanny is ruled at the whim of those above her. She's way too outspoken to honor the book-Fanny, but Frances O Connor does make you like her more than the book does. Other than her, most of the other characters are quite similar to the book and well acted. Johnny Lee Miller is excellent(as always).If you love Austen, you'll just have to put the book aside and watch with an open mind. If you don't go in with an open mind, you'll probably dislike much of it. I went in with low expectations and left glad that I saw it. "},{"Title":"Mansfield Park's Fanny Price in A Film Not At All Nice **","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Totally ridiculous film. It's England 1806 and the topic of slavery in that country is just mentioned briefly and as little to the point as possible.Too bad that Jane Austen didn't know the late Jayne Mansfield. That would have made for more exciting viewing.After a while, you need to keep a score card based on who loves whom, this one's sister likes that one, etc.The picture is one big boring episode.Fanny rejects Thomas for a husband because she correctly sees that he is basically in love with himself. Who could really be in love with this farce of a movie?We really don't know why Fanny's poor parents sent her to live with the wealthier part of the family. I guess they wanted more for their daughter but how about the other children?Class distinction really means nothing here because the film is such a stinker. Charles never made it with Fanny's cousin either. This entire story could have been told in a half-hour, if that. "},{"Title":"Incomprehensible Directing of an awful screenplay","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" RUN, do not walk away from this mess of a supposed adaptation of a heretofore respected piece of literature. A supposed director should never attempt to direct a piece that he or she neither respects or believes in. (Personally, I think Hemingway is over-rated. I would never, however, rewrite a work of his and try to pass it off as an alternate take on the original!) The actor that portrayed Henry Crawford has much potential; he was wasted on bad writing and idiotic directing. I don't know if I should say God save the Queen or God help us all......I think both are appropriate when I think of this travesty that passes itself off as a Jane Austen film..... "},{"Title":"It's the most wonderful love story","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am not a huge Jane Austen obsessive like some, and like some I am sure they stay true with the titles they have been engaged with most. Mansfield Park to be out shined Pride and Prejudice and Emma by far. There is an essence to the storyline that is provoking and personal to the writer. I personally this is why the book Mansfield Park is so different to all of her others. It's because she wanted to write this book for herself.This movies strays from the over descriptive text the book offers but condenses it into a wonderfully filmed and well researched book.It offers something that is so unique and quirky, a true original. "},{"Title":"To everyone who didn't read the novel... This is NOT Jane Austen's Mansfield Park...","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...well, the names may coincide, but that was about it. Jane Austen is one of my favorite authors and granted Mansfield Park is the book from hers I like least. Still I was shocked about this movie... The way Sir Thomas' and Fanny's characters were twisted was gross. Fanny depicted as a confident, witty young woman who receives Henry Crawfords attentions so willingly has nothing to do with the novel. And Sir Thomas as a mean, selfish pervert?? Need I say more? OK, one more thing There are a lot of things, they do and say in this movie, that they probably wouldn't in that time period, because of their sense of decorum (according to all Jane Austen's novels...)...There are a lot of Jane Austen movies... this and the Pride&Prejudice (2005) film were the only ones where you have to regret to have ever seen them. (if you know the books, of course) "}{"Title":"Enjoyable adaptation","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel compelled to write a few words about this adaptation after reading several negative - and, in my opinion - unfair reviews. Those who say this film does not resemble the book at all, or has nothing to do with the book, or that Fanny Price is the complete opposite of the character in the book have in truth either never really read the story, or are engaging in extremely careless exaggerations.It is true that some mild liberties have been taken with this adaptation. The character of Fanny Price is not quite as meek and timid as she was in the book. But in this movie, neither is she portrayed as some kind of aggressive, assertive, anachronistic feminist. The few times where she is compelled to speak her mind are more than balanced by scenes in which she displays restrained sensitivity, or feels awkward, or defers to those who she deems superior to her in situation...just as the Fanny Price of the novel.Further, the few references to Sir Thomas' involvement in a slave trade are merely an interesting interpretation, and of such a minor nature, that they do not detract from the spirit of Jane Austen's storytelling. The reality is that that spirit has been kept intact. ALL the major characters and plot elements are still there, a challenge made difficult by the time restraints of a two hour film, and yet quite competently and impressively met. If one wishes to criticize a version that completely misses the mark on those two scores and very much deserves harsh criticism, it can be justifiably directed to the more recent and poorly-made BBC version starring Billie Piper.Some objections have been made to a more explicit depiction of the affair between Henry Crawford and Mariah. This was something Jane Austen decorously hinted at in her book but the full meaning of her intent was clear. The scene is extremely brief and not at all gratuitous nor explicit. If anything, it merely helps to emphasize the selfish betrayal of Henry and Mariah as they expose their families to scandal.The film is beautifully lit and shot, and the direction is quite often wonderfully subtle. The acting is excellent all around, but Frances O'Connor's subtle expressiveness in particular is a pleasure to watch. The music - described by one reviewer as loud and obnoxious (are you kidding me???) - is very charming chamber string music, more than appropriate to the tone and setting of the film.It may very well be impossible to satisfy some Jane Austen purists, but director Patricia Rozema and her crew deserve commendation for this enjoyable and intelligently made adaptation. "},{"Title":"Well... maybe!","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While the story is indeed very loosely based on Austen's book, so much so that the watcher starts doubting whether this is really an Austen story, I think it is very well adapted to be enjoyed by a modern audience. It does loose some of the feel of her books and some plot lines are very strange indeed. But if I were to watch it as a stand alone movie, I would find it rather enjoyable and well put together. Apart from some key factors being missing (like the reason the main characters do not get together until the end of the movie, as said below) you can still look at Johnny Lee Miller, which is always a treat ;) The ending in particular was very nicely executed and very Austen-like. It's not the equal to the latest Pride and Prejudice movie, but something I wouldn't mind watching instead of the Rugby World Cup ) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Having Not Read the Book","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The key to enjoying this adaptation of Mansfield Park is to disregard its connection to Jane Austen. I am an avid fan of her books, but haven't yet come round to reading this particular title. Thus, when I watched this movie, I watched with an innocent mind. In doing so, I found it interesting, exciting, emotional, and dramatic.However, I also found it extremely shocking, including such scenes and characters that were so entirely different from any I had encountered in other Austen books (or, if you'll allow my bias, well-made adaptations). There are subjects touched on in this movie which I would think Austen would have stayed miles from, and I find it hard to believe that she wrote about such things, most prominently slavery and the mistreatment of slaves in America. With these assumptions, I looked on this film with a subtle crease in my brow.But it didn't take me long to put this all out of my mind and try to enjoy the movie for its individuality. Standing alone, without the assumption of Austen, it made me laugh and brought even a tear to my eye. I might even go so far as to say this movie is a breath of fresh air in regards to the taboo topics that it touches on, regardless of their lack of canon.So in the end, if you haven't read the book, you might just like this 'adaptation'. Just forget all about our dear Jane Austen. "},{"Title":"Raunchy","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While i appreciate the more attractive cast in this movie when compared with many of the movies made depicting Austen's work... i was disgusted by the raunchy additions that were found so necessary for modern audiences. Too many liberties while leaving out key characters like Fanny's brother. What is up with that? The most disturbing liberty for me had to do with the relationship between Sir Thomas and Fanny upon his return from Antigua. In the book they had an amiable and very close relationship. He returned and began to esteem her more as a daughter. He had grown to love and appreciate her as a part of their family. This movie does not do that relationship justice and depicts it in a much harsher light.I would prefer to watch the more accurate 1983 mini. I do look forward to watching the newest production that is already out in the UK and due out in the US this fall.This is my 3rd Austen title this year. I am in the process of reading all of them then watching the movies that have made from each book.I have completed Pride & Prejudice, Sense and Sense Ability, and now Mansfield Park. I will read Emma, Persuasion, then Northanger Abbey. "},{"Title":"Waste Of Time","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I cannot put it more plainly than to say that this one of the worst movies I have seen. I just finished reading the book(so it was fresh in my mind)and I thought that I would rent the movie to see it put to the big screen.Almost right from the beginning it does not even try to stay true to the novel.There are many parts of the movie that did not even happen(not even close).I noticed at the beginning of the movie that it said they it was based on the novel and Austen's own diaries. Well, as flattered as Miss Austen might have been that someone put her own personal feelings and thoughts into a story line, I think she would have been more appalled that her novel was destroyed on the big screen. And, since when is Mansfeild Park a comedy??? This was a very serious novel and it would have taken a lot more than 112 minutes to build the personalities and emotions of these characters.I feel that this movie had absolutely no feeling and no connection between any of the characters.They were merely acting. "},{"Title":"This movie is equal to every other Austen book turned movie!","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a Jane Austen fan, I always enjoy seeing Jane's books come to film. BBC has done an excellent job with Pride and Prejudice. Sense and Sensibility with Emma Thompson is another of my favorites. With Mansfield Park though, I found the book unlike Jane's other masterpiece novels.I saw an earlier version of Mansfield Park Mini-series and as it followed the book it was very boring and confusing. I came upon this newer version a while ago and as I am very conservative in what I watch (PG-13 movies are not standard for me) I just passed over this because of it's rating. Well, it came on television a while ago and I decided to watch it. Although there is one scene that isn't the best, over all it is a delight to watch! What a treasure. Frances O'Connor gives Fanny a whole new light in my eyes... She is an excellent actress and the rest of the cast just blends perfectly. The screen is lit up with everyone's superb acting. The music is beautiful. Some other reviewers have said it is good but that it is unequal to the other Austen movies. I disagree. This is as good or better. The relationship between Fanny and Edmond is priceless. This movie deserves a 10! A definite must watch for an Austen fan. Even if you aren't particularly an Austen fan you will enjoy this movie. It stands out and is particularly entertaining. How can I describe it? I can't .. you'll have to watch it for yourself.As my favorite line in the movie says Surely we are beyond speaking when words are clearly not enough.  "},{"Title":"It's great to see so much passion expressed by so many viewers","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No one could be entirely satisfied if the standard of measurement is the one set by the master herself. My own level of dissatisfaction is low enough that I'm very glad to have bought, not rented, the movie.On my wish list to improve Rozema's movie1. a closer portrayal of Fanny's humility2. greater character development of the horrible Mrs Norris, one of literature's greatest fictional creations "},{"Title":"hateful","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie inspires feelings of disgust in me; it does not stay true to the novel, and contains offensive elements which have been added by the writers of the script. Sir Thomas is turned into some kind of a sick pervert. I felt like vomiting after seeing this movie.  "},{"Title":"horrible torrid insipid crap","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is totally unlike JA's original novel. The director turns a completely likeable romantic story into a complicated feminist abolitionist I-dont-know-what.I like JA's Fanny Price - simple, timid, suffering unto herself. She gives up her happiness for everyone else's around her good and bad,  and that is what makes her ever so sweet and lovely and adorable. Not the assertive outspoken Fanny shown in this movie.Shame on the director. Oh! please let the classics be  "},{"Title":"A complete distortion of Jane Austen's novel.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What I'm about to say may be considered by some to be a spoiler although it involves a sub-plot and character misrepresentation not the main love story.There is a secondary plot line in this film that was not truly part of the original novel. The father does leave for Antigua and return unexpectedly, but that's all there is to it in the novel. The obvious social commentary included in this sub-plot in the film is not Jane Austen's. There was no insight into the goings on in Antigua in the novel. The older brother of the novel is simply spoiled rotten -- not a tragic, sensitive artist as he's portrayed in the film. The father of the novel is a noble if misguided man -- not the abusive lecher the movie makes him out to be.Also, the Crawfords are also somewhat misrepresented in this film. The end of the movie leaves you thinking they're sexual revolutionaries, the novel simply portrays them as scheming and extremely selfish.Mansfield Park is actually my least favorite of the Jane Austen novels, but this film doesn't do it any justice whatsoever. If you want to know the real Jane Austen read her books. "}{"Title":"Jane Austen's Novel Comes To Life","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty well done adaptation of the Jane Austen novel about a young girl (Fanny Price, played by Frances O'Connor) from a poor family who is sent to grow up with wealthy relatives in the England of the early 1800's.The story has a soap-opera flavour to it as we see, through the eyes of Fanny (often through letters she writes home to her sister Susan (Sophia Myles) the lifestyles of the upper-crust of that era. O'Connor was delightful as Fanny. I hope we see a lot more of her in the future. Equally good was Jonny Lee Miller as Edmund Bertram, who carries on a flirtatious romance with Fanny almost from her first arrival at Mansfield Park (the family estate.) Also offering strong performances were Embeth Davidtz and Allesandro Nivola as Mary and Henry Crawford, a brother and sister who also take up residence at Mansfield Park. Nivola does a good job as Henry, who simply can't understand why he can't convince Fanny to return the feelings he has for her. Davidtz has an impressive screen presence, and although this is never developed, and nothing improper ever happens, there are a couple of scenes in which there is some very powerful and yet innocent eroticism hinted at between Mary and Fanny, which makes you wonder just what goes on behind closed doors at Mansfield Park.In other words, I liked the movie. It had some problems, mind you. It creeps along a little bit and there are times when you wonder just where this movie wants to go, as the plot seems to meander here and there without establishing a strong direction. Still, it's a pleasant enough journey through early 19th century England, and does include some spectacular shots of the English countryside and seashore. I wouldn't say it's one of the best movies ever made, but it's certainly enjoyable enough.I rated it 6/10. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't rent this movie expecting to find a sexier Sense and Sensibility or Pride and Prejudice.While parts of the movie shined, including Frances O'Connor who was beguiling as Fanny Price, it was not enough to overcome my disappointment.The director could not seem to find the center of Fanny Price...nor could she convince us that the character was richly complex...The screen play was confusing, and ingored several key elements...I wonder what this could have become in the hands of Emma Thompson... *sigh*I wouldn't even rent this, but would wait for it to come out on network or cable tv. "},{"Title":"Read the book!!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my resolutions for 1999 was to read all of Jane Austen's novels.  It's April 2000, and I still have to finish Sense and Sensibility and Northanger Abbey.  I HAVE read Mansfield Park and watching the movie, it's obvious that Patricia Rozema (the director and screenwriter) has not.  She may have read the `Cliff Notes' and skipped the lecture.  Rozema fundamentally changes the characters created by Jane Austen.  Rozema degrades the good characters and enhances the bad ones.  Fanny or for that matter any of Austen's heroines would never tell a man that she would marry him and then within less than 24 hours change her mind.  Austen heroines know their minds and their hearts!  The worst part of Mansfield Park the movie is the mind-changing episode gives Henry Crawford an excuse for his infidelity.  According to the movie, it's Fanny's fault that Henry has an affair with Maria. A wishy-washy Austen heroine is as likely as a gay Harry Callahan. The scenery and costumes are nice, but this movie is not worth the rental.  READ THE BOOK.   "},{"Title":"How come all the best FILMS this year are LITERARY adaptations? (possible spoiler)","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For too long, Jane Austen has languished in Gilbert and Sullivan-like respectability/ossification.  Adaptations of her work on British TV, immensely popular, ransack the author not for her fierce satire, her miraculous facility with language, her sheer cheek or her rarely flattering insights into human nature and society, but for the excuse they give to indulge in detailed costumes and big houses with pretty parks, features which naturally enough, are given scant attention in Austen's novels (which is why the best Austen adaptations have been modernisations such as METROPOLITAN and CLUELESS).Authenticity in Austen works, therefore, nowadays is judged by the excellence of such bourgeois whitewashing, the elegant ironing out of difficulty and danger.  Patricia Rozema's MANSFIELD PARK is mercifully, gleefully unauthentic.  For a start it is not a literary adaptation at all, but an adaptation of literary criticism of the novel (Edward Said in particular) - at two removes from the source material, Rozema has ample room for disrespect and truth.Further, she takes Austen's most joyless book unfortunately her best also, in that it contains her most astonishingly sustained writing), removes the reason for its dullness (the insufferably priggish Fanny Price), intersperses her heroine's narration with Austen's own journals and letters, breaks narrative convention in a whole host of ways, the most obvious of which is the heroine talking to camera.  By so taking apart the book, she makes the most faithful adaptation possible.  Not that it matters, but Rozema is right - Jane would have approved.All this playfulness, however, is double-edged.  The film opens, as with THE END OF THE AFFAIR and another masterpiece with which it shares many close affinities, LE TEMPS RETROUVE, with a montage of manuscripts.  Throughout the film, Fanny constantly writes letters, diaries, satires, stories. There is an elaborate sequence where Fanny is shown how to prepare her writing material.  Frequently, as does Catherine in 'Northanger Abbey', Fanny must defend novel-reading, and uses it, successfully, to both define her femaleness, and to judge people and life.And so the film works on two levels.  There is the world of the book, in which Fanny is not necessarily a prig, but quiet, druckened, as Harry Pendel might say, kept so down by social exclusion that whenever she does talk there is dismay and shock on the faces of her 'betters'.But when Fanny writes, no matter her material circumstances , stuck in a chilly, ex-governess' cavern, where she is denied even a fire, she is as free as a bird (a significant metaphor, which invokes and reworks its cliched associations), linked to her narration.  She reveals the world of Mansfield Park for what it is, an austere, brutal ruin, based on slavery, repression and the commodification of desire.She is witty, satiric and brave, she talks to us, shows US out of the early 19th century, what she can't show her peers; while the ballroom sequence, filmed with a grace that suspends time, magically choreographing her sexual awakening, is the most beautiful I've seen since THE LEOPARD.  Rozema frequently has her on edges, brinks, clifftops, or divides the screen into halves, suggesting both the precariousness of Fanny's position, and the sense of her emotional growth, moving from one state to another.Crucially, when the plot works against her, and she is banished from Mansfield Park, she stops writing and narrating, her parent's hovel is littered with crumpled paper that speaks nothing, while others write and speak for her, trying to decide her life.  The link between social power and who has the right to speak has never been more chillingly evoked - hence the emphasis on novel-reading and writing.  This makes the wonderful ending so unsubstantial; like Nabokov in 'Bend Sinister', Fanny reveals her puppet mastering (the film's poster has a giant Fanny looming over a tiny Mansfield Park holding a key), arranging happy endings for herself, unhappiness for her enemies, all with the flourish of her pen/voice, but hardly likely for the real Fanny Price.This metaphor has the effect of splitting Fanny in two, as well as the narrative, allowing Rozema to expose the society she is describing (and the unthinking collusion of latterday petticoat fetishists), the world of surface politeness (in one sequence we see characters dressing for a ball, putting on their public selves) and the real, truly nasty world.  The film is full of mirrors, windows, distorted reflections (in tarns etc.), undermining this society in the way Fanny's fantasy undermines her subject's so-called 'realism' (the surface of Mansfield Park reveals nothing, we need the horrifying art of Tom to reveal it to us).In many ways similar to Richardson's TOM JONES, what is most exciting about the film is that it does not take its cue from the society under scrutiny, fidelity to which makes so many 'classic' adaptations so stilted and sterile, but its extraordinary heroine, with its seemingly capricious shifts in tone, sprightly, often hand-held camerawork, a style laced with deceptive irony and yet emotionally devastating (the film is quite stunning in its representation of the place of  omen at the time, and much more sympathetic to 'aberrant' characters like Mariah than Fanny).The opening sequence is a stunning statement of intent, as young Fanny arrives at Mansfield Park.  A BBC drama would have played up the huge mansion and its grounds - Rozema shrouds it in darkness, decay and mystery, like a Gothic novel; Fanny's first encounter is with an unknown drunk.  The film ends, not with the usual Austen music flourish, but a bleak piece of African gospel called 'Slavery', refusing us the comfort of even a make-believe happy ending.All the actors are extraordinary, bursting out of the theatrical ghetto that is the bane of heritage drama - Harold Pinter is particularly magnificent and chilling, bearing the weight not only of his rank, but his whole rotten caste and country.  But it's Frances O'Conner's show, and she is an amazing find, managing to embody every emotion possible, while still retaining her powerful playfulness - she is Kate Winslet with irony if you like, an actress of genius.  "},{"Title":"A unique take on an Austen novel.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quite frankly I fail to see what the big deal is about Jane Austen.  I have read three of her books and have seen several film adaptations (including Clueless) and I don't see anything truly noteworthy about Austen's stories. A typical Austen story has three major elements.  1) The heroine is a young, beautiful whip, too smart for her own good.  2) The most perfect man in the world is in love with her and she can't see that.  And 3) She is limited by her social ranking, however her status is undergoing a turbulent period.  Austen's novels are pure soap opera.  All this talk of beautiful people running around beautiful mansions in beautiful corsets is just not believable.  So why then, do I fall for it every single time?This is the story of a young girl, Fanny Price, who's mother married down the social ladder.  As a result they live in peasant class housing, defineately on the wrong side of the tracks.  As a teenager, Fanny (played by Francis O'Conner) is sent to live with her mothers family in the gorgeous mansion called Mansfield Park.  There she is constantly reminder of her of where she came from.  Two of her cousins are giggling 'man catchers' who are bewildered by the fact that Fanny is not as well educated as they are.  An aunt who obviously sees the potential of Fanny, tries to keep her at bay, using subtle hints if she sees Fanny getting out of line.  But, like most Austen leads, Fanny does not sulk about it too much.  She puts her best foot forward, rolls with the punches and waits patiently for her opportunity to shine.  Fanny does shine in the eyes of her other cousin, Edmund (played to the pouty hilt by Johnny Lee Miller).  They form a deep bond early on in the film, and of course, just like all of Austen's stories, their obvious love for each other is kept restrained.  (Anyone into bondage would love Jane Austen.)Soon the story gets more complicated with the arrival of another suitor.  Henry Crawford is a wealthy little pervert, defineately good looking, as well as hot to trot.  He dismisses the other women of his rank in an effort to win over Fanny.  Of course, true to most Austen characters, Fanny isn't too sure about his proposal, because she isn't quite sure she can trust him.I was pleasantly surprised to see that Patricia Rozema was directing this effort.  Her previous work on such classic art-flicks as I've Heard the Mermaids Singing and White Room, demonstrate her unique directing abilities.  She comes through with Mansfield Park as well. Many of todays period dramas attempt to bring a story up to date by offering tawdry sex.  Rozema keeps that repressed theme that is so evident in Austen's work, and instead focuses on the absurdities (at least in our eyes) of the staunch moral and ethical dilemas of that era. What Rozema crafts is an intelligent, humorous and original film, true to the Austen form, but still unique in its own way.  The acting is good and the direction is first rate.  The smoldering sexual tension between these beautiful young actors, along side the cold and mannered social practices of the day make this an entertaining film to watch.    "},{"Title":"Truly, the best Jane Austen film adaptation ever!","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally, a film that Jane Austen herself would have been proud of, this funny and biting social satire has a warm heart and a very brilliant head. Not a pretty costume drama content to watch pretty people dance and converse wittily, this wonderful adaptation by Rozema - which makes use of the controversial Austen novel Mansfield Park plus Austen's own adolescent stories and diaries - puts Austen's world into its political and social context. This has the effect of making the characters three-dimensional and much more contemporary with ourselves. And the dialogue is intelligent and truly engaging.Absolutely, the best adaptation of Austen ever made, I cannot recommend this film highly enough. "},{"Title":"Lies mostly between over-exertion and toothlessness","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Version of Jane Austen's novel crams so much contemporary politicking into its central character that it almost fragments altogether. A young girl from poor circumstances grows from a charitable afterthought of the rich relatives with whom she's sent to live, into the primary redemption of that family's moral character. Given that the family lives mainly on the profits of Antiguan slave labor, and that the landscape is strewn with lurking temptations of the flesh, this may not be such a feat; in any event, the film feels more like a series of set-pieces than a coherent whole, and lies in a strange zone between over-exertion and dramatic toothlessness. This is 1806 for heaven's sake, says a character at one point, although it's rather hard to tell the banality of the well-to-do milieu is well caught, but Rozema's cinematic 'enhancements' merely generate disengagement without any accompanying analysis. Whether viewed through the prism of past or present, it's markedly less persuasive than other recent Austen adaptations. "},{"Title":"Not true to the letter, but has the wit and spirit of Austen","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mansfield Park (1999)A remarkably clear-headed film that make Jane Austen real and alive. The heroine here is perhaps even a bit like Austen&#x97;though the actress is prettier, by all accounts&#x97;and it includes letters read by the character that are seemingly Austen's words. But what the cast and director Patricia Rozema pull off here is fabulous. There is no one reason this movie works so well, except of course the really scintillating, funny writing of Austen herself. The lead character is Fanny Price, played with true joy, angst, and subtle wit by Frances O'Connor. The two men who court her on and off are strong enough as men to be convincing, but they are perfectly still young men, barely more than boys in years, and they have those youthful flaws. Which is part of the fodder for Austen's wit.And social observation. If you don't quite catch the way she plays social classes against each other you miss part of the substance. It isn't just that the poor niece ends up at the rich uncle's house, but that this same niece has the perception to see through their facades. And to keep mum until just the right moment.This isn't a liberation film where the woman charges to victory in a big speech or by a power play. Instead&#x97;and this is one reason Austen is still readable today&#x97;the woman simply comments on the issues in a way that makes clear her more advanced views, and the obstacles slowly fall away through outside circumstances (rather than her own doing). The passivity of Fanny Price might bother some people, but that's exactly her role, as a character, in this pageant.One last point&#x97;slavery. This is the one novel of Austen's that gets her in trouble for her languid views on the uncle's use of slaves in the West Indies. The movie seems to twist this into a more modern condemnation, which helps us stay sympathetic to the whole shebang. There is even an added scene of sketches (done in a way rather like Goya's socially critical drawings of the same time, with some Kara Walker thrown in) which make clear the crisis at hand.If you want to dip into Austen through a movie, choose between this and the 2005 Pride and Prejudice and you won't be disappointed. Of course, if you want to read the book&#x97;that's even better. More modern and fresh than it should be for 200 years ago. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, gorgeous to look at version of the Austen story...","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had no trouble enjoying MANSFIELD PARK because I had no comparison to make to the novel, which I never read. I saw nothing about it that made me think it was catering to 1999's sensibilities, despite the use of a scene where someone is caught in flagrante with another. Aside from that indiscretion, the dialog seemed like authentic Austen to me and the whole affair has been expertly photographed in England, of course, on lush locales that are breathtakingly gorgeous to look at. The swirling camera swerves often from the interior of a room to the vast horizons outside with the greatest of ease.And, of course, the British cast cannot be praised highly enough. All of them perform to the manor born in the appropriate style. FRANCES O'CONNOR (who closely resembles a young Jennifer Jones) is Fanny Price, the poor girl sent to live with rich relatives at Mansfield Park, who becomes an elegant young woman and a writer. (Sounds suspiciously like the author herself inserting her character on this role).And JONNY LEE MILLER is Edmund Bertram, a young man obviously smitten with her from the start. It takes the entire running time of the film for the young lovers to discover they always did love each other, but along the way we're treated to some interesting episodes of British class distinction amid the manners and mores of a bygone era, including some sharp bits of humor.Interesting that after essaying this quiet, unassuming role, Jonny Lee Miller would next take on the fight against a vampire in Dracula 2000. So much for British dexterity and range.Summing up Some admirers of the novel seem to be put off by this one, but I have to admit I enjoyed it, even if I did find Fanny's inconsistent feelings about her suitor,Henry, and her inability to make up her mind, rather frustrating at times. "},{"Title":"A very emotionally moving rendition of Jane Austen's book.","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know that they did not stay completely truthful the book but I did enjoy it immensely despite that. The fact that they took the liberty of weaving parts of Jane Austen's own life into it was a very interesting feature. On its own, when you watch this, it is very good. When you compare it to the book or even the older version of it, it is lacking. I choose to see it for it's own special qualities and so I say Watch it unless you don't like 'Chick flicks'. "}{"Title":"Intelligent, witty, beguiling.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mansfield Park is a wholly wonderful motion picture in every aspect based - how loosely we cannot know nor should we care - on a Jane Austen novel. The film which delves into the lives of an 18-19th century English gentry family is replete with lush scenic beauty, perfection in costuming, a rich and elegant script, superb casting, faultless acting and direction, and, when taken as an entity unto itself is near sheer perfection in all respects. Given the genre and period, it just doesn't get much better than this.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding adaptation reveals the underbelly of Empire lifestyle","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Patricia Rozema, whose When Night Is Falling is one of the great unknown films of the 1990s, has turned her hand to adapting Jane Austen.  But unlike any of the previous contemporary film versions (Sense and Sensibility, Persuasion, Emma, etc.), Mansfield Park has both a fierce awareness of where the wealth on display in the film comes from, and the moral implications of these facts for her drama.  This is the only film from this period to contextualize the emotional lives of its characters with issues like slavery and genuine poverty.One of the best lines in the film comes Fanny returns home from Mansfield Park to her desperately poor family because she does not love the man who has proposed to her.  Her mother sneaks into her bedroom late one night and tells her, Remember, dear.  I married for love.  It's the kind of moment that none of the other Austen adaptations would have known what to do with. But it is part of this film's subversive humor and trenchant social critique, and it gets the biggest laugh from the audience.The film's deft handling of the issue of slavery is also noteworthy. Austen's characters make much more sense given the full social context in which they lived.  Harold Pinter, the playwright, is powerful and terrifying in the role of Sir Thomas, the patriarch of Mansfield Park.  The confrontations between him and Fanny are truly mesmerizing.This is a great and powerful film, made with intelligence and moral sophistication.  It's also wickedly funny.  A great piece of entertainment for the heart and mind. "},{"Title":"Stop judging movies based on the novels they're based on!","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My summary line pretty much says all I need to. Notice that every bad review of this film is from someone who loved the book! Since when did a film live up to the book!? Of course this is a great compliment to Jane Austen. I mean, if your love of an author's work can make you hate on a movie like this then you have to have a pretty good thing going! Me? No, I've never read a Jane Austen novel. And, I doubt I would have never watched this movie as I'm not in the target demographic. But, I happened upon it one rainy afternoon and it just sucked me in. I noticed it on IFC again tonight and I couldn't break myself away. I love it.Now, of course, I'm a bit biased as I have a crush on Frances O'Connor. But, still, I thought the acting, pacing, and scenery were all very good. What stands out to me though is the way O'Connor shows vulnerability making certain scenes all the more sincere. "},{"Title":"a sheer delight","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"     This is  a perfect romantic comedy  & an excellent date movie.The story is slight, but well written.  The acting is  very  good. & the production is near  flawless.  My only quibble is the sound, much of the dialogue is very low, as these were very genteel  people in 1806. BUT I had some trouble hearing some of itHighly recommendedthank youJay Harris  "},{"Title":"Unfaithful Yes.  Flawed Yes.  Good YES","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alright, for the most part I like this movie very much. Yes, yes I know that it's not faithful to the book, but I do believe they readily admitted to taking inspiration from other Austen works as well as the author herself. I in fact read, or tried to read, the book and found it dull and uninspiring, unlike other Austen novels. For these reasons, I don't have any objections on that score.What I do find regrettable is the insistence on trying to make the story modern and wicked. Firstly, Jane Austen's works have always stood the test of time without trying to modernize them. I find Pride and Prejudice more relevant than many movies based on novels written 10 years ago. And secondly, the charm of Jane Austen is that her characters are in no way wicked! They have faults abundantly, but the heroines and heroes are undoubtedly good. They are not sleazy. I hate to think that being naughty is the equivalent of being modern. Or that every story that mentions slavery must make a big deal about how horrible it was and good people will instinctively realize that and will stand against it. We all know slavery was bad, but it was a way of life for a very long time and believe it or not, not every good person was an abolitionist. All this to say that the forced modernity jars very unsettlingly with the characteristics anyone who is familiar with history knows and expects to see.Buuut despite the rant, I was altogether pleased. I felt the changes in Fanny were an improvement and though she felt inconsistent, I could understand where waverings in her personality came from. I think many mistake her steadfast loyalty to Edmund for smugness and prudery, and truthfully I might not like her if I had to live with her in person, but I felt for her on screen. The rest of the cast did very well, though Mary was too much vixen, even making insinuations with Fanny.It was very interesting at the end where Fanny states it all could have ended very differently, but it didn't. I definitely saw that as I was rooting for Henry most of the time. I do truly feel if he had shown more patience or Fanny had accepted him, they may have grown to love each other and things could have still ended happily. But Austen seems intent on having that one deceitful man in all her stories Wickham, Willoughby, Frank, Henry...Ah well, all in all a good film. One of the more melancholy of the Austens, alongside Sense and Sensibility- when things get dark, they get DARK. But don't worry, the sun will shine again, as suns are wont to do... "},{"Title":"The heart of Austen","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful movie, one that I liked far better than I expected. For the record I am a passionate fan of the novels, and thought the recent Keira Knightley Pride and Prejudice too silly and modernized. The ads and previews for Mansfield Park on its theatrical release made it seem like a revisionist, sexed-up bit of trash, so I skipped it. What wasn't stressed then, and makes watching the DVD worthwhile, is that it is revisionist in a very thoughtful, interesting way. Note that the movie claims to be based on both Mansfield Park AND Jane Austen's journals and other writings. It never claims to be a straight filming of the novel. Fortunately it is beautifully made and has integrity in being faithful both to aspects of the book and to the writer/director's interpretation of it. It earns the liberties it takes with the novel.No, this is not Jane Austen's Fanny Price. Fanny has been re-imagined as Jane Austen herself, a woman of intelligence and talent for whom ideas and writing are essential to life. The wild stories we hear Fanny reading to her sister are passages from Austen's Juvenilia, and we also hear passages from Austen's journals and other writings. I've never been a Fanny-hater myself, but I did love this new Fanny. I was surprised at the absence of Fanny's brother, but the writer/director (Patricia Rozema) has combined William with Susan for the sake of economy. As she explains in the commentary track, she retained Susan instead of William since Susan's character has a conclusion, as it were.The abolitionist theme that is very subtle in the book is played up here. Not with preachy monologues and 21st century anachronisms, but by dialogue and events that come naturally from the characters. There have always been abolitionists. Other, more overt motifs in the novel, such as improvements and acting, do not get much screen time. Changes are also made in chronology, and there is a brief caught in flagrante sex scene that doesn't deserve the scorn heaped upon it.What emerges in this movie is a great, vibrant heroine, the hybrid Austen/Fanny character. Austen's journal writings are haunting, echoing and summarizing many of the themes of her best characters and fiction. Frances O' Connor gives a fantastic performance as the adult Fanny, supported by as fine an ensemble cast as I've ever seen. The movie has a wonderful score, and looks just right. Deliberately not as opulent as some adaptations, this film makes the signs of decay around the house of Mansfield Park subtle but unmistakable.This version of Mansfield Park is not a straight depiction of the novel, and the adaptation won't be to everyone's taste. Patricia Rozema does know Austen's work, but as a filmmaker realizes that you can't just transfer great prose onto a screen. She made choices as to which themes to bring out and which to ignore, and made changes in character and dialogue to give the movie a life of its own. These choices were made for artistic reasons, not out of ignorance of Austen. You could ask, Why not just write an original screenplay if you're going to change so much? I think it's because Rozema and we love Austen, and Austen is still at the heart of this film, just beating a different rhythm. "},{"Title":"slavery and Jane Austen","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fanny Price (Frances O'Connor) comes from a poor family. Her mother married for love. She was sent to live with her aunt's family the Bertrams in Mansfield Park at the age of 10. She's looked down upon by everybody except the son Edmund (Jonny Lee Miller). Sir Thomas travels to their Antigua plantation with the oldest son Tom. The rest of the family is joined in Mansfield by Henry (Alessandro Nivola) and his sister Mary Crawford (Embeth Davidtz). Edmund becomes infatuated with Mary. The Bertram sisters Maria and Julia both vie for Henry despite the fact that Maria is already engaged to the dull Rushworth.This movie takes slavery on as a central theme. Also Fanny Price is a thoroughly modern woman as well-read head-strong thinking woman. Her abolitionist views are ahead of her times. This adds something much more than the usual Jane Austen interior romanticism. I'm sure some Austen fans hate a lot of the changes but it works for me. It adds a higher moral idealism to the romance. "},{"Title":"Attractively filmed with some liberties","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This 1999 adaptation of Mansfield Park is attractively filmed and has a good cast. It's interesting to see how so many of the cast members have become successful on television since James Purefoy in the Following, Johnny Lee Miller in Elementary and High Bonneville in Downton Abbey. Francis O'Connor isn't as pretty an actress as I would have liked to fill the role but she acts well.For modern audiences, Mansfield Park will never be widely embraced as Sense and Sensibility, and Pride and Prejudice because one has to accept a great love between first cousins. It's a shame this dated aspect stops it from being more well loved because the story is interesting and deals with adultery and divorce which is quite daring for the time. Also the Crawfords are among Austen characters some of the more interesting flawed characters. They are well played by Embeth Davitz and Alessandro Nivola.There are some differences from the novel that have been criticised in this version. Some relocations of events and reducing of characters I understand is necessary for brevity. The slavery issue is played up to make things more modern.Overall it's still a well made and attractive adaptation that doesn't have that cheap television feel of some other productions. Worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Best period film I've ever seen!","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Normally, I abhor period pieces and find them to be over-stuffy and dreadfully boring, but this one is the exception. Due to my recent discovery of Jonny Lee Miller (where have you been, Sir?) I had to watch this film. His character, Edmund, was my favorite. He's just perfect, what more can I say? O'Connor's Fanny Price really drew me as well. Her narration kept the story light and amusing. It wasn't too serious, and I think that is why I wasn't so bored. Even though this film was released in 1999, here it is 2013 and I'm watching it for the first time and enjoying it. It is a classic sort of film that I don't think I could get tired of.It is based off of an Austen novel, which I admit, I have not read (for I found Pride and Prejudice to be painfully ridiculous and boring when I read it), but luckily the cast and screenplay made this film so I don't have to read the book! "},{"Title":"Not for fans of the book, completely understand their opinion, but I still liked it.","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Full disclosure even though I am a huge Austen fan, and have read all of her novels, I do not like Mansfield Park. I found Fanny boring, and to me Edmund truly seemed to treat her like a sister in the book, and I remember thinking that if I were him I wouldn't have romantic feelings for such an insipid person either (to be honest, he was pretty dull himself). Because of my lack of love for the book, I'd never seen any adaptations of Mansfield Park, and was specially glad to stay away from this one, so hated by my fellow Austen fans.I decided to see it this week for truly shallow reasons I discovered Jonny Lee Miller was in it, and I think he's really hot, especially in this phase of his life (great actor also). So I watched it, and surprisingly, really liked it! I completely understand why fans of the book hate it, if one of the other five Austen books were changed to this extent I would have a fit. Fanny is a completely different character, though a much more interesting one in my opinion. The outrage fans showed over the slavery storyline is specially understandable, it's such a jarring storyline to insert, not to mention it makes Fanny into such a Mary Sue in her I'm ahead of my contemporaries in understanding that slavery &#x96; which has nothing to do with the actual book &#x96; is bad mindset. Also, yes, Frances O'Connor is much too old to play Fanny.Perhaps because I was already well aware of these shortcomings, I let myself enjoy the movie without nitpicking. I found this Fanny a truly engaging character, and for the first time I found myself cheering for her and Edmund (in the book I couldn't care less about her love for him, and the only reason I wasn't surprised he returned her affections in the end is because it's an Austen book and I knew the heroine would get her happy ending). This was because both actors gave much more energetic performances than were to be expected if the script followed the book more closely, IMO.In summary not for fans of the book, completely understand their opinion, but I still liked it. And my crush on Jonny Lee Miller has increased tenfold! "}{"Title":"Lovely to watch and good acting, but rather dull and disappointing","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't entirely hate this Mansfield Park, the photography, costumes and locations are stunning, and the acting particularly from Johnny Lee Miller, Lindsay Duncan and Harold Pinter is very good. Sadly, it didn't work. I will say the book is not very easy to adapt, none of the Austen books are, but Mansfield Park more so, and Fanny Price is difficult to get right in characterisation. Effort could have gone into capturing the spirit of Fanny's character from the book, however her character here is pretty much the opposite of her novelistic counterpart, rebellious in alternative to shy and thoughtful. Frances O'Connor is alluring and manages not to be too forced in her acting, but this is not the Fanny I know and love. The other characters are rather dull and devoid of the personalities that made them so compelling in the book. The pace can be sluggish at times and the music is repetitive and over-bearing, while the writing is stilted and takes you out the era and the story is muddled and because of omissions like the Grants there is not enough of the themes here that shaped the original story so well. Overall, pretty and well-acted, but dull and probably the most disappointing Austen adaptation I've seen thus far. 3/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Very watchable but the scriptwriter is bigoted against the English","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was predisposed to enjoy this adaptation even though I'd seen reviews that indicated it was not a faithful adaptation and some that did not rate it at all. However, I was quickly annoyed by the disgraceful attack on our Queen Elizabeth I. I can only assume the scriptwriter is descended from a disgruntled Scots emigrant and doesn't know the truth. Whilst the view of our great Queen as a brutal persecutor of Mary Queen of Scots may delight some disgruntled Scots, it is totally inaccurate. Mary was a foolish woman although also in a difficult situation as she was a staunch Catholic in a country that had turned mostly Protestant. After her third very stupid marriage failed and she was on the run from her own nobles who had no respect for her - which is significant - she hoped England would give her protection. Yet at the same time she continued to insist obsessively that she was Queen of England and plot and scheme to do away with her Protector Queen Elizabeth. Unfortunately for her, the usual rule of winner takes all applied. She had to be imprisoned as she was encouraging sedition. Elizabeth should have had her executed long before she actually did after enduring many years of Mary's interminable plotting against Elizabeth's life, but Elizabeth held to the view that a Monarch should not be dishonoured. It is a pity her cousin Mary of Scots didn't have the decency to honour Elizabeth similarly. Mary didn't it seems care about the fact that England had had an appalling experience under the brief but manic rule of Catholic fanatic Mary I who introduced the vicious Spanish Inquisition with horrendous results into England. Thank heaven she didn't last long. The Inquisition is totally alien to English ways. There was no way England would stand for another Catholic ruler either - which is partly why later James II later was slung out, and rightly. There is no way Fanny - or Jane Austen - would insult Queen Elizabeth as in this movie. I must assume the movie isn't British or the scriptwriter would know better.The Slave Trade... Jane Austen did not get into politics. Fanny wouldn't have dared to criticise. Tom is a selfish arrogant drunkard and I don't remember him ever complaining about slavery. Did he? Fanny was quiet and careful not to offend and very well aware of her lowly status. Her Aunt Sir Thomas's wife was very fond of Fanny though imposed greatly on her - why isn't this bond shown? Fanny and Edmund were rather insufferable prigs by our modern standards but not by theirs. This movie's Fanny is far too feisty by far.If the scriptwriter hadn't chosen to get into politics and smear England's great Queen, this movie would have gained 8 stars from me. I don't mind a loose adaptation, but do get the facts right. If the story had been written by a Scot resentful of the treatment of their Catholic Queen Mary and about Scots of the time who might have been equally annoyed, the view of Mary and Elizabeth it expressed would have made sense. "},{"Title":"A more somber Austen than some, this film is quite handsome and winning, nonetheless","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fanny (Frances O'Connor) has had the misfortune to be the firstborn in a family of many children. Her mother, a sister of a wealthy English landowner and merchant, married for love and, ended up, poor and in charge of an ever growing family. One day, Fanny is sent on a visit to the wealthy uncle's mansion, Mansfield Park. In her early teens, Fanny thinks she is going for a short stay, only. Much to her great discomfort and sadness, she finds her mother has given her to the relatives to raise. Moreover, her relatives do not treat her as a loving niece but, instead, decide to give her a status somewhat higher than a servant but lower than themselves. In this horrid atmosphere, Fanny's only friend is her kind cousin, Edmund. As she grows in beauty and intelligence, Fanny becomes a keen observer and, indeed, writer of the escapades of her relatives. Her family, after all, has a drunken aunt, a mentally disturbed male cousin, a golddigging female cousin, and more. Also, new to the neighborhood, is a brother and sister, who are also doing their share of scheming and social climbing. But, will Fanny be able to follow her heart in the midst of the chaos? This is a somber Austen, much more so than Pride and Prejudice or Sense and Sensibility. Fanny's relatives are, for the most part, pretty awful folks and her survival amongst them is not a pretty picture. Nevertheless, O'Connor is wonderful as the young lady who uses her own smarts and determination to rise above her circumstances. The rest of the cast is also quite good, with one possible exception. Jason Lee Miller, who plays the adult Edmund, is a bit lacking, in my estimation, in the qualities needed for the principal male hearthrob. How unfortunate. The costumes, settings, production, script, and direction, however, are all top of the line. Any Austen fan will not want to miss this one, for any reason. But, even if Austen has never been your cup to tea, sit down and take in Mansfield Park. It is a fine, fine movie. "},{"Title":"Very bad film, but reveals a lot","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this may have been one of the the worst adaptations of a classic I've seen (only the Gwyneth Paltrow Emma and the Colin Firth Importance of Being Earnest were worse, of the adaptations I've seen recently). It had virtually nothing to do with Austen's book, which I happen to think is the most densely structured and interesting of her books. But the film brilliantly shows us the difficulties of adapting the past to the all conquering present.Let's say Rozema detested Austen's book, and didn't want her film to convey Austen's message effectively. Fair enough. I think Austen is a conservative and a snob, and I can sympathize with someone who wants to subvert all that. But look what happens when a fairly (I assume) illiterate filmmaker tries to rewrite Austen. First off, the tension between Fanny and Sir Thomas disappears. Instead of being a stiff but nevertheless very moral older man, he is made into a brutal lech, and a debaucher of slaves. All this unnecessary political correctness makes it ridiculous that Fanny should worry about his disapproval. Austen's Fanny wouldn't have stayed three minutes with this Sir Thomas Bertram. And what was the point of making Fanny a feisty modern feminist in relation to Mrs Norris? Again, a feisty modern feminist would have been turned out of the Park by Austen's Mrs Norris in no time at all. So Rozema's anachronistic attribution of spirit to Fanny ruins the careful structure of the book, in which fanny's Christian patience and humility wins over everyone she comes into contact with.But I thought the film was fascinating, because it reveals a huge problem that filmmakers, especially, face. How can you be true to the spirit of the original, and yet signal that you disapprove of the spirit? Rozema's choice was to simply rewrite Austen, which is probably the silliest option. But I have to admit that a brilliant film version of MP would probably be a flop. We simply aren't willing to accept Austen's message, which is about Christian fortitude and patience, not to mention resisting sexual desire. This film completely missed the original vision, but at least in missing that, it tells us something about ourselves "},{"Title":"Strong casting and visual period work highlight Miss Austen's final novel.","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" British playwright Harold Pinter, Jonny Lee Miller, Embeth Davidtz and Frances O'Conner are ideally cast in Mansfield Park, Jane Austen's study of the folly and foibles of the landed gentry in early 19th century Britain. Fanny Price, an analogue of previous Austen heroines Elizabeth Bennet and Eleanor Dashwood, is as likable, idyllic and insightful as any prototype Austen protagonist. The film's set design, costumes and castle used for Mansfield, are true to the feel of Austen's words, if some of the screenplay is modernized for our contemporary audience. However, her understanding of people--their desires, their character, their judgmental prejudices-comes shining through. Accessible to all viewers and not just Austen fans, Mansfield Park is a classic British style independent film able to introduce film fans to the literature of Jane Austen. "},{"Title":"disappointing Austen adaptation","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This had the potential to be good, but made two errors.  First it tried to treat Austen with irony - never a good move - so you don't believe in any of the characters or care about them.  Then it used her juvenilia (mainly History of England and Love and Freindship) to jazz up the story of Fanny Price's move into the high society of her rich relations.There are compensations, but sadly not amongst the main cast.  As Fanny, Frances O'Connor is not right at all; and Jonny Lee Miller is poor as Edmund Bertram.  Better are Lindsay Duncan and Hilton MacRae as Fanny's parents, Sheila Gish as Mrs Norris, James Purefoy as Tom Bertram, and Harold Pinter as Sir Thomas.A pity then that this film isn't as entertaining as it could be, and fails to follow in the footsteps of other Austen adaptations such as Emma, Pride and Prejudice, and Sense and Sensibility. "},{"Title":"Bad adaptation","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I will say that if you are a Jane Austin fan, because you have read her books. Then just go take your time and read them again instead of watching this film. The words based on are really just based on. It means that the main characters are the same as in the book, but they don't act like it. It is very different and the center of attention has been moved. It has nothing in common with the book. Although admittedly I do have to say that some of the actors are pretty good. But the script is really .......(I just don't have enough words to describe it). So if you want a Jane Austin movie go read the book. If you just want to kill time and see a not bad movie than do see it.  "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From reading other peoples comments on this movie quite a lot of you didn't like what the director did, to what was clearly one of your favourite Jane Austin books. Which I have to admit that when someone messes with one of my favourite books it annoys the hell out of me too. Though saying this even though I am a Jane Austin fan I actually liked what the director did with this movie. I felt it was quite a brave thing to do with a book of an author so many love. It kept to Austin's style even if the character was more like the real Austin than the Fanny she wrote about.The acting was fantastic and the chemistry between Fanny and Edmund throughout was brilliant. By the end you were begging for them to get together. All in all I thought it was a very enjoyable and witty (because of the little commentary Fanny does to the camera) It was also refreshing to get some of the issues that Austin glossed over included. i.e. Slavery.  "},{"Title":"Bright and clever adaptation of Austen's novel","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Patricia Rozema has shown the world a most brilliant adaptation of Jane Austen's Mansfield Park. While Sense and Sensibility(Ang Lee) and Emma (Douglas McGrath) offer an accurate, and quite strict, filming of both texts, Patricia Rozema's Mansfield Park is certainly not the novel in images. Rozema remains faithful to the spirit of the book but, at the same time, omits and adds details in a way that her film becomes most appealing to the contemporary audiences. Moreover, when seeing the film, I thought that, at last, I could fully understand Fanny Price, a heroine for all times. "},{"Title":"ehh an okay movie i guess","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was flipping through the channels when i stumbled upon this movie. I decided that I needed some time to kill so I watched the movie. When it was finally finished I had mixed feelings about the movie. At times i felt bored and confused. The movie in my opinion doesn't really stay true to the novel. But whateva. 4/10 "}{"Title":"Poor Jane","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thank goodness Patricia Rozema is so enlightened that she can provide a remedy for poor Jane Austin's limited moral development. Rozema has cured dull Fanny's rectitude and given us all the benefit of Rozema's superior insight and cultural sensitivity. Think of how much Jane and all the rest of us have to gain from Rozema's genius.                 How about Emma/Emile in which the transgendered heroine/hero goe on to found Greenpeace? Or Persuasion in which the lead character is seduced into the neo-Nazi movement by the paramilitary Capt. Wentworth? Then there is Pride and Prejudice in which a young woman marries an African prince against the wishes of her family...oh wait, that's kind of like that story by that major dead white European male, Shakespeare. Hey, Shakespeare! Now there someone Rozema ought to find even more eligible for improvement. Watch out Shylock!  "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I LOVED this movie!  I'm a big Jane Austen fan but Mansfield Park is my least favorite of her books.  I always saw Fanny Price as a rather pathetic & dreary character, but Frances O'Connor made her a strong, independent and VERY likeable woman.  I thoroughly enjoyed the movie and would recommend it to any Jane Austen fan. "},{"Title":"a nice Victorian piece.....","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this was a sort-of feminist flick that could make even guys proud of thier girls. Frances O'Connor was terrific! these kind of movies will be what she does best, and what i will remember her for.and having Jonny Lee Miller and Alessandro Nivola just made this movie a little more enjoyable, if you catch my drift. filled with smooth dialogue and a good plot, this is a great feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"COSTUME DRAMA ALERT","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Normally the sight of carriages and bonnets on the screen has me heading for the nearest exit. To my surprise then, I found this to be a well-crafted and entertaining film.True some liberties were taken with the literary source (don't films always), and O'Connor wasn't quite strong enough for the lead role. However this was a film that dared to be different, and was even almost a cutting-edge costume drama. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read some of the other comments prior to mine and got the impression that the movie bears little resemblence to the novel. That doesn't matter though, because I've never read the book, and from what I've read here, it seems that the book would put me to sleep if I had tried to read it. I remember having to read Pride and Prejudice for English class in 9th grade, it bored me to sleep. Everytime I picked up the book to read, I would scan through the lines which I can't seem to comprehend as they're denser than uranium, then after a few pages I would not remember anything I just read and get very sleepy. I never finished the book, and decided never to touch anything by Austen again. A few days ago, I came across Mansfield Park on the shelves at my local video rental store, since I was just browsing and happened to have my membership card and a few bucks in my pocket, I decided why not, so I rented it. When I popped it in my VCR, I was pleasantly surprised. While I'd agree that the bit about slavery is extraneous, there's no need to dwell on minor points, as they occupy a tiny fraction of screen time. I loved O'Conner's portrayal of Fanny, and for the longest time I thought she's going to marry Henry Crawford and live happily ever after. I completely missed the bit about his flirtation with Mariah and I guess it was so minor that I just automatically dismissed it as not being central to the plot. I'd have never thought the Crawfords to be such as they really are. I really enjoyed the incorporation of the bits of stories that Fanny wrote, ...their intimicy grew to such a pitch that they no longer kick each other out of the window at the slightest provocation, ...but lived beyond their means and eventually was jailed where she was partially eaten by her two young sons, but she plans to stab the prison guards... I loved these tidbits as they really give an insight to the creative and imaginative mind of Fanny Price. What made the whole movie work is O'Conner's portrayal of Fanny, if they have made Fanny timid and shy and submissive as had been suggested, I think the movie would've been boring and turned me off Austen forever (now I'm going to find P&P and S&S to watch). This Fanny is actually exciting, to quote Edmund, her entire person is entirely agreeable. There are lots of movies with hot actresses, and there's lots of movies with sappy teen romances, what set this movie apart is that it's romantic without being sappy, it's fun without being frivolous, and the heroine isn't some boy crazy school girl or butt kicking action junkie, she actually possesses wit and humor, with capabilities for invention and creativity. In other words, she actually has a brain and a heart of course -) . (and I don't mean brain as in Legally Blonde) "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mansfield Park is the only novel by Jane Austen that I haven't read. But I can still guarantee that this film features a few scenes that would never ever appear in an Austen-novel. Not in a million years...This version of Mansfield Park is very entertaining and great fun to watch. Alessandro Nivola does a great job, as he usually does, and Jonny Lee Miller is great as well.Mansfield Park is much better than Emma (with Gwyneth Paltrow), but not quite as good as Sense and Sensibility. Naturally, Pride and Prejudice is _the_ Austen adaptation, but it would be unfair to compair Mansfield Park to P&P since the latter is a TV-series and had much more time for character development et cetera.(7/10) "},{"Title":"A very boring adaptation of Jane Austen's splendid book","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this film immensely boring. The problem was that it was flat and the director didn't stay true to the book. Jane Austen's books are meant to be fun, but this film had none of the fun element to it. It had a script which plodded along and some of the style was completely out of character with 1802 - much more 20th century. I didn't like the feminist approach and the general politics of this film bringing in slaves (this wasn't mentioned in the book). If the director had stayed true to Jane Austen's superb Mansfield Park this film could have been enjoyable and full of life, instead it was flat & a waste of my time. "},{"Title":"amusing, less radical than its publicity might suggest","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jane Austen adaptations have a bad press. They are seen as  cavalcades of pretty costumes and good manners, a sort of filmic wing of Good Housekeeping. Austen's insight into human behaviour, her dextrous use of language and her keen satire of the mores of love, wealth and marriage are all too often ignored. As well as being (loosely) adapted from the novel Mansfield Park, the script is based on Austen's early journals and letters. It might be better to call this Patricia Rozema's (the director) Mansfield Park, rather than Austen's.This has been portrayed in the mass media as punk Jane Austen with lesbianism, sex, slavery and other assorted liberties taken. As usual the coverage of these aspects is out of proportion. The lesbianism amounts to a couple of mildly flirtatious moments; although slavery is a key theme in this adaptation. Modern critics, such as Edward Said, make much of the references to an Antiguan slave plantation in the novel; far more than Jane Austen does. Rozema makes the moral issue - how can these people live a life of ease with the profits of slavery - central to the movie.Fanny Price (Frances O'Connor) lives in poverty in Portsmouth until sent to live with her Aunt's family in Mansfield Park. The family is led by Sir Thomas Bertram (Harold Pinter) the alternately affable and stern patriarch; his alcoholic wife (Lindsay Duncan, who also appears as Fanny's mother); Mrs Norris, Fanny's aunt, who is a petty dictator; the youngest son of Sir Thomas, the serious Edmund (Johnny Lee Miller); Sir Thomas' two silly daughters; and Tom the eldest son, who in the original book was merely a libertine but here is not only a libertine but an anti-slavery libertine (content though to squander the proceeds of slavery)Into all this come Henry Crawford (Alessandro Nivola) and his sister Mary Crawford (Embeth Davidtz); attractive, unconventional and ultimately amoral, and the agents that send most of the action in motion. Fanny acts as the catalyst for the moral regeneration of the family. Her patience, kindness, and intelligence shine through at all times.Naturally enough, while other characters constantly remind us of Fanny Price's undesirability (mainly due to her lack of family name and money), Frances O'Connor is a babe who would stop traffic in real life. This Fanny Price is far more assertive and acerbic than Austen's. As is the way with the movies, the action is less subtle than in the novel; what Austen leaves unspoken, or doesn't deal with, is made explicit. The acting is superb, especially Harold Pinter, holding up very well for a man who'll be seventy in October.The last music we hear over the end credits is an African song called Slavery. We are a long way from the pretty frocks of stereotypical costume drama. Occasionally  the political and sexual subtexts are a little forced. One character exclaims this is 1806 for Heaven's sake which is the early 21st Century talking. Overall though there is much to enjoy in this thought-provoking film that catches the spirit if not perhaps the letter of Austen's works.  "},{"Title":"A film with great feeling and remarkable acting.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best representation of a Jane Austen film that I have seen since Emma Thompson in Sense and Sensibility.  Frances O'Connor plays Fanny Price wonderfully, as a young, intelligent, headstrong yet vulnerable character that is completely endearing.  But what I found more astounding was Jonny Lee Miller's performance as Edmund.  I have seen him in Trainspotting and Hackers but his performance in this movie really shows his versatility and talent. You will love this film if you are a romantic at heart, the scenes between Miller and O'Connor are so poignant it makes your heart hurt.  The chemistry between them is evident throughout the movie and it is wonderful to watch.  "},{"Title":"Recommendable","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was very much impressed with the successful combination of Jane Austen's own life, melted into this adaptation of Mansfield Park,..so Fanny Price's sister Susan substituted her brother, and thus became Jane Austen's own sister Cassandra! Frances O'Connor is a find, colourful, spirited and demure, also with her Fanny Price seems to be more human in this adaptation than in the mini series! Much to my delight!! Jonny Lee Miller whom I remember from Trainspotting is excellent as Edmund, a sensitive, albeit at times confused young man. Who wouldn't be playing opposite Embeth Davidtz, alluring as Mary Crawford. Eventually he sees the light, and all is well!And Harold Pinter as a formidable Sir Thomas Bertram! "}{"Title":"A smart interpretation of the book.","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Patricia Rozema's re-evaluation of Austen is attractively filmed, and proficiently acted. The young Fanny is suitably wa if-like and Harold Pinter makes an imposing Sir Thomas.The themes of slavery are drawn out well, and neatly linked to ideas of servility and entrapment of women in late eighte enth century society. Rozema puts a feminist spin on Austen's text, which is not necessarily true to the book Austen herself was quite a conservative. The film is also more of a romance than the book; which could mainly be due to the expectations of a modern audience. Fanny Price is, in the book, a difficult character to sympathise with, and the ending, although presented happily is suitably occluded. Fanny IS marrying her Cousin. Mansfield Park is essentially a tale of obeisance to society. The Be rtram sisters break society's rules and are punished. Fanny, by marrying Edmund, is dutifully maintaining the fabric of society - which Austen herself held to be so important - and is duly rewarded. A well studied and argued piece of film-making, even if it does twist Austen's text somewhat to meet its feminist agenda. "},{"Title":"Beautiful - I loved it !","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I luv Jane Austen movies, and I have to say this is one of my favourites alongside 1995's Pride and Prejudice and 1996's Emma. I thought it was filmed so beautifully, you could just become a part of it like a dream. Frances O'Connor and Jonny Lee Miller were just excellent as Fanny Price and Edmund Bertram, I fell in love with just watching the chemistry, happiness and sadness of both characters. I thought it was excellent despite the change of storyline but I think it was done for the best. "},{"Title":"Another great Austen adaption.","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday, and I found it very charming. I'm a great fan of Jane Austen, but I haven't read this book yet. I have, however, read most of her other books, and the movie was very Austen-like. Although her stories are quite predictable, they are usually very enjoyable. I do like the happy endings =) Frances O'Connor was a delightful Fanny Price, Embeth Davidtz was a brilliant, mean b*tch as Mary Crawford. There's one of those in every Austen book, and they are always very interesting characters.As always, the setting was beautiful, and the filming showed us the lovely landscape the surrounded the castle. I liked this movie very much. Jane Austen is funny, intelligent and witty. I recommend it. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Nice Biography","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The music and scenery was beautiful.  Jane Austin's life story was interesting, but boring.   A love story with no love expressed by the actors. A comedy with no laughter to share.  It was not entertaining by any standard, just a waste of time and certainly not worth the admission price. I wish I had waited for the TV version on PBS.  "},{"Title":"If you are unfamiliar with Jane Austin, try this film...","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the novel differs from the film in several fundamental scenes, this story is remarkable in its own right.  It will spark your interest in reading her books which, for their time and even our own, are so observant of human nature...so sympathetic to the basic weakness in most of us, and so mischievous in style that you will become hooked.  The casting is perfect. Harold Pinter as the pater familias is unforgettable.  Fanny Price, played by both the young and the adult women, will remain in your memory for years to come.  "},{"Title":"Austen's Genius Inspires Rozema's Essay","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Patricia Rozema's re-rendering of Jane Austen's novel, Mansfield Park, with significant Austen letters and journal entries incorporated, offers moviegoers a heady mix of romance, drama and morality.  After a screening, I walked out with the feeling there was much to think over.  Now, after reading several reviews and doing much careful reflection, I believe the main achievement of the movie is the elaboration and foregrounding of certain aspects of the circumambient reality of regency England. Ms. Rozema's intersection of Austen's own world with the world of her novel creates the effect of a momentous alteration.The crucial question is how the original story is altered.  It is the moral dimension of the novel that gains amplitude in Ms. Rozema's rerendering. Through the notable changes in the characters of Sir Thomas Bertram, Thomas, Jr. and Henry and Mary Crawford, the story acquires the angry tone of a forthright and broad-based social indictment.  Near the end, Sir Thomas is bowed if not broken by his complicity in patriarchal, imperialist, slave-mongering England.  Thomas, Jr. is nearly driven to suicide by his extended, pious rant against all that his father embodies.  Henry Crawford (and Maria Rushworth) are imprisoned within the arrogance of abused privilege.  Mary Crawford succumbs to a vulgar ambition which finally becomes cancerous.  It's as if the laughing, witty spirit of Jane Austen, peerless moral intellect who nonetheless remains in balance with the humorist were suddenly bum-rushed by a stern, didactic reformer.  Although it's easy to rationalize that Ms. Rozema, who writes in today's climate of post-censorship, projects a more commendable moral fervor because she's free to make explicit what the repressed culture of Jane Austen could only whisper, one suspects that Jane Austen, in writing about her own country and society, projects her muted morality through a tender affection and loving toleration wholly absent from her Canadian interpreter.  On the question of rebuke vs. toleration, in application to moral values, Ms. Rozema clearly holds the higher ground.But there is another application, namely, aesthetic.  Although the impact of aesthetics upon morality remains a vexed question, its impact upon the vitality of art is fundamental.  The enduring beauty of Jane Austen's writing lies within its coupling of human nature astutely observed with a generous and supremely tensile sympathy.  In her genius for characterization, a genius that defies moral pigeonholing, Jane Austen finds no counterpart in Ms. Rozema.I don't quibble when I point out that Fanny's removal to Mansfield Park is due not to Lady Bertram, as one might expect, but rather to Fanny's other aunt, Mrs. Norris.  Early on, we see Mrs. Norris, a mean-spirited, pretentious attachment to the Bertram estate, express shock upon hearing Sir Thomas' assumption that Fanny will move into her and Mr. Norris' cottage. Her idea in bringing Fanny was to have her live (albeit as a virtual servant) in the big house.  While it might be argued that Mrs. Norris merely likes to strike a generous pose while spending the largesse of another, her role as catalyst blocks her absolute dismissal as a petty tyrant.The most telling changes occur within the character of Mary Crawford.  In the original, as in the rerendering, there is a pivotal scene where Edmund's eyes are opened to the strong worldliness and deficient piety of Miss Crawford's character.  But she never disgraces herself as a heartless vulgarian.  Ms. Rozema's Mary Crawford is an unambiguous villain who merely has to announce herself in order to permanently repel anyone possessing common sense.  In the original, Mary Crawford is an attractive woman possessing sparkling wit, excellent judgment and uncommon good sense.  It is only through the exercise of his highest discernment, which he acknowledges to have been honed to sharpness by Fanny, that Edmund sees that Miss Crawford's charms are evanescent.  Even then, it's primarily personal feeling, not indignation, that guides Edmund's choice. There has even been some argument, among professional critics, whether nor not within Jane Austen, in the creation of Mary Crawford, the artist outmaneuvers the moralist.  "},{"Title":"the best Jane Austen movie.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had not heard anything about this movie before I saw it and I have not read the book. But I have read other Jane Austen books and this story was definitely the most interesting and daring of all the plot lines. I suppose that the screen writer changed things a bit, but I thought the final product was wonderful. There were so many funny scenes too. Some of their expressions were priceless, for example, when Edmund was trying to explain to Maria's husband why Maria was not there because she was with Henry, that look on his face made me laugh so much. I can't see how anyone could not have liked Edmund. I also thought that Fanny was perfectly likeable. Not only was the acting wonderful, I thought the cinematography was gorgeous.  "},{"Title":"nice, jane austen'd like it, methinks","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think I just have a thing for Jane Austen movie adaptations of the non-teen-flick variety (although I did like Clueless as well), as I loved Emma with Gwyneth, Ewan et. al. But this movie rates up there among all movie preferences for me, and it's one I'll watch and rewatch eagerly. Frances O'Connor is talented, Johnny Lee is very cute (even if he is, as exhibited in Woody Allen's recent Melinda and Melinda, not the world's greatest nor most believable actor), and I love the dreamy, swirly, slightly surreal cinematography. I think the subtle, reserved acting style helps to balance what is a fluffy, quite light and girlie story. See this one! "},{"Title":"Delightfully done","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a great fan of Jane Austen's and I have enjoyed reading many of her works, although I had never heard of this one before seeing this film.  Those who profess to be experts about such things say that this early work was not one of her best.  However, I found the film to be delightful and very much in keeping with Austen's penchant for conjuring up romantic intrigue in 19th century English society.This is the story of Fanny Price (Frances O'Connor), who is taken out of poverty by her aunt and benefactress to live in high society.  Though she is given every benefit afforded her cousins, she is constantly reminded of her second-class status in the household.  As the story revs up, we are treated to a typical Austen maelstrom of misplaced romantic affections.  Mariah Bertram (Victoria Hamilton) is engaged to Mr. Rushworth (Hugh Bonneville), but she is infatuated with Henry Crawford (Allesandro Nivola) as is her sister Julia.  Though Henry enjoys flirting with Mariah, his true affections lie with Fanny.  Fanny shuns his attentions because she loves her cousin Edmund (Jonny Lee Miller) who is smitten by Henry's sister Mary (Embeth Davitz).  This is a classically delicious Austenian romantic conundrum.  The remainder of the story goes about reconciling all the unrequited love with more than a few interesting twists.Patricia Rozema adapted and directed this film, which was very nicely done.  The choice of locations was excellent and she used the countryside effectively, giving us numerous lovely outdoor scenes.  The period rendering was very good as well, presenting very realistic 19th century sets and costumes.  There has been a lot of controversy about Rozema's insertion of the slave issue, which was notably absent from Austen's novel.  To a point, I have to defend Rozema, but ultimately I felt she went too far. A director has a responsibility to make the film believable by providing details not in the script.  For instance, Austen doesn't specifically describe the actual dress and furniture of the time, so the director must find suitable props and costumes of the period to give the film a genuine look and feel.  Slavery was a dominant issue of the time and so the insertion of the topic was a realistic detail, as long as it remained in the background.  However, the introduction of the sketch pad (those who have seen the film will understand) took slavery out of the background and made it a plot element.  This was tantamount to rewriting Austen's story, and I felt it was a preachy and presumptuous abuse of artistic license.Frances O'Connor was outstanding as Fanny.  She was enchanting and effervescent and passed credibly for a teenager despite being almost 30 years old.  Fanny was a multifaceted character.  She was a combination of youthful ebullience, fierce independence and stubborn determination.  O'Connor handled all these aspects of her character like a pro.  Embeth Davitz was also excellent as Henry's conniving sister.This delightful and well-crafted film is very entertaining and enjoyable.  I rated it 9/10.  With the possible exception of the slavery issue, lovers of Jane Austen will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The one movie that is better than the book","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a big fan of Jane Austen and a big fan of costume dramas as well. To tell the truth, Mansfield Park is my least favorite of Austen's novels, but I ended up loving the movie. The director has taken main elements and plot lines of the book, and added and subtracted along the way, adding social issues of the day (the slavery plot line) and substituting Susan for Fanny's brother. Jane Austen's actual letters and some of her early stories (The Juvenilia) make their way into the film as well. Seeing as I found the book version of Fanny Price a little bit too perfect and even a bit irritating, I was very happy to see a different interpretation for Mansfield Park the film. "}{"Title":"generally likable if offbeat Austen entry","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Considering the fact that Jane Austen was not exactly the most prolific novelist of all time &#150; she basically completed about half a dozen lengthy works in her short lifetime &#150; it seems inconceivable that, after the recent onslaught of films derived from her works, there remain any left available for adaptation.  Yet, here is the latest, a film version of what many consider to be one of her weaker efforts, `Mansfield Park,' a tale set, like all her stories, in the pleasant countryside of early 19th Century England.  Faced as they were with the obvious inferiority of the source material and the prospect of building a film around what is universally admitted to be one of Austen's drabbest heroines, the filmmakers obviously decided to risk updating the material by bringing a more modern, socially conscious sensibility to the proceedings.  Predictably, many Austen purists have balked at the screenwriter's injection of so sanguinary a subject as the slave trade into the author's carefully isolated and circumscribed world of genteel manners and quaint social customs.  In addition, the film even provides a glimpse of passionate lovemaking that, while insignificant by today's filmic standards, may well jolt the true Austenphile into a state of palpitating agitation if not downright apoplexy (pass the smelling salts someone; I feel a case of the vapors coming on)!Actually, `Mansfield Park' emerges as a reasonably entertaining film, true to the spirit of Austen in its sharp-witted dialogue and its exploration of ever-shifting romantic relationships that are the staples of all the author's works.  The protagonist, Fanny Price, sent off at a young age to live as the `poor relation' at her relatives' estate in the country, has been made less the passive observer she was in the novel and more a woman of action and decision.  The film essentially concerns itself with the romantic travails of this kindhearted, clear-eyed young woman as she copes with the haughtiness, facades and deceptions of a number of the people around her.  Even though the story seems at times a pale reiteration of themes and plot devices developed to more effectiveness in the author's `Pride and Prejudice,' the complexity of both the characters and the storyline keep one intrigued for most of the film's running time.  As with Elizabeth Bennet, Fanny discovers the realities of the true persona so often hidden beneath deceptively simple surfaces and learns to accept a world and the people living in that may not be quite in accordance with one's stubbornly held pre-conceived notions. As to the inclusion of the issue of the uncle's involvement in the slave trade, it is not, in and of itself, a matter for immediate dismissal.  Just because Austen never included it in any of her works doesn't mean that it is necessarily irrelevant in helping to fill in the social background of the era presented.  The problem, though, is that the subject is dealt with in such a superficial manner that it seems tacked on as a too-obvious attempt to render the time period more in tune with modern standards of equanimity and social justice &#150; as if our liberal consciences could not indulge themselves guilt-free in the seeming triviality of these characters' over-sheltered lives if we were not forced to notice that such a lifestyle was possible only on the broken backs of human workhorses.  (One wonders if, in a film set in modern times, we will now be subjected to discussions of the cruelty and inhumanity of the treatment of migrant farm workers every time a character indulges himself in a piece of fruit.  It is always so much easier to point the finger of wagging shame at the barbarity of cultures long passed from the scene than at our own).Luckily, writer/director Patricia Rozema has been blessed with a first-rate cast of extraordinary actors, including Embeth Davidtz as a fully fleshed-out version of Fanny, and even playwright Harold Pinter, of all people, as Fanny's slave-owning uncle.  Visually, the film is gorgeous, capturing the many-hued brilliance of the tranquil English countryside and the dreary, somber grayness of Fanny's impoverished seaside home with equal effectiveness.`Mansfield Park' is nowhere near the sparkling delight that `Emma' was.  Still, it provides riches aplenty for those with a fondness for this time period and the uniquely special joys Jane Austen's works provide. "},{"Title":"jane austen fans, beware","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know how they can call this Mansfield Park as it has nothing to do with Austen's wonderful novel. Instead we're treated to a display of potential child abuse, almost lesbianism, alcoholism and a junkie as the mother! I saw this described as a modern adaptation but it is more of a costume drama with modern day problems.  "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" the thought why write another review when there are already 177 of them has already crossed my mind, so i'm just going to give my opinion a lot of reviews crucified this movie because it doesn't jibe with the book. i didn't read the book, so it wasn't a consideration. i liked it because no one got blown up or shot. it was quite sedate; it made me fall asleep, so i missed a lot of it. i'm planning on going back and watching it again. movies that make me fall asleep get an extra star. i don't need to stay awake with my adrenaline pumping. also, i'm planing on listening to the audiobook next. maybe the contrapositive of naysayers holds true; maybe i won't like the audiobook because it doesn't jibe with the movie. typically, i like movies like v and law abiding citizen, but i like movies like this also because they help me relax. i really don't need a whole lot of entertaining. "},{"Title":"Awesome adaption of a Jane Austen classic!","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you blink, you will miss the delectable Amelia Warner as young Fanny, it's a wonder she even got the credit for this film because she was barely in it. I rented it because I had hoped she would be featured more prominently but to my dismay, she wasn't. Her two scenes are even less that what would be considered a cameo. Nevertheless, the film was very touching as well as entertaining. When Frances O'Connor takes over as the older yet awe-stricken Fanny, she takes such charge of the role that you wouldn't even miss Miss Warner. O'Connor shines as the grudge-less, unsuspecting damsel, and she is backed up by an awesome screenplay version of the novel as well as a stellar supporting cast that includes Johny Lee Miller, Hugh Bonneville (before the Oscar), Victoria Hamilton and a brooding and very dark Alessandro Nivola. "},{"Title":"Pretty neat for a hefty novel written 200 years ago.","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bath, in bucolic Cotswold England, embodies the spirit of novelist Jane Austen, who lived and loved there Sophisticated, sluggish, solvent, and sassy, the resort town has been vacation spot to the famous and infamous, not the least of whom is Chaucer's notoriously tyrannical Wife of Bath. Out of the even more famous mind of social chronicler Jane Austen (Pride and Prejudice, Sense and Sensibility) comes Mansfield Park, a product of the transition from romantic to Victorian England, specifically set in the first few years of the nineteenth century.The film version of the novel directed by Patricia Rozema (I've Heard the Mermaids Singing) thrives on taking a feminist view of men's limitations and a good woman's faith in true love as the only arbiter of a successful marriage.Rozema depicts the rise of Fanny Price, poor ten-year old cousin to the rich Sir Thomas Bertram family, to trusted family member and eventual wife to Sir Thomas's cleric son. The elements of class rigidity and social climbing, carried throughout the century to Anthony Trollope's Barsetshire novels, are all there A young woman must marry well by whatever means at hand but suffer severe loss should arrangements not go as planned. That a poor young woman fights every moment for dignity and a chance at happiness is expressed in Sir Thomas's advice to his daughters about cousin Fanny She is not your equal. But that must never be apparent to her. The moneyed men rarely suffer serious consequences in this culture war, a source of justifiably unending feminist scorn. That women could not inherit under English law placed the whole circus in perspective for a father like Sir Thomas with sons to receive his wealth and daughters and nieces to negotiate into marriage. His exchange with Fanny over marrying the unworthy but well-off Henry Crawford crystallizes Sir Henry's narrow thinking and Fanny's struggle in this exchange Do you trust me?'' he asks. ''Yes, sir.'' ''Well, I trust him, and you will marry him.'' Although we are used to the usually careful Miramax renditions (The nineties are filled with masterpieces), Rozema innovates by adapting Austen's journals, letters, and 1814 novel to the director's vision. In effect, Rozema creates a leaner version of the novel with a heroine less somber and more literary, a character even closer in temperament and talent to Jane Austen than the author herself created. Purists need not be offended The resulting film is every bit Austen's world of maneuvering misses and manipulated males, all of whom seem to share the goal of marrying well and preserving fortunes.Rozema's sub-theme about slavery and abolitionism is highlighted by a sketchpad of slave horrors and comments about the Bertrams' good life being supported by their Antigua plantation. It's a nice touch to have Sir Thomas forsake slavery in the end only to turn to tobacco as his next investment. The modern sensibility catches the irony, Rozema succeeds in updating Austen, and Fanny finds her soul mate. Pretty neat for a hefty novel written 200 years ago.And by the way, if feminism and nineteenth-century social climbing are not interesting to you, at least see the film for its superior cinematography&#151;those helicopter shots the director admits to loving almost to obsession are another of the delights to connect the post- modern Seinfeld and Friends world to the romantic early Victorians. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Adaptation","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mansfield Park is not only a period film, but a film that highlights the modern (timeless) aspects of Jane Austen's novel. Fanny Price is the main character, played marvelously by Frances O'Connor. She struggles to assert her individuality and to break out of her 'gilded cage', like the starling referenced in the movie. Her cousin, Edmund, (Jonny Lee Miller) is her closest friend and only ally in a household that treats her like a servant, instead of an equal member of the family. The 'action' begins in the movie when Mary and Henry Crawford arrive at Mansfield and change everything and everyone. The best part is noticing how and why, because some things are so subtle, it took many viewings and the commentary on the DVD to fully appreciate.The movie right on, and couldn't have followed the book more closely, without compromising writer/director Patricia Rozema's attempts to include Jane Austen (not just her book) into the film, as well. The stories Fanny tells are actually from Austen's early works and journals and other bits from her other works were put in as well, that Austen fans can pick out and appreciate.The movie has a modern feel to it, with underlying references to slavery and a deeper relationship between Fanny and Mary. The mood is fresh and though the story from a different time, it feels like it is new, which is why Austen is such a great writer and why this movie can be appreciated by anyone.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Too arty, a woman thing","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Little House on the Prairie and Anne of Green Gables, but unlike Fried Green Tomatoes (which I enjoyed), I just couldn't get through Mansfield Park. The double-whammy of (a) arty drama and (b) really more of a story for women.You know, some of the classics are classic, and some are just pretty boring. It's based on the 19th century novel by Jane Austen, and, well for an action movie guy like me, a lotta lotta stuff has blown up in movies since the 1800s and it just didn't keep my attention. However, I'm quite willing to believe that for those with a greater emotional appreciation for drama and a greater refinement of taste on the arty side, this might be a great film.Who should see this film-- Women who like dramas-- Anybody with an appreciation for 19thcentury fare Room with A View, Pride andPrejudice, endless British upper class bickering about daddy,etc. By the way, check out Bridget Jones's Diarywhich will be right up your alley and accessible to guyslike me, too.I'll give Mansfield Park (hey, I'm entitled to an opinion) only a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another spin in the country with the Austen","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Austen could spin a good yarn, as many a film-maker has realised in the last 10 years. Her books lend themselves to different approaches &#150; from the almost page-for-page reproduction of the BBC mini-series 'Pride and Prejudice' to the almost unrecognisable California-isation of 'Clueless'. This film is somewhere in between. The story is the same &#150; poor young relative comes to stay at country estate, grows up with family, falls in love (but doesn't realize it) with pious younger son of family, is pursued by rakish neighbour whose sister is her rival for the son's affections, avoids disgrace and marries the reverend one. Three things stand out. First, the cast, most of whom are young, eager, not famous, and convincing. Frances O'Connor is exactly right as the house mouse Fanny with deep passion and a strong self-regard beating beneath her bodice. The object of her affections, Edmund, is played by Jonny Lee Miller, previously seen as the shambolic Sick Boy in 'Trainspotting'. He is still a trifle neurasthenic but here is rather more sympathetic. The Crawfords, the rakish neighbours, played by Alessandro Nivola and Embeth Davitz are both good-looking and vaguely evil, or are at least operating according to different values from the romantic Fanny and the pure Edmund. They are strongly supported by the older cast, in particular Sheila Gish as Fanny's snooty aunt Mrs Norris, and Harold Pinter as Sir Thomas, the paterfamilias with his autocratic manner concealing a strong need to be liked &#150; not easy when you own slaves in Antigua. Pinter, a most distinguished playwright, started as an actor and has not lost his touch.Second, the camera-work. This might be a costume drama but the set is minimally furnished and instead the camera concentrates on the cast's faces, presenting a considerable challenge to the actors who must both sound and look right at every moment. No gorgeous interiors, only one brief glimpse of a social event (Fanny's coming out Ball), no battles and one brief sex scene. Instead we get an involving, if somewhat improbable story with some well-rounded characters. I say 'improbable' because it does seem hard to believe that poor little Fanny would really stand up to Sir Thomas' pressure to marry the young, well-mannered, handsome, wealthy, socially prominent Henry Crawford, who is attracted to her, just because there was something vaguely untrustworthy about him. But I suppose that was Ms Austen's point &#150; marriage to obtain position is bound to be a disaster. But then so could be marriage for love, as Fanny's own mother had found. Is spinsterhood the only alternative for someone who wants to be their own woman?Third, the location. Here the film is geographically true to the novel, which is set in Northhamptonshire and Portsmouth. The Northampton location is Kirby Hall, a grand Elizabethan mansion now partially ruined, and not lived in since the 1760s. The lack of interior dcor produces a stage-like effect rather at odds with the pervasive use of close-ups and the naturalistic dialogue with its occasional anachronisms. The building, really a glorious ruin, is more of a metaphor than a set, but what is the metaphor? The passing of the landed aristocracy in the face of the industrial revolution (only just underway)? The noble, ancient but actually rather depraved and dissolute family? Or, if you are a moderately bad Baronet, the need to make a buck anyway you can to rebuild the west wing? Kirby Hall is not Mansfield Park, but what is it? Maybe just a cheap location. Anyway, the gardens are interesting. "},{"Title":"Thanks to the interesting story, this a nice drama","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Normally I'm not too much a fan of costume drama's situated in Victorian England. In fact, I'm not really a fan of the genre of the costume drama in general. But from time to time such a movie is shown on television and then I almost always give it a try. The main reason for that is because there sometimes can be a big diversity in these movies. Not all of them show Victorian society as the perfect mix of elegance, beauty and good manners. Some of them also show the less pretty side and that's something that I can appreciate.In Mansfield Park we see how Fanny Price, the 10-year old daughter from poor parents, goes to live at Mansfield Park, the estate of her aunt's husband, Sir Thomas. When she arrives, she isn't seen as a full member of the family, but is more or less used as a cheap maid. But she is a clever girl who likes to read all the books that she can lay her hands on and has a keen eye for seeing and describing the irony in many situations. As she grows older, she becomes especially close to Edmund, Sir Thomas's younger son. When she has reached the age all girls are supposed to be presented to society so they can find a husband, she comes to the attention of Henry Crawford. Sir Thomas is very pleased with this match, but Fanny isn't the typically docile young woman. She wants Henry Crawford to prove himself worthy and while Edmund is courting Henry's sister, it's getting more and more obvious that the Crawford fortune was made by the use of slavery in America, which makes it a lot harder for Fanny to see the man's good nature...Despite the fact that this movie looked a lot like all the other costume drama's that I've ever seen - for some that must be a positive aspect, for me however it is not - I must say that I quite liked it. Especially the fact that Fanny was a more or less rebellious young lady in a time period that this was absolutely not done, makes this movie a lot more interesting for me. I don't like it when they try to make you believe that these people lived in a perfect society, because that certainly wasn't the case. The contradiction and contrast between the poor and the rich wasn't forgotten for once and that's a good thing. But next to the story, this movie has other fine things to offer as well. The acting for instance is more than OK. Except for Frances O'Connor, who played the role of the adult Fanny Price, I didn't really know any of the actors. That's not so weird when you know that most of them have only played in TV-movies and mini-series, two things that I don't watch very often. Also worth mentioning are the costumes and the decors. It's obvious that they have taken quite some time in making it all look realistic and believable and I sure can appreciate such a good effort.All in all this is a fine example in the genre of the costume drama. It's perhaps thanks to the contrast between poor and rich and the fact that they have used some fine humor in the story, that I liked it more than average. Whatever it is that made me like it more, it worked and that's why I give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"A nice wicked comedy based on an 1814 Jane Austen book.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film was set in the late 1790s and the early 1800s in England.  Fanny Price is the oldest of a large, poor family and at 12 she is sent to live with her wealthy aunt over 100 miles away, at Mansfield Park.  As Fanny is getting into the carriage she askes her mother, How long will I be gone? Her mother just turns away. Apparently it was common in those days to give away children.  Fanny accepts her fate and is politely taken in by her aunt's family, but she is always an outsider. A very smart and progressive outsider.From her arrival at Mansfield Park, it is clear that Fanny has a bond with Edmund, and you feel early on that they will eventually get together.  But, it looks like they will both marry others, and that's really when the good part of the movie begins. It truly is a wicked comedy with clever dialog and funny situations.  It's treatment of flirting, explicit sexual references, infidelity, mistreatment of slaves on Antigua, and the like were very risque' for that time.Eventually Edmund becomes a minister, and is about to marry a lady who turns out to be wretched, Fanny almost marries the wretched lady's brother, who turns out wretched also.  And all ends well with Fanny and Edmund getting the last laugh together while all the others lead miserable lives as outcasts of various sorts.The simple message in this story is be true to yourself, as Fanny and edmund ultimately do, and all will turn out well.I rate this film a strong 7 of 10, for a fun story and excellent acting, but not quite as good as those I rate 8. I saw it on DVD. The picture is first-rate, and digital dolby 5.1 sound is good, although this type of movie does not have much in the surround channels. The scenery and musical score are both lush. "}{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, it wasn't fully true to the original, and yes, it was a little risque and late-20th century for Jane Austen, but very enjoyable nevertheless. The setting and costumes were beautiful, the actors were charming and attractive, and everything was very well done.  I think Ms. Austen would have approved. "}]