[{"Title":"fun clever comedy","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"66 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As gays and lesbians have achieved more and more acceptance in our society, a countervailing force &#150; led mostly by conservative religious organizations - has been rearing its head in recent years.  The movement is often referred to as `reparative therapy,' the rather absurd notion that, with just a little grit, determination and behavior modification, homosexuals can be `cured' of their `illness' and groomed to take their place as fine, upstanding members of the heterosexual community.  Certain `treatment centers' dedicated to this dubious cause have even begun to spring up in areas around the country, modeling themselves after 12-step programs like Alcoholics Anonymous.The makers of `But I'm a Cheerleader' have chosen to have a little fun with the concept, imagining one of these centers in almost surrealistic terms. Sweet-faced Natasha Lyonne stars as Megan, a regular teenager happily content to give her all to her cheerleading squad and only mildly confused as to why she can't seem to get quite as excited by her boyfriend as by thoughts of her buxom cheerleader buddies.  Suspecting her of being a lesbian &#150; long before Megan herself does, actually &#150; her `concerned' parents, friends and boyfriend cart her off to True Directions, a treatment center tucked safely away in the country.  In this bucolic setting, Megan and a group of other `deviants' are put through the rigors of a 5-step therapy program which includes admitting their homosexuality, undergoing gender role playing and even `practicing' man/woman sexual behavior under the stern tutelage of the mistress of the place.  In keeping with the near-surrealism of the subject matter, the center is done up in an almost Montessori school motif, with bold colored walls and furniture somehow emphasizing the cold, inhuman sterility of the setting.`But I'm a Cheerleader' is, by no means, a great or entirely successful comedy.  Its attempts at humor, particularly in its opening scenes, seem a bit forced and heavy-handed at times. Moreover, the tone shifts a bit uneasily every so often, running the gamut from stylized absurdity to heartbreaking seriousness.  Still, the undisciplined messiness is really part of the film's overall charm.  It removes the work from the same category as all those ultra-slick bubble-headed comedies about teens that major studios seem to release with frightening regularity.  And the movie does have many laugh-out-loud moments of inspired lunacy, showing to what preposterous lengths many straights and even some pressured gays will go in order to `correct' the uncorrectable.  We see the girls being given instructions on how to use a vacuum cleaner, wear makeup and change diapers. The boys are instructed in the fine arts of wood chopping, throwing a football and fixing cars.  These scenes work, in particular, not only for their comic effectiveness but their underlying poignancy, as these scared youngsters &#150; many threatened with disownment by their parents if they don't `straighten up' &#150; give it their all, against all hope, to truly change, to deny the very person their raging hormones are screaming at them to be.The movie also manages to make the gay characters seem real and believable. Thanks to a superb cast, many of the teens emerge as touching, three-dimensional people rather than the cartoon characters that they might have become in a similar film of this kind - particularly when it would be so easy for them to become so in the face of the caricatures of parents and camp counselors who swirl around them in this highly stylized setting. Prime among these is Cathy Moriarty, brilliant as Mary, the prim and proper leader of the establishment, a woman whose righteous wrong-headedness the actress captures to a comic tee.   In contrast, Rue Paul, out of drag for once, gives a superbly understated performance as an `ex-gay' now working for the enemy.  Among the teens, Lyonne and Clea DuVall, as the girl Megan falls in love with, are the obvious standouts.  They turn these potentially cardboard comic characters into full-sized, instantly recognizable young women filled with yearning, confusion and a desire to both please others and be true to themselves.And that is the ultimate message of this film.  Though done in an absurd way, the movie strives to point out that all of us must be allowed to be who we are and to live the life that best suits us.  Whether we are gay, straight or whatever, that's a philosophy of life we all need to be reminded of from time to time. "},{"Title":"Campy on Purpose","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"46 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Incredible social commentary. Yes, It's a little campy, but it's all supposed to be that way. It's an amusing look at attempting to 'rehab homosexuals with therapy and finding their roots. Great acting all around, excellent writing. Personally, it was the subtle things that did it for me. Mary's son was funny, and the cut-outs (just pay attention to the boys' lessons) were Hilarious. I thought it was a great tongue-in-cheek way of saying okay, this is stupid, we need to let them be for the gay community.If you're in the mood for a lot of laughing, and RuPaul out-of-drag to boot, rent this one. "},{"Title":"NOT your usual angst-ridden coming out film...","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a completely different take on any 'coming out' movie I have ever seen - but with RuPaul as a former homosexual turned 'conversion therapist,' it would pretty much have to be!Mink Stole is delightfully smarmy as Amanda's (Natasha Lyonne) mother who sends Amanda the cheerleader to `True Directions' a homosexual deprogramming camp - camp being the key word - mostly based on the fact that she doesn't like her quarterback boyfriend's extremely wet and sloppy kisses and (heaven forbid!) she has a poster of Melissa Etheridge in her bedroom.The camp is a wonderful, non-stop visual joke.The girl's bathroom has literally thousands of daisies attached to the walls. Their bedroom is a riot of pink satin, ribbons and lace worthy of Mae West.The girls have to wear pink uniforms and do housework; the boys are in blue and have to learn to chop wood, work on cars and learn football. Watching RuPaul work on a car is worth the price of admission alone.Each of the kids has a 'root,' - the reason they became gay ranging from `a traumatic bris' to `my mother got married in pants.'Larry and Lloyd (Richard Moll and Wesley Mann, respectively) are priceless as two of the first clients of True Direction and are now self described ex-ex-gays. They rescue kids via the 'underground homo railroad' with the message `that no matter who you are, be yourself.'They are an absolute delight.The final 'graduation scene' which wraps up the film very nicely is a real gem - I didn't know they made lavender fatigues!There were some real standout performances - Dante Basco as Dolph and Clea DuVall as Graham deserve special recognition.Don't run out as soon as the credits start rolling There is one last scene that seals this film with just the perfect touch.  "},{"Title":"5,6,7,8, god is good, god is straight!","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie definitely doesn't have as much recognition as it deserves.I absolutely love this movie.  I appreciate its comedy, and its love story, and the valuable lesson it tries to get across its audience Just Be Yourself!This movie is about a typical teenage girl named Megan Bloomfield living in a suburban neighborhood.  She's got is all, looks, popularity, the jock boyfriend, and also, she's head cheerleader!  But there is something odd about this girl that no one can put their finger on.  Why does she seem so disinterested in making out with her boyfriend?  Why does she have pictures of girls in her locker?  Why does she eat TOFU?  There must be only one answer  She's totally, 100%...GAY!  It's the only reason for the way she's behaving, so off her parents force her to go, to a rehab camp called True Directions for Gay People.  Six weeks in this place and you come out straight as a pin, they claim.Going in, Megan doesn't think she's gay, but it only takes her a few days to think otherwise.  Soon she is doing all the exercises to make herself normal again.Then she meets bad girl lesbian Graham Eaton, a girl that shares a room with her.  Well at first, the two hate each other, but then soon afterwords, become friends.  Graham tells her that no one can change who you are, but Megan is determined to graduate.  Suddenly, the relationship between the two of them becomes more than friends, and Megan realizes she wants to be with Graham, and it doesn't matter what anyone else says, she will always be Megan, head cheerleader, and lesbian. "},{"Title":"Satiric delight","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"37 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a biting and hilarious parody of people who not only force themselves into artificial molds but also feel the to make other people fit the same stereotypical molds. The main attack of the satire is on the delusion that homosexuals can be cured by people who are themselves repressed homosexuals.Deliciously silly victorian roles of males and females are superimposed on the teenagers who struggle not to be who they really are. But the garishly-colored costumes of the 1950's Father Knows Best and Leave It To Beaver style are as incongruous as the fake role-playing. In the end, at least some of the young victims of this cruelty escape to face a life of being themselves. "},{"Title":"Worth a Look","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was fortunate enough to catch But I'm a Cheerleader last night, and I must say the only thing that bothered me was the fact that I hadn't stumbled upon it sooner.Megan Bloomfield is a beautiful blonde, who seems to have the life that every girl has once dreampt of. She is a popular cheerleader, dating the captain of the football team. All seems well until she arrives home from school one day. Megan's family and friends confront her, and in classic Intervention fashion proceed to tell her what they KNOW to be the truth That she is a repressed lesbian. She is sent into a Rehab program ran by Reformed gays and lesbians. What could possibly go wrong?I believe it is worth mentioning that this film has an early John Waters feel to it. Mink Stole, who has been in every John Waters movie beginning in 1966, plays the role of Megan's Mother Nancy.If campy humor and love catch your eye, check it out. It might make you think a little, and it's sure to give you a few laughs. "},{"Title":"An exceptionally remarkable eye-opening film on adolescent soul","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To many viewers this is probably not much more than a well-made, feel-good satirical comedy about teenage homosexuality and adult homophobia mixed with some heart-warming moments, and indeed it serves that function of somewhat superficial entertainment well. But it is a lot more than that. If you watch carefully, this is an incredibly honest, revealing and touchingly sensitive film on teenage identity crisis and identity search interacting with social influences. It tells you more than any psychology book could tell on adolescence, because one cannot put all that into words. Natasha Lyonne as 17 year old Megan (the heroine of the story) demonstrates amazing qualities of acting in a role which is probably the most demanding any actor or actress can face that of a changing adolescent personality re-discovering one's inner, formerly suppressed unconscious self over two months, while still remaining herself in a way. If you compare her different faces at different phases of the story, e.g. when she just cannot think of anything at the camp, and when she looks into the bathroom mirror much later in the film washing her teeth, you will see what I mean. If you are not distracted by hilariously funny bits and jokes and you do not consider poor acting by Cathy Moriarty, it is in fact a top quality drama made superbly. Intimate conversations between the two leading actors (Natasha Lyonne and Clea DuVall) tell more in one minute of this film about life than most movie star celebrities do throughout their whole career. Natasha Lyonne should have received an Oscar for this as best actress, and she should have been offered leading roles in less superficial films than American Pie. A talent wasted. Her performance in this film is an extraordinary achievement and a very touching experience for anyone sensitive enough to resonate to it. I highly recommend it for re-watching it several times you will not get bored if you are attentive enough. "},{"Title":"Not your usual love story!","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" But I'm A Cheerleader was a great look at what Hollywood rarely looks at. Gays. It was a beautiful and funny movie with a great cast. Jamie Babbit Directed her young cast brilliantly and the cast should be commended on the believability of their characters. Each actor and actress really becomes the role. Admititly it is not without its drawbacks. Some of the scenes went to fast and we were not able to soak in the jokes. In some scenes the actors who payed the gay men did over act their roles a bit but i suppose they had to. Really needs two viewings to appreciate it more. Also anyone who does not get moved by 'that cheer' must be made of stone. A great movie for anyone in the closet or anyone just looking for a good feel-good-movie. "},{"Title":"Great social commentary piece...","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My gay best friend and I watched this movie together recently.  I found it to be quite a funny and touching film.  It played on all the typical gay stereotypes, while also discrediting them. I found it to be highly enjoyable.  There were some genuinely comic moments to be found here. Everyone (gay, straight, bi, or whatever) can get a pleasant laugh out of this movie. Don't miss out on it just because of its controversial subject matter. A+ "},{"Title":"A must rental for a guaranteed laugh, especially if you're gay!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For anyone who grew up or is growing up gay in middle-America or just about all of America, get ready to return to the most twisted version of your high school years and laugh till you're pink in the face.  But, I'm a Cheerleader is one of the best gay themed movies to date.  It is certainly one of the best comedies.  Sort of a Jeffrey turned female high school cheerleader meets John Waters with only the best qualities of each.I only wish this film had been available when I was a high school senior nearly fifteen years ago.  It could have saved me thousands of dollars a year in therapy!  If you are gay, and especially young or dealing with coming out at any age either to yourself and/or to others please go rent this movie.  This is one of the only films I've seen which shows you can have a wonderful life and be happy and be loved and be gay. "}{"Title":"Getting Straightened Out.... You Think?","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This almost-inept, often heavy-handed, little queer Comedy from 1999 was basically nothing but a contrived, one-note joke that got real tiresome, real fast. I'd say that But, I'm a Cheerleader (BIAC, for short) could've probably been a somewhat amusing little film had the script not been such a inane mess right from the start.Personally, judging from what I saw, I'd say that neither the director nor the blasted screenwriters had the slightest understanding at all when it came to the many subtle nuances of homosexuality. I mean, these guys couldn't have possibly had the least bit of insight into the subject, otherwise BIAC would've surely been destined to become something of a certified cult movie classic, indeed.Megan Bloomfield, a cute, 17 year-old, high school cheerleader, is suspected (for the most preposterous reasons imaginable), by her less-than-enlightened parents, of being 100% lesbian. (Oh, my gosh!) You know, I really wonder how many level-headed parents out there go through this sort of ordeal, trying to determine whether the peculiar behaviour of their little brat indicates sexual deviance from the so-called norm? The method taken to get Megan normal, and back onto the old straight and narrow again, was to promptly send her (thanks to dear old dad & mom) to a ridiculous reparative therapy camp aptly named True Directions.Run like a concentration camp by an outrageously strict disciplinary named Mary Brown, it's here that the students (otherwise referred to as homosexual misfits) are put onto a regimental 5 step-program (very similar to that of AA's) that's supposedly guaranteed to convert even the most hardened homo-slut into a perfectly wholesome, happy, little hetero-twinkie in no time flat.And from this point onwards BIAC was nothing but a moronic chant of - 2-4-6-8 - God is good. God is straight. (Ad Nauseum) "},{"Title":"Unabashed praise","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the wittiest films I've seen in quite a while.  It's unfortunate that it saw limited release in this part of the country.  The set and costumes were over the top but just enough to masquerade as normal to unsuspecting viewers. I'll admit to some slightly below par acting but in general, everyone seemed to pull their weight.  I was caught off guard by a few actors in places you wouldn't expect.  RuPaul as Mike was superb, but seeing Bud Cort and Mink Stole as the parents was a big surprise but also well executed. I would recommend this to all my 'open-minded' friends and even a few not so open, 'cause they just need it! "},{"Title":"Very good try but not all the way.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film's refreshing portrayal of lesbians and of the homophobic society. I think that there is a lot of beauty in some of the middle parts with Clea and Natasha, and truth in the bar scenes. What bothers me though, is the one note charactiture of gay males. Unlike a Queer as Folk (USA) or even Will and Grace, this film wants us to believe that all gay males and flamboyant and feminine. I think the filmakers started off in the right direction, and mostly did a good job...too bad they fell short and slighted the guys. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a bisexual girl growing up in America, it's good to see a comedy about coming of age as a gay teen. I thought this movie was incredible funny, my sides hurt after watching it. Great performances given by Natasha Lyonne and Clea DuVall (God she's beautiful!!!!) I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants to laugh a lot, and remember  STRAIGHT IS GREAT))) ~Melissa "},{"Title":"cute, fun, and meaningful","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  well instead of being philosophical and talk about the obvious political messages of this great film, i'll just review it.I thought that it was perfectly overacted, beautifully filmed, wonderfully funny, and very meaningful.  Its unusual to see a comedy that makes you think.  This is probably my favorite gay themed film of all time, finally surpassing RHPS.There was no one outstanding scene, every scene was surreal and hilarious. from mink stole getting upset that her daughter eats tofu to rock getting sexy with a rake.There was lots of great romantic and fun parts particuarly between grahm and meghan.go rent it asap!  its the best movie made in a long time.9 out of 10, could've used some less stereotypical guys, but the range of different types of lesbians makes up for this. "},{"Title":"Light on panty shots, high on heart","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The director, Jamie Babbit, brings a childlike sweetness to this tale of a middle-class, normaler-than-normal, cheerleading teen lesbian taken to a highly campy Heterosexual Reeducation Camp. Like a prize-winning play written by an early-teenager, BUT I'M A CHEERLEADER is stuffed with nascent talent, cutesiness, clunkiness, and influences worn so far out on the movie's sleeve they resemble an Elvis impersonator's dice-shaped cufflinks. (There seems to be one cinematic influence--John Waters--and his work is aped as tirelessly here as DePalma plumbs Hitchcock.)Most of the good will generated by this movie comes from Natasha Lyonne, as the cheerleader, and Clea DuVall, as the Ally Sheedy-in-Breakfast-Club-ish, half-butch-half-just-alterna chick who clicks with Lyonne's uberfemme. Lyonne, usually cast as the ballbreaking loudmouth, is surprisingly effective as the girly girl, and DuVall will no doubt stir up those confusing Linda Hamilton feelings in America's male geeks. They are maybe the most satisfying couple onscreen since Robert Forster and Pam Grier in JACKIE BROWN. This movie is genuinely and truly and unfakily romantic--something I almost never say in this age of the Enforcedly Romantic Comedy. "},{"Title":"Delightful romance that spoofs gay healing","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a delightful look at teenage angst and teenage romance!  While the production values won't be eliciting any Oscars, this light comedy treats a very serious subject with enough honesty to keep the audience interested. The denials and trials of coming out in the face of caustic parental guidance form the theme of this movie; its barely masked underbelly questions what love really is.  When parents exile their children and then try to blame the break in the relationship on their gay children's choice instead of on their own, the strong children choose honesty--and in this case, a sweet love that make you want to leave the theater holding hands. "},{"Title":"Perfect blend of campy and sweet","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very rarely am I this impressed by a film.  As a matter of fact, I have seen it three times in the theatres and will gladly go again if I have the chance.  People were literally laughing out loud in the theatre in a way I haven't heard since seeing Waiting For Guffman.  This movie is the perfect blend of campy satire and tender love story.  It is not trying to change the world, but it will manage to change your heart.  Natasha Lyonne and Clea DuVall are incredible, but it's not just the cute girls that makes this film worth seeing.  On a film making level, this movie is inventive and original. The soundtrack blends seamlessly with the story line.  The people who picked the music for this film could not have done a finer job.Whether or not you are gay does not matter.  But I'm A Cheerleader leads right to the heart with plenty of laughs and memorable lines in-between. Seeing this film is a very good idea, indeed. "},{"Title":"Brides the gap between gay men and lesbian women","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Are you the type that can laugh at yourself?  Then this is the movie for you.  This also teaches you to laugh at the bigotry that still exists towards gays & lesbians.  It makes a laughing mockery of homophobia and the ex-gays movement.  'But I'm A Cheerleader' makes you feel happy, sad, romantic and bitter all at the same time.  This might be marketed as a lesbian film, but it really is for the entire homosexual community and their family & friends.  Bring a group of your gay, er, I mean, happy friends to see this movie and have a blast!   "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie about gay and lesbian rehabilitation.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Natasha Lyonne plays Megan, a sweet, all-American, Christian cheerleader in this hysterical satire about teenagers who are forced to go to a gay rehabilitation camp, 'True Directions', to stop their homosexual urges.  What forces Megan to attend this camp?  Well, she's a vegetarian, she hates kissing her boyfriend, and she has a poster of Melissa Etheridge in her room.  Oh No!  A gay intervention headed by RuPaul as his original male self is just the beginning of a programme to de-homosexualize Megan.At the headquarters of 'True Directions', Megan accompanies other homosexuals in search of heterosexuality.  But, Megan meets Graham (Clea DuVall) and there starts a homosexual relationship that probably wouldn't have happened if Megan had stayed at home.This movie is hilarious, witty, crude, and provides tons of social commentary towards the stupidity of homophobia.  The scary thing is, places like 'True Directions' really exist! "}{"Title":"Fluffy, Funny, etc.  *SPOILER ALERT*","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Addressing issues of homosexuality is hardly the first thought that crosses one's mind when reading the title of this movie. While controversial, this movie speaks of a topic quite openly that was more or less taboo in 1999, at least to someone with a conservative background. Due to the rarity of the subject matter, this movie already peaks a certain interest in the open-minded movie-goer. The movie treats the topic of homosexuality lightly, with a comedic air. The audience can feel this aura from the overwhelming light and dancy colors that parade the screen. You will be amazed at how many everyday items can be found in bright pink and blue, from the house itself down to the last dishtowel. The background music also feels like it comes from a 50s TV sitcom, a prancy xylophone concert, which becomes irritating after playing non-stop for several minutes. All of these slight annoyances, however, really end up making you laugh at the entire situation to begin with.This movie is easy to follow, with little unaddressed, except for how Megan's parents appeared to have disowned her in two seconds when they were so open and understanding at the beginning of the movie, having watched videos about this disorder and leafed through many pamphlets from a man in a Straight is Great T-shirt. How they came to disown her so quickly was quite a mystery. It seems to be thrown out as a sudden battle Megan must fight, something to antagonize her just enough to romanticize her plight.Plot events are predictable. The girl that treats Megan with the most disdain in the beginning ends up becoming her girlfriend, a typical example of opposites attract. What is even more predictable is that any person who watches this movie knows that this True Directions boot camp is not going to do anything close to its objective except make attendees even more homosexual than they probably were in the beginning, especially Megan. The movie fluffs homosexuality to such a point that all these characters have almost no common sense or depth beyond their sexuality whatsoever. The brave, true-to-themselves bunch all run off at the end, happily ever after in a random, never-before-seen, pick-up truck that miraculously becomes decorated with hearts like a marriage getaway car. Megan's cheer at the end is cute, borderline cheesy, a must for a main character of a movie in which cheerleader appears in the title. Don't we all wish we could live in such a doll house world?Men who are looking for lesbian action in this movie will be disappointed. Overall, this movie serves its purpose to make light of a matter and make people laugh all at once. Being that it was funny and an interesting topic, versus having a plot line that began to melt into a growing puddle as the movie progressed, with shallow characters swimming about, I'd say this film deserves a 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Amusing, campy, and touching...","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is wonderful. It blends classic camp with a beautifully touching love story. That may seem like an odd combination, but Jamie Babbit (Malcolm in the Middle, among others) delivers a wry comedy about sexual stereotypes, while surreptously getting you to deeply sympathize with a pair of outcast teenage lesbians.Still one of my faves. "},{"Title":"Adorably funny; great acting","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ****CONTAINS SPOILERS***** ****CONTAINS SPOILERS***** This is a wonderful movie. Not only is the plot cute and funny, but the acting is superb. About a supposedly straight cheerleader (Natasha Lyonne) being sent to a straight camp, a sort of program to turn her straight, when her parents suspect her of being a lesbian. The camp only makes her realize her homosexuality and find love in a peer (Clea Duvall. The chemistry portrayed between these two is great, the dialogue is great, and just the way these actors portray their characters is hilarious. The sweet ending puts a nice lift on it. You should see it if you want to be cheered up.  "},{"Title":"A funny and moving film","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect when approaching this film but found it to be both funny and incredibly moving. All the cast give brilliant performances, particularly Natasha Lyonne in the lead role. There can't be many people, gay or straight, who do not feel touched after seeing this film.  watch this hilarious commentary on the society we live in. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Satire on Middle America's View of Homosexuality","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was fantastic.  From the tongue in cheek references to gay and lesbian stereotypes to the sweet love story that developed as it went along, it's one of the best queer films I've seen in a while.  It pokes merciless fun at the idea that homosexuality can be defined, categorized, rehabilitated, or otherwise contained, and brings the lesson that being comfortable with yourself, in and outside of the context of your sexuality, is what's going to make you happy.And yet it does this without being obnoxious or boring.  Great appearances by RuPaul, Cathy Moriarty, and lots of other talent; Natasha Lyonne was excellent.  That girl's got a great ear for comedy.It was great. "},{"Title":"She Can't Be A Lesbian, She's A Cheerleader","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Young Natasha Lyonne's parents, Bud Cort and Mink Stole, have noticed a disturbing tendency in their daughter. She has not been developing an interest in the opposite sex as a 'normal' teenage girl should even if she is a cheerleader, the most heterosexual of activities you would think. Anyway being the good Christians they are, Natasha's sent off to one of those reorientation centers so popular now among fundamentalist Christians, those who refuse to recognize such evil people as Freud and Kinsey and their work, and want to raise normal heterosexual kids.The place is called True Directions and it's run by this huckster of a woman played by Cathy Moriarty. She's the nurse Ratched of the Christian psychological group, she plays the part beautifully. She's assisted by RuPaul Charles out of drag who's a graduate of her center and son Eddie Cibrian, a really hunky sort who's a role model for the boys and a sex object for the girls.But I'm a Cheerleader doesn't quite have the production values of a studio film, but no regular studio would make something like this. It's a topic that needs to be addressed, the fraud of these ex-gay ministries.When I was a working person at New York State Crime Victims Board, I had a case from a rural part of upstate New York. It concerned a young teenage girl who came from a fundamentalist background like our protagonist here. She and the young wife of the youth pastor of the church she came from, discovered their true nature and fell in love and consummated their first sex at a Bible Conference.Of course when mom discovered what was going on by snooping through her daughter's computer, the young wife was arrested and given a slap on the wrist by the judge because he thought it was too much the case. Nevertheless the woman is now a registered sex offender.The young girl was put right into therapy and as long as I live, I will never forget the remark the therapist made on his report to us that the girl is refusing to cooperate in the therapy because she did not consider herself a victim. It's also why her lover got off as lightly as she did. That case is the reason I enjoyed this film so much and recommend it highly to audiences, especially young gay audiences. "},{"Title":"Very very anti gay male film","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay this movie is about how nice and sweet it is to be a gay female. And okay I can dig that. But what made me mad about this movie is what they made the gay males look like. The famles seemed normal while the males seemed very stupid. All the males were there for is a nice laugh. "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An acquaintance of mine saw this movie and told me, with a negative connotation, that movie was about a bunch of lesbians!  This was a while ago and I had forgotten about the movie but I picked up the box at the rental store the other day and decided to make my own judgments.  This story was a stroke of genius!  A cheerleader who thinks she is straight, talked into being a lesbian by a bunch of people trying to make her straight, well, they talked her into the realization that she was, in fact,homosexual, although, I don't think I'd enjoy kissing Megan's boyfriend either, I thought he'd drown her in his salava.This movie was in the spirit of some John Waters' films I hold close to my heart.  Mink Stole (Cry-Baby) must smell a great movie from a mile away. The casting was great.  Cathy Moriarty was so funny as the spokesperson for the kind of normalcy preached in the 1950's.  RuPaul was hilarious as the reformed closet homosexual, Julie Delpy (Before Sunrise) proves again to be the mysterious and beautiful European type character.  Lastly, but most importantly, Natasha Lyonne and Clea DuVall.  These two women, who are spectacular actors in themselves, had strong and intense chemistry.  Their portrayals of Megan and Graham were up to perfection and I truly believed in their characters, in short, they just really got me.This movie is perfect for anyone who wants to see two people, who were meant for each other, overcoming obstacles to be together.  And their obstacles were hilarious.  I almost died during the sexual simulationYou know who you are and you know who you want. Aint nothin' gonna change that, s***!  Everyone should have a friend like Andre.  "},{"Title":"A great and very misunderstood movie","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So many people do not like this movie simply because they do not understand it.  First of all, yes the movie is full of stereotypes, but that's the point.  They're there to show how ridiculous these stereotypes really are and to show that in the end, you cannot change who you are, you just have to learn to accept it and get the people around you to accept you.  Second, some stereotypes that I've heard people notice really weren't there.  I don't think anywhere in the movie did they try to make Christians look stupid (hey, the homophobic Christians are pretty good at making themselves look stupid WITHOUT help).  Okay maybe Megan's comment about God is good, God is straight - hey that's pretty good, but still, I think sometimes people LOOK for something to be offended by.  I think this movie does make fun of many straight people, who claim that gays are recruiting, when it is actually the other way around (as one can see by the existence of True Directions, and in the fact that when Megan asks them to teach her to be a lesbian, they tell her that they can't do that).  All in all, this is a great movie and I really enjoyed it!  As for people who didn't, hey, you're allowed to not like it, but if it is for reasons that really don't seem warranted, maybe you should give But I'm a Cheerleader another look. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, and supportive","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a bi-female, who came to terms with this in the south, sometimes it is hard to find something that makes you sit back and say Yes, I understand. This movie is hilarious in a John Waters style, but at the same time it can reach so many gay and lesbian teens to help them know they are not alone. I laughed throughout it, and have proceeded to tell everyone about it. I highly recommend it to anyone gay, straight or indifferent.   Check it out!  "}{"Title":"Wasted Opportunity","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Talk about a missed opportunity, But I'm a Cheerleader is one of the biggest of the last few years. The send-up is perfect; a high-school cheerleader is obviously a lesbian. It's obvious to everyone around her (family, boyfriend, fellow classmates), but not to her; she's clueless. How can she be a lesbian? She is, as the title states, a cheerleader, and they're not lesbians. Family and friends conduct an intervention and send the hapless young lady to a coed gay-deprogramming camp. So far so good, the stage is set for some hard-punching satire. Unfortunately the director and screenwriters are not up to it. Instead they opt for Police Academy level potty humor, tired offensive stereotypes, terrible scripting, lousy directing..you name it, and it stinks. The film self-destructs after the first 20 minutes, and becomes an insulting waste of time.  Too bad.  "},{"Title":"Cute Teen Lesbian Sex Comedy Lite","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay little comedy... has its heart in the right place... but it doesn't quite work. Interesting premise of a good teenage Catholic girl who gets sent to a re-programming camp because her parents and friends think she is a... gasp... lesbian! Of course, the camp itself is run by a bunch of extreme closet-cases (Cathy Moriarty, RuPaul Charles), the most normal people in the film are the gay and lesbian people who refuse to give in the pressure and be who they want to be. A nice lesson and all... and the movie is certainly better than your average teen comedy... but, while gently amusing, it doesn't bust out into a full-blown comic triumph. Natasha Lyonne does nice work as the oblivious teen who comes to accept her sexuality even as everyone around her is trying to subvert it. Her romance with a fellow camp mate threatens both their chances at graduation... when it comes down to it will they both do the right thing and follow their hearts? Oh, I can't spoil it for ya...  "},{"Title":"Further Proof That Gay Audiences Will Buy Anything","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Someday, gay cinema will grow up.  In the meantime gay women and men are so hungry for representation, so starved to see themselves on the silver screen, that even junk like this is welcomed.Comparisons to John Waters' films are inevitable because But I'm a Cheerleader is low budget, gay-friendly, and rife with poor acting.  The concept is indeed fertile if any movement is ripe for skewering it's the convert-a-homosexual movement.  Unfortunately the execution is overstated and witless.  The targets have been satirized so often there is little bite left in rehashing the same simple stereotypes.  Making the straights so preposterously anachronistic further sanitizes the potential for humor. The fable is meant to be contemporary, but the well-meaning bad guys are right out of a 1950's nightmare of conformity that barely existed even in the 1950's.  All the girls in pink, all the boys in blue?  Well, if nothing else, it's easy to follow.Cathy Moriarty plays the founder of True Directions, but her lackluster performance seems more like your typical Mary Woronov star turn.  RuPaul was clearly cast with an eye towards irony (he is out of drag here), but his limitations as an actor overshadow the joke.  Other cast members have likewise been seen elsewhere to better advantage.  Only the two young romantic (female) leads are appealing, yet even when triumphant they remain inexplicably bland and one-dimensional.  It's one thing to show lead characters with the life sucked out of them by a conservative society, another to weigh down the film with their lifelessness.But I'm a Cheerleader should have been hilarious.  It's too bad that the filmmakers approached the material with a kindergartener's point of view. The resulting film is so dull it gives camp a bad name. "},{"Title":"sincere but unfunny attempt at satire","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Megan (Natasha Lyonne) is a high school cheerleader. She doesn't like kissing her boyfriend. Her family and friends stage an intervention. She is sent to True Directions where she gets treated for homosexuality by Mary Brown (Cathy Moriarty) and her supposed hetero son Rock.Director/writer Jamie Babbit is very sincere in this broad satire. She's trying a bit too hard for the comedy and it never really comes. I applaud the attempt but it's a failed attempt. Natasha Lyonne is great and so is Clea DuVall. It is very odd that a movie sympathetic to homosexuals would have so many gay stereotypical characters especially for the guys. "},{"Title":"But I Want a Good Movie","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A catholic teenage cheerleader is sent by her parents to a reform school for queers before she herself even realizes that she is one.Even if it is a broad comedy where everyone is gullible and has an IQ of 90 at best, it doesn't seem right that the vast majority of the jokes in a pro-gay film do little else but to confirm all the homosexual stereotypes. All the adults in the film are obsessed with the sexual orientation of the kids which is part of the satire, this is one thing, but the film itself seems equally obsessed with it all the time, including the many scenes that don't feature any adults. Everything the kids do seems to relate to their sexual orientation, not even for a minute are they shown being, you know, just human beings.But the bigger problem is that it is simply not a good or very fun movie. All the characters are incredibly inconsistent and you'll struggle to find anything clever in the plotting or in the humor which is kind of cute, inoffensive, and rarely particularly funny.It's also not believable for a minute. The reform school is lead by two teachers who don't have the least bit of authority. They rely on the teenagers' good-will to pay any attention to their rules and lessons or to even stay at the camp, and paying attention they sure do even when they don't even want to be healed (half the time the kids want to become straight, half the time they don't, it changes from scene to scene).In the end 'But I'm a Cheerleader' seems more like an excuse for the set designers, the costume designers and the makeup artists to go full camp. It's nowhere near impressive enough in those regards that one could actually call the film stylish, but along with the actors who have fun playing their stereotypes it's probably the main thing that keeps the film entertaining enough to be at least quite watchable. "},{"Title":"Such an awful movie!","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You know I would've thought this movie should've taken into consideration that why on earth would they call this comedy, when innocent people like high school students go into a 'gay cure' camp? Like I know this film is meant to be fictional but really its giving of a taste of something thats meant to be less scary when its not. I couldn't imagine how it feels to be in that institution of complete lies of who the person is! Its ridiculous and just horrible!Right in the end, Kimberly is whisked off with Megan but I mean what about the rest of the poor kids?? Seriously that is shocking and disturbing. Don't watch this movie... "},{"Title":"But, I'm More Than That","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow. Who knew one of the greatest gay movies is actually a lesbian film?I absolutely loved, adored and admired this classic tale of forbidden love. It helps that I lived through this era and what the characters of But I'm a Cheerleader had to endure.You see, my parents were the same. While they didn't go as far as send me to Straight (Str8) Camp, they did encourage me to see psychiatric help with my choice of this lifestyle. Well, just like this movie's true moral, it didn't help.I am who I am as these people are. And I am not just proud of it because of what others tell me I should be. I am proud to know my true self.Enough about me. This movie was fantastic. Small, yet large. Deep, though light. Funny and bright. The acting was brilliant, the writing dead-on and the direction perfection. It's a wonder this movie was set to receive an NC-17 just because it showed acceptance towards lesbians.Poor teenage, cheerleading Megan. She's given an intervention when her family suspects she's a lesbian and sent off to Str8 is Great camp. There she must learn the steps to becoming normal again. Of course, in today's age (2013, soon to be 2014) this hopefully isn't as accepted, but back in 1999, parents just didn't know what to do when they weren't promised a married man/woman grandchild.Along the journey in this camp, Megan meets a whole lot of interesting and wonderful characters, each with depth and wonderful stories of their own. She must make the right choice, i.e. to be true to oneself.I haven't seen this movie in many years and back when I had, I had watched it many times. No matter the number of views, I love it each and every time. The music is fantastic &#x96; LOVE the soundtrack. The story, emotions, depth and direction superb. I love the lines, acting, script and all characters. All actors gave their 100% including a fantastic performance from Rupaul, Cathy Moriarty, Natasha Lyonne and definitely Clea DuVall.This is a classic fairy tale with more layers than 17 onions and more fun than most str8 love stories. I truly believe it can be loved and admired by most people, str8 or gay and lessons can be learned from both sides. Truly see this and know how to treat your children so they can become better people.* * * Final thoughts Years and years later, I would sit in a movie theatre and hear the song Chick Habit but only this time, it would be in the Grindhouse double feature and at the end of Quentin Tarantino's Death Proof. While effective there, I will never remember or know that song by any other reference than But I'm a Cheerleader. "},{"Title":"Satirical and heartfelt","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" But I'm A Cheerleader is a satire on a common notion that people seem to have about homosexuality being a disease of some sort. This movie is about the futile and hilarious attempts made at curing a bunch of teenage boys and girls from this 'malady'. I was surprised to see that this film wasn't rated above 7 on IMDb. Regardless, I couldn't find anything wrong with this film - the direction is good, the cast is a brilliant ensemble and the pivotal love story in this film and chemistry between the lesbian duo is sparkling. Short, crisp and entertaining, I know I can watch this film several times over and over again. Really glad to have found this slightly obscure film. It's also important to note that this film has a brilliant soundtrack; mostly a mix of 90s indie and pop. "},{"Title":"way too much pink","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie, But I'm a Cheerleader is geared for those 16 and older. I don't believe movies should tell us whether or homosexuality is/is not acceptable but this movie does educate us into acceptance. I think the movie could reduce the amount of pink (you are not color blind unless you miss the pink). Way too much pink. The you got the bad thought shocker, The movie set contains vivid solid colors, most pink though. All the pink elicits a humorous mood to the story. No matter who we are in this world, we each have our little something to offer and we each should be accepted by each other. Maybe, that is the ultimate lesson of this movie is acceptance, not just from others but ourselves as well. We are who we are and shouldn't be asked to change what is not in our nature. It is kind of like trying to get a fish not to swim. It's okay for a short movie, they could have shorten 15 minutes. I give this movie three thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was a big surprise for me, got from it more then i could ever expect. Since I don't have much to talk about it (I did rate it 9/10), I will only add a brief sum up. This movie is a great satire and a wonderful slap in the face to all of conservative folks out there and not at all insulting for the homosexual population. It's funny, the premise is very interesting, the characters are great, and acting is quite good. I especially loved Cathy Moriarty. The movie could have been a bit more colorful, but the visuals are still fitting the premise.One beautiful,underrated movie you just have to watch. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Loved this!","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It was one of the sweetest lesbian movies I've seen, I love it when the main character is a lipstick lesbian (I guess that counts as a spoiler, so I'd better be careful)so i can relate. The sets are very cute and very, very fifties, as are the costumes. The costumes are fun in that they all match. You cannot be depressed watching this movie, everything is very technicolor and cheery, almost like a cartoon (I watched this when I had a cold and I felt better immediately). I personally think this doesn't deserve the r-rating, the sex is milder than what I see on buffy the vampire slayer, not very graphic at all, the most I saw being a hand on a navel and some pretty serious necking. Maybe PG-13. I highly recommend this to younger watchers, it was very good. Very yummy movie overall. "},{"Title":"Great Film!!!","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" MPAA rating for this film is lousy and way off base, as usual. But hey what do you expect from a bunch of 40 to 60yo, when this should be reviewed by 25 to 35yo.s I would have ratted this film somewhere between PG13, and R. Get real people, the stuff depicted in this film is actually much cleaner than anything you would see in a sex ed video in jr. high. Plus kids are much more aware of gays and lesbians in society than most people think, and they should be educated about same sex unions in the same class on opposite sex unions, it just makes sense. I would highly recommend this film to anyone. the frivolity of it all is very nice simple and straight forward. two thumbs way up. Now we just need a film about transsexuality for jr high school kids and we will be all set. "},{"Title":"Such Satire,...and Such Fun,,,,at the Same Time...","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You can almost see this as really happening somewhere in the country. The poor girl...a cheerleader...is suspected of being a lesbian by her parents...gasp! So they have an intervention and send her off to a camp to turn her straight. It is slightly over the top...campy and off-beat. The characters are all kind of weird...entire movie has that John Walters/Tim Burton feel to it. The thing is...there are people like this in real life...they think someone who is gay or lesbian can be cured...with therapy and group sessions. They want the poor girl to conform to what the rest of the world thinks is right...so she will fit in and so her parents won't be ashamed to show their faces in the neighborhood. It is more than just campy movie...it is statement about how society views many things...and judges them as right or wrong. This could be about gender, race, creed or what flavor of ice cream is the right one...the message is...if you don't fit in...you need help. Those helping you might need help of some type more than you do...but that isn't the point...right? Follow the rules...follow the crowd...fit into the right mold. The place is called True Directions..but every direction they give in this film is the wrong one. Take it for what it is and if you like off beat stuff...you probably will enjoy this too. "},{"Title":"A John Waters Film, Not by John Waters","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rating 3/4 stars.Heres a movie that depicts a softcore John Waters like style. It's a brave movie, discussing the topic many feel either uncomfortable talking about or just is an awkward topic many don't understand. It's homosexuality. This movie is for homosexually, but many people in the film treat it as a cancer to a person. Its unnatural, unwanted, and not understanding in this world. My view on homosexuality is that people can be however they want. If you find someone you love that loves you back you're the luckiest person in the world. It doesn't matter the sex as long as you're happy with what you have. Period.Megan Bloomfield (Natasha Lyone) is considered gay by her family, friends, and classmates. She's a cheerleading captain, has a picture of Melissa Etheridge, she fantasizes about cheerleaders when kissing her boyfriend, and she is a vegetarian. Oh yeah, she's gay! Better get her looked at. Just by the mild things she is accused of you can tell being homosexual is really frowned upon in this world. Her parents ship her to Teen Directions, a place run by a strict leader, Mary Brown (Cathy Moriarty) and where they teach kids to stay in the closet and be the way God meant.In Teen Directions, Megan meets Graham Eaton (Clea DuVall), a girl who comes from wealthy parents who threaten to disown her is she doesn't become straight. She refuses to change at the same time afraid to live a life as a lesbian without any trouble. So naturally, Megan and Graham become attached to each other and the rest can be picked out.This film is more about homosexuality, it too teaches gender roles of both male and female. In the four step program in the film, Step 2 is Step 2 Rediscovering Your Gender Identity where both sides take on tasks of being a male or female to try and focus on their job reminding them what their role is in life. Though this only makes Graham and Megan hang out and get more and more attached. So it just helps matter rather than solves.This movie is a hard one to explain because of the unusual plot and so much there needs to be said. I can go on for an hour to describe what morals and themes are found within But I'm a Cheerleader!, but some are major than others. I believe I covered the major points in this film and figure that I picked the key points of the film. All in all, it's a great movie, and Natasha Lyone plays a perfect protagonist, being not to bright, but kind hearted which is enough to expect out of the lead female role. Also, perfect musical soundtrack here as well. Excellent, catchy music that fits well to not only the tone, but the vibe and feel of the story as well. Just by the opening credit song (my favorite, April March's Chick Habit) I knew it would be a great film.Starring Natasha Lyonne, Cathy Moriarty, RuPaul, and Clea DuVall. Directed by Jamie Babbit. "},{"Title":"A different direction for gay films.","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With RuPaul's Drag Race in full swing, I decided to give this gem a look see. In 2000, I saw 3 movies (But I'm a Cheerleader, Beautiful Thing and Get Real) about homos that told me that being a homo is cool and that not all homos are icky. This movie is one of the handfuls of gay movies that I find actually enjoyable (Brokeback Mountain not being one of them.) But I'm a Cheerleader follows teens as they are dehomosexualized at an Ex-gay camp. The 2 notable actors in this movie are RuPaul Charles (or just RuPaul if you're nasty) and Clea Duvall (well 3 if you want to count original Dreamlander and filth goddess Mink Stole.) Watching RuPaul play a semi-butch closeted ex gay was extremely hilarious. No one can do camp like Ms. Ru does camp. And this what this movie is, extremely campy. I love campy and over the top when it's done right. The thought of de-gaying these teens through various gender identifying role playing is great. The girls sleep in all pink rooms, wear all pink and handle objects in their simulations that are painted pink. While the boys fix blue cars, have blue guns, a blue ax and blue clothes.Our protagonist, Natasha Lyonne, is a good Catholic cheerleader who is sent away to this ex-gay camp because she eats tofu, doesn't liked being kissed by her sloppy kissing boyfriend, and hugs some of the other cheerleaders for too long. What makes this movie great is that it isn't one of those gay movies that shoves it down your throat or one that tries to show the reality of actual gays. What makes it great is that it doesn't take itself or gays that seriously while remaining serious at the same time. Make sense? It doesn't try to be preachy. It makes fun of gays and even more so, those who claim to be ex-gays.Cathey Moriarty (of Casper fame) runs the camp. It's her job to make sure that the teens are de-gayed and perform in the sex simulation at the end of camp. And, at the same time, trying to butch-up her son, CSI Miami's own Eddie Cibrian. But I'm a Cheerleader teaches gays to laugh at their sexually and those who oppose it. That no matter how many fake babies' diapers you change, how many logs you chomp chop, or how many people of the opposite sex you kiss you're gay, accept it. And that it's not something you need to get rid of just because you're super religious and right-winged parents don't think it's normal. "},{"Title":"Celebrate Truth & Freedom By Watching This Film.","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A brilliantly funny lampoon of the ex-gay movement and a heartfelt plea for authentic love for all - not only heterosexuals. But I'm a Cheerleader offers some tender moments of awakening love which simultaneously expose the cruel absurdity of religious extremists who think they must wield their anti-gay agenda against everyone within their circle of influence. The agenda involves excessively dogmatic parents sending their gay sons and daughters away to a reprogramming camp (can you say delusional?); there the young adults are indoctrinated, lied to and manipulated in ways that would gladden the heart of a sanitarium director from the old U.S.S.R.The amazing thing is how funny this movie is. That's quite an achievement considering the issues dealt with. Clea DuVall and Natasha Lyonne give excellent performances and the chemistry that develops between them is sweet and poignant.To be sure, But I'm a Cheerleader also pokes fun at gay advocates and the modern gay version of the Underground Railroad; nevertheless, the real-life struggles it addresses couldn't be more serious.Give this triumphant appeal to sanity a chance; gay, bi or straight, watching this film will make you a happier, wiser, more sensible human being and a better American.Great job with this one. "},{"Title":"A Must-See for members of the LGBT community-funny and sweet","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Essentially, this movie is a fun time and a good coming-out movie for those young members of the LGBT community, or older ones still trying to figure out their identity. The movie chronicles a group of LGBT teenagers sent to an ex-gay camp by their unacceptable parents. It's good for those struggling with their identity, or perhaps LGBT people just looking for a good laugh. I'm not sure if I can recommend this for the heterosexual community at large, mostly because I reiterate the comment about it being a little campy and at time it seems corny and more like a low-budget film if you're not interested in the subject matter. I found it a little awkward at times, especially with one sex scene of course. So a little corny and a little dorky, but overall the movie is feel-good, funny, and a great commentary for those of the LGBT community. I enjoyed it overall! "},{"Title":"You have to find the humor in this.","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A camp where so-called 'ex- gays' try to 'cure' teens of their homosexuality. You have to find the humor in that! What basically happens is that Megan's parents, friends, and basically everybody who knows her suspects her of being a lesbian because she doesn't like to get licked all over her mouth, and has a picture of girls in her locker and bedroom. My sister has a poster of Hannah Montana on her wall, is she gay?! Anyway when she gets to the camp the girls have to wear frilly pink things and the boys have to wear all blue and learn so-called masculine stuff and the girls have to learn so-called feminine stuff. The movie's moral is that you can't cure who you are and just be yourself, something everyone should live by. "},{"Title":"Loved this unique movie","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie.  I loved every aspect of the story line. The acting was superb.  This is definitely one of my all-time favorite movies.  However, as people have mentioned, it changed intentions about half way through the film.  We start out as laughing at the satirical story of rehab for homosexuals.  Eventually though, we are drawn into a dramatic view of Graham and Megan's relationship.  The movie was just as confused about its 'true direction' as Megan was in the beginning!  So I agree with everyone who has said this.  But to me, those are two different genres that haven't been mixed (or aren't mixed that commonly), but made a great movie. While it is clearly not the movie of the year (maybe to me...but I don't have much of a say in it), it really opened up my eyes cinematically and socially. "},{"Title":"My review","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a lesbian myself, I think But I'm A Cheerleader was a great movie. It was funny, romantic, and portrayed feelings through a character that I didn't think could be done. I thought Clea DuVall gave one of her greatest performances in this movie. I loved this movie from the first time I watched it. Anyone who is unsure of seeing this movie should most definitely see it. They'll be very surprised. "}{"Title":"DYKES ROCK! Y ISNT THERE A SOUNDTRACK AVAILABLE?","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a very funny movie. It's most obvious feature is that it is not well polished. It's also number 8 on my top ten list. I think the cast of characters are cute and the two romantic leads are loveable. In case u didnt know, the movie's director is a lesbian, she's also the creator of TV's POPULAR. Anyway, u'll notice that the movie is remeniscent of Tim Burton's EDWARD SCISSORHANDS and also of America's sterio typical depiction of suburbia(which is sometimes seen in television shows like DENNIS THE MENACE). The cinematography is so well-fitting because it is goofy. You see a lot of extreme camera angles. But the most memorable part of this film is the original music. I loved all of the songs so much. I've searched in several places for a soundtrack CD. But why isn't there one? Even dumb movies that nobody has ever heard of have soundtracks available in stores! Anyway, BUT I'M A CHEERLEADER is a  cult classic! I know I'll never forget it! Maybe some time in the future, while watching tv in the middle of the night, I'll see it playing, and then I'll say Hey, I remember this film! and then smile. "},{"Title":"Natasha, Clea, and RuPaul (and Jamie) did great","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Megan is your movie-cliche sweet, innocent girl.  Except she's so innocent she doesn't know that other girls don't dislike kissing football players, or that other cheerleaders don't enjoy watching -- other cheerleaders.  Megan is an original character, folks.And she's real.  She goes from naive woman-child at the beginning to maturity and self-awareness at the end, and every moment of the film rang true with her.  Always I felt, She's expressing just what she should be expressing at this moment, and doing just what she should be doing.  Jamie Babbit wrote Megan right, and Natasha Lyonne played Megan right.Clea DuVall played Graham in a likewise believable character arc in-your-face at the beginning, vulnerable at the end.  More kudos for Jamie Babbit, for Graham.Biggest surprise RuPaul playing a straight man.  He was convincing!Part of the comedy was in the set/costume design.  The boys wore electric-blue clothes, slept in electric-blue rooms, worked on a blue car with blue tools and played football with an electric-blue pigskin. Likewise, everything girlish was Pepto Bismal pink.A few months ago I rented another lesbian-coming-of-age comedy, It's In the Water.  Cheerleader is five times better a sweet, funny, and original story. "},{"Title":"Satire yes. But what exactly does it satirize?","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  But Im a Cheerleader (great title by the way, that begs for a change, marketingwise) is a one-joke-movie and the joke must have looked a lot more persuasive on paper than it does on the screen. Basic idea is that parents are so scared of their offsprings homosexuality that they send them away to reform-camp, in order to heal and get straight again. Problem is that the picture isnt out there to hurt or even trouble its audience. Were with the young and sympathetic reformees from the word go and the parents as well as the reformers are dismal jerks we can all feel superior to. The movie preaches to the converted and thats all the more sad as such reform institutions for young gays and lesbians seem to exist in real life in the United States. As much as I may subscribe to this movies intentions, its execution is far from daring. "},{"Title":"stunning colours, hilarious...","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  one of the first things i noticed about this film were the hyper-colours used throughout, it made for a very visually appealing viewing and added to the sometimes larger than life stereotypes applied in the film.but i'm a cheerleader laughs at the whole idea of gay rehab while also adding smart commentary about harmful stereotypes and being true to yourself.the acting was excellent.  i especially enjoyed Cathy Moriarty and Natasha Lyonne's acting.The music chosen was perfectly fitting for every scene. a favourite of mine was the choice of 'glass vase cello case' by tattle tale for the sleepover scenethe thing that stood out to me most after seeing this film were the hilarious 'one-liners' that pretty much summed up the theme of this movie in a fun and accessible way don't try to be something you're not and don't feel ashamed about who you are. "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC!!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie marks a new genre of film. I haven't seen a film yet about a homosexual-turned-straight camp ever and let me tell you, it is such a film to see, too! I though Natasha Lyonne did a remarkable job as Megan, she was cracking me up throughout the whole film with her goody-goody persona! I really like Clea DuVal too! She was really good, I have been a fan of Clea DuVal's since she starred in The Faculty, I think she has a bright future in her grasp. She's amazing. I think Cathy Moriarty was hilarious and I think she made this movie along with the two leads. I even enjoyed the cameo of Dawson's Creek star Michelle Williams. I think this movie is a must-see and I think you'll be surprised how great this movie really is, it's not based on if these girls and boys are homosexuals, it's based on if they find the strength to be themselves! I think you will enjoy it a lot! 9/10 stars! "},{"Title":"The Best!!!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT I thought But I'm a Cheerleader was one of the best movies I have ever seen. I thought It was very funny and I liked the plot.  I liked the fact that, GrahamClea DuVall(my favorite Actress) and Megan (Natasha Lyonne) got together in the end. Over all I gave that movie a ten. "},{"Title":"2,4,6,8 this movie is really great!!!!","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw But I'm a Cheerleader and I came into the theater with mixed feelings because it is a limited release independent film that I also had to pay more to see because of having to go to NYC to see it. I also knew the critics who are always too picky panned this film almost unanimously, so i knew the deck was stacked against my theater experience in this case. However, what I got was a delightful romp about a girl trying to offset her parents shame with her homosexuality by finding her own pride with herself despite the back drop of a  we make gays straight clinic type thingy. Again as opposed to some critics I thought the piece was well acted, well written etc. Natasha Lyonne, always a sweetie scores again just as she did in Slums of Beverly Hills. Clea Devall as Gram is compelling  as the street edged would be reformed  camper who becomes Megan's ( Natasha's) significant other. Bud Cort is splendid as the dad in a small role. Also Michelle Williams of Dawson;s Creek has a cute cameo turn and Rupaul has a feature role as a reformed gay man who serves as instructor to the soon to be ex gay charges in his care at the clinic. Rupaul takes a rare go at being himself in his male personna sans hair and with gotee and is delightful in this change of pace for the  transvestite entertainer. Anyway all in all The movie is a a lot of fun, a great turn on ( unless u r catholic in which case you may become offended) , has sweet twists on a predictable love story ending and  is the best movie I have seen this year even in the face of recently seeing the super  film chicken run. So rah rah rah, 3 cheers for But I'm a Cheerleader. Highest recommend ! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Gay Fluff with a Few Chuckles at Best","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  But I'm a Cheerleader has a promising, clever premise but ends up as little more than a series of mildly amusing gags. Hopefully, most who view this film will have enough personal knowledge of gay men and women to chuckle at the stereotypical characters, while acknowledging their limitations as representatives of the gay community. Essentially, the film is a satire on conversion therapy, an alternative to being gay by which one is converted to heterosexuality. Not a bad premise for a satire, but in this instance, one that doesn't quite work. The subject matter is reduced to a series of silly gags that aren't outrageous or entertaining enough to make you belly laugh or overlook the total absurdity of it all. The cast is first rate and they do the best they can with the material. It's especially nice to see Mink Stole in a non-John Waters film, although ironically, he might have been able to do a better job at the helm. Another observation surfaced as I thought about the film later perhaps it's time for a serious film about the pitfalls of conversion therapy. It's actually no laughing matter and a dubious treatment for a lifestyle that clinicians do not consider an illness. "},{"Title":"great movie!great cast!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie.It was very unique and the cast was wonderful.Natasha Lyonne and Clea DuVall were great!Its a shame that not many people will see this movie, they really should.Its really funny and has a good message.I highly recommend this "},{"Title":"Very hilarious comedy!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Regardless of the homosexual genre of this film, and the discrimination that gays are 'un-holy', this film was really quite a refreshing experience, and it was a lot better than my expectations led me to believe it was. First off, I love Clea DuVall, so I paraded to this movie opening weekend, even though I had no desire to see it, but in all honesty, it was really a lot better than I thought it would be. Cathy Moriarty was hilarious as the camp's mistress, and Natasha Lyonne plays a very witty and funny lesbian who is in denial of her sexuality. Even though the movie can be hokie at times, it was still worth the price of my movie ticket. Even the bar 'Cocksucker' rised a chuckle in my throat, and the poly-vinyl bright pink and blue costumes in the end of the film really gave it a great colorful edge, and a very fun style. The jokes were, even though politically incorrect and sick, incredibly raunchy and very amusing. It has a great screenplay, and the dialogue wasn't horrible at all. And in all truth, the acting was some of the most believeable I've seen in a long time, and you don't usually find good acting in films such as these. It can be a little raunchy at times, but it just adds to the flair of the film. All in all, this movie is a great date movie, and I can't wait to see what's on the DVD for it! Go see it, even if you aren't a Cheerleader!! "}{"Title":"A gem - the best teen comedy since Heathers","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into this movie with virtually no preconceptions. Fortunately, as it turns out, as I've barely seen a favorable review anywhere, from the major papers to this message board.This is an almost perfect movie of its type. Wonderfully written, beautifully shot, intelligently directed, well paced. Every frame has an impact, every frame its reason. The satire is perfectly judged, over the top, but balanced with enough weight to give it impact without pandering to the saccharin melodrama of mainstream Hollywood.I can see John Waters, to which this has been compared, but the humor is tighter. Visually it has a bit of Tim Burton in there, but has a genuine voice of its own within its indie genre conventions. I can only think of it as a parody of the film that most reviewers seem to have seen.Add a killer soundtrack and you have a gem the best and darkest teen comedy since Heathers.  "},{"Title":"best soundtrack of the year","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has great production values and a wonderful cast. But the most compelling aspect of the film is its soundtrack, one of the best I have heard in years. I hope it gets released. as it has fantastic music by April March, Pat Irwin, Sissy Bar, RuPaul, Saint Etienne, and much more. "},{"Title":"Juvenile, yet funny","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would probably have loved this movie if I were 18--gay or straight. There's lot's of funny stuff in it, and it's played very broadly.  I laughed a lot, but found it finally tedious.  It was great seeing Cathy Moriarty in such a high-camp role.  She was the best thing in the movie, other than a couple of hunky guys.  RuPaul looked great as a guy. "},{"Title":"Good-hearted, but not hilarious","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" But I'm a Cheerleader is a movie with an intriguing premise, a dissection of the total absurdity of the ex-gay movement and broader issues of the harsh face of religious fundamentalism. It's also the kind of movie bound to become a cult favourite. I say it's intriguing even though I'm a straight male. The comedy is about Megan, a cheerleader baffled when her family and friends spring an intervention on her, to address her suspected lesbianism. They have stupid reasons (she's a vegetarian), but it is true she's more interested in the female form than kissing her boyfriend- they're right. Megan is sent to camp designed to cure homosexuals, but falls in love with another girl, Graham.The movie, while cute and colourful with a lot of good points, isn't exactly hilarious as a comedy. There are a few snickers here and there, but nothing major. There's also not a lot of eroticism, in spite of being about lesbianism- that's not what this movie is for. Mainly, it's more of a message movie, espousing values of tolerance, honesty, and love. There's some refuting stereotypes, even though it was stereotypes that led to Megan's family correctly detecting she's gay. On a side note, this movie was also subjected to a ridiculous NC-17 rating, for a scene where Megan masturbates- but it's through her clothes, we see *nothing*. This came the same year American Pie (and its trailer) featured a teenage boy having sex with a pie. The double standard is appalling, evidence of either homophobia or a disgust with female pleasure. Ultimately, this movie fell victim to the old attitudes it's trying to address. "},{"Title":"Save Me is MUCH better","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has almost exactly the same plot as Save Me (2007, IMDb title tt0772200), except the sexes are reversed and it's a comedy instead of a drama. Although Cheerleader gets credit for attacking homosexual conversion therapy eight years earlier, Save Me is a very much better movie in every way.Save Me is both more entertaining and rewarding and MUCH more effective in addressing the therapy fad that claimed to turn gays straight through prayer and therapy but by now (thank God) has been pretty much abandoned even by the fanatics who most strongly pushed it.The humor in Cheerleader is so excessively stupid, relentless and campy that it completely undermines any serious message the movie might be trying to present. It comes across as simply a mindless, pointless, frantic, unfunny mess - like a Jerry Lewis movie, for those who remember him.The head of the conversion camp in both movies is a woman, but the characters are as different as night and day. Judith Light in Save Me is a compassionate person who honestly believes in the work she does and really loves the men who are sent to her for help. Her realization that what she does may NOT actually help, and may instead hurt them, is a far more powerful indictment of the therapy than the gratingly moronic, maniacal, twitching monster Cathy Moriarty plays in Cheerleader.This movie's only assets are three of its actors Natasha Lyonne, who can't help being charming no matter what she does; Clea DuVall, who is so subtly and sultrily sexy that she makes even this gay man drool; and RuPaul - OUT of drag - completely credible in an entirely male role the relatively macho athletic director of the camp, of all things.But the movie is so stupidly written and directed, and the other actors are so bad, that it is not worth watching - unless by lesbians who can identify more easily with these women than the gay men in Save Me. Gay men have a hard enough time finding good movies, but the selection is even worse for lesbians. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but certainly not subtle or for all audiences.","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I agree with some of the other reviewers who say that But I'm a Cheerleader sure had the look of a John Waters film. Part of this, of course, is because Mink Stole (a regular in Waters films) is in this movie. But most is because of the film's extremely non-subtle and cartoony way of dealing with homosexuality and repression.The film is about a high school girl whose family decides (for totally insane reasons) that she's gay and they surprise her by sending her to a camp that vows to 'straighten her out'. Cathy Moriarty runs the place and uses a wide variety of insane techniques to change the kids' sexual orientations--with silly and predictable results.Some potential viewers would not surprisingly be put off by the pro-gay message--though I really think the people who made this film probably couldn't care less about these folks. However, some folks who would embrace the message might also be put off by the sexual tone of the film. While I strongly disagree with the MPAA's original decision to rate the film NC-17, it is still a film that earns an R rating and is not appropriate for all audiences. A good film--just a rather adult one. Subtle it ain't--enjoyable it is. "},{"Title":"A Straightforwardly Satirical but Yawningly Conventional Romantic Comedy","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We are introduced to Megan, played by the insatiably sexy Natasha Lyonne, a high school cheerleader who is dating football player boyfriend Jared. The first few minutes of the film are very visually juicy, as without any dialogue we come to quickly understand that she does not enjoy kissing her boyfriend, and prefers looking up the skirts of her cheerleading squad. Her family and friends suspect that she's a lesbian, and with the help of an ex-gay played by RuPaul, surprise her with an intervention. They send her to a puke-inducingly suburban reparative therapy camp, run by a terrible suburban witch played with great presence by Cathy Moriarty, which employs a five-step program to cure its reluctant campers of their gayness.This straightforwardly satirical but yawningly conventional romantic comedy is not only about sexuality, but also gender and the crassly propagandized pigeonholing of gender roles. But director Jamie Babbit approaches the material with a sleepy variation of the style Jay Roach gave to the original Austin Powers film and leads it to a very weak and anti-climactic rushed ending.Despite its light-heartedly satirical approach, there is a peep of true empathy for those who are put through this psychological and emotional terror. Babbit being a lesbian herself, is, I assume, responsible for these occasional undercurrents, as the script itself is merely a lightweight and obvious satire. Babbit herself hardly transcends the plainness of the send- up. For example, one of the ways in which she emboldens the archaic phoniness of gender roles is by saturating her costumes and sets with bold blues and pinks. It's not a bad touch at all, but the satire could have done better with more subtlety.I disagree with critics who maintained that the categorized portrait of Middle America is over the heads of today's gay teenagers, as I feel the intention was to make a wise jab at the Conservative, 1950s-style American dream social dreg is a inferior, tasteless copy of an ideological mindset. The trite lifestyle the film's caricatured adults insensitively impose upon their kids is pretentious and commercially produced.I love the irony of only realizing you're gay once you're in an anti-gay institution. The way society laughs at this is how kids are sometimes only really confused once they are told they are. When critics of the film have claimed it fails to subvert gay stereotypes by perpetuating them in the effeminate boys in the camp, they are forgetting that the movie is a parody not only of the fanatical religious right but also of the gay community it persecutes. But though the film is misunderstood by some, these stereotypical flaming-queen caricatures do fall flat after awhile, much too two-dimensional. "},{"Title":"Three cheers for this Cheerleader!","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This underrated, highly entertaining satire boasts memorable performances, clever camera angles and a spirited production design. Natasha Lyonne and Clea Duvall's on screen chemistry is spot-on, while Cathy Moriarty's Raging (butch-as-they-come) Bull dike scores just this side of lesbian drill Sergeant. The winning supporting cast sparkles, as well. Look for a red-headed, scene-stealing Douglas Spain (Band of Brothers, Resurrection Blvd) as one of gone-with-the-gays True Directions' misfits. His climactic tearful speech is both touching and hilarious. Pop the corn, kick back and treat yourself to this delightful romp; a winning commentary about heterosexual ignorance under the clever guise of a smart satire. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is hands down one of the greatest movies i've ever seen. I had to watch it by myself as my friends are quite close-minded on the whole homosexual issue. I, however think this movie was very tastefully done. It dealt with the sexual disorientation in an amusing way that truly showed the complete ludicrousness of trying to change a homosexual's sexual preference. I thoroughly enjoyed each and every actor's contributions to this movie and I can't think of a single character I would get rid of. I recommend this movie to anyone who believes that homosexuality is a casual subject, that it is not such a life or death subject. "},{"Title":"OUTrageously Funny!!","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, so I was wondering around in my local video store, looking for something when I spotted this little flick, and since I like Natasha Lyonne (from Slums of Beverly Hills). I gave it a try! And boy, I am so glad I did! Its a light funny/romantic movie! The cast couldn't have been casted better especially Cathy Moriarty, who plays Mary, the founder of True Directions (the rehab for homosexuality) and Mink Stole, who is awesome to see in any movie! This movie also pokes fun at alot of topics that occur in the gay community, and its just a extremly funny-cute-flick. Give this little number a try !! "}{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  But I'm A Cheerleader isn't the greatest movie in the world, but it's certainly not the worst.  It's a quirky movie about love and gender.  I'd recommend it to anyone (except for religious extremists and homophobes, of course).Natasha Lyonne and Clea Duvall put on excellent performances in this movie as young women learning about love and lesbianism, while Cathy Moriarty provides that nice antagonistic side as the anti-homosexual converter in Mary Brown, the owner of True Directions, which is described as a homosexual rehab.  Duvall's most memorable line is this is bullsh*t, Megan.  You like who you want.  The trick is to not get caught.So... yeah.  Good movie.  Not the best I've ever seen, but still a good movie. "},{"Title":"AWESOME!!!","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cheerleader is the best movie!!!!! I can just watch it over and over and over again.....I love it!! Clea DuVall and Natasha Lyonne are fantastic. But then again when are they ever anything but fantastic?!?!?!?  To sum it up....I LOVE this movie and i think that everyone should see it. "},{"Title":"Brainy Comedy","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a rather satyric movie which stories the life of a girl, which was sent into a rehabilitation center, after parents and friends suspected her as being a lesbian. The plot and the hole movie are very cleverly set. The love story, in it, is very good. However, the biggest strength of the movie is the really unique, simple and enjoyable way it satyrizes and ironizes the goals and the methods of such kind of rehabilitation center. There are much more funny movies to see on the general subject (e.g. in and out) but this is the only one I've seen which uses humor with irony, in light doses, more elegantly and hidden in the scenes and all this with a purpose to send a message through. And it serves this purpose from the first to the last scene. Very good movie, worthwhile watching.  "},{"Title":"Smart satire, lots of laughs, just a fun movie.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cheerleader Megan (Natasha Lyonne) is outed by her family, who send her to True Directions school for bringing young gays and lesbians back the straight fold.  Gay immersion produces predictable results.Hilarious premise is followed up by over the top acting and enough gay jokes/stereotypes to fill a pink school bus.  This movie cracked me up.  I loved it. "},{"Title":"Well-Acted Cliched, Uninspired Film","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally, Natasha Lyonne proves that she can, in fact, act.  I always knew that she had talent, and I was proved right.  Too bad it was wasted on this terribly cliched film.  I personally feel that homosexual individuals are more complex than how this movie portrays them, but that might just be me. The good news is that the characters are, for the most part, believable, and that the acting is above-average.  The bad news is that the story uses cliches to pull itself along.  The ending could also have used some more work.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Surreal Lesbian Farce","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It might just be a product of my own out and proud lesbianism but I find this movie to be one of the best and most entertaining studies of sexuality and tolerance (or lack thereof) available.  The surrealist and technicolour nightmare that is the True Directions house (think American Gothic in hot pink) creates a universe just far enough removed from reality to make the story work yet just close enough to make the story relavant.  Mary (Cathy Moriarty) is the mother we all are glad we don't have and RuPaul as an ex gay is absolutely priceless.Often the best way to deliver a message is through the use of humour and I believe the delivery in this movie to be close to perfect.  The message of the movie is delivered in a way that is entirely non-preachy for which I am truly thankful.I would recommend showing this movie to everyone who is confused about their sexuality and everyone who discriminates against gays and lesbians.  In fact maybe everyone should watch it, most of my friends have seen it now.BTW, Clea DuVall as Graham is sexy as hell and the relationship between Lloyd and Larry-bear is too cute for words.  "},{"Title":"Sexual identity crisis never was more fun...","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderfully funny movie about mistaken sexual identity leads to hilarious situations and self-discovery for a blond cheerleader. Diffidently a great movie to watch with a group of friends or any time you're feeling misunderstood, just compare your life to Megan's and suddenly things don't seem as bad... "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud funny!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When my 21 year old daughter brought this home on a friend's recommendation, I thought we were in for a snooze fest. How wrong I was!This movie is extremely entertaining and laugh out loud funny. I highly recommend it - but NOT for the kids due to it's sexual content. "},{"Title":"Best camp movie since Meatballs","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's the classic heartwarming tale of summer camp romance... Girl likes girls, parents think girl should like boys, girl meets boys, girl isn't interested in boys, girl meets other girls...If you don't mind a few obvious cliches (hey, a film about gay kids being sent to straight camp and the misguided attempts to straighten them out is bound to have them...) then this film has a lot of good humor on its side.It may not handle the issues of being young and gay with sufficient sensitivity, but there are other movies that try to do that. If my various gay, lesbian, and bisexual friends aren't offended by it, then I'm certainly not going to be. This one isn't about consciousness-raising. It's about fun, and a little romance.(It's also about RuPaul dressed as a man, something that we don't see often, and I am assured many will find most appealing.)Don't see it if you are homophobic; or if you think that everything in the G&L film section needs to be PC; or if you are simply humor-impaired. Otherwise, give it a look. I gave it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"So Good","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like John Waters, you'll probably like this movie. I loved it. Great cast includes the two leads but also Mink Stole, Bud Cort, RuPaul, and Cathy Moriarty. Campy, great art direction and great topic. Run don't walk. "}{"Title":"not a bad film, but could have been better","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, it's hard to believe that the MPAA gave the initial version of this movie an NC-17 rating.  This has to be one of the most tamest movies to get branded with that rating.  Here in Canada, the uncut version had no problem getting a 14A rating.. so what's the deal?  Are the MPAA homophobes or something? Or do they just hate to see females being immersed in their sexuality?  Either way, they seem to be an old-fashioned group of people.  Anyways.. onto the film review.  The best thing about this movie is the plot, which is pretty original.  I can actually imagine places like True Directions existing somewhere in the world.  One of the problems with the film is that by looking at the poster, and seeing the trailers, you'd think it's a comedy... but it's more of a romantic drama of sorts.  It's still pretty fun, though.  This film is very visual for the most part... the colours (bright pink representing girls, blue for the boys) are emphasized quite a bit.  Natasha Lyonne takes on a role that's fairly different than what she usually plays.  I'm used to seeing Natasha play characters that usually have lots of wit and seem very tough.  Here, she's playing a prissy, soft-spoken, sexually confused teenager and she plays the part well.  Clea Duvall is also a very underrated actress, and she's absolutely perfect in the role of the butchy Graham.  Another interesting thing about the cast is that RuPaul is featured here, out of drag!  Since this movie was down on a tiny budget, I feel that probably due to these limitations, it wasn't as good as it could've been.  It had a truly unique plot and a great cast, but some of the scenes never really took off.  Still, it's better than most of the stuff out there today and it's an excellent piece of social commentary.  If you're interested in a fairly interested gay drama, then I suggest you check this one out.   "},{"Title":"HYSTERICAL!","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We all live in a society that I believe needs to lighten up! The worst thing I could say about this movie is that there are places like anti-gay schools that teach kids that there is something wrong with that. Personally, I can't grasp that concept...but anyway, about the movie... Meet Megan-sweet & innocent, perky, blonde cheerleader. Megan's parents suspect she may be a lesbian. So, they ship her off to one of those schools I was just talking about. While there, Megan meets many other students that are attending this school. Grahm, Jan, Andre(played by the sexy Douglas Spain) & the other's decide to teach Megan about Megan...not what the school has planned. Cathy Moriarty & Rupaul are perfect in this hysterical film. This would make a great tv show! 1-10 (10) Z. "},{"Title":"Great Satire, destined to be a cult classic!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers Ahead!!!This is one of those stories that could be summed up as I had to go to AA meetings to become an alcoholic  I had seen Sugar & Spice and Bring It On and enjoyed both of them.  With But I'm a Cheerleader and Sugar & Spice intended as movies that are fun yet actually both contain controversial material such as robbing a bank, teenage pregnancy, homosexuality and more.  The way these subjects are handled is very thought out.  It is presented in a surreal atmosphere where we know we are not to take it serious yet doesn't make it look like pure slapstick comedy.  It's always portrayed in a way that doesn't make the characters look real smart but doesn't make them look like idiots either, more like average people.The main character Megan Bloomton (Natasha Lyonne) is a typical high school girl on the cheerleader squad.  She has a boyfriend but it's apparent that a sexual attraction for him would be almost impossible for her. During their makeout sessions Megan is fantasizing about the girls on the Cheerleader Squad which is more understood when you see him kiss.  The boyfriend feels rejected because Megan doesn't like to kiss him and the girls on the Cheerleader Squad feel Megan has been a little to close with them physically by brushing against them and touching them more often then needed, but what the hey!  We have AA and Drug Rehab etc., so lets send Megan to Homosexual Rehab   Megan is confronted with an intervention after school one day with her family and friends as well as Mike  (RuPaul Charles) from True Directions  the rehab representative.   So off to rehab Megan goes for about 2 months.  Megan's first day at rehab she meets the folks at the rehab house that have already taken the first step in the program Admitting they're a homosexual  Megan is reluctant to admit she has homosexual tendencies but after a short confrontation in front of the group she breaks down, cries and admits I'm a Homo which is a classic scene in itself.  It's nice to see Bud Cort who plays Peter Bloomton (Megan's father).  After Bud Cort got injured\scarred in a car accident many years ago he kind of disappeared for a long while.Megan meets Graham Eaton (Clea DuVall) who likes girls A Lot and really has no desire to change who she it but wants to appease her parents for her trust fund, her parents are blackmailing her over it.  Hilary Vandermuller (Melanie Lynskey) who initially shows Megan around the rehab center is still much attracted to women.  One night Graham decides to sneak out and go to the local gay bar (The Cocksucker) and has several others going with her, Megan is talked into going with them at the last minute.  At the gay bar while Graham is dancing with another girl and starts getting intimate with her is when Megan realizes she is attracted to Graham.The whole setting of the Rehab center revolves on very traditional sexual roles such as the mans role in fixing the car, chopping wood and making the proper male crotch adjustments.  Of course the women's roles in taking care of the baby, vacuuming the house and cooking.  The use of Blue and Pink are used to separate the genders and role playing is part of the course.In the end Megan & Graham find out who they are and come to terms with just being who they are regardless of the consequences, although Megan's father at the end gets help to come to terms of his daughter being homosexual.There is not one single part of the movie that is supposed to be taken seriously and like Sugar & Spice it is just a movie for the fun of it. I really enjoyed this movie and also liked many of the songs.The music in this movie was very upbeat and emotional at times.  It's too bad there was no soundtrack released, I had to spend a pretty penny to get Chick Habit..April March,  Trailer Song..Sissy Bar,  If You Should Try To Kiss Her..Dressy Bessy,  Ray of Sunshine..Go Sailor,  Together Forever In Love..Go Sailor,  Glass Vase, Cello Case..Tattle Tale and then had to compile them on one CD so I could easily hear them in one sitting without using 5 CD's, what a pain.I think this is a very good movie and I enjoyed the music.  Again, some movies you need to go out to your front porch and set your brain out there and come back for it after you have watched the movie.  This is one of those movies that are for entertainment value only.  If you're the kind of person that feels you need to have redeeming qualities or some philosophical meaning or walk away somehow as a better person from the experience and can't check your brain at the door then this movie will not be for you. For us folks who still have that kid inside us that doesn't need constant reasoning, this movie will be fun.  Besides, it can be nice to give the brain a rest once in awhile. "},{"Title":"Great and positive","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just don't understand why this is rated R in the USA. There's NOTHING extreme in it. No extreme Sexual language or Acts nor Violence, not even swearing. IMO it's the perfect movie for Teenagers. It's about beeing yourself and forgetting all those gender roles or cliches. And about standing up for yourself, even if it means you must disconnect from your Family/Parents. BIAC is one of the most underrated movies i've seen for years. "},{"Title":"Different...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Natasha Lyonne (American Pie 1 & 2, The Slums Of Beverly Hills) is absolutely hilarious in this bittersweet comedy/drama about a cheerleader, who, at the advice of friends and family is sent to True Directions - a camp aimed at reforming gays and lesbians back into heterosexuals. Bizzare as it sounds, Lyonne pulls off her eccentric character brilliantly and co-star Clea Duvall (as the butch Graham) is also perfectly cast. There is quite a bit of same-sex kissing, but for guys, it's not that hot girl-on-girl stuff you'd expect as the two involved (Lyonne and Duvall) are not what you would probably call hot. Then there's also the 2 guys as well which was almost too much for me! But as a film, it's funny and sensitive. "},{"Title":"A great dark comedy","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is almost an homage to John Waters. It has the same feel and off center take on things. Very funny and well worth your time. Warning if you are a serious homophobe, this movie is likely to make you uncomfortable. At least that was the reaction a friend of mine had after watching it. But that aside, my full endorsement. 7/10 rating  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie that many people of open minded mature ages can enjoy and appreciate the comedy and satire in this movie.  RuPaul playing an ex-gay man was hilarious.  My friends and I all immensely enjoy this film for the things it makes you think about, and the humour.  I highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Charming, funny, great, feel good film with a conscience.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that I simply loved But I'm A Cheerleader with Natasha Lyonne; it was funny, witty, made me feel good, was truthful, and had a brain all at the same time. I nice little gem that I saw the trailer for on HBO one night, while I was flipping, and decided to settle in for it. I got a very pleasing surprise, this is a very good movie. Two things though not exactly related to the movie why isn't there a soundtrack (great music)? And why is it R? It really could've gotten away with a PG-13, but anyway I am so glad that this movie was made.The premise is totally believable, the popular girl who doesn't want to accept her homosexuality, so she just shelves it in the closet of her sub-consious, and is sent to the so-sad-that-places-like-this-really-exist rehabilitaion center True Directions. Now, while some of the characters may be based on stereotypes, they are not all, for example the one really feminine guy could be a stereotype-- but there are some gay people who actually act like that, most don't but some do. Also, I can't see why people would call this entire film a stereotype, the message at the core of this is be who you really are. The film was just hilarious, and most of the things in their I guess people can't get if they haven't been through the experience of growing up in a straight-is-the-only (bs) world. Just hilarious. And everyone is especially good in this movie, especially Natasha Lyonne, who has a TON of talent shown here, and Clea DuVall also.Finishing up, I really liked But I'm A Cheerleader, it's a charming, cute, funny, and realistic film about the lives of some teenagers who are forced to do things like this. It's just a great movie all around-- it's hysterical and it has a great, true message-- Always be yourself no matter who it is. A high recommend, but not if your the close minded type who is scared just by the premise. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was very entertaining.  The perfect movie to catch late night on HBO. Most critics spent time criticizing what the movie is not.  It's not the greatest piece of film making.  (Watch Bound if you want something slick). It's not the second coming of John Waters (maybe that's not be a bad thing).  It's not the deepest movie ever made about gays or lesbians. (Try Boys Don't Cry)  But it was a hell of a lot of fun to watch.  It was colorful and the characters were great.  It has a lot of heart and dares to do things you couldn't pull off in the boring mainstream.  Most of the negative criticism is just way too pretentious and cynical.  "},{"Title":"Repeatedly...","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, I saw this movie over and over and over. And its not just because of a growing crush on Clea Duvall. Nope, it was funny! It wasn't sophisticated, pretentious, or any of those cool things, but it was funny in a juvanille saturday afternoon kinda way. Also, it wasn't supposed to be a getting with the issues movie, it was supposed to be a comedy that used stupid stereotypes to argue a nature v. nurture point. Did anyone who saw this movie hear those roots? My mother got married in pants I was born in France Traumatic breasts -- Does this really sound like a movie you should condecend too? It's not the type of movie that needs condecending too! "}{"Title":"Great film","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was extremely well-made considering the tiny budget and even though at times it was uneven it was a lot better than a lot of crap that is being produced in Hollywood these days that is supposed to pass for comedy.To those who hated this film, I'm curious to know if you missed the point completely because the film went over you head or if maybe you're just a little more homophobic than you are willing to admit? "},{"Title":"Funny, sobering look at intolerance of homosexuality","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I happened to catch the last 3/4 of this movie on Cinemax early this morning, and found it absorbing and thoroughly enjoyable. I liked the relationship that developed between Megan (Natasha Lyonne) and Graham (Clea DuVall) - especially that Megan turned out to be the braver of the two, when it was Graham who at first seemed so tough. It was half-funny, half-sobering, to see this place, True Directions, where the object was to make young people fit into plastic molds - basically, to crush their spirits. They were rewarded for lying about who they were, for playing their parts, and punished when any hint of their true nature was visible on the surface. It's a satisfying love story as well as an over-the-top comedy, but has a dark, underlying truth that reminded me vaguely of A Clockwork Orange. "},{"Title":"** 1/2  Bad ending, but otherwise pretty funny","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The promise of a great comedy that is seen in the first half of this film fizzles out when you get to the extremely lame ending. However, its premise, that of an All-American cheerleader who gets sent to a homo-rehabilitation camp because her parents are worried about the Melissa Etheridge posters on her wall, is a really funny one, and Natasha Lyonne's performance keeps everything afloat. RuPaul Charles is terrific as one of the `ex-gays' running the camp, and Cathy Moriarty is nothing short of terrifying as the resort's pink-wearing leader (an `ex-gay' herself).  "},{"Title":"biting satire, very clever film","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Natasha Lyonne's character plays the all american teen girl. Cheerleader, boyfriend is the quarterback. But she is sent to a rehab because her friends and relatives believe she is gay. Once at the rehab this movie really takes off. Cathy Moriarty is great in this film, and Bull from Night Court has a cameo as a gay man who used to be in the rehab. The other residents (especially the guys) are hilarious. This movie is very smart and really takes a shot at intolerance. It also brings to light some of the barriers society puts in front of those in the gay community. I love satirical films and this is a good one. "},{"Title":"This movie might change your life...","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Digging this movie out of the bargain bucket was like prising the lid off a mottled honey jar only to find the finest, most succulent nectar inside. I rediscovered so many feelings I'd suppressed since I first experienced this, in the theatre. I did feel slightly guilty, watching this sort of picture with my partner; feeling my emotion blossom, much like it did back back in those less inhibited days. But, by the end of the movie I was certain sharing this experience was the most precious thing I could've done. The similarities to my own life experiences were painted high, for all to see. Feelings of nausea every time I had to watch two Heteroes kiss. Uneasiness around the male members of the cast. The delight I'd feel watching a group of cheerleaders bouncing around. Warm gooey feelings every time those beautiful young women celebrated their loveliness with a delicate on-screen embrace. The electricity of smooth, smooth, soft, wet kisses. It was too much. Still euphoric from seeing my life flash before my eyes in this dreamy fashion, I seized the moment and informed the wife that I might be a gay lesbian.I'd always dreaded telling her my dark secret, but I was amazed at how easy it was to come clean. I almost felt cheated by her light hearted laughter. Of relief, joy? Wait, did she think I was joking? I told her this face was serious. She only laughed harder. Far more serious than the poker face I might wear on a Friday night to fool the guys into thinking I was one of them. She was near hysterics. Only one course of action could remedy this situation. She was starting to upset me. Just a little. I felt strong and emboldened as I wobbled over to the window, heaved it open, took a fresh breath and aired my secret to the neighbours, I'M a LESBIAN! AND I'M PROUD! There were some adjustments at first, but I can honestly say our relationship is stronger than ever. There's a lot more to being a lesbian than I ever dreamt. It may seem silly, but I can NOT recommend this movie enough. You might be living a lie without even knowing it. "},{"Title":"Congratulations, liars! You know who you are and you know who you want. Ain't nothing' gonna change that, shite!","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Focus on the Family is in Orlando this week with big billboards promoting conversion therapy for gays and lesbians. Despite research by the American Psychological Association and other mental-health organizations, they continue to demonize those born with a different sexual orientation.That is the thrust of this film, a comedy, which certainly gives plenty of laughs at those who run a center for repairing those who are different. I cannot imagine how they could have made the leaders of this group look more ridiculous. The parents portrayed are just plain ignorant. You can't blame them for falling for the canard that sexual orientation is something to be cured. Underneath that story is the pain of the children that are forced into these centers by well-meaning parents. Megan (Natasha Lyonne of American Pie and Scary Movie) has no clue that she is a lesbian. The fact that she is a vegetarian and doesn't like the way her boyfriend kisses is enough for her parents. She is sent off to be cured without having a clue as to what she is to be cured of.Graham, played by Clea DuVall (Carnivle, The Grudge, Girl, Interrupted), and Megan are attracted to each other. Graham has no doubts about who she is, but is repressing to please her parents. Love wins out in the end, however, in this campy comedy with a message. "},{"Title":"Amusing and entertaining comedy about gay reprogramming","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't say that I found 'But I'm A Cheerleader' to be non-stop hilarity, but it was continually amusing, well acted by an interesting cast, and had a genuinely likeable feel to it without descending into saccharine feel-goodness, or the downright imbecility of most current teen comedies. Some have criticised Jamie Babbit for being John Waters-lite, which I think is a bit unfair. The movie is what it is, and it's entertaining enough.Natasha Lyonne always shines even in third rate material ('American Pie', 'Detroit Rock City',etc.), but she really suits quirkier and more intelligent vehicles like this one, 'The Slums Of Beverly Hill' and 'Freeway 2'. Pairing her up with the seriously underrated Clea Duvall ('The Faculty' and unfortunately a lot of dross) is an inspired move, and the supporting cast includes cult figures Bud Cort ('Brewster McCloud'), John Waters' regular Mink Stole, and an ironic turn from RuPaul. The wonderful Cathy Moriarty ('Raging Bull') , 'Heavenly Creatures' Melanie Lynskey and a surprising role for Richard Moll ('Night Court' and dozens of z-grade movies) are icing on the cake. Nowhere near a classic, but recommended viewing nevertheless, for a gently subversive good time. "},{"Title":"Great satirical movie!","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I must say that I am not gay and actually I watched this movie with my husband.  While I am a bit more open-minded than he, we both got a kick out of the movie.  Probably the most striking thing to me was the imagery.  Right off the bat I made the connection that although it is set in modern times, everyone in Megan's family and school dressed in fifties style clothing.  I definitely think that this was making a reference to the way that her community thought about homosexuality.  They were back in the fifties, so to say, in their way of thinking.  However, towards the end of the movie you see Megan dressing in more modern clothes (especially that cheerleader outfit!)All in all, I don't think that this movie should be taken too seriously.  It seemed to be a social commentary on the closed-minded people in our society.  Especially since in the same movie saying that homosexuality is bad, that women should also be cleaning, cooking, and changing babies while the men should be out chopping wood and playing football.  Basically it took all the gender stereotypes to the extreme in order to show how silly they are "},{"Title":"Quirky, over the top commentary on growing up gay","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Megan's a cheerleader but she doesn't like kissing her boyfriend, is a vegetarian, has a Melissa Etheridge poster in her room and enjoys watching her fellow cheerleaders just a bit too much. All of her family and friends know she's gay but apparently she doesn't.So much for the setup. An interesting quirk to the beginning is that the friends and family use these superficial indications to determine that Negan is gay. At this point the writers have us guessing  a little. Is this going to be a movie about a straight girl who gets sent to gay rehab by mistake, based on a few stereotypical signs? Or is Megan really gay?It turns out to be the latter, and although the plot is somewhat predictable from that point on, the movie is very enjoyable and often touching. And believe me, Megan and Graham do end up touching a lot ;-)One of the funniest scenes for me was early on where Megan and her boyfriend are french kissing -- very badly. It's so clumsy, awkward and hilarious. It contrasts very well with the later scenes between Megan and Graham.There are some interesting tidbits left unexplored. For instance, RuPaul's reformed gay character, Mike, is seen obviously relapsing a little towards the end of the movie, but it's just left hanging, if you'll pardon my French.And what an awesome soundtrack. It's a real shame there's no CD. "},{"Title":"*SPOILERS* Excellent fare for all genders and orientations.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got this movie on the advice of a lesbian friend, and I said what the hey and rented it tonight.I didn't really know what to expect but the movie is sensational. Natasha Lyonne was picture-perfect as the bemused cheerleader who keeps thinking of boobs, girls jumping up and down and more girls as her football player boyfriend tries to tongue her to death.RuPaul made me die...D-I-E I say as the leader of True Directions...his shirt Straight is Great, made me fall off my chair when I first saw it.The characters are all very believable and are varying degrees of likeable.The curing process is also hilarious but sad at the same time, as first they must admit to their illness, then go into gender typing, practice sex with the opposite sex and totally banish thoughts of same-sex actions...this leads to some hilarious moments, especially with the lawnmower man and RuPaul's boys (in blue, girls in pink) and with the self-made electroshock therapy for the girls...The attraction between Megan and Graham starts awkwardly but blossoms...until Graham decides she would rather go to college than be honest...but then again the film is realistic in this, as gays and lesbians the world over probably do suppress themselves to advance and get what they need at times.The ending is fantastic, touching, and heartwarming.It's not really a movie about gays and lesbians, it's a movie about letting people make their choices and be happy with them.And that deserves 5 stars in my book.  "}{"Title":"A well made, but camp and vapid film.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While there are many potentially interesting and involving storylines that might be derived from the concept of a cheerleader not thinking she was gay, but her family and friends thinking she was and sending her off to a correction camp - this isn't one of them.  What it is, is a disinteresting and camp c-grade movie - at best.On the bright side, it isn't badly made - the acting and production have resulted in a quality product (ignoring the storyline) especially considering it doesn't even attempt to be anything other than what it is. "},{"Title":"Ultimately a failure","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I knew, walking into this film, that I probably wouldn't like it. There are some subjects, like pregnancy, war crimes, and yes, homosexuality that require a certain amount of skill to handle humorously. This movie lacks that subtlety, trying to do both a social satire and a homosexual parody at the same time. A good satire can most often be watched as a good parody as well if you don't concentrate on the hidden commentary. But intentional parody doesn't really work as a satire and it's a form of humour that you either love or hate. I belong to the latter group, and thus I don't really think that I belong to this film's target audience. It's too bright, too in your face, too exuberantly and stereotypically gay - and not in a fun way. You're painfully reminded that these people, especially the males, could never exists in real life. They're just too over the top, too stereotypical, too clueless about even the most basic of social norms.By far the worst is the rehabilitation center, though, which is painted in the most obnoxious shades of pink and baby blue. The whole process of trying to turn gays and lesbians into straight people by forcing them to adapt the most masculine and feminine roles imaginable is of course ludicrous, though from what I've gathered, not that far from reality, unfortunately. And I think that this over the topness will actually please the friends of parody as it is always treated with tongue in cheek and with certain amount of yeah, we're just kidding. But every now and then the movie takes a turn for the worse and tries to point and mock through the use of satire. It tries to say this is wrong, don't do this, but it feels like it's trying to force the message down our throats. Its message is a good one, don't get me wrong, but its delivery leaves much to be desired.That being said, there are some good things in this film. The acting is mainly rather bland, but the two main characters, Megan (Natasha Lyonne) and Graham (Clea DuVall), have some genuine chemistry between them and you're able to buy their romance. Add in some laughs, which are kind of forced, but laughs nonetheless, and you have a film that has some value as a guilty pleasure.And that pretty nicely sums up the film. It's not a good movie. It simultaneously mocks the gay people and then tries to tell its audience that it's okay to be one, which sends extremely mixed messages. But it is rather funny if its sense of humour tickles your fancy and the main romance is watchable. There are worse films in existence. "},{"Title":"A thoughtful smile","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, I ran into this small jewel looking through Clea Duvall filmography.I was delighted, much more than any heterosexual -but rather kinky, admittedly- male should have to, by this campy joke about the harshness of a rehab camp for homosexuals.Natasha Lyonne is absolutely perfect in her role as the naive cheerleader, Clea is Clea - I know the rumors, and her list of roles, but I can't help loving her - RuPaul Charles makes for a great, great, great Ex-homosexual trainer and Cathy Moriarty is an headmistress that I can'help but desiring to see as a Mistress (in the sense of dominatrix).Trying to make you smile, this movies makes you realize how much is absurd the whole concept of straightening the queer by the means of behavioral modification...It's far from being a perfect movie - most secondary characters are sketchy at best, but functional - but it's a good movie, funny and with a grace of his own. There's not much more one should ask for.I recommend it with my whole heart. "},{"Title":"Gays & Lesbians .... well that rules","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is not your tipical boring movie that you watch over and over again that has the same love stories. This movie has class!!!! But I'm a Cheerleader has you laughing your ass off. The movie has great music like.. Chick Habbit (also on the movie Death Proof starring Rose McGowan from TV's Charmed) by  April March. This is by far one of my favorite films of all time. The funny thing about this film is that when a guy or girl walks past this movie in a BlockBuster they don't care to see this film because it shows a girly film who is a CheerLeader, but this movie isn't about cheerleaders lol. It hardly ever shows anything about cheerleaders. This movie is about Lesbian's and Gay's. I suggest everyone go pick this up at there local movie rental store. "},{"Title":"but i'm a cheerleader rocks!!!","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Being a lesbian, I find this movie funny and non degrading at any cost. I enjoyed watching this movie and I can definitely relate to the two lead characters graham and Megan.I think that it is difficult for homosexual persons in this world and this movie shows a funnier side of the difficulties you are presented with.Even though this movie has its serious and drama filled parts, we can't forget Andre and Mike. There is a lot to look forward to.I would recommend this movie to everyone who is open minded and loves a good life and tear jerker. "},{"Title":"Rupaul","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great, and funny movie. The tongue in cheek humor is great, I saw this movie because my brother is gay and wanted me to watch it, so I thought sure why not, he convinced me when he said it was about lesbians, I'm a straight male, so I was sold... ) I think perhaps the best part of this movie though, is that Rupaul tries to play a straight character. I mean Rupaul, Ms. Dragqueen himself, playing a straight guy? That's funny! Overall, this movie is pretty good, although it looks more like an independent film than I would like, but oh well. Natasha Lyone, and Clea Duvall make excellent lead films, and the premise is pretty original too, however, in my opinion what makes this movie so great is simply Rupaul playing a straight guy. It's a very simple formula... Rupaul(straightness)=funny! "},{"Title":"I thought it was wonderful","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought it was a good movie and would love to watch it more than I have a chance to. It was thought out I think that it gives a good message, that people shouldn't try to change you. I thought that all of the actors did a fine job in their performances and I think that I would love to work with them all. I think that all should watch this that have a gay or lesbian member of the family or friend and it will show them a thing or two. I personally think that is wrong for people to judge each other, but they do everyday. I think that it is wrong for people to kill someone if they are gay and I hope that people will see that with these sort of movies. "},{"Title":"Good love story, sappy plot, too many stereotypes","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Minor Spoilers This movie was well intended, but it fell short of its goal. I love the idea of the movie- a satire about 'homosexual rehabilitation' camps. However, the movie tried to be too much at once. It tried to be a campy fun movie, a satire, a drama, a social commentary, a romance story, and several other genres that I can't think of. Because it tried to achieve so much at once, it didn't really manage to accomplish any one thing very well. The plot was quite generic, and played way too heavily on the gay stereotypes. There were a few good laughs, but mostly just cheap jokes. The movie does have it's redeeming values- The acting was very good (for a campy movie). My favorite part was the love story between Megan and Grahm. There aren't very many lesbian romances that can be found in movies- especially not teen movies- and this one was very sweet and touching. This part of the story would have been even better if it wasn't juxtaposed on such a cheezy plot line. Oh well, it's still a fun movie. I'd recommend this movie- it's fun, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"A movie to be enjoyed","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie only a few weeks after I realized I was gay and I found it tender and heart-warming. The film plays on common stereotypes with ease and the performances of Lyonne and DaVuall are extremely powerful. The sex scenes are tastefully done and the messages are clear You should be proud of who you are. The relationship between Megan and Gram are the basic of the movie. The music is corny but fits perfectly with the scenes. The sets are elaborate and use color creatively. This movie is one of my favourites and uses many dramatic elements such as comedy and drama to create a movie that is beautiful and yet powerfully funny at the same time. "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS!","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before I review the movie, let me point out that my gay best friend and I both loved this movie. It was non offensive to either of us.This movie was all about stereotypes associated with being gay but that was the point of the movie! Come on.. the pink and blue at the rehab? Very purposefully done!My favorite character was the boy who doesn't pass the final test. He's so flaming gay and I loved it!Hats off to the characters who had to do sexual acts on camera with the same sex. I believe that's Oscar worthy in itself. It was believable.I also appreciated the subtle things in this movie like the in and out of teaching the kids how to vacuum and fix a car (you shove it in and pull it out, etc). What was with all the plastic on everything?If you liked movies like American Pie and Slums of Beverly Hills, you'll love this movie. If you had a bad day and need a good laugh, this is the movie to rent! "}{"Title":"Campy, candy-colored fun","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Personally, I love this movie. Everyone seems to put it down because they say it's overacted or stereotypical, but I've never thought so.The story itself is interesting, a gay rehab camp dedicated to turning gays into upstanding heterosexual citizens. The movie pokes fun at many typical clichs and stereotypes associated with gays, but each character (from the Gothic Sinead to Jewish Joel) has something unique about them that makes them lovable.The characters, especially Megan and Graham, develop so much throughout the movie, and the visuals (especially the blues and pinks of True Directions) are eye popping.I'd definitely recommend this, for gays and straights alike, since the story's values (being yourself and loving who you want) can pertain to anyone. "},{"Title":"It Was Funny","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday for the first time. This movie is in my country not for sale. And That is a shame. Cause it was a funny movie. It's not blockbuster material but still it was good. I really liked the gay guys cause they were soooo gay that you'll never believe they can be cured. And the colors in the movie were a great detail. The blue for guys and the pink for girls. But what wasn't clear to me was what the timeline the movie is in. Cause it looked like the sixties with all those colors and did you saw the outfits!! But I can't believe that in the sixties they were so open about sexuality (that were the seventies right?) The music they used in the film was also great they really helped with the movie. So sure there were mistakes in the movie but they weren't large mistakes and they weren't disrupting the movie. It is a great movie if you have nothing to do for a hour and half and just want a good laugh.  "},{"Title":"A LITTLE GEM","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was introduced to 'But I'm a Cheerleader' in 2001 and bought it immediately! The only problem with this film is that most people take themselves far too seriously!! OK 'But I'm a Cheerleader' uses stereotypes, but so what, sometimes we have to be able to laugh at our selves. As an actress i can also say that the performances in 'But I'm a Cheerleader' are very strong and the team work within the cast is outstanding. I love this film and would highly recommend it. Grab a drink, something to nibble on, take your thinking cap off for a while and allow the film to carry you away for a while!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"a really great, fun, film","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now I have read over all the narrow minded comments by the naive peoplewho've seen this movie, and it really makes me wonder, why'd they bothercommenting on it if they're so closed minded and/or homophobic? I'm mostdefinitely not homophobic and I am the most open minded person there is, andthis movie was great. I loved the performance by Natasha Lyonne as a naiveteenager coming to terms with who she really is. Clea DuVall was also great,even though we've seen her play the rich, spoiled, loner in her other movies. The whole plot of this movie was hilarious and took the controversy ofhomosexuality and poked fun at the stereotypes surrounding it. I've watched this movie 8 times so far and still laugh. The love scene between Graham andMegan was well done and could be tolerated by even the straightest person. Icould really relate to this movie, which is why I was able to watch it over and over again. Nothing can stop true love - not even the lacking of a penis in a relationship. Great frickin' movie!  "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So I saw this movie on T.v. I loved it. So much. I know that not too many people have taken a liking to this specific movie. But it, to me, was amazing. It was gorgeous how they got to be together in the end. Their scenes together were just so amazing and beautiful.Maybe it is because I am a lesbian which is why I found this movie amazing. But I did. It shows that heterosexuals should not be so incredibly homophobic towards gay people. And that if you really want to be with someone it is possible. So those are my thoughts on the movie. I highly recommend going and seeing it if you are someone who stands strong for homosexuality freedom.  "},{"Title":"This is a very controversial film, but I loved it!","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my top films, although I accept that it is very controversial. It was a bit cynical, but I like that, and there was too much pink in my opinion, but it was excellent acting all round.Some of the stereotypes, especially the male ones, were a little O T T but it was a thought-provoking film. Part of the attraction of the film has to be that it dares to touch a subject that one doesn't talk about. We have to accept that not everyone is heterosexual, and the characters in this film certainly don't.The story line of this was quite good, but it could have been made better. I got the feeling the producers were saying look what we dared to make! and put more thought into the satirical humor than into making the background suit. Most of it worked excellently, though.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, funny, unique","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just loved this film. I saw it about 4 or 5 times in the end. This was, however, partly because of how pink the film is. It's my favourite colour, and the whole film is so neat and clean. The set reminds me a bit of Edward Scissorhands, although it's obviously not as good a film. It's hilarious though. The campness of some of the gay boys had me in stitches, even after the first couple of viewings, and especially the repressed behaviour and longing glances of the son and the male warden. It is an ironic film but it does say a lot about society's view of homosexuality, not that I'm saying it's a particularly deep film because it's definately a comedy, and a very good one at that. I totally recommend it to anybody, boy, girl, straight or gay  "},{"Title":"Joel Michaely rules!!","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie stars one of my favorite actors. Joel was also in Can't hardly Wait on the roof. He rocked. And in Rules on Attraction with james Vanderbeeek so hot!!! and that other hot guy. and that girl from seventh heaven. but this is Joel's best. he's awesome. the movie is really colorful, it looks really cool.  and the movie really opened me to so many things. i'm not a lesbian. but there's one in my school. and my aunt is a lesbian!!! I love my aunt!!!! and joel!!!! go see this movie!! later ) "},{"Title":"Brilliant comedy!","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a huge fan of most of the cast in this, it very easily caught my interest. Heck, even if I wasn't a fan, this movie still would be awesome!!!!! Not many films are this daring, original, stylish, and just plain incredible!!!!!!!!!! Everyone involved did a fantastic job... the stand-out role being Cathy Moriarty ofcourse. The music was also really well-done, and it fit the overall feel of the movie perfectly. And, the production design was top-notch. I would love to see the cast and crew make another film together, I'd pick it up in a second. Anyone who hasn't seen this flick, check it out, you'll be glad you did. **** Four stars for an awesome piece of work! "},{"Title":"Sweet Silly Slightly Subversive Satire","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just love this movie!  I like the theme, the bright cartoonish look, the music, the acting. I rated it 8 out of 10.  It makes a great romantic comedy.Natasha Lyonne (Slums of Beverly Hills) is always so appealing and I really like Clea DuVall (Carnivale, Girl Interrupted). The supporting cast were all very funny!  The intervention where Megan's friends and family show evidence of her unnatural tendencies had me in stitches!There are moments when it tries to be more serious and I think those don't work as well. It's cute and quirky, and isn't really exploring new ground. It does drag a bit working up to the ending.One thing that puzzles me is the R rating.  I think it's sweet, kind of light and definitely teen appropriate.  I'm not even sure where the rating comes from - theme and swearing I guess.  There is a gay club with a raunchy name. There's not much in the way of sex, and no nudity.I also absolutely loved the soundtrack - it was great and fit the film beautifully from beginning to end.  Too bad it's not available too! "}{"Title":"Silly but fun.","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  But I'm a Cheerleader is great entertainment despite being subpar filmmaking.  It's a pleasant, charming, and affectionate coming-of-age portrayal of homosexuality.  True to its discordant and bizarre nature, this film made me roll my eyes AND laugh. Set in some alternate world that manages to appear vaguely 1950's while focusing on a thoroughly modern controversy, But I'm a Cheerleader ends on a high note and may well leave its less homophobic viewers grinning in spite of themselves. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have read over all the narrow minded comments by the naive people who've seen this movie, and it really makes me wonder, why'd they bother commenting on it if they're so closed minded and/or homophobic? I'm most definitely not homophobic and I am the most open minded person there is, and this movie was great. I loved the performance by Natasha Lyonne as a naive teenager coming to terms with who she really is. Clea DuVall was also great, even though we've seen her play the rich, spoiled, loner in her other movies. The whole plot of this movie was hilarious and took the controversy of homosexuality and poked fun at the stereotypes surrounding it. I've watched this movie 8 times so far and still laugh. The love scene between Graham and Megan was well done and could be tolerated by even the straightest person. I could really relate to this movie, which is why I was able to watch it over and over again. Nothing can stop true love - not even the lacking of a penis in a relationship. Great frickin' movie! "},{"Title":"Hilarious outlook of Homophobia","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have seen.  Natasha Lyonne and Clea Duvall, who I had already liked, shine in this hysterical parody of make-you-straight camps!  Plus, it goes into deeper angst-y relationship problems. "},{"Title":"It was OK if you don't have any paint to watch dry.","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was pretty anxious to see this movie, but halfway through I was kind of bored. It's campy, but not over the top campy. It was funny, but not hah hah funny. The visuals were kind of interesting, but they got on my nerves halfway thru. Overall I was just annoyed. And the ending SUCKS! But then again, the few scenes that were funny were REALLY funny. They were just far and few between. Also, there is a guy that looks just like Andy Dick in the film. That kind of threw me for a loop. I guess the film is OK if you don't expect to much!  "},{"Title":"Good, quirky fun","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lovely original little movie with lots of charm, that manages to expertly take the piss, while also having serious thought-provoking dramatic moments.Its only fault lies in the fact that it overreaches its self too much at times.In spite of this (or perhaps due to it?) it's a quirky comedy/drama ideal for gay or straight viewing!Clea DuVall and Natasha Lyonne are excellent. "},{"Title":"Cute film with a message","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw the preview for this film stuck at the end of a video, and thought it looked funny enough to see one day. But then, it's comedy, and previews often show all the good bits of a movie to attract to a rather mediocre product. This isn't the case for But I'm a Cheerleader, which is a sweet film laced with black humour and a message.The movie circles around a cheerleader's time at True Directions, a homosexual rehab centre for gay teens. True Directions seeks to straighten out these teens in a five step programme, making them normal. However, perhaps it's not that easy...But I'm A Cheerleader does rely on a few stereotypes in its narratives, but doesn't shy away from twisting those stereotypes for comedic effect. The concept that homosexuality can be driven out of people if they are made to conform to gender roles is shown in all the comedy that such ideas deserve.There are some dark-ish moments in this film, so it may not be as light-on as some people want, while others may complain that it treats a serious subject too simply. That said, I think it is a film that most people would enjoy, and one of the only teen films I've liked. "},{"Title":"My Synopsis of This Movie","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched the film, But I'm A Cheerleader last night, and I must recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys cynical, blatent sexual humor and lesbian scenes.  Clea DuVall and Natasha Lyonne are beautiful young women and pull their respective roles as main character and main antagonist off flawlessly.  There are scenes featuring somewhat-crude visual comedy and others with somewhat-objectionable homophobic dialogue.  And you can tell that the director hoped to, one day, direct softcore pornography in the ways he presented the material.  But in all, this film is well worth renting, if even for the lesbians! "},{"Title":"fabulous commentary on homophobia","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  But I'm a Cheerleader is a fabulous commentary on the feelings of homosexuals in a heterosexual world.The characters of this film are carefully crafted to all represent a way of thinking, and all of their actions are weirdly perfect.The freakishly immaculate sets, and costumes, and the disapproval of the homosexual urge all seem somewhat out of proportion, and the ideas expressed by the heterosexuals depicted in the film are outrageous when one thinks about them.The film is both amusing and biting in it's message. A must see. "},{"Title":"This was sick and wrong...","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BUT SO DAMN FUNNY!!  Tears streamed from my eyes!  Everyone who had overbearing parents and a whacked out childhood would LOVE this movie! What else could you ask for in a movie.  For those of you who have seen it, see it again.  For those of you that haven't seen it, what are you waiting for!??!? "},{"Title":"Cheezy, but makes a point","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *May contain spoilers*Being a straight guy, I started watching this movie cause I caught Natasha Lyonne (American Pie) and Clea DuVall (Girl, Interupted ) making out. Whoa! But it does make a point, although very simply, that we should all just be ourselves.For entertainment value i give this movie 2/5, but for the movies value to the homosexual community, in an attempt to bring it more into the mainstream, I'll give it a 5/5. "}{"Title":"I saw this movie for the very first time two days ago and loved it.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found the whole plot & story line behind this movie funny and informative. I could watch But I'm a Cheerleader all the time. I found the characters Graham & Megan played to be the very best actresses in this movie!  "},{"Title":"Tune up your humor","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think anyone is going to enjoy this movie if too intent on its passing a test of Political Correctness.  Babbit's film parodies both sides, showing us a few central, more-or-less believable characters against a background of hetero- and homosexual stereotypes; and playful, Retro-American UltraSchlock like that from a Richard O'Brien movie (Shock Treatment, or Brad and Janet's wedding in Rocky Horror).  If it's anti-anything, it's anti-self-righteous.The message, Be yourself, extends itself as indiscriminantly as the parody.  So does a subtext message, driven by the over-the-top backdrop and the movie's careless pace Relax, have fun, get over it.  "},{"Title":"Fairly good movie with some failings.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is trying to convince us there is nothing wrong with being gay.Not a bad message.The people in this movie have interesting points of view.Hearing fine music we see them develop new attitudes.Some stereotypes get satirised constantly.But this movie portrays heterosexuals as people who have stuck living like it's the 1950's.I would like to see the heterosexual point of view portaited better.Homosexuals and heterosexuals are portraited as two opposite directions.The movie ignores the existence of bi-sexuals?Other than that it's a fine comedy that make's you think.It just could have a wider point of view.  "},{"Title":"not offensive to anyone, but. . . .","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" . . . fundamentalists and other gay-bashers, actually who believe they can rehabilitate a homosexual back into being heterosexual. the movie DOES, in fact, take sides, in that it points out the ridiculousness of that kind of setting and those kinds of beliefs. basically, it is for gay people, especially those who are younger, to have a laugh at the expense of those who think they have a choice in the matter.i personally didn't care much for the movie. it had some funny parts--some really funny parts, but it was way too indie for me. i'm not a homosexual myself, so i guess a lot of the humor is lost on me, since i've never been in those situations and i'm not exactly immersed in gay culture.anyway...if you're young and gay, watch it. also ....if you're old and hate gay people, watch it. you'll learn something (about yourself probably) "},{"Title":"Wow I was surprised","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Being the typical guy, I came into this film expecting a hot, wet lesbian scene to get my jollies off. But instead, I found something different. You know those comments made by girls under a true lesbian-love commentary where the girls say this scene/movie defines lesbianism. Well this movie, in my natural/perverted guy eyes sees this as what nature intended lesbianism to be portrayed. It doesn't fulfill the basic guy instinct as the typical hot lesbian scene that we all think of. Rather, it portrays what lesbians are and will always be, set aside from the clich fake orgasm BS that is commonly seen in adult films. However, this film provides an enlightening truth plus a heartful awakening for those with an open mind. Great breakthrough movie even though it has a weak storyline. Go Team Lesbians! "},{"Title":"I wanted to like this, but ...","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many potential or actual spoilers below.I really wanted to like this, because I believe passionately in the message that it promotes (though not gay myself). I watched this twice on successive days, feeling disappointed after the first viewing (I had read the first page of reviews). Second time around, I could see more in it some subtle touches (Mary planting the *plastic* flowers and finding one that wouldn't stay planted - very symbolic), and found the bits I laughed at (especially the males drooling over Rock, and the ludicrous ideas of proper masculine/feminine behaviour being presented) still funny.The acting was uniformly good. But whether the characters were entirely believable was another matter. In particular, Mary had evidently managed to get a son from somewhere, but if she was so big on heterosexuality, why did she not have at least a lover (and why did not some cheeky kid point this out)? Of course, there was at least one passage to suggest that she was a suppressed gay herself - and her ideas of masculine and feminine behaviour were so extraordinary that they would have seemed unnecessarily prescriptive even in the Fifties. There is another major inconsistency if she is so insistent on 'proper' male-female roles, which seems to include the man being the one with the job, why is she running a business and not confining herself to the kitchen etc.?Graham's motivation was not wholly clear was she simply desperate to please a notably unpleasant and manipulative father? And if Megan's parents love her so much, why are they, especially her mother, so fast to state that they will disown her completely if she cannot decide not to be a lesbian? And why are her friends so ready to turn her in, and take the line that her boyfriend's appallingly sloppy kissing should please her? It is my understanding (as a Brit) that poor kissing technique is frowned on in high school circles, and I can see why any girl would have disliked this! There was an element of parody that went so far that it stretched credulity to breaking point. Could anyone *really* believe that vegetarianism was a sign of homosexuality ... when probably at least half the massive population of India, for example, is vegetarian? Or that one's mother getting married in pants, or being born in France, was a *sufficient* root for homosexual behaviour? (Mind, American antagonism to France being what it is in some conservative quarters ...) Further, there is some reference to God and the religious importance of a heterosexual lifestyle, but my understanding is that this is a *major* part of the teaching pushed by these institutions that attempt to 'cure' homosexuals (and apparently of Mary's own motivation), so we should have heard a lot more about this Other elements of the presentation, such as the attempt to present a gay lifestyle as luridly self-destructive, to suggest that gays 'recruit' (and liberals promote this), have no friends, etc. sound truer to life.There was also a tendency to make use of the stereotypes that the message of the film surely deplores. So Andr the actor and dancer has to be a 'cissy' (indeed, all the gay boys are made to run away when the axehead flies off the handle), and Megan is the child of a more dominant mother, who will say things her somewhat ineffectual husband can't get out - until a final scene after the credits have begun.This is a reminder that one would like to have known more about the parents. E.g. why does Graham have a boy's name? Did her father really want a son? The film is quite short, but I think it could have been improved by adding a little to fill in this part of the background more and answer some of these questions. I am still ready to give it a mark of 7. "},{"Title":"unfortunately","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Unfortunately for some of the people who's comments i was reading, gay reform camps are a real thing in America and canada 9i don't know about other places). all over in north America, kids are being sent to camps and are being forced to 'become' straight. in places like these, they are sometimes WORSE than what was portrayed in the film. in one particular case i heard, the girls were forced to wear certain bras and socks with sandals. there were specific no fraternizing rules (and FAR MORE security than in the movie). while the film is (in my opinion) fantastic, we do need to have (i think) more serious films or media coverage of the true things happening to young gay men and women.about the film though i thought it was light and great!! unfortunately it did portray all the gay guys as effeminate and that was a bit too stereotypical for me (they should have had a really butch guy who liked cars and didn't squeal haha) but overall i really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Stereotypical","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'd been wanting to see this film for a long time, and when I saw it, I loved every minute of it.I love the humour of it all, especially the way it shows the stereotypical gay males - they're definitely my favourite part. And the relationship between Megan and Graham is beautiful - I almost wanted to cry when Megan did the cheer for Graham - it was so sweet. Great to see Eddie Cibrian in a film, because he's a great actor.At first I thought I was going to hate it, and that it was going to be all about how gay is wrong, and straight is right, which is why i was so surprised when the film moved onto the True Directions camp (which is, as the description said, camp in all sense of the word.Good acting, and good story lines - this movies a hit with me. "},{"Title":"Excellent feel good movie","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   But I'm a Cheerleader brings you an over the top,thoughtful but hilarious story about teenage sexuality.(Natasha Lyonne)stars as Megan,a seemingly normal everyday teenage cheerleader who is completely unaware of her family and friends intentions to send her to a sexual rehabilitation camp after they suspect her of being a lesbian. Enter True Directions run by Mary(Cathy Moriarty) and Mike(RuPaul Charles)who are hilariously funny with their five steps to heterosexuality.But Megan's true directions soon leads her into the arms of Graham(the wonderful actress Clea Duvall)a surly dyke and rule breaker. (Duvall) plays the role of Graham to perfection and along with (Lyonne) they light up our screens with a chemistry that blows you away. But I'm a Cheerleader is a must buy movie for anyone,Gay or  straight.I would rate this movie 6 out of 5 if i could,I love it.  "},{"Title":"Digging for gold is hard, but the rewards can be great","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so this isn't an epic production. Steven Spielberg makes epic productions, and sometimes they're pretty good. BIAC is a small film, made on a smaller-than-epic budget, with a limited scope (to fit the budget, probably) and a limited cast of characters, and it didn't have much of a big-screen play. As a teenage humor/angst film, it's one of dozens and dozens, some perhaps better done. Coming of age doesn't really fit - and it too perhaps has been done better. As a biting satire of our culture's view of homosexuality, well that's been done before - and perhaps better. As a satire of our culture's view of anyone different, there have been others, but probably not many as well done as this.But as a scathing satire on our culture's more insidious, cruel, and hidden, penchant to educate, change, and purify those who are different (as we did to the American Indian children when we forbade them their own language, dress, hair styles, and names), there have been precious few movies as effective as But I'm a Cheerleader. (SPOILER) No editorial emphasis was necessary for the simple scene when the young man was put into solitary exile in a doll house for getting caught kissing another boy. For anyone with eyes wide open, that scene carried a tremendous emotional impact.(SPOILER)Megan, Natasha Lyonne, tried to repent her ways she did all the proper exercises with the proper attitude - at the start. But gradually the true basic strength of her character evolved. (SPOILER) In the end, her character proved stronger than her sardonic, worldly wise friend Graham, Cleo DuVall. So not only was this movie a pertinent and effective satire, on a dramatic level it was additionally an outstanding story of the evolution of a very complex and profound character.Kudos to the director, Jamie Babbit, and to the superb ensemble cast for bringing the story together - and especially to Natasha Lyonne and Clea DuVall for bringing life and value to two very likeable characters.  "}{"Title":"Interesting concept, falls short, very schizophrenic","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have a feeling this would have made a better short film than it does a full feature.  It starts off a silly satire of homosexuality reform camps, with one-dimensional stereotypes for characters to give us a variety of gags based in one of these rehabilitation centers.  It does an okay job, never laugh-out-loud funny but not too shabby.  But then halfway through the movie it all of a sudden tries to flesh out the characters and turn it into a romantic escape drama.  Overall, I found But I'm a Cheerleader to be not that engrossing; fun in parts but not very memorable. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie with a bad rep","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was kind of hesitant to rent this movie, it had received awful reviews from many critics (except for Roger Ebert), but I thought I would get a kick out of it, and I did. The movie is about a girl named Megan(played by one of my favorites, Natasha Lyonne), her family and friends suspect she is gay, she displays many of the characteristics (she likes Melissa Etheridge, she doesn't enjoy kissing her boyfriend, and she has a picture of a bikini-sporting model in her locker). They have an intervention, and then they ship her off to True Directions, a place where gays go to become staight. This movie was funny, sweet, and fun to watch. Critics ranted on and on about how offensive it was, they were taking this movie to seriously. But I'm A Cheerleader does have gay stereotypes, and they do get kind of old after awile, but it's all in good fun. The director handles the subject light-heartedly, and expects the audience to do the same.  I think that for these reasons, I liked this movie more. It doesn't lower itself to grossout humor, and it's is better than most of the other movies that hit theaters this summer. Don't take this movie too seriously, just rent it for a couple of laughs. I give But I'm A Cheerleader a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Comedic Geniuses At Work!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so hilarious I almost wet myself.  Seeing RuPual try to act straight was too funny!  This movie is about Megan(Natasha Lyonne) who is a cheerleader at Freemont High School whose parents and friends suspect her of being a lesbian.  She doesn't like to kiss her boyfriend, she's a vegetarian and she has pictures of women up in her locker as well as a Melissa Ethridge poster in her room.  She is sent to a place called True Directions to try and live a straight life.  There she meets Graham(played by Clea DuVall) and though she tries to fight it at first, Megan falls deeply in love with Graham and fosters a homosexual relationship with her.  This movie adds satire to the touchy subject showing that you shouldn't repress who you really are.  I reccommend that everyone sees the movie for not only a great stress relief but for the appearance of RuPual and his portrayal of a counsellor at True Directions trying to convert homosexuals into heterosexuality.  This is my all time favorite movie! "},{"Title":"A mildly entertaining quirky, campy lite comedy","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cheerleader uses the sexual-orientation awakening of one young lesbian woman and her concurrent attempted reorientation in a silly center for gay rehab to make a satirical statement about mainstream misconceptions of homosexuality. The film offers an adequate cast of second tier actors, some funny moments, a Mary Poppinsish milieu, and a couple of incongruously serious lesbian love scenes to provide it's nominal entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Quirky, hilarious, and fun-- a creative gem. Go and find it in your town!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a real gem. It's EXACTLY the great kind of movie that everyone says they'd love to find-- it is original, inventive, joyful, funny, warm and loving. It is also meaningful, without any kind of message of heaviness. Nothing in it is p.c. or otherwise someone else's value system imposed on the audience. The characters in it relate to real life. You find out right away that the theme involves gay kids, and pressure to conform. Ordinarily, I'd RUN from such a social issue topic. But this was delightfully funny, open-feeling, fresh. Odd to say all that, but that's how it felt.I'm not gay, nor do I share some of my university colleagues' obsession with political correctness. But as a person who tries to be a good neighbor, a good citizen, and a compassionate person, I am basically friendly to outgroups and folks who don't fit in with the mainstream. But I was a bit surprised at how inoffensive and fun this whole gay themed movie was, and how quickly and thoroughly I got into it. I loved it!!! It's a great movie. It's hilarious, it's insightful. Since I KNOW you are pining away for just such a movie treasure, please go and find it somewhere in your area, and take a date.You have no right to complain anymore about all the vapid Hollywood summer special effects movies, action movies, and box-office-big-hit dreck, unless you put in the effort to track this masterpiece down and support it by buying tickets. You asked for it, now go and get it! You'll want to buy the video later, I promise. I gave this a well deserved 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"****1/2 out of 5","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After witnessing the revulsion that was Pumpkin, late last year my standards of viewing for But I'm A Cheerleader were low. But there was something grabbing about this film, something almost rewarding, it's a little bit lighter, a little bit darker, a little bit more twisted and a little bit more heartfelt than Pumpkin. I think the major cause for difference was how the subject matter was approached. In Pumpkin we delve into issues that are looked down upon in our times though the satirical look of a cheesy, early 60's backdrop where after school specials reigned supreme with the high school crowd. But the development of reason were to be cruel and misguided though out the entire film, leaving it laugh less and uncomfortable with even itself. It is the same premise with But I'm A Cheerlead. This film is a comedy but yet it doesn't feel the need to have a joke, it doesn't go out of its way to be funny and it doesn't stoop below the barrier to be over-the-top. Sure it is a wild ride and will be hard to stomach for some not willing to except its angle on things, but yet it is ironic that the most fulfilling and rewarding comedies of 1999 is based around a homosexual bond. This is the tale of a girl named Megan. She is a popular cheerleader with a hunk of a boyfriend. She comes form a religious family and is living her life in what she perceives to be normal. But her existence begins to coexist with her state of mind; she is living the life she wants to, while everyone is telling her she isn't allowed to live with such delusions. She questions her friends, she questions her parents, she realizes her actions and then she questions herself. So one day she comes home to find a room full of her friends sitting in a circle with RuPaul Charles in a `straight is great' t-shirt. He is a counsellor for a H.A. (Homosexual Anonymous) program. Megan is then shipped off to a place where girls wear pink and boys wear blue, told that if she doesn't graduate she is not welcome back home. Here Megan meets characters of all different shapes and sizes, funny for what they are and not what they intend to be. Megan is taught that men need to play football and fix cars, acknowledge the large statue of the wrench during the car-fixing scene, and girls look after the children and clean the house. But instead of finding divine intervention, Megan is finding love at her camp. She beings to feel for Graham, a disgruntled youth with a socially inadmissible father who believes the reason for her homosexuality is because `my mother got married in pants.' There are all sorts of little hidden quirks to this film that are just as fun to find as they are to view, even the casting of the film is of a certain nature. We see Melanie Lynskey from Heavenly Creatures and Clea DuVall, you know, that girl from the Facility that everyone called a lesbian. But all fun and games aside, the true reward of this film is that it doesn't try to force things upon you and toy with your own personal opinions. This is not a film about how it is funny to be gay; it is a study of how it is funny to not be yourself. This film has a message and it is pronounced loud and clear, be yourself, don't let anyone try to tell you who to be. Because in the end won't you be happier being who you want to be as apposed to what people assume you are? This film isn't offbeat like Pumpkin, it is not a walking joke with a missed punch line and a fictional motive, this film is touching and rewarding in its honesty. The only thing that makes this film half a point short of a perfect score is that it does become a tad out of line towards the ending. The honest scenes collide with the goofy ones without time to breathe or think; leading the viewer feeling vaguely jerked around. As you know with almost all films it is hard to mix the comedic aspects with the touching ones, having a head on collision of neutral feeling, that is neither funny nor emotive. This film works entirely on both levels because it knows enough not to take its circumstances seriously but treat life as a serious article. Some people will claim that this film is mean, most of the comedy is based on stereotyping. Some people will claim that this film is nothing more than a shame or a shtick with a relatable gimmick. And maybe those people are right. Maybe films about finding yourself in a sexual identity crisis should be left to films willing to commit to their surroundings, like Boy's Don't Cry. But I must ask, how can you find all aspects of yourself when you can't divulge in your misguided tendencies? I have not talked fully about characters from this film, and to this point I still feel no need to. Because this is not a film about its characters and their certain assets, there is not feeling for need of such description. That would be placing the focal point on a misdirected premise. The key to this films intrigue is the false universe they exists in, in which they are told how they should be if they wish to be accepted. This film was written by Brian Wayne Peterson who has crafted a screenplay that this clever without being obnoxious and is reality based without becomes self-parody. The direction by Jamie Babbit is probably what gives the film its bite. The director sets the story in what appears to be late 50's early 60's where the character where tacky skits and the camp director looks almost one with Fay Dunaway. The direction is subtle in its method, yet over-the-top in its execution, a tactic rarely seen in comedy these days. This film may not have got big box office credits or even many positive reviews, but in a world of spoon fed comedy and blundering, one-off sight gags, a film that relies on wit and is willing to weigh itself just as much on what the audience doesn't see as to what it has handed to it is truly note worthy of ones praise. It's a film that will not be appreciated by all, but it is one that is willing to take risks and push itself across the boarders that films today are afraid to even mention, making it a great comedy with its heart in the right place, I think.  "},{"Title":"It could have been great . . .","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had really high hopes for this film.  It has an excellent cast, including RuPaul and Mink Stole (of John Waters fame), but unfortunately, the humour falls flat.  It never produced more than a chuckle from me and my partner. Frankly, it needed John Waters' direction.  The comedy attempts to emulate Waters' style, but never quite makes its mark.  The relationship between the two leading characters is handled well, but for a better film on this topic, I recommend The Incredibly True Adventure of Two Girls In Love much higher than this tepid comedy.  "},{"Title":"But I only like good movies","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This seemed like it was intended for John Waters to direct and then he saw the script and passed but they kept his casting choices.  Mink Stole is in the movie so I guess John is represented indirectly, plus the color scheme and wardrobe would have gotten his approval. The movie was a dull and weak attempt at satire.  I do not fault the actors and in point of fact I like a diversified cast - you have Cathy Moriarty, a former Oscar nominee, RuPaul, who is in his own category in the entertainment field, young stars Lyonne and Duvall, Bud Cort, Eddie Cibrian and Richard Moll.  But they are left helpless and lost by a movie that seemed unsure about its own intentions. I didn't laugh at all and the most precious moment in the movie is the end.  I mean the very end, as in when it was over.  "},{"Title":"preaching to the choir","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Could have been funny, but they got on a soapbox and started preaching. It became very unfunny at that point. Badly edited as well. It probably would have worked better if the girl was not gay, and everyone was trying to convince her that she was. But the writer and director were more interested in sending a message than in making a funny comedy. As a result, the film not only preached solely to the choir, thus losing any message it was intended to give, but was also not funny, and lost the rest of the audience. I've noticed most gay films do this. The one exception is My Beautiful Launderette. But that was made by a straight film maker, not a gay activist. "},{"Title":"Thoughts regarding an offensive movie.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I personally loathed But I'm a Cheerleader. It played into every stereotype there was, and proceeded to make fun of gay people and not attempt to gain sympathy, which might have been the director's original idea. I thought the movie reassured everybody who is afraid of homosexuals or doesn't understand them very well that yes, it's true, the stereotypes all exist. On the whole, the movie was a waste of time and money.  "}{"Title":"best there is","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *may contain a few spoilers*this movie is brilliant, especially considering its basically a coming out movie, what can i say in the genre that has been labelled 'gay films' there seems to be a definite lack of originality. its divided into two types; coming out and 'struggling relationship'both are always the same plot rehashed a million times, and being honest 'but I'm a cheerleader' is at its heart the same coming out movie plot.teen is confused. teen deals with trials of coming out as gay. teen lives happily ever after, (with boyfriend/girlfriend)but its not bad, in fact its good, very good. probably because it doesn't take itself too seriously. the main character is believable and likable, because of her naivet. she is in fact the last person to realise shes a lesbian and throughout the bulk of the movie is never sure of who she is, blindly letting others decide for her. even after she left the rehabilitation camp she still asks people to teach her to be a lesbian to which her rescuers reply that she doesn't need to be taught how to be a set mold, just to be who she already is.the sets a brilliantly surreal, with the rehab camp done up like the nineteen 40's on pink and blue steroids. it highlights the ridiculousness of the camps attempts to force the children into highly outdated (and incredibly sexist) ideal of how men and women act, with lessons on how women should vacuum and men should chop wood.what crowns this movie is the brilliant ending, which (typical of Hollywood timing)climatically takes place at the rehab camps 'graduation' scene. you know shes going to get her one true love...or do you? yes this film actually makes you wonder if she really will get the girl at the end of it, with a dramatic tension at its hight. i wont ruin it for you, so don't worrythis film is touching heart warming, and it does more than other 'coming out' films is actually explore what it means to find your own identity in a sea of superimposed idea on how gay(and straight) people act, rather than just showing a carbon copy coming out storybest coming out movie ever!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of my favourites...","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have read a lot of reviews on this movie.. and all I have to say is SERIOUSLY, PEOPLE... RELAX! This is a great movie.. light and funny.. and not at all meant to be taken seriously. It plays on some of the ridiculous stereotypes surrounding homosexuality / gender roles / yada, yada, yada.. and ultimately works its way around to a good message. Natasha Lyonne and Clea DuVall do a fantastic job of carrying the story along with their unlikely romance.. and how much fun is the soundtrack? If all else fails and this movie just doesn't seem to be getting a smile out of you, just peek a little bit closer into the background sets and see what you can spot. Cheers. "},{"Title":"Cute, But Cheesy","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was bored, so I was looking through cable channels and I found this movie just as it was starting. I liked the title and I have no real prejudice against homosexuality, so I watched it. It was cute, very cute. I loved the scenes where the girls were doing their exercises, particularly the one during which Graham chose to make paper dolls instead of doing the exercise. I also liked Clayton, I felt bad when he got locked in that little house. He was pretty cute...wait, that's off-topic, sorry.But the ending was kind of...bad. I mean, Graham running off with...with...d***it. I can't remember her name. The one with the red hair, the star...jeez, I can't believe I can't remember the star's name, but I can remember Rock dancing to his headphones. That's pretty bad. Anyway, I couldn't believe that was the end. Who are they fooling? I hate it when so many stories end with I love you when that's not the end at all. Not to mention just the general running-away ending was pretty cheesy. Disappointing, after such a great start to the movie.The surface and the general meaning of the movie was cute, but it had a cheesy feel to it. It just...did. It wasn't...I don't know. Deep, I guess. It didn't have a real plot, once you got past I-still-can't-remember-her-name's first step. The heartbreak-and-getting-back-together at the end was something you could see a mile away, and there wasn't any suspense at all.In general, I only watched it because it had a good beginning and title (as I said before), and to see guys making out. Which is really weird because I'm a girl who likes pairing guys with guys and still thinks guys are hot. Heh...and if y'all knew my age, the older ones would be ranting about how corrupted the younger generation is these days. So true.6/10, I guess. I'll stop talking now. "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this movie many times and each time I love it even more. TO be a bisexual girl myself I feel it is hard to be within society, to always judge you on your sexuality. the part that made me mad was her family and friends dealing with it but they helped her realize she was gay. Clea did a good character in this movie, the sexy liking for her is over rated from how I see her. I don't think anything was wrong with it, I may be wrong but I am making a movie sort of like this only not so familiar. Yes I hope there is someone out there who loved the movie as much as I do. I wish they made a second movie to the first. I would as well like to see more lesbian action and more of clea in the movie.  "},{"Title":"Hmmm... Natasha liked making it....","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had the pleasure of meeting the leading lady in this film a little while ago.  She said that this film was one of her favs to do. I can see why. With so many films generally centering on dick and fart jokes, I found this B flick to be quite entertaining. I especially liked Dean Cain as the flaming muscle-bound son of the ultra conservative straight maker. It was far fetched (at least I hope places like the straight camp don't exist) but the dialogue wasn't half bad. Girly music doesn't do much for my eardrums, however, the Lilith Fairy soundtrack was quite fitting. All in all, I think it's worth checking out, ya know, if you're on the fence... "},{"Title":"It was ok .","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When it started , like all movies it was interesting and fun to learn about the actors . When you hit in the middle of the movie it seems to have lost direction and you find yourself waiting for something to happen . The movie has its funny parts and all the people involved in the movie are great at their part .My favorite part was when the family/friends had the meeting and how they acted . The way the mom said what she had and blurted it out was funny .This movie is good to see with friends and just chill.  "},{"Title":"Goes Somewhere Special, But Doesn't Go Far Enough","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the most part, I enjoyed But I'm a Cheerleader. The story of a cheerleader whose parents take her to a rehabilitation camp because they think she is gay is a truly unique idea for a movie. Natasha Lyonne, Cathy Moriarty, and RuPaul were very funny.The main problem I had with the movie is its lack of bite. This could have been a really wicked social satire about homosexuality and efforts to make gay people normal, and it started out that way, but by the time the film ends it never quite hits the mark. The script, direction, and general acting were all just weak enough to take whatever edge the story might have had away (this is especially true for the main character's fellow campers, who display marginal acting talent at best). The last act is downright generic, something one might find on the Oxygen network's Movie of the Week. By the end I felt the whole thing didn't quite reach its potential.I applaud the producers for making a film like this, although it would have been better if they had managed to take things to the next level. I gave the film 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"it's brilliant...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw it I knew immediately that was a masterpiece of work. It's a serious topic Jamie Babbit chose, but she made a funny film outta it! The characters are showing all different stereotypes which such engagement you have to believe them. Sad thing those camps really exist, but more such films and people could consider changing things... "},{"Title":"great homosexual film","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie like three days ago and through it was great. I mean, how many times do you come across a love story dealing with lesbians. At the beginning of this movie you would probobly think it is stupid and you shouldn't be watching a movie this stupid. But if you keep watching then you will realize this movie is great.This movie is incredibly hilarious. I could not stop laughing through this whole movie. The atmosphere for this movie was really great and helped you realize that this movie is more serious than a comedy. Yes of course this movie is so hilarious you cant quite laughing but there is an important and serious moral to the film.When this movie went off I was alittle angry because it wasn't the ending I was expecting but it was still great. And oh yeah (possible spoiler? ahead) and the sex scene between the two girls was amazing HAHA, never seen anything so intimate...HAHAHA!!For the overall rating of this film I guess I would give it an eight out of ten because it is hilarious and funny but it is also serious. The movie is great, impossible to put it down. If you ever stumble upon this in a movie store and you want a laugh, then get this movie. Oh yeah, you would appreciate this movie a whole lot more if you were a homosexual but that is just me talking.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie for a laugh","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  the best time and most learn for megan  is at true directions  i  watched it originally because of RuPaul  thinking he was she   i rather see her preform than he preform any day.  also id like to know where a true direction is so i can meet  the man of my dreams as did megan find the gal of her dreams !!! "}{"Title":"Very funny, great jokes","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Looking at the other reviews... It really depresses me how some are calling it a waste and so on. I've watched this movie at two gatherings of friends -- one gathering was with my high school's Gay Straight Alliance, so it was a group of gays and friends of gays. The second gathering was mostly straight friends and two gay/bi friends. The first gathering was the best setting. Everyone was laughing and enjoying the movie. A lot of us had been through the same things as the characters. It was just FUNNY and heck, any straight guy likes watching chicks make out. The second gathering wasn't as worthwhile. Almost everyone was complaining about it and calling it trash -- BEFORE WE EVEN PUT IN THE TAPE. How immature and just.. homophobic... We weren't forcing them. I find this movie very funny. I recommend it to anyone either gay or a supporter of homosexuality, so you'll at least be comfortable with the setup. It's not a masterpiece, but it's fun to watch. Two times wasn't enough, I plan to rent it again soon. (there isn't much I can say that hasn't already been said) "},{"Title":"Great movie...","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the trailer for this movie on TV once and I was intrigued by the plot, I put it on my mental list of movies to watch. Unfortunately, I never heard anything about it afterwards.Late one night(or early one morning whichever way you think about it) I turned on HBO and there it was, the last half of But I'm a Cheerleader. I found the movie to be funny and conveying its message well. Since then I have seen the movie about 3 more times. I don't know what it is, but there is something about it that allows me to watch the movie many times without getting bored(maybe it's Natasha Lyonne and Clea DuVall making out.. heh)It may not be the greatest quality film, but there are many movies like that which turn into cult-films, such as The Rocky Horror Picture Show and A Clockwork Orange.The message it conveys, to be yourself, is eminent throughout the film as well is being a great comedy.An observation I've made about other commentors is that those who claimed the film makes horrible stereotypes and is not PC didn't say that they were homosexual themselves. So, if they aren't, how do they know that it is offensive? "},{"Title":"Didn't work for me","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great premise but unevenly executed. Is it satire as social commentary, a young romance movie or just goofball summer fare?High-potential cast but poorly used. You can see some solid performances leaking out but they just don't have much to work with and frankly a few scenes really cried out for a few more takes, get something better (or passable as professonial work.) Plot - I'm sorry did I miss that? OK all-American refugee-from-the-'50's cheeleader is suspected of being gay and after a clich intervention is sent off to a wacky deprogramming house that claims to turn gay youth straight. We're set up to believe that our plucky misunderstood heroine is straight but then she begins to doubt herself and ironically realizes that she is attracted to girls. Hijinks ensue as the kids alternately play along or subvert the program. The romance we all saw coming a mile off happens and there's a happy ending. It's a mess. I wish the character were at least clich but they're just incomplete. The plot makes no sense, characters walk in from nowhere, sub-plots feel like they're left over from what was hacked out & left on the editing room floor. I mean - the gay guys from down the street sneaking the kids off to a gay bar to present an alternative? Well that's a convenient plot device that's awkward as all hell. And why was screen-time wasted on their little you-don't-appreciate-me psychobabble tiff? Was it meant as comedy? Did it move the plot along? Were x-number-of-screen-minutes in the actors contract and so on the last day they were asked to ad-lib something? The whole movie is just full of this pointless flat junk. Oh - and the set. Pink (everything!) for girls & blue (everything!) for boys. Well there's a one trick pony. So explain why the boys wear blue *plastic* suit jackets? The oversized forks & spoons on the dining room walls? The plastic daffodils on the girls bathroom walls? The scary two-tone walls & ceiling in the headmistresses office? The strange picture she stands in front of to lecture? It's like the set & costume folks were all ready for a high-concept color-coded project then the budget got slashed to 10% so they went with what crap they could throw together with remains from the old Laugh-In set and a sponsorship from Sherwin Williams. Bleah. Finally everyone keeps bringing up John Waters. There's a difference - John Waters makes it *work*. I've seen John Waters & this is no John Waters. This is just a grab-bag of kooky characters, a direction and one long very drunk script-writing party. Waters gets it all down, folks feel real if cartoony, the look is consistent and it all dovetails together. This just sloshes around for awhile before spiraling down the drain leaving a fluorescent greasy patina in the bowl. "},{"Title":"I wish I could've liked it more...","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie had great potential (though, granted, the organizations that try to straighten out gays and lesbians are a fairly easy target...), and there were some scenes that made me smile, laugh, or cry, but overall, this was a letdown. Natasha Lyonne, who I thought did a great job in Slums of Beverly Hills, makes the falling in love believable, but not the confusion she suffers at the beginning. (And her I'm a homosexual sobbing was some of the most fake crying I've ever seen.) Clea Duvall, on the other hand, did the bitter, sarcastic one who slowly opens up, but she did it very well.I couldn't tell what kind of movie this wanted to be... At times it was a farce, at times a drama... It just couldn't seem to make up its mind and stick to one genre. And for a movie that was supposed to be pro-gay, the gay males (except for that of handyman Rock) were painfully stereotypical (i.e., flaming). If you're willing to sit through a rather so-so movie for touching (pun both intended and not intended) scenes between Duvall and Lyonne, then be my guest. I certainly wouldn't watch it again, though. "},{"Title":"You (Don't) Go Girl","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess the bright side is that the heavy-handed moralizing here is in favor of individuality, and against sexual repression.While the set design was outlandish, the humor was anything but. It felt like a stretched sketch, with mercifully only five steps instead of the hackneyed twelve.Satire? Prejudicial cliches are not cleverly skewered, but instead trotted out like aged comedians at a celebrity roast, expecting a laugh for just being able to find the microphone. Does the DVD come with an optional laugh track?Maybe use the previews as a litmus test, if they get you hooting and/or hollering, go ahead and see the film. Otherwise, do like the heroine here, trust your instincts and move on.I did dig the rockin' little indie soundtrack...especially the opening number, Chick Habit.  "},{"Title":"Squandered opportunity","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a black comedy or satire about a teen girl who is confronted by friends and family about her sexuality, then is sent to True Directions, a camp where crooked gays are made straight. Natasha Lyonne is appealing if uncharismatic as Megan (the cheerleader), and Clea DuVall likewise as Graham, one of Megan's roommates. Unfortunately, the script takes a fine idea and makes it dull; the movie is not very funny and not touching enough.The major problem is Mary, the camp director (played by Cathy Moriarty), who is rigid and harsh without being funny, yet she has a lot of screen time when we viewers, who are sympathetic to the plight of the kids, want to see more of them and less of her. Maybe the greatest strength of the movie, and the biggest lost opportunity, is the kids, who present an array of sexual misfits, but as clichs and stereotypes rather than as real kids. They are all appealing, but seldom real; Melanie Lynskey's powerful talent (of Heavenly Creatures fame) is squandered here. Despite these failings, for certain viewers this movie might provide a sorely needed education in tolerance; if you don't need such an education, see Heavenly Creatures instead, which movie indeed provides a much superior education.Alan Nicoll "},{"Title":"Cheerleader has no balls","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My God, where to start?The premise of the movie was weak at best, and probably looked better on paper, anyway.The movie is too silly to be drama, but not funny enough to be a comedy. I tried to view it as a satire, but in doing that, I was only overwhelmed by the over-the-top stereotypes. This would normally put it in the burlesque genre, but again, it did not fit, because it tried to be serious at times.The girls were fairly neutral, but the guys were as close to imitating Richard Simmons as you can get without bursting into flames.If this was pro-gay - then it failed miserably. Gays do not need this type of buffonic support.There were a few interesting casting choices such as Richard Moll - with hair, and Dante Basco who I know from a few Wonder Years eps. RuPaul, as an ex-gay, worked for one or two scenes, but was generally weak.The little costumes the guys wore, the self-spanking antics of the son of the reform school director...Oh God, I have to stop now, I'm getting nauseous.This is as bad as Lost and Delirious, but in  a different way. At least they don't run around quoting Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"The most ridiculous film/movie I've seen for years.","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe that this movie has as high rating that is does. It's the most stupid thing that I've seen for quite a few years. Another thing, I disagree with the rating, it should be a 15 not an 18 (or R). It's the most stupid thing I've seen since, I dunno, Combat Academy  All that I'm glad about is that I downloaded this piece of crap rather than going to see or hiring it. Gay people (I think) could do without this kind of patronisation. Don't get me wrong, I'm not in the least bit gay but this kind of rubbish makes me feel sorry for those that are. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed It","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Weird, crazy, funny and serious. It's a satire on the behavior of those who try and change others instead of accepting differences. I was pleased with the way the movie played out.Everyone, EVERYONE, in this movie did an awesome job. From the top of the list to the bottom unknowns, they handled their parts well, injected tons of energy and the sexual confusions developed into sexual maturity.Good movie. Parents of gay, lesbian or bi-sexual teens should watch this movie to learn how to NOT deal with their child. I was almost angered by the adult roles in this movie, not because of the actors, but because of the parents over the years that I have met and dealt with who were truly this outrageous. "},{"Title":"Campy and funny at times, but flat and extraordinarily predictable","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The reviews for this movie made it sound funny, well acted and well directed. And a few parts of it achieve the first two.But virtually all of the supporting characters are NOTHING but stereotypes. All gay men are effeminate, all effeminate men are gay, all lesbians are ... you get the idea. And while perhaps that can be partly excused due to the intended campy feel of the film, it was annoying.I was definitely very disappointed in the quality of the script. I had expected something similar to Saved! (which I love), but it's like the high school film class attempt at it.Even so it's a mildly amusing film that did redeem itself somewhat in the ending. Rent it if you're short list of films is finished, but you might end up watching chunks of it on fast forward like I did. "}{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is like the greatest movie ever... it uses satire and hypocrites. Its about a family trying to de-gay their daughter... so they send her to a camp that turns gays back. This movie is about accepting yourself for who you are and accept the different people around you. It is very good, but it may be a little offensive... because the issue of parents no accepting their kids is a very important thing to act on because it is very serious but this movie turns that into making it funny... so to enjoy this movie you will need to just dig deep and understand that it is not trying to be offensive. When I first started watching it I was offended but it is meant to be satirical so I realized that I should actually be laughing. I think it is hilarious because in it, the camp that is, everything is perfect. Everything is clean and tidy and everyone is the same. Its like the camp teachers or whatever are trying to make everyone and these kids perfect. all the girls wear pink and the guys wear blue and are made to fit a certain gender. This movie is Hilarious, but if you dig deep I think it is very touching. "},{"Title":"This movie was strangely mesmerizing","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow...I'm not even sure how to comment on this movie...it was chillingly surreal, it had some funny moments and it was a good love story. I just felt so bad for the girl at first, because her sexual preferences were totally against everything she was about. I was glad to see that her and Graham got to stay together at the end. It was actually really sweet. Still, the idea of a camp like this one is extremely scary. I couldn't even imagine what life would be like if these kinds of rehabilitation camps existed today. It really opened my eyes to what gays and lesbians would have to do to cover up their sexuality in earlier centuries. I enjoyed this movie very much also because they didn't make the love scenes totally disgusting and inappropriate.  "},{"Title":"Self-defeating attempted social commentary","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Those hoping for biting social commentary here will be disappointed. This movie is an attempt to slam group homes that force homosexual teens into becoming straight, which fails dismally due to it's ridiculous stereotyping of both heterosexuals and homosexuals. Without the 1990's cultural references, this movie looks like it could've been made in the late-1960's or early-1970's. One reason people suspect that heroine Megan Bloomfield(Natasha Lyonne) is a lesbian is because she's a fan of Melissa Ethridge! Oh, no! I listen to David Bowie, The Smiths, Morrissey and Imperial Teen. Is that supposed to mean I'm gay too? I think not! Even real-life places like True Directions couldn't be that unwilling to accept the notion of women in the workplace(I hope!). In one scene the counselor Mike(RuPaul) threatens to force his male inmates to watch sports all day if he catches them looking at other men. Some punishment A bunch of sweaty football players smacking each other on the rear end after a good play?! Sure, they'll be horrified--NOT! A big surprise is not only seeing Robert Pine(CHiPs) playing as Graham's father, but Richard Moll(Night Court) as part of a two man team who rescues kids from the home and allows them to accept and explore their true sexuality. Perhaps there are a few people who think those who don't like this movie are homophobic, but you don't have to be a homophobe to hate this one. I may be straight, but I can't imagine how any homosexuals could find this uplifiting in any way, shape, or form.By the way, the cheer scene where Megan(Natasha Lyonne) declares her love for Graham(Clea DuVall) at graduation sucks too. "},{"Title":"spirit lifting comedy","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A spirit lifting comedy about 'straight&gay recruitment', and 'learning how to be straight'. A nice movie to see if you're feeling sorry for yourself 'cause you're gay, or a break from coming out. More or less every cliche about how you get to be gay, how you go about being gay is portrayed. "},{"Title":"The best intentions just aren't enough","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best intentions just aren't good enough. But I'm a Cheerleader is ample proof of that. The premise is solid, the idea is good, it just comes off as a college level skit rather than a full production movie.  That is not to say that some of the scenes aren't hilarious. RuPaul as a man is almost enough for some to watch it, but it is Clea DuVal as Graham that steals the show. When she is on screen acting is done, when she is on screen with Natasha Lyonne, the cheerleader, sizzle and smoke happen, there is chemistry.This is DuVal's picture otherwise the characters, especially the males are broadly drawn charicatures.Is it worth the price of rental? Get a bottle of wine and a few friends and have a party. Play spot the cliche. Root for love and have a ball. "},{"Title":"Good idea lacking good execution","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's not that it's a bad film. It's just that there was such potential for it to be more than what it ended up being.The acting and directing was good, although both could of used a bit more energy. If a filmmaker wants us to laugh along, they have to be in a good mood, and it's hard to tell exactly what mood people were in as they shot this.There are moments of genuine humor. The first half has some especially funny bits, but they're just bits, and they don't add up to a whole. The two major problems with the film seem to be the script, which is never fully realized, and the visual direction, especially from the Director of Photography.But I'm A Cheerleader didn't focus in on what it was trying to say and exactly how it should be said. It seemed to want more scenes taking it deeper. We only get the surface of things, and this topic deserves an in depth treatment. There is greater potential for humor and drama, but it is given a tepid treatment.The production design is quite campy, but visually not much more than a one-note gag. And the photography is very muddy and not as sharp as it should be. Lighting and framing make a huge difference, albeit subtle to the untrained eye.I say, give it more effort next time all around! But try again, you've caught my attention! "},{"Title":"Not a good movie","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw the title of the movie, i though this could be, if not a great movie, at least a movie worth seeing. God, i was wrong. The idea of the movie isn't that bad but with this script and the terrible actors - the product was born to fail. I though at least they would have some models, or something like that, to save the movie, but I was wrong also there. OK, they put in some good jokes, but the movie wont survive only because of that. It's a movie for people in the age of 13, who still like to experiment on there bodies or joke about gay-people.I recommend you not to pay to see this movie. If you happens to see it, I'm sorry for you, cos you just lost 2h of your life.If you think I'm wrong, feel free to contact me with some good things that could save this movie. "},{"Title":"What A Stupid, Terrible Movie!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  But, I'm A Cheerleader is such a boring, stupid movie which is just NOT really funny. There wasn't much hype around the movie here in the UK and let me tell you I am not surprised. I found the movie really boring and half the time I just wasn't paying attention. Natasha Lyonne is a great actress and most of the time she stars in good movies and gives great performances. There's quite a good performance from her here and Joel Michaely is really good too, but that's about it.  "},{"Title":"Er...it just wasn't funny","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think it's possible to make some great, really humorous films about such re-education of gays, but this just wasn't one of them. It was vaguely satirical, but just seemed to be missing humour. The story is about a teenage girl whose conservative parents and friends put together some clues and decide she is a lesbian and must be sent off to a special camp so she can be taught how to be straight. So they put all the lesbians together in a dormitory room...ha ha? No. There was potential, but none of the jokes really turned into anything. The cast are all good actors, but they can only be as good as the writing. Overall I found myself very dissatisfied with this film. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, borderline offensive, turgidly slow nineties 'coming out' movie","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow, maybe I completely missed the point but this has to be to be one of the silliest movies I have ever made the mistake of renting. Some quite good actors lurch through a hideously dated looking nineties pop promo style tale of a teenage 'cheerleader' who is sent to a 'straight' camp in an attempt to steer her from the wicked path of lesbianism. Painfully slow, clumsy and utterly baffling in places, I don't know who this would appeal to, I cannot believe it won two awards, the only good bit is the opening soundtrack by Ru Paul (who also appears in this disaster). Most definitely one to keep and screen to likeminded film buffs who love to marvel at just how on earth certain movies EVER get the green light to go into production. "}{"Title":"ok at best","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had an outdated sitcom feel to it. A high school cheerleader suspected of being a lesbian is sent a camp for rehab and winds up in a relationship with another girl there.There were some pretty funny moments in this film, but overall it could have been better.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Still Haven't Quite Figured This One Out","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Megan (Natasha Lyonne) doesn't really like kissing her boyfriend and has a picture of a girl in a bikini in her school locker, and so is sent to a special school by her Christian parents where potential homosexuals are converted to heterosexuality. It's really quite a foolish little movie, full of gays and ex-gays and ex-ex-gays, and gays pretending to be ex-gays.Stereotypes abound (presumably they are deliberately exaggerated.) Gays and lesbians are really, really gay and lesbian, and Christians come across as ridiculous homophobic bigots. In the end, of course, (spoiler ahead!) we discover that being gay is perfectly normal and Graham (Clea DuVall) and Megan ride off together to live happily ever after.The thing comes across as propaganda of some kind, but propaganda generally makes someone look good. This definitely makes Christians look bad, but no one comes out of this turkey looking good. There were a few humorous scenes, but it really isn't worth the effort of watching this.3/10 "},{"Title":"What the...?","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and I couldn't be anymore p***ed. The only thing that saved my TV from being thrown out of my balcony window was a combination of the fact that it had the hot chick from The Faculty and it was free (and she also starts making out with some other female lead at some point). I sort of stopped paying attention after 30 or 40 mintues(what seemed like half of my 22 years on this planet)so I cant say exactly what it is that made me so mad. Trust me, don't see it, spend your money on something more worthwhile. "},{"Title":"preachy and unfunny","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an incredibly unfunny film that is also extremely preachy. It takes a funny premise (a straight girl is sent to a camp for gays by her parents and friends who suspect that she's gay, even though she denies it) and then destroys that funny premise by making her discover that she really is gay. It then becomes tedious to watch.The performances are over the top, and it was made on the cheap, as evidenced by the low budget sets. But the real fault is with the script. They could have written something funny, but instead opted to get on a soapbox. As a result, they were just preaching to the choir, because I'm sure the word of mouth destroyed this film's box office chances. "},{"Title":"I saw it","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hi there,Well, I just saw this movie on DVD, and strongly urge it not be viewed by children under 17 years of age, very controversial subject matter about gays and lesbians. I was at my sister's house, and brother of my sister's dropped it off in-front of his computer un-opened, and my 12 year old niece found the movie, and I took it away, and told her she could'nt watch it, and confronted my sister about it, and she said herself and husband had rented it on VHS the night before, and watched it while their 2 daughters (12 and 9) were asleep, and son (4) was alseep.I knew little about the movie, and watched it at my house, and found the subject matter very unsuitable for childern under 17, cause anybody under that age would be confused, influenced, and be curious about two girls kissing in the three make-out scenes, and the language about gays.I told my sister that I would'nt want my nieces to view this movie, at a young age, way before they reach puberty, and discover boys. I don't hate gays or anything, but I just think this movie would totally confuse young childern, don't you agree.I'm Hetro, and I love girls...it was a good funny movie, and it's hard to believe a movie with this subject matter would be greenlighted, with a title which some young boys & girls would think is about Cheerleadering, and football guys, parties, and stuff...well later all.-Raving Maniac "},{"Title":"Off the mark","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Probably an attempt at satire, this film misses the mark and comes off as poorly-made homosexual propaganda. It's as if the ACLU wrote the script themselves, trying to make heterosexuals look bad. The movie did have its humorous spots, but is ruined by it's feel good and be queer political message.RuPaul is convincing in his role, but most of the young cast might want to leave this one off of their resume. The soundtrack is average, but the love theme is excruciatingly painful as it occurs several times during the film.What seemed like a promising film quickly turns into another case of show business using the guise of entertainment to push liberal views into the minds of Americans. Definitely keep the kids away from this one... it's probably wise to keep everybody else away from it, too "}]