[{"Title":"provocative, daring study of sexuality","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"76 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It's post-revolutionary France.  Napoleon is in power.  The Age of Enlightenment is in full swing, yet the remnants of the Dark Ages still linger to restrain the thinking of many a powerful monarch, religious leader and rank-and-file common citizen.  In all areas of life, the barriers to freedom and self-expression are rapidly giving way, leaving traditional institutions and values fighting for their very survival.  And this includes that most sensitive of all areas, the one that has, perhaps, caused more consternation for the race than any other in our history &#150; determining the role that sexuality plays in defining who we are physically, emotionally and spiritually.  Long thought of as little more than a necessary evil, sexuality is suddenly starting to be reexamined in the light of other scientific and academic reassessments.  Small wonder that at such a crucial moment in mankind's sexual awakening, a figure like the Marquis De Sade would emerge, a man whose name has since become synonymous with perversion, deviancy and licentiousness.  It is this epic struggle between religion and nature for the soul of humanity that Philip Kaufman captures so brilliantly in his wickedly perverse, mordantly witty and brilliantly acted film, `Quills.'Director Kaufman, working from a screenplay by Doug Wright (based on his play of the same name), chooses to start his tale almost at its end &#150; at the period when De Sade was already wasting away in an insane asylum, considered too perverted and dangerous in his ideas to be allowed to run loose among the general populace.  Yet, it's hard to keep a creative genius down &#150; and De Sade has, unbeknownst to the priest who runs the facility, been regularly smuggling out manuscripts to publishers on the outside, much to the chagrin and delight of many elements of the French public.  One of those least amused is Napoleon himself, who decides that he must take action in silencing this reprobate once and for all.  He decides to send a `specialist' in mental health &#150; one Dr. Royer-Collard, a man more in tune with the techniques of the Spanish Inquisition than of modern medicine &#150; to take charge and bring De Sade to his senses.  Wright's and Kaufman's other two main characters include the priest, The Abbe du Coulmier, who is keeper of the institution, and Madeleine LeClerc, a beautiful young devotee of De Sade's work who serves both as laundress and chief smuggler for the author and his works.In many ways, the most interesting conflict turns out to be the one between De Sade and the Abbe, two men seemingly antipodes apart yet somehow able to find a common ground of mutual respect and understanding.  On the one hand, we have a man who has completely thrown away all sexual inhibitions and indeed lives to not only experience every possible sexual pleasure but to encourage others to do so as well.  On the other hand, we have a man who has chosen a life of chastity and celibacy, opting to completely shut down the sexual aspect of his life as a pious sublimation to God &#150; and yet neither extreme seems normal, healthy or practicable.  In fact, near the end, De Sade suffers the torment of realizing that someone he cares for very deeply has become a tragic victim of one of his `ideas' run amuck, just as the Abbe, after years of repression, finds himself inching ever closer to the insanity that he is supposed to be curing in others.  Interestingly, the Abbe, the representative of the church that held the world in the grip of the Dark Ages for so long, is actually a beacon of enlightened reason compared to Dr. Royer-Collard, the self-ascribed `Man of Science.'  Here is an individual actually aligned with the Church's Medieval methods, inflicting any form of excruciating physical and psychological torture on his patients to achieve their ultimate `cure' &#150; though we can see by the way he subtly abuses his own sixteen year old wife that `power' is, as always, the world's strongest aphrodisiac. Special not must be taken of the superb performances by Geoffrey Rush, Joaquin Phoenix, Michael Caine and Kate Winslet.  Each does a superb job in bringing these diverse and complex characters to vivid life.In terms of art direction, costume design and cinematography, the filmmakers do a fantastic job in recreating this strange world of the past - capturing that startling admixture of piety and licentiousness that bespeaks the `dual nature in Man,' which has forever served as the basis for the epic struggle between religion and nature.  In a world like the one we live in now - in which explicit pornography has found a comfortable and, indeed, quite lucrative niche - De Sade seems ever more a man ahead of his time.  It was his misfortune to be born into a world not quite ready to accept the ideas he had to offer.  Yet, had he been living in this century, perhaps we would never even have heard of the name De Sade at all.  Perhaps he would be just another anonymous pornographer, using the camera rather than the written word to graphically illustrate his darkest sexual longings.   Then again, who knows?  Perhaps it would be he who founded a world famous magazine and set up a mansion dedicated solely to the propagation of male sexual pleasure.  It is, in the face of `Quills,' a thought worth pondering. "},{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"66 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This was a good movie, but I thought it had somewhat of an unsatisfsying ending (well, to me anyway). Sad too. It moves nicely, though and you don't want to be interrupted. It can get rather graphic at times, but that's mainly because of the subject material, I guess. Geoffrey Rush is brilliant.He has a real knack for bringing strange and twisted characters to life. Michael Caine is doing his usual job of being superb as well. Every new role Kate Winslet performs is different from the previous and she excels every time. She expresses emotion very well. And my goodness, Joaquin Phoenix. I wouldn't say that I was ever a *fan* of his, but damn, now I am. If there was ever a performance that just made me melt, this was it. The restrained emotions and frustration of unfulfilled desires of his character were just performed brilliantly. This guy's an amazing actor. "},{"Title":"The first rule of politics The man who orders the execution NEVER DROPS THE BLADE.","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"69 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is the modernized story of the Marquis de Sade, whose steamy writings whipped France into a sexual fury in the late 18th Century. And by modernized I mean that it has been told through the experiences of a lot of French people who speak English and with British accents. But no matter, I'm willing to accept that everyone in France in 1800 spoke perfect British even if only because of Geoffrey Rush's brilliant performance. With every movie that he comes out with I become more and more convinced that there is nothing he can't do.In order to know virtue, as the Marquis explains, one must first understand vice. In Philip Kaufman's Quills, the focus is on the Marquis de Sade after his writing has taken him beyond the artistic freedom generally accepted in the 18th and 19th centuries, even to elite aristocracy like himself. It is a detailed exploration of the events that led from him being a social elitist to living almost three decades in prison, writing things that caused his keepers to make it so difficult for him to write that he ultimately uses his own blood and excrement for ink, and his clothing, the walls of his cell, and his own skin as parchment.Luckily for the Marquis, at first anyway, is that there is something of an understanding priest in the Abbe du Coulmier, another wonderful performance from Joaquin Phoenix. An intensely religious man, Coulmier believes that the Marquis should be allowed to write, if only to purge himself of the sadism with which his head is filled and which would later be named after him.Kate Winslet plays Madeleine, a laundry maid who smuggles the Marquis' writing out of the asylum so that it can be published, for which many people are not happy, but many others are. The Marquis dips into the extensive world of the forbidden sexual taboos of the 18th and 19th centuries, writing extensively about them without a care in the world for propriety. One may wonder to what extent the Marquis' writings were such a hit because they were forbidden, or because of their lewd content, which may euphemistically be described as guilty pleasures for the masses. Indeed, Larry Flynt was not working, so graphic pornography was something of a rarity.There is a curious relationship between the Marquis and a physician named Royer-Collard, played by Michael Caine, who is assigned to law down the law with the Marquis and prevent him from writing anymore. The glee with which the Marquis mocks and taunts him are some of the best parts of this outstanding film. There is a great parallel between the two characters, as well. Royer-Collard pretends to be a moral role model, at the same time taking a wife who is young enough to be his daughter, possibly even his granddaughter, and treats the Marquis with exactly the same sadistic (if I can again use the term for the behavior for which the Marquis would later be named) behavior that he condemns that Marquis for writing about. Both men engage in many of the same practices, it's just that the Marquis makes no attempt and has no interest in hiding his interests in the pleasures of the flesh.I think that the most important thing to remember about this movie is that it is able to deal with a person who's beliefs are, I like to think, below the moral compasses of most of the people who will watch the movie, but it's not about what he was writing, it's about the fact that he was writing at all. It's about his defiance in the face of a corrupt moral authority, his insistence on maintaining an artistic expression that was not well received but that was certainly therapeutic to him. Sure, his sanity is in question, to say the least, but as they say, genius is often associated with madness.What a great coincidence, too, because so is Geoffrey Rush. "},{"Title":"Geoffrey Rush in a brave, Oscar-worthy performance, and a story an interesting as most anything this year; one of the year's best.  ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"46 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  QUILLS / (2000) ***1/2 (out of four)By Blake French 	To know virtue we must aquatint ourselves with vice.						Marquis de Sade	Philip Kaufman's Quills will leave some audiences cheering and others disappointed and disgusted; there are good logical arguments from both sides. One of the most controversial movie of the year, Quills,  based on the play by Douglas Wright, doesn't entirely examine the torpid mind of the disreputable 18th century French author, the Marquis de Sade, but instead indicates the impact his sexually and sadistically explicit literary work influenced the public. The biggest argument could be made with the sanity of Marquis de Sade himself, as whether he was a perverted, sex-obsessed psychopath or simply a spirited aristocrat who only stood for artistic expression and freedom of speech. The movie's characters take their own sides; after becoming aware of the authors material, Napoleon wants de Sade (Geoffrey Rush) shot dead at the insane asylum he is being held at, but instead a sadistic torturer named Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine) is assigned to take charge of the patient; the virginal laundress Madeleine (Kate Winslet) , thinks de Sade is a writer, not a madman, and helps to smuggle his erotic stories out of the institution for public publication; the asylum priest, Adde Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix), first befriends de Sade and grants him special privileges, but once he discovers the extremity of his subversive ideas, he reluctantly changes opinions. De Sade inarguably had some fanatical fantasies, but the film leaves it up to us to realize his lustful imagination captured on paper are transpired due to his inability to experience them in the real world outside of his chambers. The subject is carnal and a bit unsettling, and the movie exploits the eroticism clearly on screen; the film is strictly intended for mature audiences. But director Philip Kaufman (The Right Stuff) does not portray the likes of de Sade in a disturbing manner, but keeps the story engaging. The atmosphere feels accurate and convincing, and the movie is not without humor and the expected material found within the mental institution, like the patient who thinks he is a bird, a pyromaniac, and the hulking horny guy who has his mind set out on raping any human with two legs with no external organs between them. There are a few scenes that could have captured the audience a bit more exclusively. However the entirely convincing, intense, brave, Oscar worthy performances by Michael Caine and Geoffrey Rush make up for that. The Marquis was an extremely complex individual, and Rush captures that through a character without heart or compassion, but with spirit and zest; even though de Sade went through each day with suffering, he still approached life with insight, ambition and curiosity. He is so determined to fulfill his need to write his perverse ideas, after forbidden and when his quills are taken away he still prevails by using blood, wine, and feces in the place of ink, and his clothes, sheets, and walls as paper. De Sade stands as an example that society is most successfully established when people understand that we are all simply expressions of our own nature, that it is most healthy to declare our motives and passions to ourselves. He is also a prime example of self-control, and that freedom of speech only carries us so far. It would be interesting to see what would happen if Marquis de Sade was to live in present times and if he was to exploit his ideas on screen or in novels. I think he would push the envelope to yet another level and have quite an influence on today's society. I hope people who see the artful Quills share their opinions with one another, after all, that is the reason why filmmakers make movies like these.   "},{"Title":"Something very special","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I originally went to see this one in a movie theater on a whim - I was feeling spontaneous, so I bought a ticket for a movie I knew nothing about, and went in free of preconceptions or expectations.The cleverness of the very first scenes brought a smile to my face, and I knew I was in for a rare treat; off the top of my head, I can't think of a movie with a better conceived, audience grabbing opening sequence.And the impression lasted throughout this great film. Quills is a passionate (and entertaining!) cry in defense of artistic freedom, and the fundamental freedoms of speech and religion; and it is a deliciously clever movie, both in dialog and in plot. It is actually a movie that has something to say, and does it in an entertaining, engaging way that doesn't leave the audience feeling that they are being lectured to or talked down to. A few scenes are gruesome and unpleasant, but they, I think, are a necessary evil for the telling of the story, not a gratuitous shock-tactic.The performances are excellent throughout, and the storyline is will firmly claim and keep your attention. Quills is the sort of movie that you don't forget, and that'll linger on in your mind long after you've seen it.I would heartily recommend this movie to anyone - even if it doesn't sound like the type of movie you'd normally go for. I for one am very glad that I happened to be feeling spontaneous the day I went to see it, because otherwise I would most likely have missed it. So give your spontaneity a chance if you happen upon Quills in your local movie rental place. "},{"Title":"Philip Kaufmann has produced yet another amazing piece of work","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is one of the best films of 2000, in my reckoning, second best only to You Can Count on Me. It is one of the most brilliantly directed, acted, produced, and written films I've seen in a very long time. There is not a (major) character in this film that is not very complex, and the issues at stake are utterly important.Perhaps the greatest success of the film is how well it works on commenting both on its own time and situations and our own world today. The issues of free speech, creativity, dementia, corporal punishment, religion, sexuality and especially politics are woven into the film in amazing ways. Yes, politics, for it works as an allegory to the recent presidential scandals.There are two flaws, one major, one semi-major. The semi-major one involves the epilogue. It is not bad, but it is unnecessary. Perhaps the best way to describe it is superfluous and predictable. The major flaw would destroy any lesser film. Here, it is hardly noticable. Still, if one contemplates it, there is no getting around it. There is never a believable reason why Madeleine should be so helpful to the Marquis de Sade. They present a tiny one, but it is not good enough.Still, with its successes elsewhere, these flaws do not weaken this film. Without them, it would have been perfect. With them, well, just because it is flawed, doesn't mean it isn't a masterpiece. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Quills inspires a seemingly improper sense of affinity and a terrifying new definition of sin.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is a delightfully unsettling account of the demise of the Marquis de Sade and those he brings down with him. The film presents viewers with all the evidence they need to identify the fallacies of society's separation of good from evil and moralists from sinners. It subtly asserts that the values traditionally used to pass judgment are compromised by convention and religion, and that there is moral danger in accepting these values without question.During the film, one form of sin is only replaced by another, which defeats its resistors and beguiles the rest by hiding behind a pretentious shroud of religion and convention.Viewers are horrified to discover that they can actually identify with the marquis, whose name inspired the word sadist to describe those who derive sexual pleasure from violence. Most viewers' senses of morality are sullied by the realization that they are hanging on every twist of the plot, desperate to know what will next beset these wretched characters.Based on historical fact, Quills catches up with the Marquis (Geoffrey Rush) during the twilight of his life, when he has already been sentenced to life imprisonment in the Charenton Asylum. No longer able to pursue the perverse sexual escapades that had landed him in the madhouse after decades of unspeakable offenses, he now purges his demons by writing. At the urging of the saintly, ever-tolerant and even-tempered Abbe Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix), the marquis describes his imagination's disturbing scenes on paper.Trouble arises when one of his books, smuggled to a publisher by a sympathetic admirer - innocent laundry maid Madeleine (Kate Winslet) - catch the disapproving eye of Emperor Napoleon.There is no escape from sin when the man sent to purify the Charenton, Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine), only seeks to replace it with intolerance and unimaginable cruelty.True to the spirit of the film, the sets are imbued befittingly with gloom and grime, and the inhabitants of the Charenton are realistically ragged.Rush and Winslet's performances as the marquis and Madeleine are stunning. The film's delicious impropriety is heightened by their chemistry, which is so potent as to be communicable to viewers.The super-intelligent plot is unexpectedly circular, leaving viewers feeling as though they may well be next in line for the madness bred at the Charenton. Their fears are seemingly verified by he change they know the film has already inspired in them.Far from resolutive, the only solace the ending holds for viewers is a sense of, Aha, now I know, and a new way to evaluate the good in evil in themselves and others. "},{"Title":"In Life All You Need Is A Quill And A Paper","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is a movie about the man The Marquis De Sade. If you are not familiar with him watching the movie would be advisable even though your own research might be better. The film follows him played amazingly by Geoffrey Rush in a insane asylum. Michael Caine who is an expert at curing people of their madness wishes to take a new approach at solving the mental in-capacities of the inmates of the Charenton. This of course it that of more brutal methods than that of the Abbe played by Joaquin Phoenix. What does seem of the least cruel of the punishments in this movie turns out to be the most costly, Sade is no longer allowed to write. This had dramatic affects on him and his state of mind.In the movie Geoffrey Rush simply shines. Here he proves once again how he has undoubtedly one of the most under appreciated actors around today. His performance is unique in that he plays a man considered perverse yet brilliant, a man of many self contradictions. As the film wears on Geoffrey Rush does not take the easy way out in making his performance extraordinary flashy, in fact it remains quite subtle. His subtly is what truly makes his performance great with the many underlying tones he carries. Michael Caine whenever in a film carries this great presence with him and continues to do so here. He is obviously a man of many secrets and I had wished he was given more screen time to study his more of his character motivations and actions. Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix play well in this movie but have had better performances which is a true testament to their abilities.The writing of the movie is very good in that the movie remains interesting throughout. What fails though is the directing. It was solid but refused took unnecessary turns in the film. The romantic tension between Winslet and Phoenix was pushed upon the story a bit too hard and at times dragged away from what was a compelling enough of a theme freedom of expression.Freedom of expression is something that we all have to have in our lives. If we do not have it we will go crazy like many of the inmates of the Charenton. Our ideas is what keeps us going and when that right is taken away from us our problem do not disappear they erupt. For example some people express their ideas through writing such as the Sade in this film. If that is taken away not only do we lose our sanity but along with it our very humanity. We can no longer differentiate between fantasy and reality as Geoffrey Rush so perfectly illustrates. That is what this film showed but unfortunately did not show enough of. If it had stayed more consistent with this theme and picked it apart in other aspects it would have reached at the height of greatness. Yet it did not and is very good recommendable film but not what it could have been. "},{"Title":"Not Everything is Black and White!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Geoffrey Rush, star of Pirates of the Caribbean, Elizabeth, and Shakespeare in love, Stars in this tale of the infamous and perverted Marquis de Sade. Imprisoned away from the world in the French asylum of Charenton. In a bid to silence the Marquis, famous for his lewd and pornographic writings which has made him infamous, The French ruler Napoleon sends the cold and reserved Dr Royer Collard (Michael Caine) to cure and prevent him from smuggling manuscripts to a publisher, secretly aided by the beautiful virginal chambermaid Madeleine (Kate Winslett) who often finds herself the object of his writing and affection. However along with the Marquis, Madeleine also finds herself the object of the affections of the young and handsome Abbe du Coulmier, (Joaquin Phoenix) the administrator at Charenton. His priestly vows prevent them from being together and conceals hi love fro her. The Marquis meanwhile is suffering at the hands of the repulsive doctor. Due to an indiscretion, at one of many of Charenton open nights when the French aristocracy gather to watch one of the Marquis plays. The play entitled the crimes of love makes exact and deliberate references to the doctor's personal life where he picked a penniless but beautiful young nun Simone (Amelia Warner) from a convent, a girl young enough to be his daughter- to be his wife and subjected her to hours of nightly wife's duties. The doctor vows revenge on the Marquis and even more so when Simone runs away with an architect after reading one of his most lewd novels to date. The Marquis is stripped of all his privileges; first his paper, quills, and ink are taken but he refuses to be silenced. With tragic consequences. As the punishments grow more severe and each knew novels written b something disgusting objects the marquis and the doctor are locked in deadly battle over power and control, which sends the law and order of Charenton asylum downhill as the fight takes a twisted and unexpected turn. A thrilling story with many twists and turns where egos collide and love interferes where power and money speak and authority is threatened. "},{"Title":"A muddled mess of little merit","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I really wanted to find things to like about Quills, given Geoffrey Rush being cast as the divine Marquis, and Philip Kaufman directing (who previously made the excellent Henry and June). Alas, Quills is little more than a standard Hollywood-style morality tale, sexied up as much as possible by Sade's notorious writing. It also takes pointless liberties with historic fact, changing many aspects of Sade's life and exploits. It also serves up some of the more absurd devices I've seen in a serious art film.For example, the historic Madeleine was 13 when the 70 year-old Sade seduced her, and their affair (or whatever it was) lasted 4 years, until the Marquis' death of old age. But apparently the filmmakers thought a 70 year-old erotic author wasn't sexy enough, and a 13 year-old girl was a little too sexy, so their ages were normalised.Rush is more than up to the role, and he gooses it at every opportunity. Given a better script, his performance would've been beyond criticism (other than his being 20 years too young for it). Joaquin Phoenix is less fortunate; for being the Abbe in charge of a sanitarium, he has the naiveté of a boy scout -- befuddled and helpless at every turn. And poor old Michael Caine. It's films like this, with their two-dimensional roles for him that make me all the more treasure his flawless performance in Little Voice.SPOILER ALERT Kate Winslet does the best she can with a role that requires her to act unnaturally foolishly. For example, knowing full well that her smuggling of Sade's manuscripts to the publishers risks not only her freedom (perhaps her life) and the survival of the sanitarium and all its inmates and staff, she willingly -- casually even -- continues to assume the risk. For what? For the stories? For Sade's sake or the public's? No, she is just swept up in the exciting naughtiness of it all. She unlocks the Marquis' cell door whenever he asks, and stupidly, leaves it open, so they can be discovered.More absurdities abound, including a fire in one cell that supposedly threatens the (nonflammable stone) building, a novel allegedly being written on a single bed-sheet, a cast of imbeciles that instantly learns a new stage play to perform. And it's a quibble, but the costumes are often historically inaccurate for 1806; they appear to range from between about 1770 and 1815.But for all of these faults, the principle problems with Quills are the dialogue and the direction. The dialogue is painfully trite in many parts (I winced when Michael Caine's character shouted The inmates are running the asylum!). And much of the direction needlessly exaggerates the moods, with leering, glowering and slobbering galore. Rush's performance is the only one that doesn't seem emotionally false. There's a good treatment of the Marquis de Sade's life and works out there somewhere, but Quills, alas, isn't it. "}{"Title":"A dark film that is a bit long but pays off","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is the first Philip Kaufman film I have seen, and I was impressed. Although it isn't the most pleasant to watch, its great. A dark look at an insane erotic storywriter named Marquis De Sade (Rush) and his stay an asylum run by religious priest Abbe Du Coulmier (Phoenix). While there he befriends a laundrette named Madeleine (Winslet). The film has great performances, a brilliantly written script and great direction, although running a little over an hour the story is so rich and characters developed well enough for one to really enjoy it. Like I said it wasn't the most pleasant, however it is a bit exaggerated and satirical account. My favorite performance came from Joaquin Phoenix, who was great, however Geoffrey Rush was better than I have ever seen him, fully worthy of his Oscar nod. Michael Caine was decent in his role although i didn't feel his performance as much as i usually like him (hes a fine actor). Kate Winslet was great in her role, this is my favorite acting from her besides Eternal Sunshine. The script is very good in this film, which is what makes it work, because a lot of these films about medieval, napoleonic, etc.. times in europe are a bit boring, but this one is quite entertaining. Although I didn't think the ending was perfect (a bit flawed), i still enjoyed this film a lot. 9/10 #123 on my list of all time favorite films "},{"Title":"excruciatingly close to brilliance","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"27 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I haven't written a review on here in a while, but I felt as though I should write a few comments on this particular picture as I have always been fascinated by the Marquis De Sade. Perhaps my expectations were too high going into the theater to watch this film with an kind of unbiased mind, because I was let down. I went expecting what could have been a break-through film, that really could have said a lot about the society we are living in today, but it did not even come near to fulfilling those expectations. As just an ordinary film it was good. The writing was top notch. The performances were all very good, especially Geoffrey Rush who I believe is one of the most under appreciated actors out there today. I can't think of many film stars that can compare to his talent as an actor. The way he plays a character is  similar to Peter Sellers, yet much deeper somehow. Geoffrey Rush did not disappoint at all and if anything is going to win an Oscar in this film it will be his performance. The other actors put in adequate performances, with Phoenix, Winslet and Caine seemingly going through the motions of putting in good, but hardly Oscar worthy performances. I should be fair and say that Caine had a couple of scenes that were gems. Also, cheers to newcomer Amelia Warner, I suspect there's going to be a bright future ahead for this young beauty. However, the writing and performances were not enough to make this a great film. What I think was most aggravating was how little we really learned about the Marquis De Sade, at certain points it seemed like he was hated just for being a wicked gossip, while at other times he came off as a dirty old man. The Marquis De Sade was an amazingly complex figure because his ideas were so perverse to the absolute extreme and yet his expression of those ideas was utterly brilliant. We did not see many of those qualities in this film at all. The story of the laundry maid was twisted and changed around, as were a few other characters in this story who were real figures. This made me ask, why couldn't this film simply have told the life of the Marquis De Sade as it was, rather than changing the true story into a fictional one that is far less interesting? At times I almost felt like I was watching Disney Does De Sade it was light and fluffy when it should have been provocative and erotic. I don't usually complain about how a film should have been made, but this one could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Summary Beware Utterly fake history. Complete garbage.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw the movie.  I liked it.  I loved Michael Caine's performance. Michael Caine is always great.  I was also stunned by the stomach-turning depravity of the French legal and medical system of the time.  Then I read the book. The first half of the movie is typical Hollywood bad history composite characters, events out of sequence, a devoted wife where there should have been a devoted mistress, etc.  But the second half is fiction. In fact, De Sade (b. 1740) spent the last 10 years of his life, 1804 - 1814, living in relative comfort, with a mistress boarding in an adjacent room, at his family's expense, in the Charenton Asylum.  By this time de Sade had spent a major part of his life in and out of prisons and asylums for sexually abusing prostitutes and servant-girls, and also for complicated reasons connected with prison escapes, bad debts, and the French Revolution.  He had even been sentenced to death at one time (1772). The pretext for his final imprisonment (he was now 63) was publishing pornography.  But the real reasons were complicated. He was notorious and infamous, both for his crimes and his pornography. Napoleon wanted him put away, because he believed de Sade had written a pamphlet defaming him and his family. The family wanted him put away to protect the family honor.  The asylum was under the control of the French Ministry of the Interior.  It was run, except for the last 7 months of de Sade's life, by an Abbe' Coulmier, and at one time a Dr. Royer-Collard was the medical director.  There was also a 17-year-old worker in the asylum, Magdeleine Leclerc, with whom de Sade had (by his count) 57 sexual encounters during the last year of his life. The Abbe viewed himself as a humanitarian not a jailer and respected de Sade as an intellectual.  The Abbe has been described as despotic but enlightened.  While de Sade was in the asylum, he continued to write and publish (anonymously) pornography; but he also wrote and published ordinary plays, many of which were performed at the asylum, and choral pieces, some of which were performed at the asylum's church. There were sporadic attempts to curtail his writing activities. In 1807 police seized one of his pornographic works during a search of his room.  It was dutifully returned to his family after his death.  (They destroyed it.)   In October 1809 he was briefly placed in solitary confinement and deprived of writing materials.  In 1813 the Minister of the Interior banned the performance at the asylum of the plays. But all things considered, de Sade was pretty much left alone. He was in failing health during the last 4 months of his life and finally died of natural causes at age 74.  His surviving son was visiting at the time, but missed the last moments. What is particularly troubling about this movie, is that it uses the correct names of people and places.  >  "},{"Title":"Completely and utterly ridiculous","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The best way I can describe this movie is as a sexed-up version of Disney's The Three Musketeers--campy performances and mildly funny gross-out sequences, devoid of any historical accuracy or genuine wit. Hard to believe the writers were aiming for an anti-censorship message while censoring the facts of de Sade's life--we don't even get to hear the best (i.e., the worst) of his writing. And it's hard to take the portrayal of church hypocrisy seriously when the circumstances are completely fabricated. Apparently the filmmakers did not trust their abilities to make a compelling story out of factual material. That said, Geoffrey Rush is hilarious, Kate Winslet and Amelia Warner are astoundingly hot (more nudity please), and a few scenes (especially the opening sequence) are stylish indeed. Most scenes, however, are dull, unfunny and altogether pointless. 2/10. "},{"Title":"What where they thinking?","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A lot of people might have been allured to see this movie for the huge bundle of superb actors and actresses who participated. But what puzzles me is how so many great people incl. the filmmakers could go on such a bizarre project. To portray de Sade as a liberal free-thinker who is punished (because he unfortunately happens to not care about society's standards of that time) is outrageous.Only a few hints about the true Marquis de Sade are given here and there for instance, that he violated women against their will, or that his writing was far from outstanding - he became so well known only for his sexually explicit contents. And just as the fake excerpts from his writings in the movie, the content was cruel and inhumane at times.What was the intention behind making him a far more likable character in the movie? So people would identify more? To prove their point that the stupid public never understood artists and prematurely judge anything apart from their standards as perverse? The only reason this movie deserves two instead of one star is that the actors deliver great performances, especially Rush (as usual), Winslet and Phoenix.But as for the rest of the movie BOO HOO. What a waste. "},{"Title":"The Play within the Play","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.When writers are in charge, the film is about writing. The device here is to weave and overlap three tried and true conventions-The play within the play. Here, most everything deSade writes comes true, underscored by his actually producing a play in the film. As the writing deteriorates, so does the stability of the world.-The question of whether the inmates or their keepers are insane, here amplified by the cruel and ignorant techniques of the doctor.-The issue of whether writing is a compulsion on both parts (writer and reader), and whether it is intrinsically noble.Two layers are created. The Battle Royale is fought between two method actors (Caine and Rush) wound so tight their acting is obvious. But this just underscores their roles in the play-within-the-play. Caine plays the smarmy, hypocritical, sanctimonious Republican senator (a role that might not work as the film ages); and Rush an equally uncomplicated compulsive. Between them on a different more `real' level are the continually tempted and confused Winslett and Phoenix. Their acting is more `natural,' as their world requires. Nothing about sex really IS, you know; rather always something deeper is involved. And so with this, the point to be made is that convention always stifles art, and art will always harness our natural energies and flourish. Despite lots of talk, the sex, and particularly the depravity are only window dressing here, and are actually less present than in your average film. The one exception is a necrophiliac encounter at the end, but whoops, it's only a dream folks so forget it. Even `Romeo and Juliet' is riskier in this regard than `Quills.' So unless you have problems with male nudity, this is pretty pale stuff. A much more interesting point is made, with more complexity and with much more disturbing obsession and depravity in the remarkable `The Pillow Book (with Ewan McGregor after he spotted trains and before he walked skies). See that first.I'm a fan of Winslett's. Her character is written as the center of this film, but she handily captures it anyway. She is very internal, perhaps too intelligent in projection for today's mass audience. Where Phoenix has the job of playing someone not in control, she has the relatively more difficult job of actually being in control, which makes her undoing more mysterious.  Her role is worth seeing - the others are first class actors too, but she really charms. I will see anything with her in it and look forward to her maturity.Notable are two minor female roles, whose identity I cannot tease out from the credits. A woman is beheaded in the beginning. Later the doctor's young wife awakens sexually. These are simple but amazingly effective moments of passion and alone provide the patina of sex. (There's some groping among servants, but it has little projection.) "},{"Title":"Terrible history, worse cinema","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  What a disgusting, self-indulgent, boring and pointless film.  This has nothing at all to do with the life of the Marquis DeSade--it's almost entirely a fabrication.  The plot, such as it is, is sl-ow and bo-ring, and drags on and on and on for an interminable 124 minutes (seems much longer).  Substituting shock value for ideas and revulsion for character development, the movie proves once again that a promising actor can do great damage to his career by accepting roles that are beneath him.  I saw the movie some months back and haven't been able to stomach another Geoffrey Rush film since. I was reminded to write a comment because I'm in the midst of reading the excellent At Home with the Marquis De Sade by Francine Du Plessix Gray (available on Amazon) and it made me angry once again at the disdain for truth and art shown by the people who threw together this cesspool of a film. "},{"Title":"You Like Real Torture? Then Watch The Last Half Hour Of This","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Considering the well-known cast, and the way the story was progressing, the last half hour of this story has to be - and this is putting it mildly - a major disappointment. In fact, I would have to rate this ending as one of the all-time worst I have ever had the misfortune to sit through. What this story involves is simply the Marquis de Sade's attempts to get his works published and the reaction of people to he and it. Now I realize that you are going to get an extremely Liberal slant on this story, such as anyone who is against pornography is a hypocrite, etc., so I expected that nonsense. I tolerated most of it because the movie was well-photographed and pretty interesting for talkative film.But the ending, and the religious bias in here, is out-of-control when we see a priest shown in an unbelievably-perverse light. It was total insult of priests everywhere. I am not Catholic but one didn't need to be to be offended at this. The filmmakers, at that point, could care less who they offended. Well, it backfired because this film was a total bomb at the box office and with rentals and sales. That was justice. "},{"Title":"Geoffrey Rush Gets Naughty","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A baroque and quite entertaining film about the Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush) and the conflicting reactions (disgust, titillation, excitement, abhorrence) his ideas and writings fostered in those exposed to them.Rush jumps into the character of de Sade with mad glee, and hardly any scenery is left after he's done chewing it all. He's a marvelous actor and one whose work goes slightly underrated. Also doing a fine job in this film is the ever-reliable Kate Winslet, and providing the ick factor he brings to every movie he's in is Joaquin Phoenix as a religious man who's disturbed by the naughty thoughts de Sade makes him realize he has.The costumes and production design are a delight and earned Oscar nominations, as did Rush for his performance.Grade A "},{"Title":"Do you dare?","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I admit, that most of this film is purely fictional, including de Sade's body weight, since he became a fat old man in prison. Fact is though, that de Sade was a perverted man and that he was a guest at the asylum that is depicted in this film for many years. The fact that the events in the film are not true does not take away anything of the films quality. On the contrary, the story is quite intriguing and very thrilling and I must say I thought it was very well thought of. This intriguing and thrilling story I am talking about, of course is made up by the fictional part of the film, but there is more to this film than the fictional part. There is also the thought provoking and maybe even funny side of De Sade's writing that also leaves quite a mark on the film. And this is the part, which really makes this film. Where some films lose the essence of the main character this film succeeds in preserving it and presenting it in a charming and quite funny manner. During the film, the viewer is able to understand the people who read de Sade as well as those who burnt his books. I mean just think of the things he wrote and imagine yourself 200 years ago. Of course there were turmoils. But also imagine yourself when you were younger, when everything that was bad or forbidden was a thrill and you did it, even if it was just for kicks. These two reactions are both perfectly human, although I cannot say whether the treatment and imprisonment of de Sade was quite accurate. I mean the funny thing about the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century was that people probably knew some of the 'perversions' (such as being homosexual) described in the books, but it was not common to speak of them let alone write them down.The good story and the great depiction of the time in which the film takes place would not have been so thrilling, exciting and interesting as they were had it not been for all the involved actors and of course the director. Any film can have good basics, but what really makes a good film in the end are good actors and a good guiding hand. I dare not say too much about the acting specifically, because I am afraid I won't praise an actor or actress enough on his or her great performance, but I dare say this if there were Oscars to be won for ensemble's of actors, this film would have gotten ones! As far as the directing goes, I want to say this Kaufman succeeded not only in bringing the spirit of the time but also the essence of the Marquis de Sade to the screen and he did that splendidly. A great 'comeback' after 7 years of absence from directing. I'd like to thank all of the involved for making a truly good film and I'd like to address all potential viewers by saying that this film is definitely not for anybody. I advise you to get a hold of the trailer first and watch it. If you like what you see, rent it and you won't be disappointed. If you do not like the trailer, you probably won't like the film either.8 out of 10post scriptum only 3 nominations and not one statue for this film? Shame on the academy. "}{"Title":"Limp History","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Philip Kaufman's movie of Doug Wright's play pits the Marquis de Sade, by this point committed to an insane asylum, against a sadistic doctor brought in to cure him of his transgressive thoughts and writings. De Sade is abetted by the asylum's rector who sees him as a troubled soul and by a washerwoman who smuggles his writings to the publisher. It's all meant to be rather provocative, but in Kaufman's dry telling it comes off as tame, soft and not a little condescending. Kaufman keeps trying to teach the audience that de Sade is someone they should get to know, a philosopher who meant no harm; but he gives little evidence of de Sade's real writings, portraying him merely as a sensationalist novelist of the day who just happens to antagonize royalty and preferring to leave his audience unaware of the real content of the works. Kaufman indulges his actors and lets them overact to their hearts' content. This is not a good thing Geoffrey Rush (as de Sade) and Michael Caine (as evil Dr. Royer-Collard) are not performers that can chew up this stuff and still manage to maintain dignity. Still, Kate Winslet doesn't embarrass herself and Joaquin Phoenix is rather compelling in a silly way as the rector.     "},{"Title":"Sade pic more heady than body...","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Chances are the Marquis would not approve.Yes, Quills is every bit a visually decadent fictional account of the Marquis de Sade's years spent in an asylum. Yes, Quills features remarkable performances from two Oscar winners in Geoffrey Rush and Michael Caine. And yes, in addition to showcasing her remarkable acting talents, Quills features many lingering shots of Kate Winslet's bust.There are umpteen suggestive scenes, steamy attempts at seduction, and a disturbing trio of bloodthirsty rapists with varying degrees of success. There's one or two full frontal nude shots, there's descriptions of various sluttery and murder, and oh yes, one brief, playful, teenage threesome in the servants' quarters. There's Joaquin Phoenix, still smoldering after his turn as emperor in the far superior Gladiator, as a priest whose proximity to Sade leads him to fantasies about the forbidden fruit. That is, if in 'forbidden fruit' you mean 'sex on an altar with a beautiful dead woman.'Rush is wonderful as the Marquis, a man whose explorations in pornography during the late 18th Century still upsets some today. Ensconced in asylums and prisons for most of his adult life, the Marquis wrote stories of unrepentant sex and unthinkable means of murder during the Napoleonic reign, and some say played a part in the bloodlust of the French Revolution. While this isn't meant to be a definitive biopic, Rush somehow captures the dual nature of our main character, with one foot in the ether, and one in the nether. Sade operates on an atmospheric philosophical level, challenging even the most basic assumptions of what is good and what is evil.Aiding Sade in publication is the servant girl Madelaine, played exquisitely by Oscar-nominee Winslet. Titanic aside, Kate is one of the most talented young actors in film today. Her roles in films such as Hideous Kinky and Holy Smoke absolutely reek of the sort of hidden desire and sexuality that Sade endeavoured to expose in the everyday person; she was and is the perfect choice to play the breathless Madelaine. Despite the maid's obsession with Sade's work, she is in life chaste and in love with Phoenix's Abbey Coulmier. She admits that Sade's work is blasphemous, but defends its literary indulgence I become these characters when I read his work. If I couldn't be this bad a woman in his stories, I don't know if I could be this good a woman in life.And thus is the debate. Who is more deplorable? Sade, for admitting freely that he has these urges, and inviting those who are agreeable to suckle with him at the teat of debauchery? Or the outwardly pious man who locks his decadence behind closed doors. When Caine, as the royally appointed Dr. Royer-Collard, takes his newly purchased bride against her will, he makes any of Sade's paper concoctions look positively virtuous.Locked away, Sade has only his imagination to liquidate his fantastic urges. His prose drips with every conceivable human excretion, in every conceivable permutation. The famed sisters, Justine and Juliette, are antitheses of one another; one is good, but suffers through every possible torture in her quest for virtue, and the other engages in every manner of lechery in the name of pleasure. His world is still one of extremes; though he despises the hypocrisy of the moral right, he still has his own ethical standard. Sade screams not that he is imprisoned, but goes mad when he's deprived his quill and inkpot. He doesn't mourn at the news that his words inspired a fellow inmate to kill a young woman, but weeps that she died a virgin.For a Hollywood film, Quills is absolutely shocking. It's repulsive and sexy at the same time, exploring a dichotomy of lust and disgust with a gut-driven intelligence that Eyes Wide Shut just plain failed to capture. And the questions Sade raised are perfectly valid today. What *is* okay and not? Should prostitution be legalized? Is the statue of David obscene?Is the novel American Psycho trash because it contains a scene where a serial killer walks around his apartment with a decapitated hooker's head hanging ........  Is Oliver Stone to blame when some white trash ass**** blows up a convenience store clerk because his twisted brain saw Natural Born Killers as a blueprint?But next to even the most conservative of independent or foreign films, this is Wonder Bread where it should be home made, 12-grain rye. The discerning filmgoer will take the eye candy and the saucy subject manner, and run with it for discussions of philosophy and censorship. My colleague and I have devoured biographies and essays about Sade since seeing the film, and bemoaned the fact that the conservative machinery of modern society *still* can't bear to include Sade's work in academic courseloads. Why weren't we introduced to his work, and interpretations thereof, before now?And the saddest part of it all? Because the naysayers can't stand up to even the discussion of authors such as Sade, the average Tuesday night Metropolis customer enter the theatre without a sturdy theological background to handle a deep discussion of this subject. Chances are, people will come out of Quills without a thought to ideology or philosophy. Any discussion will likely be about, well, Winslet's cleavage. And if that's all the masses get out of it, there should be way more flesh, and way more gore, to suit Sade's memory. Because if you're not going to explore the ether, you should at least explore the nether.  "},{"Title":"Gives costume drama a good name. (possible spoilers)","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  'Quills' is subversive in at least one way.  With its archly quaint title, its literary and historical subject matter, directed by a renowned adapter of books, and featuring a cast of heritage/theatre luminaries, 'Quills' seems like it might be the perfect night out for those bourgeoisie normally antipathetic to the mind-numbing populism of the cinema.  Such a pedigree might suggest lavish country houses, costumes and decor; large-scale set-pieces; ripe, theatrical acting and choice lines of dialogue; in a word, CULTURE.And 'Quills' dutifully provides all these pleasures.  Except the country houses, costumes and decor all all dirty, shabby, dilapidated; the set-pieces are as full of unrestrained bodily functions, noise and gaudy cruelty as the grossest gross-out comedy; the acting is a little too collusive in the general poor taste, and the clever lines are not averse to 'Carry On'-style singles entendres.I look at some of these scenes - the glorious, shocking opening, where a typically Sadean fantasy of sexual deviance is revealed to be a historically verifiable orgy of legally- and politically-sanctioned execution; or the wonderful satire put on by de Sade and the inmates of Charenton mocking Royer-Collard, the scientific 'expert'/sadist sent to cure the writer, full of a disturbing, forthright vigour that easily crosses 'low' comedy with 'high' art, connecting it with Moliere, up to films like 'Les Bronzes' in French culture, but not what one would find in a heritage movie like 'Jean de Florette'; or the magnificent faecal mural in which de sade finally bridges the mind/body divide that has bothered philosophers for centuries; I look at scenes like these and I think of the merchantivory admirer who had expected an evening of literary tastefulness, and I thrill.'Quills'' pleasures are not purely negative.  One of its motifs is that of circulation, the way a work of art is produced and disseminated in a certain culture in a particular historical period - a series of Chinese whispers from cell to furtive bookselling in the case of 'Justine'; or the spontaneous creation of a short story transmitted by intermediary prisoners from author to amanuensis, a process that distorts the 'purity' of the work, as lines are misheard by the messengers, but also embodying its spirit (sic), its impulse of freedom in the most oppressive imprisonment (literal and spiritual); as well as the transformation of aristocratic authority by the people.Barthes once proclaimed the death of the author, and this is exemplified in the film's most horrific scene, where Madeleine is murdered by a madman brought to a pitch by de Sade's story; the latter's work is literally out of his hands; his authority, as well as authoriality, is seized in a grotesque perversion of the Revolution, a revolution itself perverted into a condition of which Charenton is only a heightened symptom.These channels of dissemination and information are like the arteries of the body, de Sade's words the lifeblood that keeps his society from becoming stagnant - so that writing with his own blood and worse is a logical conclusion.  These systems offer a distorting mirror to the more stagnant channels of power, the body politic, which run from petty Emperor (in the film's funniest scene) to brutal cell warder, crushing spirit, individuality, creation, subversion, the latter celebrated in the escape of Simone; if we think this is too simplistic, than it is balanced by Madeleine's fate.A script run on clever dialogue and eye-catching acting alone can't sustain itself for very long, and the pace flags about halfway through.  Fans of 'The Right Stuff', one of the great movies of the 1980s, will be pleased to note that Kauffman has recaptured that film's cartoon style, its lurches of tone between comedy and horror, frivolity and seriousness; but the frequent breaks for didactic dialogues (about, snore, art, censorship, liberty etc.) and unsubtle ironies don't help.  The vision of this kind of France, grinding towards inertia, is rarely shown in heritage cinema, usually explored by left-fielders like Rollin and Borowczyk.  Some people dismiss them as pornographers as well. "},{"Title":"Quills","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Geoffrey Rush stars as the notorious Marquis de Sade, languishing in an asylum, allowed some freedoms, though his appetites for causing a stir by way of his quill lands him in a lot of hot water. Kate Winslet, the laundress who moves his written work to the outside where it can be marketed underground to the people who love the Marquis' sordid tales of the violent and erotic. Joaquin Phoenix, the priest over Charenton mental institution, who treats the patients, including the Marquis, with humanity and kindness. Michael Caine, the medical scientist(more like certified torturer, whose methods include dunking the disturbed in water among other ways)who arrives at Charenton at an advisory capacity. Caine's doctor is ferocious and his way of curing the mentally ill is barbaric, a complete polar opposite to Phoenix who wants to keep his inmates free from vile experiments which do more harm than good.The movie amusingly asks us which one's worse, Caine's scientist or Rush's Marquis. Caine is commissioned by Emperor Napoleon to cure Marquis because death to such a quietly revered author might make him a martyr for the lower classes. The film shows how Caine's old man is married to a teenage virgin raised in a convent, and we see him force her into rough sex. Yet, his control over her is brief as she soon gains an advantage, his wanting to please her in ways sex can not used as a tool to get her way. Interesting development shows that Caine's wife is an avid reader of the Marquis..talk about irony.The depraved work thrown into the fire by an angered Napoleon is Justine..this is the work which repulsed him into action(a very funny scene shows Napoleon sitting upon his throne, his feet unable to touch the floor as if he were a child in a swing, legs flailing). When the Marquis pens a farce mocking Caine and his marriage to the young bride, set to a play designed to insult and ridicule for fun, he enacts a feud he will live to regret.The movie shows people appalled at the way the Marquis writes about his characters' inadequacies and devious pursuits and yet they remain curious and find his work even humorous, fighting off giggles.When the Marquis escapes from his cell, thanks to Winslet unlocking his door against her better judgment, Phoenix is forced into a predicament he'll never be able to recover from, his decency towards the patient rewarded with disregard. Basically, upon Caine's arrival, everything the priest had built falls to ruin. By the end, the lives of many will be shattered, death and anguish to all through Caine's actions. Though, despite all his underhanded tactics, no matter what he was able to accomplish in scoring a revenge against the Marquis for his wife's leaving him for a talented home decorator, influenced by the depravity and vice written by his hand, the author's work lives on no matter what the conniving scientist does to him.The movie shows that no matter what punishments are dealt him(remove his means to write, such as quills and paper, cloth and wine, etc), the Marquis finds ways to get his work to the outside world. Eventually, the evil scientist does get rid of the man, and he even sets up a printing factory using the inmates to distribute the Marquis work at the author's wife's permission, but halting the power of the one he so despises will never be easy as long as Phoenix's defrocked priest keeps his memory afresh. QUILLS includes an erotic scene where Phoenix fantasizes making love to a ravishing Winslet and Rush devours his scenes like a mutt with rabies. It's easy to see that Rush summoned the spirit of Marquis de Sade while portraying the role, I thought he wholly brought him to life in QUILLS. The asylum itself can be presented as both a refuge for the inmates and a bleak place once Caine's presence constrains the freedom they once had, his power attributing to the very Emperor who gave him absolute authority to see that order is kept.My most glorious prose..filtered through the minds of the insane. "},{"Title":"A case of the quill being mightier than the sword.","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie features a great and original story of a writer, who happens to be an insane asylum inmate, during the Napoleonic era who through his writing knows to manipulate and control everyone around him, of all levels of society. His stories are daringly sexual orientated (for its time of course) and is attracting all kinds of people. Amazingly enough the story is even supposedly based on a true story, although of course the movie story-wise took some liberties, with its characters as well.The movie doesn't only focus on its main manipulative character but also those around him, who basically each have an own motive and story-line in the movie but are of course all connected with each through the stories and the Marquis de Sade personally. It of course helps in this that all of the characters are being portrayed by some excellent actors.It's not your typical costumes drama and it also isn't a typical Philip Kaufman movie. Kaufman doesn't direct often or many movies but when he does it normally is always something good and also special, that is just a bit different from the usual genre movie the movie gets made in. Of course this movie features a lot of sexual undertone, which gives the movie a special and also yet somehow unpleasant kind of atmosphere, which I mean in a positive way.As could be expected, the dialog for this film is amazing. It's deliciously old fashioned and often poetic. Really some Shakespearian like written here. And again, it really helps that the movie has some great actors delivering the lines.Geoffrey Rush is a real scene stealer and no wonder he received an Oscar nomination for his role in this movie. It further more features the other multiple nominee- and Oscar winners such as Michael Caine, Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix. The four principal actors, as of yet, share a total of 13 Oscar nominations and 3 wins. It says something about their qualities and the acting performances in this movie.Of course the movie is also great looking with its sets and costumes as well as with its cinematography and directing style.On a downside note, the movie tends to be a bit overlong. Even though the movie is just over 2 hours long, it still feels much longer and it gives you the feeling the movie should had reached its conclusion earlier on. It's not that the movie ever bores, it just starts to drag a bit as it heads toward its ending.A special kind of movie that is worth watching.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Seems familiar.","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I recently watched this film for the first time and found it very enjoyable although I had this nagging suspicion that the plot was somehow familiar. Eventually it hit me, 'One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest' but now set in the Napoleonic era. I suppose if you are going to borrow another movies plot you could do a lot worse than Cuckoos Nest. "},{"Title":"Disturbingly not disturbing","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  When one decides to see a film based on the life of the Marquis de Sade, one has certain expectations. One expects to learn about how he gained his infamous reputation, not in a quick summation by Michael Caine walking down the stairs, but in depth. Given that his name is now used to describe serial killers, despots, and practitioners of all the worst kinds of depravity of which mankind is capable, one expects to see that reflected in a film. One expects to be disturbed, shocked, horrified. One does not expect a film that glosses over the Marquis' actions and presents him as a kind of proto-Crowleyan, free-spirited libertine. I understand the film's wish to present him as a sympathetic figure but I have to wonder if the character created by Geoffrey Rush, a kind of erudite court jester with the mind of a dirty old man, is a true reflection of the Marquis as a person. That said, Quills is an entertaining film, a kind of black farce with elements of tragedy. Rush gives a hillarious performance as the Marquis, delivering his juiicy lines with a forked-tounged relish. He never once appears evil, just completely self-absorbed. Kate Winslet plays another ingenue here, but her old-fashioned sensuality works well in this context. Phoenix plays the same character he did in Gladiator but for sympathy. Ultimately though, he comes across as far more disturbed than the Marquis, which was probably the point.  "},{"Title":"What I thought","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. I thought the characters were great and the plot was fast-paced and very sexy. This is one of my favorite movies. My favorite character was the priest. His character started out as proper and clean-cut. He ended up corrupted and mentally unstable. Plus, I thought the man who played his character was very hot. I only wish that he and the maid had hooked up. It was what I was waiting for the entire movie, but they never did. I almost cried when the maid died. It was very sad and tragic. I loved that this movie was as sexy as it was. I never expected it to be that way. I also love how it was based off of actual people in history. I find it fascinating that a man like De Sade actually existed! I think that everybody can learn something from this movie. The lesson is that we all have that secret perversion in us, but we don't really let it out. That perversion can destroy us or make us. It all depends on how we use it. I'm all for bringing out the sexiness in ourselves, but that's just me. "},{"Title":"Exquisite and grotesque...","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Call it a dank romp Director Philip Kaufman pulls a Ken Russell with this adaptation of a play that fashions the Marquis de Sade a prolific, erotic-minded writer pent up in a French insane asylum in 1790's Paris. The movie begins like sinister burlesque( reminding me of Russell's The Devils), but I think it does lose itself along the way, becoming more gruesome and daunting as an entertainment. For the first hour, however, it's comic book raunch, a playful assault for grown-up people. Terrific acting (particularly by Geoffrey Rush in a brazen, brave performance) helps to camouflage some of the demented weirdness. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A repulsive mess","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As a person who is repelled by the idea of sadomasochism in the first place, perhaps I am not the best person to judge this movie.  Despite a big budget, a powerhouse cast that includes Michael Caine, Christopher Rush and Kate Winsett, as well as a director whose past work I have admired (The Right Stuff, especially), this film is a repulsive mess.  Even if one were a big fan of S&M, one would still have to contend with an inept screenplay and yet another unintentionally hilarious performance from Jauquin Phoenix (although it might make a few sadists lick their lips).  What makes the movie frustrating is that at times a glimmer of wit shows through and an interesting idea is put forth.  But alas, the touches of wit are overwhelmed by violence and the ideas are never really developed.  The characters are pretty much stock figures, although master actors Rush and (especially) Caine manage to bring more depth to their roles than is actually written.  The cliché-ridden screenplay, alas, has more bumps and holes in it than the walls of Charenton Hospital, often going on extended tangents that are only peripherally related to the main story.  SPOILER AHEAD  There is also that improbable revelation that Kate Winsett died virgo inacta after we have witnessed her sluttish behavior throughout the film.  She read pornography to all her friends (while they diddled each other in the haystack).  She tried to seduce a priest and got mad when he wouldn't put out.  She rubbed all over the Marquis de Sade.  Please.  An even more improbable turn has Caine becoming Sade's posthumous publisher.  I should also mention the intrusive and distracting music score.  I wish this movie had been better because there is a lot of talent involved, but I'm afraid I will have to use the following adjectives to describe it pretentious, repulsive, meandering, cliché-laden.  I came out of this movie wanting a nice hot shower with lots of soap to wash off the contamination.  "}{"Title":"Historical Slander and simplistic soft porn","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" My main problem with this is that it bears absolutely no relation to the truth of De Sade's stay at Charenton. A full list of these can be found at Quills' wikipedia page, but the most horrendous are the torture and tongue removal of De Sade, neither of which took place. The real De Sade died peacefully in his sleep in his 70s and had been freely allowed to write (he also did not write anything sexual while at Charenton).The question is, why is the truth so much distorted? Is it to make the (rather weak) point that De Sade was a champion of free speech while his opponents were pious hypocrites? Such a point is really not worth making especially since De Sade was originally committed not for his writings but he actual crimes, such as rape and attempted murder.Whatever the intention, Quills amounts to a historical slander against Abbe du Coulmier (here depicted as a sexually repressed if well meaning liberal) but more especially Dr Royer-Collard, shown as a rapist, paedophile and torturer! There are some interesting ideas along the way. The Marquis' reductionist view of humanity we eat, we sh*t, we f*ck is challenged by the Abbe but we also fall in love and write symphonies but this is sadly not taken any further. Other ideas, such as to what degree pornography can provoke rape, as it does near the end, are also under developed.Instead we have plenty of time for wallowing in a soft porn version of the 18th century. Literally all the 'lower orders' are aroused by De Sade's writings, even those old enough to know better, such as the ageing blind mother of the maid. They cavort about in their underwear playing with themselves while the stories are read out or engage in free love. Implausibly Royer-Collard's virginal wife, fresh from a nunnery, has acquired a copy which she avidly reads. And amazingly, the ringleader in this vice, the maid (played by Kate Winslet) is revealed to be a virgin in the end! Mirable Dictu! By contrast all the authority figures are shown as being hypocritically outraged by De Sade's work. Now, an interesting discussion could be had about the merits of pornography both as satire and as a freedom of expression, but they are not had here. Nor is the idea of sex as forbidden fruit really explored other than in this cartoonish way. The real impact of De Sade's ideas are only hinted at near the end, when the aforementioned attempted rape occurs but this is quickly undermined by the dishonest amputation of De Sade's tongue which gives the impression that society is merely trying to silence the messenger.The performances are variable. Geoffry Rush gives his usual commanding performance, while Phoenix effects his English accents. Winslet is so-so in a role which is unconvincingly written "},{"Title":"a theatrical experiment","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills was not the only film about Marquis de Sade in 2000. It was more of a theatrical experiment, though, whereas French movie Sade offered an almost philosophical discourse.The premise here was that Marquis de Sade had been a whimsical old man. Not sure why this was the case, since the historical figure was a mere pervert with homicidal tendencies.The premise, in turn, follows a trend in contemporary art and culture, where Marquis de Sade becomes almost a free speech activist in today's terms.We might argue whether the film should follow historical facts or author's vision, but for me Quills deserves two stars. "},{"Title":"Unfashionable opinions galore...","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Place is early 19th century France, a handsome but cold place of elegance, squalor and violence, and witty porn writer Marquis De Sade (Geoffrey Rush) has sent to Charenton asylum, albeit for political reasons rather than insanity (at least in real life). Asylum is led by kind Catholic priest (Joaquin Phoenix as rather sympathetic character who was apparently very short and hunchbacked in real life) and he has scandalous notion that mentally ill do not need torture. Gasp! Where is this world going to, if filthy perverts cannot torture insane? Soon, De Sade's writings - which later inspired such celluloid filth than Salo - are somehow liberating whole France to orgy and enraging Napoleon, when laundry maid is carrying the smut out, turning Marquis as trashy bestsellerist in the vein of Stephen King. Michael Caine has chilling role of outwardly respectable but sleazy pervert, who gets his kick by torturing insane and raping his young porn-reading wife, and Rush does not physically resemble De Sade, albeit complaints seems not come from only desire to historical accuracy but mucky morality worthy of De Sade being filthy scatological perv and sadist, totally sane but locked in asylum, is somehow better if the perpetrator is not short and fat. Why his character openly courts danger and torture when he gets possibility to keep his cushy lifestyle, if he just does not publish his stories and endanger anyone, is something I cannot fathom. More entertaining than horribly wooden Sade (2000), but screenwriter Doug Wright who has adapted his own play lets historical inaccuracies gallop horribly wild, especially in the tragic - and frankly heavyhanded - ending. "},{"Title":"Welcome In The World Of Le Marquis De Sade","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Very good movie. I liked the movie from the beginning until the end.Kate Winslet and Geoffrey Rush are brilliant in their roles. Joaquin Phoenix and Michael Caine are good too.If you don't want to see this movie, at least watch it for the phenomenally acting.This movie gives a real sensation. It's a very powerful movie.Very sexy and sensual movie, but smart too. You shouldn't miss this movie, but certainly see it.The movie has an artistic mind and is very interesting. This movie is certainly one of my favorites.It's a masterpiece "},{"Title":"Sweet perversion","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Marquis de Sade lived and committed his exploits at a time before imprisonment was a way to re-educate criminals. Those who committed crimes were more often than not executed in the public square and by the time the Revolution changed history, Parisians would enjoy their time making tricot and breastfeeding babies in front of the guillotine as head after head got chopped off, with the same kind of pleasure we go to a soccer stadium today.No television nor radio and hardly any newspaper would be around to expose crimes of pedophilia in the church but we know well they have always been there, well hidden under a polished layer of civilization, well before anyone ever felt the Church should apologize for its acts. Crime, war, perversion were rampant as would be later in the XIX century such cruel things as baby farming. Ironic it is then, that of all the abusers, depraved men and women with power, who committed deeds we today would never accept as civilized but that due to the social arrangements of the day were largely forgiven at the time, Sade was the one to be imprisoned.The one crucial difference between Sade and his jailers was but one hypocrisy. He didn't really invent perversion, sexual torture, depravity disguised as a goal. He was not even the first man to practice them all, for we must only ask how many, working under the guise of God's work, did indeed take less than chaste pleasure when a stripped witch was examined, tortured or burnt, or when whole populations of Jews were murdered and rapped. Yet Sade was perhaps the first person to admit to doing what so many did under the mask of duty or righteous and his single greatest talent was not that he wrote so well or had such a brilliant imagination, but that he knew how much to dig until he reached the core of a person's most intimate temptations.In doing that, he insulted those to whom the shoe fitted, scared those who discovered new worlds of perversion, excited yet others and all the while exposed a reality that was always there under the surface. This is what the movie so masterfully portrays, as some, embedded with the sense of duty will go to lengths of perversion that Sade never did, others will constantly fight between their education and their desires, while others will embrace carnal pleasure willingly and yet others will forever be two-faced demons.Quills is a brilliant portrayal of the many ways in which his own time touched Sade and of the many ways in which he in turn affected those who read his writings to find either pleasure or their own ghosts. Every single aspect of how many interpretations Sade's writings can be subjected to is well present here, thanks to a very interesting script and excellent acting by a cast that could hardly disappoint, Geoffrey Rush and Joaquin Phoenix placed in a position where they had a lot of emotions and conflicts to act out and they do in a very intense and even enticing manner. Kate Winslet, in a less turbulent role (at least superficially) also delivers her part well as both a muse, an innocent temptress and a victim. All this certainly due to a very cunning camera work by Kaufmann who uses perspectives and close-ups well to create intensity and curiosity.This movie is rich and pretty much has it all love, tragedy, crime, sex (as part of the story instead of as eye candy), comedy, coupled with an ending as ironic as it can get. All in all it will impress you, haunt you and certainly make you really think. "},{"Title":"Too tough for me","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I was extremely impressed by this film the acting by the four principals, the no punches pulled script, Kaufman's superb direction and in short, a movie for lovers of good cinema. However, after saying these positive comments about a wonderful film, I must say that I am too soft for an in your face film such as Quills.Not knowing almost anything about the Marquis De Sade, I was only prepared for the sexual nature of a movie about his life but I was not prepared for the difficulties Sade faced as that life unfolded during his imprisonment. As a viewer, I am in no way troubled by anything sexual but I confess to being a total softy when it comes to physical troubles and troubles is a hugely soft word for everything that befell poor old Sade. The wonderful script for this film focused on these problems and the ramifications surrounding these events. As a result the whole movie was a hard go for me.If you are not troubled by the darker side of life and you do enjoy an historical look at a harsh period then you will enjoy this film. The people involved are as good as you could ever hope to see on the screen it looks real, it feels real and as a result, there seemed nothing out of place. This says much for an historical drama. "},{"Title":"A stunning period piece.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A great film loaded with sex, controversy and brilliantly intricate characters. The performances are mesmerizing. Geoffrey Rush is hilariously charismatic as The Marquis de Sade, a man who lives by glorifying the raunchiest sex acts he can imagine, but is at a loss when he finds himself falling in love. It's easily one of the bravest performances I've ever seen. Rush goes to all necessary lengths and doesn't hold back whatsoever in his brilliant portrayal. Certainly one of the best performances of the year, which I'm realizing was a dynamite year for Best Actor. Kate Winslet is adorably enchanting as Medeleine LeClerc, a woman who was raised to be proper and distinguished and is able to let out her darker side through The Marquis' writing. I love watching her become more knowingly in trouble by the law, but refusing to stop helping out The Marquis. It's great to see such a pure and heroic character. Certainly one of Winslet's best performances.Joaquin Phoenix is absolutely brilliant in his portrayal of The Abbe du Coulmier, a man of God who is forced to confront his own demons of wrath and sexual desire constantly throughout the picture. Even more struggling is bestowed upon him as the law steps in to look over him and punish him for treating The Marquis in what they deem is a very poor and loose manner. He is one of the most complex and sympathetic characters in modern cinema, in my eyes. Michael Caine delivers what is possibly his best performance as Dr. Royer-Collard a man who strives to be proper and correct, but is one of the darkest and most unstoppable villains of all time. Caine does a brilliant job of making the audience become absolutely disgusted by every one of his actions. I did feel that they went a little over the top with him at times, though. Nobody could really be that horrible of a person, even if they do think that everything they are doing is right. It's great to see all of the contradictions in his character, especially in the absolutely breathtaking ending. I was just stunned into a complete catharsis. I literally couldn't believe my eyes. Words can't describe how amazed I was by the ending. I'm going to keep this relatively short, but I do want to bring up one more thing. I adored the rustic feeling they brought to the film in the tints of the entire picture. I felt that it really brought you into the time period and made you feel like you were there watching these characters, which is something I'm usually agitated by, especially in period pieces. "},{"Title":"What a Wicked Sensation!!!","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The plot of Quills surround the life of the Marquis de Sade while he is in an insane asylum in 18th century France. His stories are smuggled and printed bringing much excitement in France!I liked this movie mainly because of the 18th century French setting and the wonderful actors involved. While some other viewers point out the problem of having British accents in French roles, I too laughed at the idea as Hollywood seems to think everyone in Europe has British accents, but I do not think that hurts the movie.The movie stars Geoffrey Rush as the perverse Marquis. I had never heard of him at the time, but he does a wonderful, sickening Marquis. The Marquis was not actually insane some say he was ahead of his time a genius of misfortune. Most likely he was just a highly sexual soul who may have been misunderstood. His status of nobility probably hurt him since he is suppose to be a gentleman and gentleman are not such filth!Michael Caine, always impressive is the evil doctor sent to 'cure' the Marquis. Ironic how disgusting and perverse he finds the Marquis, since this esteemed doctor had a lovely child bride. A piece of information the Marquis has fun with during one of my favorite scenes where the asylum inmates act The Crimes of Love AMelia Warner portrays the beautiful convent education orphan Simone. Trapped in a gilded prison with a husband old enough to be her grandfather. She finds elation in one of the MArquis banned books. This leads to her elopement with the handsome Proix, the architect remodeling her home. AAhhh the crimes of love. Of course after learning of SImones departure with Proix and the existence of her guilty reading pleasure, the doctor knows exactly who to blame.Madeline is the tragic, free spirited, laundry girl. She is portrayed by Kate Winslet. She is a central character of this story as she is the one smuggling the stories and encouraging the Marquis. She also has a growing affection for the new priest who is running the asylum.Joaquin Phoenix, WHose name I have just learned to correctly pronounce, is a wonderful surprise as the sympathetic priest who is tested to the point of insanity himself.A truly marvelous movie, the workings of the everyday asylum and the quirky loonies in there are all entertaining. A 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"totally worth watching","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I would give this a 10 if the ending hadn't been so disappointing. The movie was great though! Of course, my view might be biased because I'm in love with Joaquin Phoenix, but there you go. Geoffrey Rush gave an awe-inspiring performance, as did Michael Caine. I have to admit, I never knew Michael Caine could be such a baddie after the other movies I've seen him in, but he did really well! Kate Winslet was very much the same as her other roles, but it suits her. She was perfect as Madeleine. The story itself was very interesting, though quite graphic at parts (I'm not surprised it's rated R) The dialogue is the sort that you quote to your friends for weeks afterwards. The plot gripped me completely until the ending. I found the ending really disappointing. I think it was too long-winded, unrealistic and ineffective. It's a shame, because it's such a good movie otherwise. "},{"Title":"Geoffrey Rush The best of his generation","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is worth watching for one reason alone; Geoffrey Rush, to my mind, establishes himself as the best English language film actor of his generation.I thought Shine was superb; and didn't think he could pull off another performance that was comparable. But I was wrong, and he has.Michael Caine was very good, as was Kate Winslet. And Joaquin Phoenix puts in a fairly competent performance as an Abbe who just happens to look like a rock star. But Rush....One can see the difference in acting stature in the (to my mind unfortunate) sequence at the end when the Abbe himself becomes a version of de Sade. Phoenix is a competent, hardworking actor. But he was so pitiable as the Marquis's doppelganger that they should have edited it out of the film. In fact the movie should have ended with de Sade's death. The irony of the asylum becoming a publishing house for Sade's work was nice, but a bit of an embarrass de richesse. We could have done without it.Rush has got what Brando almost always had, and Olivier in his stage performances immense talent and a core of rather androgynous sexiness. Almost none of Rush's contemporaries have it, partly because they're so anxious to be indisputably male. There's a definitely campy side to Rush, which makes him exciting to watch. Malcovich, Depp, Norton, Oldman and Day Lewis are all superb actors. But Rush, judging by just these two movies, towers above them. I hope he gets decent vehicles for his talent. "}{"Title":"I like movies that make me think (SPOILERS)","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is a fictional story that uses a real person, the Marquis De Sade. The movie is not a biography.The film is trying to make a few points. Art does not create bad deeds. Only weak people are negatively influenced by art. Censors are often just as bad as the people they try to censor.Art does not create bad deeds The Marquis (Geoffrey Rush) is an evil character. There is no doubt about that. He believes that rape and torture are acceptable. But does the awfulness of his beliefs justify censorship? There are no bad words... only bad deeds. The tagline of this film basically gives us the point of view of its makers. It's not words we should fear, but actions.Only weak people are negatively influenced by art The Marquis does his best to try to undermine the religious beliefs of the Abbe du Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix) by both openly attacking his faith and putting sexual desires into his head. Yet the Abbe never abandons his faith or his celibacy. Despite the fact that Madeleine is the one smuggling the Marquis' writing out of the asylum and despite the fact that she enjoys his writing, she dies a virgin. She has never acted on what she has read. The only character who does act on what she has read is Simone (Amelia Warner). However, she has been raised in a convent and has been forced to marry a man who is old enough to be her grandfather. Simone seduces and runs away with her husband's architect. The Marquis' writing put the ideas into her head, but that is all. It is Simone's sorry circumstances that led to her actions. Censors are often just as bad as the people they try to censor Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine) is sent by Napolean to deal with the Marquis and stop him from writing. The doctor is a hypocrite. He punishes the Marquis for his illicit writing while he himself imprisons his young wife and rapes her night after night. Napolean himself is a hypocrite for condemning the Marquis' writing but ignoring the shocking actions of Dr. Royer-Collard. The is similar to Rush Limbaugh openly espousing tougher sentences for drug users, then crying persecution when his own illegal drug use became known. Or Susan Smith's stepfather (the South Carolina woman who drowned her two sons) who despite being the head of the Christian Coalition in his area, admitted to molesting his stepdaughter for years. The question becomes if we allow censorship who will get to decide what is censored and what isn't, especially when many self-appointed moralists have plenty of moral failings of their own? This movie is definitely hard to watch because of the amount of violence, nudity and crude language but it's worth it. Even if you don't agree with the conclusions made by the makers of Quills, it is worth a watch. It doesn't hurt to have your beliefs challenged from time to time. I watched it about three months ago and I still sometimes think about the points they are trying to make.The cast of Quills is terrific. Geoffrey Rush, Kate Winslet, Joaquin Phoenix, Michael Caine and Amelia Warner all deserved awards for their outstanding performances. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Bodice ripper","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Not that different from any other reasonably good bodice ripper, and nowhere near the best of them.Nice costumes, sets, nice 'play within a play'. The fact that it's a De Sade biopic seems easy to forget...somehow it just becomes yet another period piece. I think the lack of external world scenes detracts from the film (almost entirely set inside the asylum) and makes it seem like a filmed play.Joachim Phoenix seems strangely wasted, miscast. Geoff Rush is alright, but lacks something... I suspect there are others who could make the role more believable. Michael Caine is ordinary, as is much of his late work. Kate Winslet is a standout and once she uh exits the film, it ceases to hold much interest. "},{"Title":"This is truly one of the best acted films ever!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really like the way the Marquis deSade is portrayed as a human in this film as in other films(mainly horror films) he's portrayed as a sick twisted man with no emotions.More or less, a monster. In Quills, he's portrayed as a twisted man but one with a heart as Geoffrey Rush plays him in such an amazing way that I truly was dissapointed that this man didn't receive the Best Actor Award at that year's Academy Awards. Kate Winslet is stunning as the chambermaid with a lecherous side as she loses her virginal quality and begins to get into the Marquis stories (as does half of Europe) with reckless abandon and puts her career as well as her physical well being on the line to smuggle his stories out of the insane asylum to be published. Joaquin Phoenix shines once again as he proves that once again he has just as much if not more acting ability than his late deceased brother River Phoenix but he plays the hell out of the sexually frustrated in love with Ms Winslet priest who also has way too much heart for the patients in the asylum until the evil Michael Caine comes along and mainpulates him into destorying the Marquis but in the end (and to me the best part) the Marquis gets the last laugh beyond the grave. Also.Amelia Warner as the young virginal wife of Mr Caine who after being raped of her innocence by the old enough to be her Grandfather Mr Caine she too after reading the writings of the Marquis becomes a naughty vixen and wounds the pride of the good Doctor in an extremely  entertaing way. I love this Movie!!!! ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A common, but ever-useful point.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is yet another movie that shows what a miserable and brutal thing religion can be, or at least, the people who interpret it.  Here we have a crazy, perverted man, cast away in a prison for society's rejects.  Other than having little other than sex on his mind, he wants nothing more than to write his erotic thoughts on paper, and for willing readers to gain pleasure from them.  It's a story about the battle between being in touch with our natural feelings vs. the ultra-conservative mentality that we must deny our sense of lust, even on paper (Does this sound a tad bit along the lines of The People Vs. Larry Flint)?  His sexually explicit manuscripts, while bringing enjoyment to obviously many many people, infuriates many as well...including the authorities.  He is persecuted more and more, yet he fights on, writing with whatever means at his disposal.  Even his own blood.There are some great points made in this movie.  The doctor's relationship with his innocent young wife was a very poignant way of making a statement about those who deny human nature in the name of religion; saying that conservatives are truly the ones with sinful behavior--recall the vicious way in which the doctor had sex with his extremely young wife.  Yet another example is the kind priest (Jauquin Phoenix) becoming increasingly brutal in his pursuit of bringing the Marquis de Sade to salvation, yet ending up in the same position at the end of the movie.  Lastly, the doctor, who originally got involved in order to stop publications of the manuscripts, ended up maintaining the mental institute by publishing them, once they became profitable.Overall, Quills is a great movie.  Very common message about religion, but a very important message that people should hear over and over--because it's true. "},{"Title":"Finally a bio/drama that isn't pathetic.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Terrific photography, a great cast (only Phoenix is his usual talentless self), and bundles of great irony to be found in the story. The Church, religion, hypocrisy, and self-righteous morals get a well-deserved drubbing. As twisted and perverted as De Sade may have been, he was an intellectual (which isn't commonly known), and any intelligent person will take his side when seeing what kind of people acted against him. His comments about God and religion are particularly nasty and to the point.More accessible than Marat/Sade but a lot heavier, both dramatically and in content. Forget Justine and De Sade's other perverted stuff; I suggest you read his Conversation Between A Priest And A Dying Man. "},{"Title":"Attractively disturbing or disturbingly attractive?","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Whatever it is, this is the best and most fascinating film of 2000 (Gladiator possibly tying for that spot) and in spite of its dark content it is truly enjoyable to watch. There is definitely a point of perversity in liking a film like Quills, but this is exactly the kind of thing it wants to highlight. Sexuality. Human interest in sexuality.Films set in mental asylums always seem to be strangely enjoyable. Maybe it is because they feature characters so fundamentally disturbed and offbeat that there is no greater need to introduce extra conflicts in the plot. Yet this is done in Quills, as it details the life of Marquis de Sade&#151;-the racy French writer at the turn of the 18th century--and his struggle for artistic freedom in his sadomasochistic novels.So the film explores what to write and not, and what belongs on paper vs. what belongs in real life. Yet for a film all about morals, Quills never preaches, sneaks in messages or has moral lessons to teach. It can instead be seen as a psychological case study of the Marquis in the asylum.Quills modernizes, stylizes and crafts the story of the Marquis is an impressive but safe way. The era is paid attention to, but the visuals are nothing you haven't seen before. The weight of a well-respected cast (Geoffrey Rush, Kate Winslet, Joaquin Phoenix, Michael Caine) is felt throughout the film. What's stuck with me from it aside from great performances by these actors is its highly quotable dialogue. It is full of real-life Marquis gems (Virgin birth. It's an entire religion based on an oxymoron.) but also just overall good writing that takes the form of plot and dialogue. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Kaufman fools again","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing the NC-17 rating on Henry & June and thinking,'Yes, this must be interesting.'  Why?  Just because of the rating?  By the fact that Kaufman pushes the envelope into developing a new rating to accomodate the film?  Man, was that conjecture way off.  The movie wasn't ground breaking, it seemed like 5th graders snickering at all the sexual content they could trick the censors into thinking was sensual period drama.  Quills is worse.  The characters are wooden, the writing is terrible, and the irony is so heavy handed and obvious as to invoke down right disgust.  Again Kaufman has tugged on the proverbial wool in glorifying his overwrought, rediculously self-conscious dreck.  Michael Caine was perhaps the worst cast actor of the year in that role and the ending reaked of Screenwriting 101 pretention.        "},{"Title":"Disappointing mediocrity, prettily done.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Viewing a film while carrying the burden of high expectations is  often a recipe for disappointment, and my experience with Quills was no exception.  The story is certainly compelling enough to offer a suitable platform for a more engaging film, but the execution here did not rise to the challenge. I could not relate to any of the characters, nor did I believe the performances; they were either flat, over-the-top, or just lacking credibility. I am a fan of both Caine and Rush, and think they came across fairly well, but suffered from having poor lines, situations, and possibly direction.  Phoenix was detached and seemed to overcompensate with excessive facial movements. It may be the fault of a screenplay that doesn't allow enough character development, or a director having poor rapport with the actors, or a schedule and budget too tight or poorly managed to allow for enough convincing performances, or a draconian editing process that took the soul from the film. The cinematography and design were beautiful.  Production designer Martin Childs has done equally remarkable work in other period pieces such as The Madness of King George,  Frankenstein, and Shakespeare in Love. I'm sorry to say that this film does not approach the compelling nature and credibility of other Kaufman films, such as Henry and June and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. "},{"Title":"Michael Caine does a complete switch from Alfie","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  For a fascinating experience, watch this one back to back with 'Alfie'.  Oh, how the romantic leads have deteriorated!!!  That's why his acting is SO superior.  All 3 of them were perfect Geoffrey Rush (I'm still reeling from his portrayal of the mad pianist) and Kate Winslett, who registers the struggles going on for her soul on her face.  I thought Jacquin Phoneix was the kid in Cider House Rules, they acted so similarly.  There is a Peter Finch movie called 'Asylum' that plays out a similar theme to this one that you should see for context.Despite John Leonard's review, this film shows BOTH the fact that de Sade was mad, AND human, AND driven by the desire to write and show the hypocrisy in respectable society.  The scene where the priest proves that de Sade  LOVED the girl, not just lusted after her will tear you up.What a great line at this time in the U.S. No, you must not see this execution, he shouts at the receding back of Caine, playing the sadistic psychiatrist, those who are responsible for the executions never are around to witness them. (George W. Bush spends about 30 minutes..the length of his attention span... reviewing the record of those he kills in the name of the state.) Having seen the great St. Joan with Jean Seberg, Graham Greene's great line for John Gielgud echoes this one You must not watch these things, he warns the distraught priest who called for her to be burned, How unfortunate, but it is over.  I didn't mean for this to happen cries out the priest, who has faced the consequences of his actions in all its burned flesh and gone mad because of it.This movie has Oscars written all over it, if the Academy can stand having a movie smartly written and exquisitely acted actually win something.  See it, and find yourself.  It's passes the tests of a great movie or book Each time you see it, you will bring something else away from the experience. "},{"Title":"Quills is a dynamic classic story.","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is a very profoundly written screenplay of the Marquis de Sade. The Marquis is played to perfection by Geoffrey Rush. It is definitely an award winning performance. His physician, Dr. Royer-Collard, played menacingly by Michael Caine is equally as convincing. Kate Winslet plays the confidant of the Marquis and gives an attractive addition to this otherwise very bizarre movie. The language is too strong for the very young, but the script holds true to the nature of this intriguing writer. There are scenes in the insane asylum that are perfectly done to reflect the peculiar psychiatric conditions at the time. This is a film worth renting on DVD, and be prepared for a really shockingly compelling drama. It has all of the elements of a very entertaining evening if one can use that term in this situation. There is also a compelling performance by Joaquin Phoenix as the Abbe du Coulmier. Don't miss this one. Dale Haufrect "}{"Title":"Great art direction does not a great movie make","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was inclined to like this movie.  I'm a sucker for anything set in the 18th Century.  Give me periwigged footmen, coaches and chateaux and I am putty in the director's hands. Yet for all that, I came away from Quills unsatisfied.This movie is proof that a great cast, great art direction, and great cinematography do not a great movie make.  The story is one we have heard many times before.  Sex is good! Church is bad! And it's not told especially well in Quills.  The acting is cliched, Geoffrey Rush as misunderstood, yet brilliant genius de Sade, Michael Caine as hypocritical authoritarian Dr. Royer-Collard.  Save your money and skip this one. "},{"Title":"Witless travesty","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you want to know anything about the Marquis de Sade, avoid this inane, profoundly unhistorical travesty. Dumbed-down, sensationalised-up, amazingly ignorant of the period, gross and childishly prurient in its depiction of sex, violence and excretion - and yet avoiding (indeed, denying) what was almost certainly the fully sexual relationship between the characters played (hammily) by Rush (where did he get that accent?) and Winslett! There are far too many biographical, factual and continuity errors to bother listing them - Quills itself is a pathetic goof. Let's hope someone like Patrice Leconte decides to rectify this - and in Ridicule he has already made a start. "},{"Title":"Geoffrey Rush brilliant","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush) is locked up in the Charenton Insane Asylum run by Abbé du Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix). Laundress Madeline LeClerc (Kate Winslet) falls for the lascivious Marquis de Sade and helps him smuggle out his writings. Emperor Napoléon Bonaparte wants him stopped and sends Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine) with his tortuous treatments. Royer-Collard marries the young Simone (Amelia Warner) who lived in a convent.Geoffrey Rush is absolutely brilliant as the Marquis de Sade. The acting in this is first rate. I wish Rush get more screen time as the lead character. He's nominated for the Oscar as lead actor but he's more as one of the cast. Royer-Collard's hypocrisy is interesting but the movie spends a little too much time on him. I would rather the movie stay with Geoffrey Rush from start to finish and more Kate Winslet. "},{"Title":"Horrible and creepy ...","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I found this film to have been really horrible because of the way it gave us a feel of an instituted asylum. It just show you how those poor people were put into a box and isolated. The most shocking scene in this film was when the patients were putting on a show for the high class people and it was just awful to look at! Also leaving a seriously mentally ill man to kill a laundrette, how dare the nurses or any health care professional weren't looking after their patients! That made me mad!I had to skip some scenes because some of them weren't appealing and upsetting.The only scene I loved but nearly cried was when the priest and the laundrette made love in the church. Although sadly,it didn't last too long as it was only a dream. I really felt sorry for him especially that he was put into the Nuthouse for trying to commit suicide because of his grief over Madeleine. I just wish it didn't have to happen for him but it did. "},{"Title":"good film weird ending","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film was pretty good I thought, but the ending had something a little off about it which is why I only rated it an 8. The film is a little big graphic in places, its one of them films you need to concentrate a little to watch if your interrupted then you loose track of what's going on. But I guess that's because of the subject the film deals with. Geoffrey Rush is superb in this film, he has a remarkable gift of playing strange characters. Perfectly suited to this film. Michael Cane is just an amazing actor and once again delivers in this film. Kate Winslet is one of my favourite actresses, she can take any role and make it her own, she also delivers with this part. But without a shadow of doubt the stand out performance from this film is Joaquin Phoenix. Damn good film watch it now! "},{"Title":"Well-intentioned","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Certainly not the period piece one would think of when talking about, well, period pieces. It's very amazingly built. it has such a dark, ominous atmosphere that really sets it apart, that same atmosphere really building to what the film is trying to say and to the film's climax. The performances from the entire cast are exquisite. Kate Winslet shines in one of her lesser known roles, and it's so great to see Joaquin Phoenix, who even threatens and succeeds to steal the film away from his co-stars. What an immensely talented actor. Then, we have Geoffrey Rush who brings a lot of different shades and dynamics to his character in a way I'm not sure any just other could've done. "},{"Title":"Perversity in Paris","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Writer and director Philip Kaufman is an American with a continental European art-house sensibilities when it comes to films. Yet he also has a populist touch which tends to make his films accessible to the many. He is after all along with George Lucas the co-creator of the character Indiana Jones and co-wrote the story Raiders of the Lost Ark.Quills is a bawdy and satirical romp. It is an adaptation of a stage play and features a fictionalised story of the Marquis De Sade. It is certainly not a bio-pic.The Marquis (Geoffrey Rush) here is a morally dubious and depraved character living in relative luxury at an insane asylum. The asylum is run by a liberal priest Abbe du Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix). The Marquis attacks his faith and celibacy by trying to put ideas in his head.When Napoleon tires of the Marquis sexual tomes he puts Dr Royer- Collard (Michael Caine) to deal with the Marquis. The doctor is a man who uses torture to cure his mental patients. It is clear he will use extreme methods on the Marquis. The doctor is a hypocrite of the highest order. He marries a young convent girl who he imprisons in a large house and has rough sex with her without any tenderness.Madeline (Kate Winslet) is a laundry girl who helps smuggles out the writing of the Marquis. She is being pursued by one of the asylum patients and also desired by du Coulmier. Yet although she enjoys the salacious tales of the Marquis she has not acted on them.Simone (Amelia Warner) the young wife of Dr Royer-Collard is the one person who acts on the tales of the Marquis by seducing and running off with the architect much to the fury of the doctor.Of course the film wants to make a point about free speech and censorship. It wants to give the middle finger to the conservative shock jocks in the USA who want to censor left, right and centre and then espouse free speech when it is convenient for them.However the Marquis de Sade as the standard bearer for freedom of speech, seriously? The real de Sade was a sadist. The word is named after him!The film rather loses its way in the latter part of the film where the screenplay becomes rather blunt. Madeline wants a final story relayed to her by the Marquis which drives some of the inmates mad, including the one who has in the past assaulted her and is the person who relays it to her.It is du Coulmier who takes extreme action against the Marquis when you know given the humiliations heaped on him by the Marquis and that his young wife betrayed him, it should had been the bad doctor.The film is well acted. However Rush who we only glance at briefly here and there at the opening part of the film maybe plays him too nice and sympathetic.I kept thinking how this film would have turned out if it got into the hands off a director such as Peter Greenaway, wayward he may be but it would had been a full on riot. "},{"Title":"This movie is one of a kind","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I started to watch this movie without ever having heard of Marquis de Sade, so the opening scene of the movie caught my attention quite shockingly. The subtle way Kaufman maintained the balance between all the important characters without forcing any judgment on the audience is simply brilliant. The film ventures into a very sensitive topic the sexuality of human beings and its limits, but still manages to stay away from being a movie about sex or a graphic display of Marquis' ideas. Instead the movie is focused on the personalities and what a society on the verge of enlightenment goes through. How a few out-runners break taboos and the freedom-thirsty crowd follows. It is also about different layers there are to people. For example Abbe the priest who is much more liberal in his conduct with the Marquis, Madeleine and all the other patients although he is a priest and very much chastised to the extent that !SPOILER ALERT! the conflict he struggles with in his brain derives him to insanity. I need to mention that Joaquin Phoenix's portrayal of Abbe was exceptional. I believe this was his best performance and also the best performance in the movie which is filled with great actors who portray layered and complicated characters. In contrast to Abbe is doctor Royer-Collard who is openly averted by the Marquis but yet practices some dominant and sadistic behavior with his wife and patients. He is supposed to be a scientist but he is only using this title as an excuse to commit atrocities. Madeleine is an interesting character in her turn since she remains somewhat unexplained. She seems to be attracted to the Marquis stories but does not indulge in his sexual fantasies with him, instead she goes to Abbe who is the exact opposite of Sade to seek passion. Also her role in the whole movie is very daring and she seems to be in a great danger both because she loves Abbe and because she likes Marquis. I enjoyed the movie a lot and recommend it to not young adults but to more mature audience. "},{"Title":"Captive imagination","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm both wary and attracted to films of this sort, period films. On one hand, there is usually good writing, good acting, some luxurious camera-work. And like good sci-fi, they tend to remind us that our present struggles are a continuation, inherited limits.All of which are true here. The film is about the notorious De Sade imprisoned in a madhouse and the purpose of art at large, limits and struggles just what kind of human being are we? animal or divine? should our expressions reflect or liberate? The actors give their all, Caine and Rush chafing against the limits imposed on their characters from the outside, Winslet and Phoenix forming internal struggles.But the thing is, it's not truly daring, truly provocative. It's not a matter of more sex or more perversion in keeping with Sade, not at all.It's that we have expert theatre but not some reflective human space, what Pasolini could bring in his own period films, not his Sade adaptation but the vitality of his Decameron, the profound and inexplicable joy that hides behind our demons of self and has the power to shatter and ambiguously transform them, showing them to be grotesquely harmless masks forced on us by society.The one great scene here is the one that opens the film, where Sade from his window witnesses an aristocratic lady about to be decapitated before a gleeful mob; transforming desire and caress into a universe of urges, creating an emotional air that is as much of its spying author as of its participants. These few minutes are so perfectly imagined everything else comes across as a slight disappointment. "},{"Title":"Not quite as engrossing as expected... Still good though...","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A pretty well made film with some excellent performances, particularly from Geoffrey Rush and Kate Winslet. It did, however, seem incomplete; there were a couple of threads that didn't seem to tie up. I was interested in the story of the doctor's wife and also the wife of the Marquis. Both of these characters came and went without any reference to them again; I found that a little odd. I have never read any of the works of the Marquis de Sade, but having seen this I'm tempted to take a look and see if it's really as depraved as they say. As for the film, definitely worth a look although I did find it a tad drawn out and a tad too long.SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDEDMy score 7.1/10You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "}{"Title":"90 minutes of obscene hilarity and 25 minutes of Hollywood derailment","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie is by no means historically accurate, but if you're willing to look past that and focus on the undergoing theme, philosophy and above all entertainment value then you'll have a laugh you won't soon forget. Without spoiling anything, the movie deals with our primate sexuality, and mixes it with the unique unleashed id of various personas and how it stands in contrast to social norms and society. It feels so liberating when it is done in such a witty and funny provocative way. To quote Rush from the movie, it's about eternal truths. Sure, if you're a chaste, celibate or asexual you won't find much deeper value in this movie, though the circumstantial humour really does add some sort of icing on the cake.Now for the bad part. The movie ends unnecessarily gruesomely and over-dramatized and knowingly altering a real-life death of a person in such a way is a much different thing than making a lot of stuff up about the rest of the person's life. If we are to be libertines, who cares if it's rude, though. But I'm afraid it does still spoil the whole premise and legacy of the movie, leaving only behind the very enjoyable experience prior to this. "},{"Title":"Great movie but I can understand the people who didn't like it.","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie a few weeks ago and I finally decided to write my review.What a great movie it makes you have mixed feelings in almost every scene and like others said it gets darker and more dramatic as the films advances.All the performances were fantastic and the chemistry between Kate and Geoffrey its great. Their relationship in this film reminded me too much the relationship between Haniball Lecter and Clarice starling in the silence of the lambs So why do I understand the people who didn't like it. It's obvious this film and Geoffrey Rush with his fantastic performance make the Marquise look like a a very charming sexy(in a different way) smart and heroic character when the truth is the real marquise wasn't exactly that way.(especially not heroic or sexy)!In short is the right word is Guilt What It makes us feel so guilty for liking a bad guy like him? The answer is easy Marquise truly existed meanwhile when we like Antiheroes like Haniball or let's say John Milton( Al Pacino in The devils advocate) we don't care because we liking a fictional character, but in this case it's real person portrayed in a fictional and Romanticized way. "},{"Title":"In order to know virtue, we must acquaint ourselves with vice","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I mainly give this movie a high rating because not only does it tackle a topic dear to my heart and mind, but also it does so very artfully and dexterously. Having the historically notorious character of the Marquis de Sade as the central figure of the story was more than enough to draw my attention. I doubt that the events in the movie are historically 100% accurate but I liked how Doug Wright subdued a quite few facts about de Sade and the era in order create a provoking drama about the power of the word. The movie examines some long accepted paradigms, gets deep into them and turns their components upside down. Religion is no longer the epitome of virtue and innocence and uncensored creativity is not necessarily mischievous. Good and evil, virtue and vice are not easily defined or distinguished; they interplay and exchange places all the time, and to understand one, we must understand the other.This switching of rules and blurring of boundaries will leave you with some serious questions about the nature of art and its effect on the human mind; is it liberating or sin-provoking? Does it build identities or corrupt souls? Should it be censored or not? And, in the first place, what exactly should be called 'art'? Whatever side you're on, the movie will upset your former convictions and stir countless questions in your head.The story is beautifully and grippingly developed. However, the exquisite performance of Rush, Winslet, Caine and Phoenix is what gave shape and soul to the film. Geofrrey Rush's depiction of the Marquis de Sade is hauntingly unforgettable. Kate Winslet dealt with her role as the innocent, yet playful, chambermaid Madeline with professional ease and confidence. The whole cast seemed to be in great harmony actually.The movie is not about obscene and erotic literature per se. It just gives an extreme example, that could pretty much be applied to anything, of how far the artistic expression could go, and also what suppression of creativity could lead us to. "},{"Title":"Yes, it has religion","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Luckily for the Marquis, at first anyway, is that there is something of an understanding priest in the Abbe du Coulmier, another wonderful performance from Joaquin Phoenix. An intensely religious man, Coulmier believes that the Marquis should be allowed to write, if only to purge himself of the sadism with which his head is filled and which would later be named after him.Kate Winslet plays Madeleine, a laundry maid who smuggles the Marquis' writing out of the asylum so that it can be published, for which many people are not happy, but many others are. The Marquis dips into the extensive world of the forbidden sexual taboos of the 18th and 19th centuries, writing extensively about them without a care in the world for propriety. One may wonder to what extent the Marquis' writings were such a hit because they were forbidden, or because of their lewd content, which may euphemistically be described as guilty pleasures for the masses. Indeed, Larry Flynt was not working, so graphic pornography was something of a rarity.There is a curious relationship between the Marquis and a physician named Royer-Collard, played by Michael Caine, who is assigned to law down the law with the Marquis and prevent him from writing anymore. The glee with which the Marquis mocks and taunts him are some of the best parts of this outstanding film. There is a great parallel between the two characters, as well. Royer-Collard pretends to be a moral role model, at the same time taking a wife who is young enough to be his daughter, possibly even his granddaughter, and treats the Marquis with exactly the same sadistic (if I can again use the term for the behavior for which the Marquis would later be named) behavior that he condemns that Marquis for writing about. Both men engage in many of the same practices, it's just that the Marquis makes no attempt and has no interest in hiding his interests in the pleasures of the flesh. "},{"Title":"For De Sade fans only","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is a valiant effort to tell a story about a profoundly contemptible human being. It features a fine performance from Geoffrey Rush and boatloads of provocative, controversial moments, but the movie founders on its failed efforts to makes excuses for the horrible nature of its main character.Set in an asylum during Napoleonic France, Quills tells the last bit of the life story of the Marquis De Sade (Geoffrey Rush), the legendarily perverse and deviant writer. He's been locked up in the asylum to try and contain his monstrous imagination, yet he continues to smuggle out new works of blasphemy and pornography with the help of a chamber maid named Madeleine (Kate Winslet). The head of the asylum, a priest named Coulmier (Joanquin Phoenix), is blissfully unaware of De Sade's continued writing until Napoleon himself sends the harsh and unbending Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine) to put a stop to De Sade's activities. Royer-Collard presses hard on Coulmier to muzzle De Sade, which results in an increasingly desperate battle of wills between the holy man and the infamous smut-wallower.There are a lot of good things about Quills. It has a lot of sharply written dialog and compelling scenes performed by a talented cast. Geoffrey Rush is quite bold and charismatic as De Sade, but that is the character that the script crashes into and never quite gets around. The Marquis De Sade was, by pretty much any standard, a vile and contemptible human being. He's really not the equivalent of a modern-day pornographer because, not only did his writing dwell on grotesque violence as much as sexual depravity, but De Sade himself engaged in acts that would be considered awful crimes both in his day and ours.De Sade was something like a cultural terrorist and that's not much of an overstatement. If you're going to portray De Sade as some sort of anti-hero or a tragic figure, you need to provide some greater justification for his abominable behavior. His degeneracy needs to be in pursuit of a higher value like truth or freedom. As Quills presents him, De Sade is pretty much a degenerate for the sake of degeneracy. That makes it hard to feel any empathy for him and his situation, no matter how difficult and extreme that situation becomes. The story does suggest his obsession with perversion was a reaction to what De Sade saw during the Terror of the French Revolution. That's an excuse, though, not a justification.Seemingly to compensate for its inability to grapple with its main character, Quills offers up not one but two subplots. One is about the forbidden attraction between priest Coulmier and Madeleine, which does fold back into the struggle between Coulmier and De Sade. The other is about Royer-Collard and his young bride Simone (Amelia Wainer), which is fairly superfluous to the story. It could be completely removed from the film and nothing of importance would be lost. Neither subplot stands on its own and it feels like they were woven into the script because writer Doug Wright didn't know what else he could do with his main character.There's a moderate amount of profanity, nudity and other things of a prurient nature in this film, though not to the excessive amounts that would do justice to the Marquis De Sade. This movie is also, in almost all respects, a well-executed bit of filmmaking. If you go into it thinking already believing there's something worthwhile about De Sade and his lifestyle, you'll probably enjoy Quills. If you're mostly ignorant or have a negative view of the Marquis, you won't find anything here that will enlighten or change your mind. "},{"Title":"Good, not Great!","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Inspired by the life and work of the Marquis de Sade, Quills re-imagines the last years of the Marquis' incarceration in the insane asylum at Charenton. 'Quills' is an efficient film, but at the same time, not great stuff.To begin with, 'Quills' has some terrific moments and performances, and even takes you back in time, but the problem clearly lies in it's writing, which loses pace in the final 40-minutes. The violence goes over-board, the characters are put up selfishly and the nudity touches a new high.Philip Kaufman's direction is excellent. He truly understands the subject, but the final 40-minutes play a spoilsport. Rogier Stoffers's Cinematography is satisfactory. Peter Boyle's editing is razor-sharp at times, and loose at times.In the acting department, Geoffrey Rush as Marquis de Sade, is marvelous. Proving once again that he is amongst the best actors of Modern-Era. Joaquin Phoenix plays a commanding role, with restrain. Kate Winslet is very good, as expected. Surprisingly, Sir Michael Caine is over-the-top this time around, which disappoints you after a point.On the whole, this ain't no path-breaking cinema, but surely, a good effort. Nearly, a Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Quills","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It is an immoral story, a semi-fictional biography film about the notorious pornography writer Marquis De Sade in Napoleonic era, which is doomed to be controversial. As for me, I have never read his works and I don't feel any impulsion to read them after watching the film. Strangely, when I took out the DVD out of my mac, I generally felt nothing, my head was empty. I must say that the film doesn't impress me much even it is full of erotic remarks and scenes, tortures, even death. One side it proves my resistance towards explicit porn and violence has been exalted to a new level (maybe I am a little bit exaggerated, anyway it is not a creepy horror film); on the other hand it states that the film is in lack of an universal empathy, especially towards non-Catholics like me (as if there is no God, sex is not quite a speechless sin at all). In my mind's eye, the story is erotic in an unsexy way, even with Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix in their primes (as for Geoffrey, his portrayal of Sade is brave and pathetic at the same time, but I will not call it sexy).So if I just take out the erotic coat wore by the film, what remains is a banal story of fighting against the national superstructure, attached with the struggle with one's belief, which suddenly makes the film not so glamorous as before. Then I realize that it is not the film's fault, I think still millions of people will be interested in the film itself. On the premise that I don't give too much credit to sex, the film obviously is not my cup of tea. Also too many unnecessary close-ups make the film look more like an acting-competition play than a decent film. However the settings and costumes of the film is exquisite and precise, plus a strong performances from a memorable cast (Geoffrey got an Oscar nomination as a leading actor, both art-direction and costume were also got nominated as well, surprisingly to see a young and fangless Stephen Moyer), which merits some accomplishment. Finally I must express my sympathy to Michael Caine, who offered a heartless and villainous performance, but was shamefully overlooked during the award season in 2000. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth a watch, if not more.","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie was positively fantastic! I loved it, almost adored it for it truly showed the truth as to how people of the eighteenth century felt about sex. Quills also depicts moral issues of society and the lack of freedom of speech (or to write in this case). The Marquis de Sade is the only person in this movie who pushes the boundaries of society with his racy novels, which center around vague characters who enter into sexual interludes. The Marquis' pornographic literature revolts and discourages some of the city people in the film, yet his novels also inspire sexual curiosity. Napoleon Bonaparte is presented with the Marquis' explicit literature and of course he immediately bans the novels and orders all copies to be burnt. While I was watching the film I saw that Napoleon ordering all of Marquis' texts to be obliterated made me think of ignorance and fear. Of course, this movie still kept me intrigued, and watching all the way to the end of the film. Watching the Marquis push the boundaries of societies sexual ignorance with undoubted eloquence was truly entertaining. This movie did have its flaws with actors at times, though the acting flaws were too menial to really destroy this film. I would definitely recommend this film to anyone who has an open mind and an appreciation for film. "},{"Title":"The Feathers That Write","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Philip Kaufman's 'Quills' is an intriguing and disturbing piece set in the 1700s. It tells the story of eccentric writer Marquis de Sade who was institutionalized for publishing erotic novels. The story is told in an unusual way cleverly blending humour, sensuality, drama and tragedy. The wonderfully quirky characters, the poetic narration, lyrical dialogues and smooth cinematography are put together quite well. The costumes and sets look authentic and give a good impression of the time. The cast is brilliant. Geoffrey Rush is fantastic as de Sade. He delivers a very nuanced performance while Michael Caine does an equally convincing job as the hateful doctor. Joaquin Phoenix doesn't appear to be comfortable speaking with an English accent but otherwise he's decent. Kate Winslet plays Maddy to the T. I haven't said much regarding the story because I think it's best for the viewer to discover. It is quite an unusual period piece and an intense yet entertaining experience. "},{"Title":"A Fine Film","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Marquis de Sade was a compulsive French writer of lurid, sexual material, who lived in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. He was an aristocrat who espoused a philosophy of extreme freedom, unencumbered by morality, religion, or law. Because of his sexual proclivities and his writings, the Marquis was ordered by Napoleon to be imprisoned in the Charenton Asylum for the Insane, where he continued to write. His erotic writings were smuggled out of the Asylum to ordinary French citizens who received his writings with great enthusiasm.Quills describes that period in the Marquis's life while he was confined to Charenton. The film explores the conflict that existed between human passions, as exemplified by the Marquis (Geoffrey Rush), and the more spiritual aspirations, exemplified by the Abbe of Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix), the Administrator of Charenton. In one scene the Abbe denounces the Marquis as  ... nothing but a malcontent who knows how to spell.The film's story appears to be mostly factual, and was derived from a play by Doug Wright. Some of the dialogue is a bit intellectual; it delves into the perceived conflict between sexuality and religion. The story is laced with subtle humor.Production design and period piece costumes are quite credible. Overall acting is impressive. In major roles, Rush, Phoenix, and Kate Winslet all give fine performances. Thick accents make the dialogue a bit hard to understand, especially on those occasions when the characters whisper their lines. With musty, dark interiors, the sets have a monastery look and feel.Quills is a fine film. I would describe it as a character study of a famous historical figure, and an overview of the moralistic conflict that existed between the Marquis and the society wherein he lived. The film does have a theme, as expressed in voice-over near the end, from the POV of the Marquis But in order to know virtue, we must acquaint ourselves with vice; only then can we know the full measure of man. "}{"Title":"Psych 101","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a well written script that works on a couple of levels. As an allegory of repression,a tight symbolic construction. Others have excoriated the writing for its historical inaccuracy, but this is not about de Sade as historical figure, but de Sade as mythological icon, as the archetype of the uncensored artist, as representative of the unconscious. As the film progresses, de Sade becomes less of a person, both literally and metaphorically, and more of an idea, until finally, at the end, he reaches his apotheosis as a thought-pattern or archetype in the Abbe's wearied brain.Abbe de Coulmier, played by Joaquin Phoenix, is a progressive man of God, who sees the value in providing his mentally ill patients means of expressing themselves, emotionally and artistically. This film is essentially about his struggle with his own carnal nature. The more the Marquise is repressed, the more he is stripped of his instruments of expression, the more perverse and damaging he becomes. And finally, the Abbe becomes a victim of his own repression, committing necrophilia while his fantasies of wanting Madeleine to be alive are confused with the reality of her death.Interesting. "},{"Title":"Quote - Sex without Pain is like Food without Taste.....","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In his Last Will and Testament De Sade wrote that he was imperious, choleric, irascible, extreme, with dissolute imagination and fanatical atheism; killed or accepted he would never change. This raises interesting questions such asWhy make films about the Marquis de Sade? Who (except professional social scientists ) would be interested? Should works similar to De Sade's be published? How far did his writings reflect his genetic make up?How far did they reflect his experiences? -and then more personally How much do I really know about De Sade and do I want to spend time learning more? Am I recoiling from worthwhile but unpleasant material, or ashamed to admit a prurient interest in it? If we met, would I admire him, detest him or pity him?As a child I learned of his connection with the word 'Sadism'; and since then short magazine articles or references to his life and writings have provided glimpses of a fascinating story, placing isolated patches on a vast empty canvas. But even to talk intelligently about what gave him his incredible drive one must read a biography of his life, or a number of his works - reading both would be better. The latter appeals more - he is recognised as a superb word-smith - but understanding the experiences behind his writings requires a biography. Reading takes precious time and Quills is a film biography, so I bought it. It is a well made and challenging film which received many awards - I strongly recommend it to other IMDb users who are interested. The story is strong meat, powerfully acted by a superb cast. Geoffrey Rush plays the Marquis as someone who is under a ferocious drive to express his philosophy in writings whatever the cost; Joacquim Phoenix provides the perfect character foil as the (relatively) kindly Abbe de Coulmier who befriends De Sade; Kate Winslet, although too old, plays Madeline LeClerc, the laundry girl who helped De Sade smuggle his writings out of the prison to the printer for continued distribution despite the increasing fury of Bonaparte's government - historically I believe Madeline was a thirteen year old, but Kate nonetheless plays this part admirably; and Michael Caine has the role of the Government appointed doctor who was, if possible, more sadistic than De Sade himself. These four great performances help create what is ultimately a memorable film, and supporting performances are all more than adequate.The early part of De Sade's life was relatively normal. He was born into the French aristocracy in 1740 during the reign of Louis XV, and served in the army during the Seven Year war. He married a woman chosen by his father in 1763 and they had three children. Reports of dissolute behaviour and abuse of prostitutes started to surface soon after this when De Sade was in the mid-twenties. In 1772 he was convicted and sentenced to death for administering Spanish Fly aphrodisiac to prostitutes and subsequently sodomising them, he escaped but was arrested and imprisoned through the intervention of his mother-in-law. Escaping again, he fled to Italy where he wrote his first book. Tricked into returning to Paris he was re-arrested and imprisoned in Vincennes where he succeeded in getting his death sentence revoked. In 1784 he was transferred to the Bastille, and then moved to Charenton Asylum for the insane 10 days before the Bastille was stormed at the start of the French revolution. Released by the revolutionary government in 1790 he threw himself into writing and political activities, but this did not save him during the Reign of Terror - he was imprisoned tried, condemned and nearly executed. After release he was almost destitute, had to sell the family castle, and spent his time writing very controversial works including 'Justine' and Juliette which were published anonymously. His authorship was traced after Napoleon ordered the arrest of Justine's author and he was imprisoned again in the harsh fortress of Bicetre. His family succeeded in having him declared insane and he was transferred to Charenton in 1803, remaining there until his death in 1814 after a total of 29 years imprisonment. De Sade lived an eventful and dangerous life, which should provide scope for creating a film that helps in understanding how his character developed, but Quills is not this film as only the final period when he was imprisoned in Charenton is featured. By then his behaviour pattern had become well established, so it can gives little help,.Assessing his works is not easy as many were destroyed, (including surviving manuscripts destroyed by his son after his death). Best known are probably 'The 120 days of Sodom', written whilst he was in the Bastille, and the dual novels 'Justine' and 'Juliette' which feature two sisters, Justine is a 'good' girl and everything bad happens to her, whilst Juliette is a 'bad' girl who does not mind what she does to avoid troubles and has a very comfortable life. Both De Sade's works and his life have fascinated film-makers from many countries, and watching their films should make it easy to learn more about him, but many are very hard to find. 'Dark Prince' (1996) and 'De Sade' (1969) are fairly full but somewhat bowdlerised biographies, not highly rated by IMDb users, whilst 'Justine de Sade' (1972) and Pasolini's 'Salo or the 120 days of Sodom' (1975) appear to be the most powerful films based on his works. There are many others - but it is easier to watch Quills than hunt for them. As with The People v Larry Flint, this film provides a trumpet call for freedom of expression, but could equally well defend censorship- its only role is to stimulate thought. "},{"Title":"Ambiguous guilt","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Violent, cruel and subtle story. Ambiguous victims and strange price of a bizarre art. And a wonderful casting. In same moments, a new Salo. In another, Caduta degli dei. Marquis de Sade is not a character, unchaste or nauseating, but Dostoievsky's Great Inquisitor itself. A god who believes in his spell, a sophisticated spider of a lost world. Abbe de Coulmier must be his alter-ego, good victim in a continuous fight with normal world. Madeleine- perfect instrument and subject of fatherly attention. Royer- Collard- the outsider who must be punished. Only sin of great prisoner is image about this complicated game. He is a chimeric master of a world build on the illusions. He is part of a hypocrite space in which only escape may be the madness. The real madness, the guiltless murder beyond the reason. Only sin of marquise- presence of feelings. Another king Lear and another exile. "},{"Title":"The bleak, claustrophobic universe of the Marquis de Sade","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Geoffrey Rush predictably played the part perfectly. Sade here is locked up in the institution. In the bleak, claustrophobic universe of the Marquis de Sade, there is no God, no morality, no human affection, and no hope. Power is given to the strong and the strong are murderers, torturers and tyrants, no compassion is given. Yet Sade was a man of savage intelligence who carried the philosophy of the French enlightenment to its logical extreme and for many he is the great libertarian. The Victorians considered him 'Divine'; the Surrealists recognized him as the founding father, and he is a key figure in the history of modernism and post-modernism. With Freud and Marx, Sade has been one of the crucial shaping influences on the twentieth century, and reactions to him continue to be extreme. But he has always been talked about on the lines of sex, sex, sex, scandalous sex. His writings as portrayed in the film have always made women turn hornier and hornier from page to page. "},{"Title":"a film that works as much as a piece of sly, wicked debauchery as a comment on freedom of expression and repression","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills recalls to me- thanks to a friend's discussion on the matter after having seen both films- of another film about a writer on the brink of being sane or insane, in a world where creative output is encouraged only so far as seen prudent and thus censorship, punishment, and redemption is squashed especially when women are involved. But unlike in the Libertine, where the director, screenwriter and cast couldn't really keep a hold on both the material and the style, and the actual content became muddled under the unnecessary drab of decadence, Quills is a lot sharper on the ball. Directed by pro Phillip Kaufman from what must have been a very good play by Doug Wright, the film is actually entertaining from scene to scene, and it's in turns funny and gripping, tragic and demoralizing, and all the while with that edge that comes in films about controversial artists. And what better subject to have then as part of looking at societal morays than with the man who's own name created the word Sadism? That it is also headed by a top-notch cast that fills the roles to a T helps pull it off.Indeed the best thing that Kaufman does with his style is to actually not get in the way of the actors and the script, which is what the Libertine director forgot to do. There's so much that Geoffrey Rush brings to the role of the Marquis De Sade- one who is still raising eyebrows of readers to this day- while on the surface it seems to be only a little. It's a very forceful performance of a passionate character, one who almost has a need health-wise to output his 'trash', novels and stories about sexual decadence and certain malicious pleasures. But Rush's own strengths and bravado would be only just enough for maybe a little while without some backup. It comes greatly in the form of Michael Caine as the Doctor, who is ordered by Napoleon to come to the aid of a Priest (Joaquin Phoenix, one of his better performances), who is running the asylum De Sade is currently banished to. Caine here perfectly embodies a person who, compared to De Sade, is much more evil and threatening with just his presence as he takes a very young bride, which sends the main shock-wave that catapults the bulk of the picture. It's this dynamic- with Phoenix's Priest (and Winslet's chambermaid) caught in the middle- that really gives the film its main dramatic juice.In general, Quills is likely one of those films from years ago that I should have seen at the time it was released, though it got such limited distribution as to not be seen in its original run. And it's one of those films I now regret having not seen sooner. It might not be a full-blown masterpiece (Kaufman doesn't have the overall awesome power and epic scope that drove his film The Unbearable Lightness of Being), but it's still an important work for the actors involved, and it presents some memorable scenes to go with its subject matter. I loved how De Sade went to the extent of writing all over his clothes with his blood, and most especially the sequence where he relays a special story through the walls of the asylum to the others to be transcribed very roughly, as suspense, humor, and danger all coincide in equal measure. It even has a tinge of Clockwork Orange in the contrast between the choice of man, even if its crude and despicable, and the cold, unwavering control that drives lesser men, like Phoenix's character, to delirium. Those who are repulsed by the film may be responding more to what is on the surface with De Sade's lurid works, as opposed to seeing further into the real depths of the story at hand. A- "},{"Title":"Not based in any type of  reality but.....","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Visually this movie is absolute stunning and the acting in it is top notch. Costume dramas, when done well, are really good pieces of escapism. My only problem is, as with most of Hollywoods productions, it is not true to history. Though it does make for an interesting story the Marquis actually died in his home with a very young wife many years later. It is the same problem I had with the Demi Moore vehicle The Scarlet Letter. Why does Hollywood insist on this since it does not necessarily enhance the story? As for this film, the temptation of all is well performed and eloquently established and this is a solid film for everyone involved. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable carnality","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A great. dark lewd comedy about sex and art and how the two can be indistinguishable. Geoffrey Rush is the Marquis De Sade, imprisoned behind the walls of the asylum of Charenton but still managing to smuggle his books out to be published and his performance is a wonderful, full-blooded piece of carnality. His nemesis is the vile Dr. Royer-Collard played by Michael Caine with equal measures of viciousness and pomposity. They are, of course, the same face of the same coin but it is the Marquis who is the film's hero and while never shying away from the horrors inherent in the Marquis' writing, Kauffman gives him his due. In this case it really is the devil who gets the best tunes. Good work, too, from Joaquin Phoenix as the Abbe caught in the moral crossfire. A brave and original work. "},{"Title":"The character of Sade could be better written... still it is wickedly funny and deliciously sad.","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The most interesting last days of French aristocrat and cult writer Marquis de Sade at a mental asylum are portrayed here with honest passion, thanks to the director Philip Kaufman and the ever-brilliant Geoffrey Rush. From what I've read, Sade's life, points of view, nature of sexual fantasies were far more complex than what's written for this film. The film perhaps fails to show many aspects of his character. Still, as it is not possible to shed light on all of them in the timespan of a movie, I am satisfied.Marquis de Sade was the most familiar and famous author of sex novels with crude descriptions of violent and erotic sexual activities. His trademark torture-filled sexual fantasies ultimately gained popularity in the name of Sadism. The film describes his last years when his books were officially banned and he's put in a mental asylum; but he's still smuggling his manuscripts out to an underground publisher with the help of a laundress of the asylum. How his philosophy and character influenced the other inmates, staffs, the Abbe and the doctor is the basis of the film. And it also shows how he had to give up his life.What truly carry the film are brilliant performances by the all the lead actors. Geoffrey Rush in his Oscar-nominated role is just awesome. Before seeing this film, I've considered 'Stealing Beauty' as his best work. But here I was mistaken. Rush's Sade is as insane, wicked and also dignified as he could be. The other actor who shines equally in this film is Joaquin Pheonix as the Abbe. The gradual development of his character is nicely carried out by Joaquin. The continuous conflict of his urges and his limitations is brilliantly portrayed. Kate Winslet, with her most adorable British accent, gives another fine performance as the laundress and also the trusted Michael Caine as the doctor. And finally I should mention little-known Amelia Warner, whose etheral beauty and wickedly provocative portrayal of the doctor's young wife Simone are quite among the film's assets.The lovers of old-fashioned drama would definitely enjoy this, as would fans of interesting characters in film. But I recommend the film for everybody, as though it is somehow flawed in story, it has elements for everyone to enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Deliciously Naughty Impure Tale","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A gorgeously shot, involving character study of the Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush, who else?), although highly fictionalized, shows the conflict between free speech, art and the moral and religious values that still plague society today. The infamous writer, while imprisoned in the Charenton asylum in the early 1800s, smuggles his sexually free manuscripts with the help of a lovely, nubile laundry maiden, Madeline (Kate Winslet), out of the madhouse to publishers, so that all of France may indulge in its contents.The Abbe (Joaquin Phoenix) who considers the Marquis a friend, and who love Madeline with a passion, is torn, as he is a man of the cloth, bound by vows of chastity.Things change for the worse when a conservative, middle-aged doctor, Royal-Collard (Michael Caine) is sent by the emperor to silence and repress de Sade. But the doctor proves to be a hypocritical tyrant, who resents the Marquis for freely expressing what he cannot achieve himself. Royal-Collard takes an orphaned, sixteen-year-old innocent girl named Simone (Amelia Warner, exquisite star of A&E's Lorna Doone)from a convent as his bride and makes her a sexual prisoner in a secluded château. The story takes a turn again as the Marquis refuses to be silenced, the Abbe and Madeline are unable to control their passion, and Simone rebels against her husband, purchasing the works of de Sade and discovering true pleasure and love with a handsome young architect (Stephen Moyer). She then escapes the château with her lover, leaving a taunting note for her husband, causing him to unleash his fury on the Marquis and inside the walls of Charenton, leading to tragic and chaotic results.The casting of Jane Menelaus (real-life spouse of Rush) as de Sade's wife was pure genius; you feel that she still genuinely loves this man, despite his actions have had on her reputation.The tragedy that befalls Madeline is one of the most tear-inducing moments in the film, and the grief of the Abbe and the Marquis painfully echoes within in the walls of the desolate madhouse.An entertaining flick, with the conflicting perspectives regarding free speech. "},{"Title":"Writing at all costs.... WARNING small spoilers","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is a movie much beyond, or perhaps, behind it's time. In the twenty first century, rarely do you find movies that can truly disturb you with the madness portrayed and have that movie be a hit with the general public; this, Quills is not; from my understanding ( forgive me if I am incorrect), this film was not entirely popular. But my-oh-my to those that don't write, or do not understand the writer, it is a smack in the skull with bricks that if a writer is thought to be mad, they have not seen anything until they have seen the movie Quills.With side subjects, the basis of the story is writing at all costs or go mad and attempting to relieve that madness through anything you possibly can. As a writer myself, I understand the plight of Rush's character, but would not perhaps, go so far as he does within this film. He writes first with wine and bone of poultry upon his bedsheets when denied a quill; this is not something I would put past myself, however, when even his bedsheets upon which he wrote are taken, he writes in his own blood upon his clothes; when stripped of his very clothes, he writes with his own filth. While I cannot say that I would go quite that far, it is understandable that Rush's character would react in such a way.Geoffery Rush is phenomenal in this role, and while all his roles are absolutely amazingly performed, this one took the rose. His performance is the stuff that is not classic, but creates classics. Rarely, I think, shall I ever find another role in which he is cast where he could portray a more perfectly cased persona.As Rush's rival, is Michale Cain, who's job and seemingly personal agenda, is to stop Rush from writing his essentially poronographic literature . Rush takes up this challenges, and I am hard put to decided whether he goes to such extents to write to cure his own madness if only temporarily, or if he proceeds to such dramatics to infuriate Cain.Michael Cain, as always, is absolutely terrific and deserves a 10 for this role. While I did not like him playing the evil person of the film, I appreciate his acting very much. His character, I suppose is no different, really, then Rushs's and I am fond of the protrayle of the fact that all of us have that evil within; it is whether we choose to hide such sins in our hearts or not. Cain's performance is absolutely beautiful. Two thumbs up, as with most of his roles.Kate Winselt's character is the heart of two men Rush's character, and the priest. Although Rush's love for the young woman is somewhat more subtle and confused with friendship, by mid-movie it is quite obvious. The priest's is focused upon as his fight for purity when he so plainly loves Winslet. Winslets character meets an end I despised, but it brought about everyone's life full circle, even if those circles did not end happily. HSe is, perhaps the only character of the movie that is kind-hearted for Rush's character, and finds his writing that of genius material, which it is, of coarse.Winslet, as always, amazes with charm and grace and strong portrayal of a tough character with a strong heart and will for life. Two thumbs up a movie-cookie for her performance. Beauitufl and soul tugging.All in all, this movie is a rarity that one would be hard-strained to find an equal to in heart, emotion, or disturbance. There is little more that I can think of to say for this movie but that it deserves every praise that a critic can give and more. "}{"Title":"Let's allow for some pleasure...","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" As someone who doesn't know too much about the Marquis De Sade, I guess that I'll have to rely on Quills. Played by Geoffrey Rush, De Sade comes across as sort of a misunderstood man with a perverted mind. Of course, if he was a pervert, then one might interpret him as the bane of society. Certainly here he's the bane of the people running the mental institution. Even if he's just a pervert, then he's not the only one watch what the Abbe du Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix) does to Madeleine LeClerc (Kate Winslet) in one scene.Overall, I don't know how accurate this movie is, but you're sure to like it nonetheless. Don't blame Geoffrey Rush if you feel a little sadistic after watching it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" What would you do if you couldn't do what you like most? What would you do if someone kept you from doing the thing you think is essential for your life? Marquis de Sade was locked in a cell because of the things he wrote, but he just couldn't stop writing. The man in charge for the prison does everything he can to stop De Sade, but the writer seems to be unbreakable. Geoffrey Rush (De Sade) is again really well in his role. This very talented actor scares us playing this very determined man in such perfect manner (yeah, I said perfect). I won't say if the Marquis was right or not (it's what each one of you should do while watching Quills) but there's no doubt he really wanted (or should I say needed) to keep on writing and spreading his ideas. "},{"Title":"where there's a quill there's a way...","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" this is an excellent piece of work, mainly because of the acting and philip kaufmans fluid and lucid direction, but especially the writing. it is rare these days to see a film that is articulate and witty and which resonates on so many levels. the themes of hypocrisy, the duality of good and evil, and censorship and art are all explored in a way which enhances rather than hampers the plot development.any historical inaccuracies are, to my mind, irrelevant. the moral conundrums the marquis de sade presents us with here are to serve an artistic rather than a factual purpose, and if this dubious character has been represented in a way which allows us to think and reflect at the expense of historical accuracy then so be it. this is a movie that is both thought provoking and fun at the same time. "},{"Title":"I don't know whether I loved or hated this film","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was caught in the middle of this. I just didn't know what to say. But Quills is a wonderful film. It was brilliantly made, and the acting was great. I will not doubt that this film was made very well.SPOILERSGeffory Rush's character is a mad author in an insane asylum. He writes very naughty stories. But a certain nurse maid, Kate Winslet, is intrigued with them. The stories get out. Of course they are burned at once for it's content. But things get more out of hand when Geffory writes a story about the doctor of the asylum and his young wife. Geffory is stripped of everything he can write with. But he refuses to stop there.I don't want to give away all. You'll just have to see for yourself.8/10  "},{"Title":"Come for Rush, Stay for Rest...","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Surprisingly engaging. I figured this would be interesting, but Rush's performance is dazzling, Pheonix and Winslet are also good, there's debauchery, and philosophical argument for it. Caine is nasty, not that that impresses...The film could have been more vivid though. After all this guy beget Sadism/SadoMasochism, and an element of cruelty in passion and sex that so many consider. The final scene of telephone is some sort of theatrical conceit that doesn't work though. I haven't read the play, but wouldn't be surprised if it was in there. Couldn't he have just written the pages and passed them through the cracks? Mincing hairs....Recommended though.  "},{"Title":"Not historically accurate, but a damn good film!","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The film does exactly what the first few lines of the film say, it's going to tell you a naughty tale. The infamous french writer, the Marquis de Sade, Abbe du Coulmier and Dr Royer-Collard are taken out of history and put straight into a tale that could have perhaps come from the Marquis' own pen.The Marquis is writing his prose and publishing with the help of a chamber maid,  from his prison cell in the mental asylum Charenton, Napoleon wants de Sade's writing stopped and so the cruel doctor, Dr Royer-Collard is dispatched to stop this. What ensures is a tale more about censorship and corruption than anything else.Kudos goes to the writer Douglas Wright, not only is his script solid and makes good watching, but where else can you find a writer with the courage to create his own works of de Sade?Geoffrey Rush is clearly enjoying himself, as are the other central characters Joaquin Phoenix, Kate Winslet and Michael Caine. I doubt there are many films out with such talented actors proving why they are talented.A superb film, whilst not historically accurate, but after all... it's a naughty little tale. Excellently written, beautifully directed and amazingly acted. "},{"Title":"Classic Terrific Film","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Like all the great classic films, Quills is a film that never leaves you. The roles of the fabulous actors (Geoffrey Rush, Joaquin Phoenix, Kate Winslet, Michael Caine, etc.) were written by the amazing Doug Wright who just won both the Pulitzer Prize and the Tony award for his new play I Am My Own Wife. The genius director, Philip Kaufman, who directed The Unbearale Lightness of Being and The Right Stuff serves up another masterpiece here. This film is so moving and funny that it bears seeing again and again. Geoffrey Rush as the Marquis gives one of the great performances of all-time. He gives his edgiest and most brilliant performance to date. Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix are two of the most amazing young actors in the world. The brilliant Michael Caine gives his most evil performance to date. In all, a wonderful, movie.  "},{"Title":"Dark, Savage, Erotic and Humorous","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is such a good film!  Very loosely based on the life and writings of the notorious 18th Century French author the Marquis De Sade (played here by Geoffrey Rush), the film deals with hypocrisy, censorship and the therapeutic value of writing.The film opens with Sade locked up in the Charenton asylum, ruled by the kindly Abbe du Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix) who encourages Sade's writing becuause of it's therapeutic value.  However, Sade is secretly smuggling his erotic and violent stories to a publisher with the help of laundry maid Madeline (Kate Winslet).  Sade's writings are a massive success but so scandalise Napolean that he sends in the cruel Doctor Royer-Coullard (Michael Caine) to shut Sade up.Whatever you do, do not take this film as an accurate biography of Sade, in fact it is littered with inaccuracies.  However, the film is sexy, disturbing, entertaining, dark and laced with a savage humour.  The acting by all concerned is superb, with Geoffrey Rush especially memorable as the Marquis.  It also offers some interesting thoughts on the age-old censorship debate.I would recommend this film to anyone.  It's not factually accurate, but it is interesting ad a lot of fun.    "},{"Title":"Devilishly good Rush to the system!","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" QUILLS (2000) *** Geoffrey Rush, Kate Winslet, Michael Caine, Joaquin Phoenix, Billie Whitelaw, Patrick Malahide, Amelia Warenr, Jane Menelaus, Stephen Moyer, Tony Pritchard, Michael Jenn, Danny Babington, George Yiasoumi, Stephen Marcus, Elizabeth Berrington. Iconoclastic filmmaker Philip Kaufman returns from a near decade fade with a delicious adaptation of Doug Wright's play (he did the screenplay as well) about the notorious Frenchman the Marquis de Sade (played with lip-smacking debauchery by Rush) who was imprisoned for 37 years in the Charenton Asylum sentenced by Naploleon himself to disparage the infamous author of nasty, under-the-skin sexual exploitive fare that only added fuel to his creative fires including the chesty, bodice-ripping chambermaid (Winslet in her best role since 'Titanic') he desires while being tamed by the institution's keeper Abbe Coulmier (Phoenix sublimely excellent) who is under the thumb of its resident doctor (Caine equally hissable) who is the Sade's main adversary and purveyor of perversion. Sharp and witty dialogue with a unique historical background as the underlining of hypocrisy that still permeates in today's world and society as a whole. Satircially on target but by the film's gruesome turns and tragic end the film feels bloated on too much of a good thing (namely Rush's terrific turn). "},{"Title":"No work is great until we know the meaning of great!","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is really a brilliant movie. Apart from the history connection, e.g whether is it really showing what happened in history or not, I recommend you see it for the art's sake. The conflict between Marques De Sade and the Abbe is worth seeing with a beautiful blend of Kate's seduction.The writings of Marques are banned to publish so as to keep the people of the country off theirs sexual content. Kate helps Marques work reaching the printer and the people. Abbe puts lot of restrictions on Marques the drama really begins from here. For a writer it is impossible to stop thinking, for the administrators it is very difficult to hamper people following his thoughts. My words really don't explain what beauty the movie is. It is really worth watching till. I give 8/10. Excellent! "}{"Title":"Life is stranger than fiction","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Slightly disturbing, slightly morbid and purely outrageous, de Sade was the world's first Sadist (hence the word). This is an interesting look at the life of one of the world's most controversial writers. Believe it or not, this movie is nothing compared to the reality of this man's tortured genius. Beautifully acted by both Winslet and Rush, this morbid tale is outrageous, ugly and at times funny.The film follows de Sade's time in a French institution where he wrote two of his most famous books, Justine and Pauline. Winslet plays the maid who sneaks out de Sade's book to his publisher for print.Don't watch this if you have a weak stomach, it does have it's moments of disgust but if you can handle a little discomfort, this is a great watch.8/10 "},{"Title":"a poetic tragedy, steeped in eroticism","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS MAY APPEAR!I thoroughly enjoyed Quills from start to finish.  It was a brilliant screenplay and should have gotten an Academy Award nomination.  First off, the setting was a quirky and fun place as well as a dreary and destitude place towards the ending.  Each character was played to perfection and the story unfolded with anticipation and delight.  The Marquis de Sade was one of the best characters I have seen in a movie in a very long time, and what's more interesting is that he was actually alive.  Someone that vibrant and controversial is what has stemmed our current society towards it's free speech and uninhibtedness, what little of it we have.  I thank him for that.  I thought the writers of the film continued that honored tradition by displaying him in his full range and Geoffrey Rush should have won an Oscar hands down, if for nothing else, being naked through the last 3/4 of the movie.  Kate Winslet was a tragic heroine, and her love story with the Abbey was right out of a Shakespeare play.  She was a free spirit who thrived on the work of the Marquis and it was fun to see her get excited over his material.  Joaquin Phoniex is a tremendous actor and can play any part in the world.  He showed his whole gammet of emotion and the course of his character is as tragic as Hamlet.  Michael Caine played a wonderfully wicked villain and really played him to the hilt.  Another amazing thing about this picture is that is was inspired from true events and it really makes you appreciate the world in which we live, as well as hate and despise the things that have transpired, but had they not would we be where we are today?  This could have easily been made into a self-glorified porno, and I'm sure it has in another market of films, but the director and writer really made the movie about people and subject matter that is still relevant today, and not just sex, but also religion and power, which seems to always corrupt.  I thought Quills was a great, great film. "},{"Title":"A great film from a great screenplay","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie, more than any others that have been done around the guise of the Marquis de Sade, is a triumph in the fact that it not only showcases the man himself (a fictional account of his last days in an asylum) but of other people that were around him. The story is based loosely on facts and is sure to be a worthy film on its subject. It takes Sade's philosophical, political, social and moral views and places them within a tale not just about himself but of how he and his writing effects the ones around him and even those far from him.It raises interesting and important issues concerning censorship and freedom of expression and questions the boundaries between art and real life. All the actors, even the extras do a superb job at playing their parts and even though it is a period film, it never feels too heavily like a period film, focusing instead on the characters and the narrative. The subject matter, though at points mildly provocative, is mostly laced with dark humor, while the rest of it gives way to powerful emotion.I would recommend this to anyone looking for a good film done within the last four years that goes just a step beyond the ordinary and challenges you to think. "},{"Title":"DVD commentary","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I gave the movie an 8 rating, however there's not enough positive that I can say about how much I enjoyed the author Doug Wright's commentary.  I always look forward to listening to the DVD commentaries in the hopes gaining further insights into the maker's goals and methods. Unfortunately for the most part commentaries are lame and not very informative even though at times they can be entertaining.  When you watch this well done movie I don't think you can help but wish for more information on the subject matter and as well as the making of the project.  In a clear, concise, and very entertaining obviously well thought out ahead of time dialog Mr. Wright fulfills all expectations.  As a movie fan as well as collector one of my greatest wishes is that all DVD had this much time and effort put into their commentaries. "},{"Title":"Fasten your seat belts!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Say it with me  Geoffrey Rush was robbed by Russell Crowe for the Best Actor 2000 Oscar!  Crowe deserved one the previous year for his fantastic Insider performance, but he was no match for Rush as the Marquis.  Trouble was Geoffrey already had an Oscar and poor Russell didn't, so that played a part.  Then there was the subject matter of this film, which may have turned off some stuffier Academy voters.  Caine was also superior in his supporting role.  The real discovery here, however, is playwright-turned-screenwriter Doug Wright, for his deep and razor-sharp script which sets up a dramatic conflict and fills it in with moments of irony and humor.  If this were a film on any other subject, or about a character imprisoned for writing about anything else other than erotic literature, this film would have received many more awards.  I have seen other Philip Kaufman films with erotic elements that slightly missed the mark for me, but this one hits a home run!  My advice would be to make sure you're prepared to sit and watch this all the way through because you won't want to take a bathroom break!  It's that engrossing, and it's a helluva ride. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  i liked the movie a lot. I agree that the portrait made of De Sade is not entirely alike to the real history of Marquis De Sade. I don't think in Sade as a Monster, just a person who wanted to shock and shake people that was around him and the way he did it was writing about sex. So if you see the movie as a nice, perfectly acted fanfic about the life of Sade, you might like it better.I love Joaquin phoenix in it. And I think Geoffrey rush was perfect in his role.  "},{"Title":"nice movie but disappointing for real Marquis De Sade appreciators","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  the movie is rather good with great quotes (in a movie based on Sade what else would you expect?), but for all that know more of Sade the movie is not by any means biographical. maybe in the beginning, but then the abbe starts becoming the main character, which i disliked. anyway i enjoyed the movie, but when i knew a movie about Sade was out I, personally, expected a lot more... "},{"Title":"Fantastic and highly impressive experience. Geoffrey Rush was sensational.","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film almost made me speechless. Almost but not quite. I still have the energy to say that Quills was a terrific motion picture and one of the most impressive and powerful movie experiences I've seen in a long time. It was a huge surprise because I hardly knew anything about it. My girlfriend told it was good and suggested we should rent it and I'm glad I approved her proposal. The movie was fantastic. The story was gripping and shocking, script was absolutely magnificent and the acting was divine. Geoffrey Rush cunningly takes the character of Marquis de Sade and turns it into something that's vulgar and repulsive yet oddly lovable at the same time. If we would be living in a rightful world, he should have been the one leaving home with Oscar. Kate Winslet proofed that her career didn't drown with Titanic. Joaquin Phoenix's part as Abbe du Coulmier is just as memorable as his classic performance in Gladiator that very same year and veteran actor legend Michael Caine is having his greatest role of the decade as Dr. Royer-Collard who in fact turns out to be the biggest villain of the film. If you haven't seen Quills, don't hesitate to rent it. It is if possible even better than Amadeus. "},{"Title":"A misguided mix of history and invention","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  In this fairly pointless film, Kaufman makes the mistake of using an actual historical character, but perverting a lot of the truth about his life, presumably for a dramatic effect.  A dramatic effect achieved this way is good in fiction - but not in a biographical work.  The events depicted in the film are so far from the truth that the character might as well have been called an invented name rather than De Sade.  And of course, the results are pretty pathetic anyway, whether you look at it as pure fiction or not.  Yes, `The Unbearable Lightness of Being' is an amazing film, but from seeing several other works by Kaufman I can only assume that this was a fluke.  Perhaps one could not go wrong with Kundera's book?  "},{"Title":"MOVIE EXCELLENCE","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is a fantastic ensemble piece. Kate Winslet gets better and better (she was great in David Gale). What a treat to see a beautifully directed and acted movie that wasn't dressed up in all the usual hooplah and hype. I knew nothing of the Marquis De Sade's writing before watching this movie and found myself captivated by the subject matter and its eloquent case for freedom of expression. SIX STARS. "}{"Title":"A truly excellent movie with a thoroughly daft ending.","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As someone who has read all of De Sade's major works as well as several analyses of both them and his life, I approached this move with trepidation. My fears were mostly unfounded, and it revealed itself as by far the best portrayal of the Marquis to date. The actual details of his life are sketchy and thus a generous helping of artistic license was called for, in this the film succeeds in being true to the spirit of De Sade, if not precisely to historical fact.Quills has one of best openings ever, describing it would spoil the surprise, enough to say that it uses a superbly executed piece of bait and switch to shock and exhilerate the viewer while placing De Sade's writing splendidly in context.The film is set during De Sade's period of incarceration in a lunatic asylum. Geoffry Rush's charismatic performance in the lead role is first rate, and a fine compromise between the generic horror movie Marquis (evil, suave & swashbuckling) and the real item (overweight, asthmatic, a writer rather than a doer). The supporting cast are all good, particularly Kate Winslet as Madellaine, the asylum's laundry girl who helps smuggle out his manuscripts.There are some truly inspired and hilarious moments, my favourite being where De Sade is allowed to direct a play acted by the other inmates, at the last minute he changes the script from The Happy Shoemaker to his own Eugenie De Franvil!Michael Caine as the asylum doctor is a nice study in Sadean philosophy, though the end result becomes a little silly in places.In the final 15 minutes the film deviates completely from history in an attempt to provide a finale and some sense of closure to the narrative, the ending is entertaining but also ridiculous, ironically enough the historical version holds more real horror than a few minutes of gore, it might better have finished with a visit to the asylum 20 years on to show that he was still there, naked in his cold dark cell, desperately scratching away at his masterpiece, 120 Days Of Sodom.Altogether this is a film whose strong points more than make up for it's rather criminal ending. "},{"Title":"its a must see","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I knew nothing of this movie until a friend of mine picked it out at the movie renting place.  Together we watched it and the end result for me was that I liked it and it reminded me a lot of philosophy (the way in which the language is constructed in philosophy).   "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Well, when I look at user ratings, I am always surprised about the low ratings for good movies, and high ratings for louzy movies, but yeap, I know, we don't all have the same taste....The same I noticed after watching Quills at home last night on VCD. From the first minute till the last minute I fell from one surprise into another. Here is a team of people at work, with love for filmmaking, from cameraman to soundman, from costume designers to actors.The last 5 years, there are hardly any movies in the cinema that temt me to watch them. Hundreds of remakes of old movies (no inspiration anymore???), sequels and sequels Hollywood has lost his touch completely. They have no idea that the public has had it with all the action movies without a good story, films that only try to lure us with special effects.The great movies of the last years -not surprisingly- come mainly from outside the USA. (See the number of oscars actually going to England, Australia, New Zealand and even Japan...).Once in a while, there is a movie that profiles itself high above the others, and Quills does that. It's a lust for the eyes and the ears, and you never get tired of watching the same movie over and over again.The question if it is all close to historical reality is not even relevant. It certainly comes close and the imagination of the filmmakers does give you a good idea about the Sade's inspiration, his reasons to write all this, and the time he lived in. It may be a cliche, but 'two thumbs up' for sure! "},{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this film I knew nothing about the Marquis de Sade, and that was probably a good thing. His portrayal in this film is decidedly played down from the man he was in real life-if the writers hadn't done this, most mainstream moviegoers would hate this film due to the horrible man the Marquis really was. Geoffery Rush's performance was perfect as the arrogant de Sade, as was Joaquin Phoenix's role as a young priest who must conceal his attraction to Madeline due to his vow of chasteness. Kate Winslet does not let down as the chambrmaid Madeline, and Michael Caine proves he can play a man who you will hate by the film's finish. I would recommend this movie to everyone who isn't easily offended by movies with strong sexual content. 3 1/2 stars out of 4. Or an A-. "},{"Title":"There is no middle way with Quills; you either love it, or hate it","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  When I saw Quills I didn't know much about the Divine Marquis. This movie is like opera if you like it from the start, then you'll always like it. If you don't, you'll learn to appreciate it, but it will never touch you. Thanks to Quills, I have become an expert in the domain  and am even writing my graduation paper on the Marquis de Sade. Sure, the movie is violent, but you cannot have Sade eithout violence; it comes with the package. "},{"Title":"Oscar snubbed","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Watch this masterpiece and you will see exactly how much Rush was snubbed by Russell Crowe for the Oscar. This film is one of the most complete, compelling, and overall intriguing films in my recent memory. Worth watching more than once. A definite four star film. "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as it could have been","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is an interesting film. It deals mainly with the violently and sexually persuaded writer the Marquis de Sade and his dealings inside a Napoleonic mental asylum. There are other stories going on inside the film but the majority of the action centres around the Marquis and the controversy raised by his works and actions.The film itself is extremely well done. It's chilling and yet funny and paints a creepy portrayal of a mind filled with anguish. In the central performance, Geoffrey Rush is amazing. This is without a doubt one of his best performances and he brings real empathy to a role for which he is perfectly cast. Joaquin Phoenix is at his usual staggering best as the naive abbé who befriends and takes care of the Marquis. Also an excellent performances is put in by Kate Winslet and Michael Caine is villainous as Dr. Royer-Collard.While director Philip Kaufman extracts excellent performances across the board, there are many aspects to this film which are not entirely up to scratch. The film is adapted by Doug Wright from his play of the same name and as such it has in some ways a wonderful theatrical feel to it but in other ways it seems like it is nothing more than a play plastered onto the screen. Not that there is fundamentally anything wrong with that but in this case it gives the whole mood an artificial feel to it.Similarly, the ending is artificial-seeming and is slightly too obvious in what it is attempting to do. There are several points at which the film could end, and yet doesn't. But unlike other films in which this occurs, I do not believe it justified, since the story diverts onto different tangents not ten minutes before the end, and where it might have left the audience with a chilled and wonderfully hollow feeling, it instead makes us feel unfulfilled, as if the wrong story has been told. Quills finishes with the central and pivotal character having been completely reduced and other, less interesting characters being given too much of the limelight.However, the performances, direction and script themselves are all remarkable and make it a film well above average. Quills is a definite example of when the whole is less than the sum of its parts. 4 and a 1/2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great movie if you don't know anything about Marquis de Sade I guess?","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  From reading the comments it seems most people who know the Marquis de Sade's work hate this movie.  Ok, I guess I probably would too if I knew his work or his real life.   I don't, I went to the theater without context, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  What I was interested in was not whether the movie represented historical truth; I enjoyed the drama most of all.  It was not entirely predictable--a rarity anymore with Hollywood.  Viewers who are not familiar with history would not have guessed what would happen to Madelin and Abbe toward the end.  There is no typical Kevin Costner Good Guy; there is no the typical Tom Hanks I'm-All-That; in fact there is no decided Good or Evil.  Instead you see values clash, souls struggle, passions unfulfilled.  That's drama enough. "},{"Title":"Offbeat telling of fictionalized Marquis de Sade tale...excellent performances...","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The grotesque sexual adventures of the Marquis de Sade are given a highly stylish film with some good performances making it all seem more than it really is. Especially noteworthy is Joaquin Phoenix as the youthfully handsome cleric who plays a pivotal role in the ironic ending. Here he gives a performance quietly authoritative in a part that he plays with sensitive understanding, using his eyes and a vast range of expressions to convey more than dialogue implies. He's undoubtedly one of the finest young actors of his generation.Geoffrey Rush has a showy role as the crazed Marquis and plays it accordingly--the sort of role that would have been played with even greater relish by a young Peter Ustinov or Charles Laughton. Rush falls short of delivering what should have been an even more colorful performance.The sets, costumes, camerawork, settings and music are all in the hands of talented people. Kate Winslet as an unfortunate waif who befriends the Marquis and Michael Caine as a cruel doctor in charge of the inmates do their usual competent jobs and the supporting players are uniformly reliable players.Not for the squeamish--scenes of torture or violence are graphic and chilling in effect. Based loosely on de Sade's actual case history, it lightens the mood occasionally with touches of humor but there is an underlying element of cruelty and madness that makes this difficult to watch at times. Be aware that this is not for minors.  "},{"Title":"Geoffrey Rush is terrific","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is a rare combination of a great cast and a one of a kind screenplay. The speaking parts writing for Geoffrey Rush (The Marquis de Sade) are also terrific. Geoffrey Rush complements those words with an amazing, powerful, and riveting performance. In my opinion, Quills was the third best film of 2000, right after Cast Away 1 and Gladiator 2.   The film dips into drama, comedy, and a little bit of romance. I also feel that Geoffrey Rush's performance is so great, that if Tom Hanks in Cast Away didn't win an Oscar for best actor, Geoffrey Rush should of, instead of Russell Crowe for Gladiator. That's how great of a performance he gives. Another great performance that Rush gives is in the film Shine. Which in fact he did win the Oscar for best actor in 1997. I give Quills * * * ½ out of 4 stars & a 8/10.  No, I write what I see, the endless procession to the guillotine. We're all lined up; waiting for the crunch of the blade... the rivers of blood are flowing beneath our feet Abbe... I've been to hell young man; you've only read about it.Conversation, like certain portions of the anatomy, always runs more smoothly when it's lubricated. Geoffrey Rush The Marquis de Sade 2000  "}{"Title":"Not quite up to the art movie hype, but beautiful to look at.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  First of all, this film is not a biopic of the Marquis de Sade, it merely uses the Marquis and his situation in Charenton to tell a story.What is this movie about? Is it about de Sade's sick fantasies? Is it about moral hypocrisy? Is it about censorship? Is it about the illimitable attraction of erotica? No, it is about *writing*. It is a writer's paean to writing itself.One comment about censorship arises from the film itself rather than its subject matter in the scene in which de Sade strips naked in front of the Abbé they are very careful to show that de Sade is naked without depicting his genitalia, even as the Abbé takes away the last rag. Then the Abbé leaves, and we finally see de Sade fully frontally naked. Was this some bizarre self-censorship on the part of the filmmakers, scared of a cut if they showed a fully naked man when another man was in the room? This film is about the Marquis de Sade, for heaven's sake!Cinematography normally getting kudos for cinematography is easy. Fill your screen with shadows, put an orange filter on, the critics will rave about the beautiful cinematography and your Oscar's in the bag. Not so here Rogier Stoffers creates a look with whites, greys and browns which makes even the people look as if they are made out of the faded marble stones of the sanatorium. Exquisite. "},{"Title":"A response to moral outrage","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  One of the other reviewers complains that this film, that is dedicated to the causes of free speech and independence of thought, uses a person like the Marquis de Sade as its hero. M. le Marquis, like Alistair Crowley, to whom he is compared delighted in shocking an offending the morals of society. However, like Crowley, the Marquis's sins were more of the imagination than of commission. As such the Marquis provides a perfect symbol for a fight against hypocritical moralistic censorship of both Napoleon's France and the modern west. "},{"Title":"Phoenix and Rush were ROBBED!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  That's right!  Joaquin Phoenix and Geoffrey Rush were definitely robbed of their Oscars for their performance in Quills.Historically accurate, this movie really shows the inner workings of the demons during the French Revolution and the eternally twisted mind of the Marquis de Sade.  Phoenix's portrayal of the Abbe is simply excellent.  While his nomination for Gladiator that year was well earned, i think that his performance in Quills would have been a more competitive candidate for the best supporting actor category.  While Rush was nominated for the best actor category, he definitely did not get the recognition that he should have gotten even if it was just a nomination.  Russell Crowe's Oscar was hard earned but i think that his performance compared to Rush's was enhanced only by the hype.  Rush's portrayal of the Marquis was uncannily awesome.  By no means do i think that Crowe was not deserving of his award but i feel that Rush was more deserving of it. "},{"Title":"Don't judge the book from its cover","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  	I had only a smidgen of knowledge about The Marquis de Sade but out of curiosity and liking most of the stuff Director Kaufman had been involved with I watched it and came away with the opinion that this must be a totally fictionalized version of de Sade's final days. I really did not enjoy the movie being myself so ill-informed about the man. I had an idea de Sade was a horrible person who had  inflicted unspeakable tortures and murdered many people. I was wrong. 	I decided to read a summary of his life and even though he had written about terrible things he came off to me as an abuser of prostitutes and an excellent writer. The final days his life in the asylum are depicted somewhat accurately. I do wonder why the screenwriter took such liberty with the end of de Sade's life. It was pointless and inaccurate. After informing myself a little about de Sade I decided the movie was pretty good and I may watch it again.  "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As a fan of the Marquis de Sade I found this film completely enjoyable. It's not a biopic of the Marquis' life...rather it's a fictional account of Sade's life in an asylum. I found the acting great, espically Geoffery Rush as Sade. He was great! His performence was thrilling, exciting and at times, humorous and moving. I recommend it to anyone who's interested in Sade, not because it's about his life or necessarily his works, but rather it has his spirit.  "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As a fan of the Marquis de Sade I found this film completely enjoyable. It's not a biopic of the Marquis' life...rather it's a fictional account of Sade's life in an asylum. I found the acting great, espically Geoffery Rush as Sade. He was great! His performence was thrilling, exciting and at times, humorous and moving. I recommend it to anyone who's interested in Sade, not because it's about his life or necessarily his works, but rather it has his spirit.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre fable about morality and censorship","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A film about the Marquis de Sade, one of history's most notorious pornographers, played in the right way ought to be sensual, funny and erotic.  Sadly this story fails to be any of these things, despite being packed with a wealth of very talented performers.In the Napoleanic era, the Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush) is incarcerated in a French asylum.  Unlike most of the other prisoners, who live in virtual squalor, the Marquis is accorded a life of luxury and his cell is decorated with fancy furniture and trappings to make him feel very much at home.Imprisoned over his lewd and supposedly depraved sexual writings, the Marquis continues to pen such works under the supervision of the asylum's idealistic keeper (Joaquin Phoenix).  However, when word gets out that he has been secretly publishing his writings, a tyrannical doctor(Micheal Caine) is summoned to the asylum to deal with him.....The film is mainly hindered by a conventional and uninteresting narrative drive that fails to take advantage of the scripts alternately horrific and thought-provoking ideas (censorship, moralistic hypocrisy even necrophilia in one scene).Geoffrey Rush is a good actor and has given some brilliant performances in films such as Shine and Shakespeare in Love.  Here though, in spite of some daring and demanding scenes, he fails to deliver.  His character is so over the top and comical for most of the film, it is impossible for the audience to get his point about life and censorship.Joaquin Phoenix fares marginally better as the asylum's keeper, as his gentle and benevolent religious ideals are gradually destroyed by the Marquis' defiance of him.  Those same ideals further prevent him from consummating his love for chambermaid Madeleine (Kate Winslet) and her demise inevitably drives him mad.  Good as he is, Phoenix seems to be typecast as nervy, neurotic characters with a whiff of insanity about them, and occasionally his performance here resembles a good version of his Commodus character from Gladiator.This is a problem that affects both Kate Winslet and Micheal Caine, having played their types of character (innocent, misguided virgin and ruthless, tyrannical hard man) for too long and it shows.The scene setting for Napolean era France is tastefully done, and the set design and location shoots complement the film very well.It is just a pity that not more could have been done with a story of with this potential to make it truly come alive. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time and money","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw an Academy tape of this film.  What a waste of time!  I can't believe a studio couldn't find a better script to use their money on.This is a dirty, nasty, disgusting film about the Marquis de Sade writing pornography in an insane asylum and the housegirl sneaking it out to be published.  I can't believe the doctors didn't just shoot him and get it over with.Joaquin Phoenix is the best actor in the film, but I can't belive he, or any of the others, needed the money so badly they made this movie.This isn't an art film, it's a piece of crap - literally and figuratively. Move on to something else that has some class - see a Thin Man movie and get on with life.   "},{"Title":"A True Masterpiece!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It is very rare that I see a movie these days and thoroughly enjoy it. Quills is one of those rare occasions. First of all, the cast was remarkable.  Joaquin Phoenix, Kate Winslet, and Michael Caine all gave wonderful performances.  But perhaps the most wonderful, the most remarkable, was the performance of Geoffrey Rush.  Rush took the character of the Marquis de Sade and made him into a truly believably person.  Isn't that the whole point of acting?  I think some actors fail to live up to those standards.  The other actors were good, but they only complimented Rush's performance.The dialogue was clever and there were several memorable lines, mainly delivered by Rush.  I felt that I could identify with the Marquis on a level that is hard to accomplish in a film.  That is the real triumph of it. Perhaps to cause the viewers to empathize with the Marquis, the writers intentionally left out the details of the perverse and violent acts de Sade accomplished in his younger years.  Most people say that the movie is primarily about free speech and follows a more political agenda.  However, I feel that the film ultimately led up to a message about the inner turmoil that most people can identify with.  A love for things forbidden, rebelling against society, resisting conformity and the questioning of one's own identity were greatly emphasized in my opinion throughout the film. All and all, I would say that the movie is a huge success.  10/10!!! "},{"Title":"boring, distasteful","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"    Boring film. Assumes that poor taste qualifies as art (and apparently duped most critics).  As usual, it takes several minutes to get over Phoenix's scar and start noticing his decent--but never great--acting.  (Why won't the guy take advantage of the countless plastic surgeons in his neighborhood?)     If you want to waste your time, rent this film.   "}{"Title":"Quills","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kate Winslet is a gorgeous, talented actress that I couldn't take my eyes off.  Wish she would do more roles like this in the future.  As usual Joaquine Phoenix gives a performance that is so deep that you can see every emotion even without his dialogue. "},{"Title":"Quills","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kate Winslet is a gorgeous, talented actress that I couldn't take my eyes off.  Wish she would do more roles like this in the future.  As usual Joaquine Phoenix gives a performance that is so deep that you can see every emotion even without his dialogue. "},{"Title":"Great Acting All Around","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is a fictionalized account of the final months in the life of the Marquis de Sade. Set in Napoleonic France, De Sade, played by Geoffrey Rush, is a pampered inmate in the Charenton Insane Asylum. The asylum is run by an enlightened Abbe (Joachim Phoenix), who encourages the Marquis to write as a way of purging his demons. But not only is the Marquis writing, but also publishing, as the manuscripts are smuggled out by a chambermaid, (Kate Winslet). This brings down the wrath of the State embodied by Dr. Royer-Collard, (Michael Caine), who is sent to Charenton to set things right.The highpoint of Quills is the acting. Rush, Phoenix, Caine and Winslet are hitting on all cylinders. They all give masterful performances. My only complaint, and it is a very small one, is the use of a real-life monster, de Sade, as a vehicle to portray noble concepts such as the freedom of expression and resistance against the state tyranny. This is a very, very good movie and well worth a rental. But de Sade the man doesn't deserve it.  "},{"Title":"A fiery movie whose genious is easily overlooked.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills held my attention from the opening credits to the end.  I was thoroughly impressed by first and foremost, the quality of the actors. Phoenix is excellant in portraying the frailty of religion against passion, while Winslet gives the best of her chamber-maiden performances.  Caine is dry, but is more than balanced out by the genious of Geoffrey Rush. Rush's Marquis de Sade gives humanity and vulgarity to the appealing nature of a saddist.  I say that the movie has a spirit all it's own that is easily overlooked in it's controversial or perhaps awkward sensuality.  There are quite a few quotes from this movie that would do to be lived. "},{"Title":"Great cast in a pointless film","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills wasn't what I expected. Thinking I'd be seeing a film that looked at the views of censorship versus freedom, instead I received an increasingly ghoulish narrative where there was no redemption for anyone. You could argue that the conclusion presents such an opportunity... but I doubt that many would be bothered to do so.The cast in this film is stunning. Everyone hits their mark, in most cases avoiding the easy stereotypes that they could rely on. But they have almost nothing to work with. Scenes involving Geoffery Rush and Joaquin Phoenix show the potential of this movie to get at the issues of personal freedom versus the rights of others, but it never quite arrives anywhere. Some of the dialogue is very clever, but there are an equal number of moments where the writer (or director) seem to want to show how ironic the situation is and how clever they are.I can see Quills working very well as a stage play (for which it was originally written) but it falls short as a film. Quills deserves kudos for approaching the difficult subject of the Marqui de Sade from an original angle, but not for much else. "},{"Title":"Sacred Sadism","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I was a bit disgusted by the graphic shots. But I find the art and acting qualities amazing. This twisted tale is set in the insane asylum the Marquee de la Sade resides in in France. The story revolves around the people he interacts with. I give all the actors kudos, and for those of you who find crying men just irresistable, Joaquin Phoenix cries at one point. It makes me want to cuddle up with him and hold him and tell him everything is okay. I suggest this movie to anyone who has an appreciation for art and sex, as we all know the two go hand in hand. "},{"Title":"Intelligent thoughtful provocative","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Unlike too many films about the marquis de sade, this film deals more with de sade's philosophy and his ideologies than his sexual practices or crimes. It damns the critics of de sade who condemn him for monstrousness without understanding the context of his life. The film's central struggle between the authoritarian asylum keeper and the libertine de sade is a struggle that resonates throughout the centuries and is as relevant today as it was de sade's times literacy and publishing and who owns the written word. Its denouement is a challenging and powerful comment on freedom of speech. And yet this is not simply a dry academic study, it is also a well plotted and well scripted piece and the acting is superb. The sets, reminiscent of the best of the Alien films and City of The Lost Children, convey the claustrophobia of the 18th century asylum. This is not a titillating expose of de sade - this is excellent drama that educates and entertains at the same time. And i cannot recommend this film enough.  "},{"Title":"It's all in the face","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found this film funny, moving and horrible all at the same time. There were times when I couldn't watch but then there were other times when I was riveted. As good as everybody was in the film there was one actor that shone far above the others. Joaquin Phoenix. What other actors need scripts and minutes to do he can do in a second with simply his eyes. All you have to do is look at his face and his eyes will tell you exactly what the character is thinking. I have seen several of his films and his performance is always brilliant. Winslet and Rush are also on good form but this is Phoenix's film. It does drag and could do with being about 25 minutes shorter but if you're looking for something different from most films this is definately one to check out. "},{"Title":"Wonderful...","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had no idea what this movie was about going into it, but it left me spellbound from its introduction all the way to the end credits. It's a shame movies like this don't get more attention. Geoffrey Rush is at the top of his game and clearly loving every minute playing the film's main character a racy writer locked away in a home for the mentally incompetent. Joaquin Phoenix really stands out in a great supporting role. This is probably the best role I've seen him in yet. Kate Winslet is also great, as always. Michael Caine is absolutely terrific as a conservative doctor. He's extremely easy to hate and Caine has no trouble punching up the less delicous aspects of the character. Entertaining and tragic, this is a movie I won't soon forget.  "},{"Title":"There are no bad words, only bad deeds...","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is one of the greatest movies you'll ever see. The plot was excellent and the script superb as well as the clothing. But the best thing about this flick was its all star cast! Geoffery Rush portrade the Marquis de Sade wonderfully and Joaquin Pheonix was great as the young and nieve Abbe de Coulmier, Michael Caine makes a dramatic change from the Cider House Rules doctor to the ruthless, cold Dr. Royer-Collard, and as always Kate Winslet gives a stunning performance as the chambermaid Madelaine LeClerc.Billie Whitelaw co-stars as Madame LeClerc. I loved the hidden humor that was going on throughout this film. The ending is a surprise and I suggest you see this movie if you haven't already. If you like this then I recommend Sense and Sensibility, Howard's End, and IrisA Memoir of Iris Murdoch. "}{"Title":"A rare movie that can make you cringe & laugh","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of gore and there is some in this movie, although more a suggestion than an onslaught of fleshrending scenes. That's the part that made me cringe. Rush is so into this role that you have to laugh at what he will do (literally anything) to keep writing in spite of being stripped of all things to write with, and eventually even his clothes. I didn't know much about de Sade's life so I read up a bit afterward and there is fact behind all the onscreen action. Lots of good support, especially from Winslet. The ending was too cute which affected my judgement of Phoenix, but it wasn't his fault that the story ending that way. In the end a movie that I thought would be boring turned out pretty good. "},{"Title":"Too many ideas, not enough focus","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had high hopes for this film, but ultimately found it unsatisfying. Like many pictures coming out of Hollywood today, it was too long and bloated -- it needed to be much tighter and more focused. There were many intriguing ideas in the picture -- the value of pornography, de Sade's amoral nature, madness/genius, man's struggle against his base urges -- but the film never picked one theme to focus  on. As a result, I came away confused by what the film was trying to accomplish. In addition, the purported villain, Dr. Royer-Collard, never actually does anything particularly evil, and as the film winds on, he become more and more divorced from the plot. The climactic scene in which de  Sade's words become reality happens largely off-camera and is upstaged by the chaos unfolding in the rest of the asylum.Geoffrey Rush and Joaquin Phoenix turn in very good performances and I would have liked to see a more intense, tighter study of their relationship without the distraction of the many minor and irrelevant characters who pop up. "},{"Title":"Wonderful acting & a beautiful story","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I never saw a film of Philip Kuffman, but I knew that he could be very bombastic. I didn't knew what I had to expect but there were good actors in it, so it couldn't be that bad.  The story goes about Marquis De Sade (Rush) who is mad. He wrote a few erotic novels and Napoleon isn't happy with that so I commands that a doctor (Caine) goes to the hospital to go look at De Sade. There, he mets Madeleine, the maid (Winslet) and the Reverend (Phoenix).I think this film is wonderful, a lot of great scenes, but sometimes a little bit stupid (the scenes where De Sade is becoming crazy and they cut his tongue). But the end was fantastic and I liked the acting...M.Caine was wonderful as the doctor, he is one of the greatest actors of his generation.J.Phoenix, I was surprised that he played an abbé, but he did in a way that never could be better.K.Winslet, after Titanic she was slowing away, but with this film she is back. Sometimes it is unbelievable how she likes De Sade.G.Rush was the perfect man to play De Sade...a very good film with some negative points but I rated it8,5/10 or *** out of ****     "},{"Title":"Hard to find, one of a kind!","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  These days you see a lot of comedy, action and drama.  This movie doesn't really fit in a particular category.  Maybe Romance/Drama/Comedy.  I don't see many movies like this.  It was a good refresher from the norm.  The movie is based on something that you just don't hear about too often.  If you are looking for a movie to watch and you don't know what to get, this movie is a movie that will get you through those boring afternoons or nights. "},{"Title":"Quills is absolutely amazing!!!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I immediately wanted to see this movie once i saw the preview and i am thankful that I did. This movie is definitely not for the kids but the acting and writing make it simply breathtaking. Amazing. Everyone is so ridiculously talented at acting.. but most wonderful of all is Joaquin Phoenix. He has been my favorite actor since he was in Gladiator... when he steps on screen its as though everything melts away. He steals every scene he's in. He's amazing. I couldn't breathe half of the movie. if you don't see this movie at least once in your life then you haven't lived!!! "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  When we rented this movie rated 'R' we did realize it should have been rated 'X'.  This movie is absolutely disgusting and distasteful.  I do not understand how any of the well known actors in it were talked into being a part of this erotic, sickening film full of nudity, sadism, etc.  I DO NOT recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Exquisite......","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Fabulous screenplay, excellent acting, beautiful locations and sets. One of my favourite movies of all time. Inventive, ingenious dialogue. Perfect casting and direction to boot. How in the Hell did Geoffrey Rush NOT get the Oscar for his performance? "},{"Title":"10/10 #2 movie of 2000","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills, a film that isn't for all tastes, but for individuals like myself, there is something special to be had here.  I myself am unfamiliar with the subject matter behind the story, but whether or not there is any truth to this little tale is besides the point.There are three reasons why I think this film is perfect First off, you have a cast that's to die for.  Rush, giving the single best male performance of 2000.  Kate Winslet, who after being a little pudding in Titantic, has finally formed into a beautiful young woman.Second, the film has a great message.  People should be able to write anything they want, even if it is disgusting rotten stuff.  I admire the way the film portrayed this message.Third, you've got to love a movie that just drips in joy for being so perverse. "},{"Title":"Good All Over","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is good all over, in every respect.  I really liked this movie.  This movie has heart, it has substance, it has a plot, and good acccting, and good editing, what can I tell you, it is good overall.  I liked the production design, and the photography.  I loved the performances, especially by Michael Caine.  He can be sooo nasty.  The movies has a message too, which is always good in a movie if you ask me.  Quills...not critically acclaimed, but should have been. "},{"Title":"Incredibly smart!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  10 out of 10, without doubt!With sex and violence formally in every episode of this film, it's amazingly 'neutral' and innocent, and that proves the movie genius.The movie is *not* about perversions, Marquise de Sad as historical figure or freedom of speech. Kauffman's de Sad puts his life on line to prove that 'the beast' is not the fantasy of his mind, that his 'possession with the beast' is not an insanity, but a reality that is everywhere (film starts with public execution with all naturalistic detail) and in everyone. He works and win over Abbe, leading the latter to the abyss of deadly crimes that Marquise himself has never committed. His mere words foster the most violent wishes of the inhabitants of mental ward, turning peaceful retarded into killers.Another dimension Marquise is *just a writer*, he is a 'prophet of the beast', not the incarnation of the latter. The real 'incarnation of the beast' is a doctor whom Marquise meets with the excitement, as his time to prove that beast is here and alive nears.Kauffman's and Rush's Marquise is a martyr, he dies as a hero for the cause, his executors, doctor and Abbe, become the live proofs of his believes.The whole story is evidently timeless, and that is emphasized by expressively, overly theatrical effects and mode of playing. It's not about 'Napoleon's France', it's about us, humans, yesterday, today, about our world. The most amazing dimension of Quills is that the beast apparently celebrating a victory in the film and in the world, looses with us, the Quills audience.Kauffman and Rush were able to take all dirt of the earth and turn it into opportunity for our enlightenment. And that what makes Quills the real timeless art. "}{"Title":"Brilliant and terrible","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was really struggling to vote for this film. On the one hand it is brilliantly crafted with sparkling dialogue and classy acting. On the other hand the story itself is completely unlikeable... What to do? This is, at the end of the day, not a movie that I would recommend to others and it is that which has determined my vote. 6/10 "},{"Title":"You Will Love It! (to the open-minded person)","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  ***A lot of people will sneeze at this movie because they think it's inappropriate, inaccurate, promoting sadism... blah blah blah!INAPPROPRIATE - this is not a movie for the kids! INACCURATE - it's not accurate, but this movie was NOT intended to paint a portrait of the real Marquis de Sade or anyone else. PROMOTING SADISM - oooh puh-leez.***I would recommend this movie to anyone with an open mind. The real message is about freedom of speech/censorship, simple as that. There's also little hidden ones you might find, as the movie also revolves around people other than the Marquis.***I just wanted to give you all a piece of my mind and tell you that it's not terrible, it's meaningful, it's a good movie. GO SEE IT!!!!!  "},{"Title":"IN DEPTH LOOK AT EVIL","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie is about an aristocratic criminal incarcerated in an insane asylum by his wife which she perceives to be a step up from a prison where he had spent some time for various crimes.  The prisoner is obsessed with writing lurid books which he smuggles out of the asylum via a sweet, innocent maid who gains vicarious pleasure from reading the stories to self and others.The asylum is run by a kindly Abbe who treats the patients with love and respect, and does his best to help them.  However, when the books fall into the hands of the Emperor, an edict goes out that a doctor well known for `alternative treatments,' should be sent to oversee the running of the asylum, and put a stop to the printing of the books.Everything in the movie revolves around these lurid stories which bring out the worst in all, from fellow patients and staff to family members.  Even innocence/ignorance results in evil and leads to terrible atrocities being perpetrated in that sorry institution.I found it fascinating to watch the mind play between characters, and to discover the depths to which it is possible for a human being to fall.  "},{"Title":"DON'T BELIEVE THE VIDEO JACKET","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film was in focus, and it was in color.  The acting was fine, as were the costumes and sets.  My wife picked this one but couldn't stand it; I ended up finishing it without her. We were misled by the comments on the jacket of the video which said it was a funny movie.  We are not prudes, but needless to say, expecting a comedy, or even a few humorous moments, we were sorely disappointed.  If you rent this, expect to be sickened and entertained, but rent another movie to take home as an alternative. "},{"Title":"Superb film, superb cast, brilliantly acted","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills just blow my mind away, true it's quite depressing and dark in its tones, but the performances that we get are so great that we can't help being captivated by it. I think I watched it with my eyes glued to the screen, I really didn't want to miss anything at all, not even the smallest details. Geoffrey Rush is EXCELLENT as the eccentric, and probably slightly deranged Marquis de Sade, but what really got to me is Joaquin Phoenix. Joaquin Phoenix plays the young priest in charge of the asylum. At the beginning he's quite contented and naive, we can sense that here is a man at peace with himself and the world. But as the plot unfolds, the priest sees things and sometimes is forced to take parts in things that are actually repulsive to him. His character starts to take a darker tone, as it journeys down the tracks of disillusionment till it finally loses faith and reason altogether. His passion for Madeline is played lightly yet touchingly, one almost wished that there could be a happy ending for them. Kate Winslett is convincing as Madeline,the buxom chamber maid, highly devoted to the Marquis, but who is destined to meet a tragic end, indirectly caused by the Marquis himself. And Michael Caine, in a rather small supporting role as the cold, devious Dr. Colard is marvelous. The one element of this film that really stands out for me is the intense emotion created and conveyed throughout the film, reaching its peak at the climax continuing to the end. I must say this film just stayed in my heart and my mind for weeks after I watched it, that's how powerful it is. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, engaging","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  QUILLS-- 01/07/01As for QUILLS, I don't know what to say. I'm going to have to see it a second time to get a handle on what I think about it critically. But push that aside and I'll tell you that, emotionally, it's one of the most intense movies of 2000. (REQUIEM FOR A DREAM is probably the most intense.) Unfortunately, Rush's performance does not come close to anything that he's done before, but no matter (e.g., see him LES MISERBLES).QUILLS actually engaged me and made me feel more than a mere tingle here and there for this whole sorry year in film for 2000. The writing is good, but not excellent. The story is adequate, but nothing new. The acting is acceptable, but not exceptional. Yet, this movie is still somehow in the top ten of 2000 for me. Both its characters and sexual proclivities ACTIVELY ENGAGE YOU. That's the key, I think.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Fictional Study of a Very Interesting Historical Figure.","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush) is imprisoned in a mental hospital under luxurious circumstances that he can afford to buy. The hospital is under the direction of Abbé Coulmier (Joachin Phoenix), who lets him write in the hope that expressing his feelings will help him to purge them. The Abbé, devoid of intelligent company, is attracted to Sade by his intellect and has great trust in him. Nevertheless, Sade writes his pornographic novel, Justine, and smuggles it out via a Chambermaid, Madeleine, (Kate Winslet). Napoleon is horrified and sends Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine) to oversee the hospital, with the threat of closure as his source of power; the doctor is almost as sadistic as Sade. To the Abbé's chagrin, Sade finds devious ways of getting his work out to his publisher and this leads to devastating consequences. The acting is superb; the tone is dark and the ending is tragic, as was the life of the Marquis de Sade, from whose name the word sadist was created. "},{"Title":"The Quills of a charmy and perverted man","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Philip Kaufman after Henry & June and The Unbearable lightness of being has shot this interesting film with an over standard photography in a didactic XVIII century, all locations were represented with a maniacal style.The last days of life of Marquis de Sade in a mental hospital of Charentoune (France). A Marquis, superbly performed by Jeoffrey Rush, fully literate and completely out of mind but with some very intellectual and erotic implications. Kate Winslet has the beautiful role of the Hospital's laundress, Madeleine, a learner of the Marquis' stories. The society moralism is well represented by Michael Caine, the hospital's owner-inquisitor, the wife is his subconscious, the sin. The crude, but excellent scene, of the speech transcription of one of the latest Marquis' stories narrated cell by cell of the hospital-prison goes in a crescendo of drama and beauty. The dodecaphonic music plays an important role in the film. Last but not least, the outstanding performance of the abbot Joaquin Phoenix.Rating 7/10     "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a very fine film, for a number of reasons. It succeeds very well thank you as a costume drama with an involving story, great visuals, skillfully paced direction and several outstanding performances (too many to pick out).It also treats de Sade's work very fairly, although the more (frankly repulsive) passages are mercifully skipped. Pornography as a political/satirical tool isn't often considered outside of Channel 4, and this film does it interestingly and accessibly. It also carries across the sense that wickedness, sadism and perversion already exist, and de Sade simply chose to expose them. Love the ending, which is perfectly in keeping with the philosophy of Justine.Without having known the man personally, there isn't a single person who can tell if Geoffrey Rush's performance is mad enough, bad enough, cynical enough, perverse enough. It'll do, though. "},{"Title":"Revealing, dark, smart and involving - a masterpiece.","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  QUILLS (2000) Rating 10/10Quills is a dark, sadistic and brilliant film right from the very first opening shot, where Geoffrey Rush's voice narrates in the background and we open on a shot of a young lady who is known in town only as a down-right whore and she is decapitated. Then we find out this is just one of Marquis' stories, and we are already into the story of the film. Quills is a film that literally bursts out of the screen with its energy and intrigue, it is a film that feels like you are actually there, experiencing the traumas or happy moments. I felt like I was the Marquis De Sade dancing on the table or writing with my own blood, or like I was Madeline being strapped continuously and been totally engrossed by the Marquis' stories. Unlike some other period dramas, this film is never boring. It always has something going on and you'll find it hard to look away from the screen. I just loved everything about the movie &#150; especially the performances. Geoffrey Rush is a master at this kind of thing. He becomes the Marquis De Sade and I looked at the screen and truly thought it was actually the character. You can't see Geoffrey Rush's acting. He acts in the film naked a lot and puts all of his effort into the making his performance a success. A truly great actor, and a brilliant performance. Kate Winslet also gets naked once again, but we find out there is more to her than a pretty face and a big bust. Joaquin Phoenix is always he always is &#150; strong, real and totally awesome to watch. Phoenix invests his character extremely. He gives a truly memorable performance. Michael Caine was also very good as the villain type guy, but I don't think we saw enough of him. Philip Kaufman's direction is outstanding. He has come up with an excellent film and his effort is truly stupendous. There were some scenes I thought were truly astounding. The play `The Crimes of Love' is hilarious and shows off how much The Marquis De Sade mocks people with his absolute truth. The scenes near the end, including one stunning one when a statue cries blood, are all extremely well directed but I don't want to ruin the end for viewers who haven't seen this film. The script for this movie was dark, funny, literal, intelligent and endlessly intriguing. Kudos, Doug Wright. You wrote an awesome play and a better movie. This movie is controversial, brutal and has a lot of rape, violence, language and particularly revealing sex scenes, but it is all worth it. This movie gets a place in my top 50 favourites. Excellent work! "}{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Filip Kaufman took the story of a person (the Marquis de Sade) that gave his name to a sexual perversity (sadism, that is finding pleasure in causing pain)and turned it into an ode to freedom, democracy and the power of human nature.The Marquis (an astonishing, Oscar nominated Geoffrey Rush in his best performance since Shine)is presented as a man who simply desires to speak through his writing. He uses everything to achieve it. Pens and paper, first;then wine and sheets;then his blood on his clothes and body... The rest of the cast is great as well. Joaquin Phoenix, after his magnificent performance of Commodus in Gladiator, proves his talent again as the tolerant but emotionally depressed Abbe Coulmier. Kate Winslet, as Madeleine, (the servant of the asylum and the secret helper of the Marquis in his publications)gives the phrase innocent temptation its true meaning. Finally, Michael Cane, the true villain of the story, is simply terrific. No words can describe the work he's done on his character. Add the photography, the costumes (also Oscar-nominated), the music, and there you have a film that will become a classic. Just watch it. I give it a perfect 10 "},{"Title":"One of the largests wastes of celluloid and acting talent.","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills stars a lot of big names -- Geoffrey Rush, Kate Winslet, etc.. -- but it's a story of sexual perversion gone to extremes.  It begs the audience to believe -- and accept -- that necrophilia and sadism are legitimate, even normal, expressions of sexual feeling.Moreover, its message is muddied. On one hand it seems to say that free speech is valuable and should be allowed under any circumstances, on the other it shows that extreme pornography can have a disturbing effect on the already disturbed.  Which is the case?  Why make it unclear?Overall, I get the feeling the movie was made to portray obscenity as art, so as to confuse people as to which is which.  I'm perceptive enough to get it, but I don't buy it.  Don't waste your time with this one, there are plenty of other movies that attack the same topic with less drool. "},{"Title":"Not froth.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It is true that the characters in quills were quite stereotypical, but this is justified in a film about de Sade, because his books dealt in extremes, and as the Abbe pointed out, de Sades own characters lacked depth.In contrast, the film was very strong visually, and if you are looking for something deep and meaningful, it dealt with the different reactions to his writings quite well - the various audiences of Madelaine, who uses it as a fantasy to relieve a dull reality, the executioner, who blames it for his behaviour, the new asylum manager's wife, who reads it without ever meeting de Sade, the jealous maid, who says it is disgusting but stays to listen. The film shows vividly the grotesqueness of the imagination, and our reactions to it.As you may have guessed, I quite enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"An incredibly good film","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  First, I want to say that I think it's not a film rated R for his strong sexual language and scenes. I'm only 16, and I saw the film with my parents -who don't like me to see films with sexual content-, and they didn't say nothing about it.In my opinion, the plot is very interesting, although I know it isn't the real history of the last years of the Marquis of Sade. At the begginning was quite funny, but after it becomes sad, specially some moments.The actors were incredible. Geoffrey Rush, as the Marquis, was perfect, like in his other masterpiece, Shine. I think he deserved the Oscar, much better than Russell Crowe.Joaquin Phoenix was superb. I recently saw him in Return To Paradise, where he takes the role of a turmented man in a prison of Malaysia, and he was startling. Then I noticed that he is an incredible actor. I don't remember very well is acting in Gladiator, maybe because I didn't like so much this film. In Quills he is Abbé Coulmier, an innocent and idealist priest who, as the movie goes on, suffers a great change. I think Joaquin is one of the better actors nowadays. I'm waiting for The Yards -here in Spain, this movie hasn't been released-to see him again.Kate Winslet also is incredible in the role of Madeleine. She is demonstrating that she is much, much more than Titanic.Maybe Michael Caine is not the best actor to take the role of the doctor Royer-Collard. I can't imagine him being a bad person. However, he gives credibility to the paper.I don't know the other actors, but the young Amelia Warner -the doctor's wife- was absolutely delicious.One thing I didn't like so much was the end. It was quite good, but a little predictable.I just think the film is very fine, but it may need a lot of publicity, because it isn't very known. I will recommend it. "},{"Title":"Thoughts on Quills","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It seems that the first comment I get from people when I tell them that Quills is my second favorite movie (next to A Clockwork Orange)is, Isn't that the one about the Marquis de Sade? which is inevitably followed by Aren't you only 15? Well the answer may be yes on both counts but I beleave that my age shouldn't be an excuse for what movies I should or should not see. The movie was gross at times, yes, and I could have done without seeing Geoffrey Rush's genitalia but overall the movie was incredible and I'm glad I ignored its restricted rating.I have always loved Geoffry Rush especially when he was in Les Miserables and Shakespeare in Love but as the Marquis de Sade he seemed like he was the Marquis rather than playing him. The infamous writer is scene as an irrepressible, flamboyant character who's only form of survival is to write his pornographic stories, no matter the condition. As he says during the movie, Homo Perversio, doctor. A species that thrives in captivity. No matter how unhappy he was as soon as he found a way to write his mood changed, whether he was behind bars or not.The three other lead characters were also marvelous. Kate Winslet (I can't believe people say she's fat!) was wonderful, her character was so sweet and didn't deserve what she got in the end. As she pointed out, If i wasn't such a bad woman on the page, Abbe, I'll hazard I couldn't be such a good woman in life. Jauquin Pheonix again proves incredible range as the good hearted, idealistic Abbe de Coulmier. Not only does the young actor have beautiful eyes (and everything else) but his eyes are so expressive he rarely needs to say his lines for the audience to know what he's thinking. His character is, at times tragically naive. During a conversation with the Marquis over why it alright for him to visit but not Madeline he states, I am not a beautiful young prospect, ripe for corruption. The Marquis slyly replies, Don't be so sure. The only character I wasn't as pleased with was the evil doctor, played by Michael Caine. Though I love the actor he didn't seem right for the role, he just didn't seem like the best person to play someone so cruel. I've pictured Michael Caine playing a good guy, like in the Cider House Rules. My only other complaint is that the movie, which starts off very light hearted and funny becomes so tragic in the second half. I would have rather the two been combined better or at least not having all the good characters have a bad ending. But apart from that the movie is a must-see and gets 9 out of 10 stars with me. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, accessible, relevant","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills deals with the issues surrounding freedom of spirit and speech with great intelligence. The four main characters are convincingly portrayed, Rush and Phoenix in particular, with panache. The film perfectly balances a bawdy, camp sense of humour with some of the most serious issues imaginable. It can deal with 'taboo' subjects and yet could be enjoyed by a viewer of almost any age.Reviewers who suggest that the Marquis de Sade's true unpleasant nature was avoided are missing the point on multiple levels. The work is a fiction in the same vein as Shakespeare in Love. But de Sade - years ahead of his time - also had his personal behaviour and the subjects he wrote about confused by the public. We can't assume that we understand his early life, just because his sexuality wasn't understood at the time. Much less can we judge it by the standards that he was judged. Try taking some of our modern kinky or even gay sex practices back a couple of hundred years in a time machine, and you'd find yourself in exactly the sort of trouble that the divine Marquis did - accused of anything the authorities dreamt up. Especially if you were an aristocrat and the point in history you chose was the French Revolution!The exploration of creative freedom and its consequences are also satisfyingly dealt with- writers (or directors) tackling 'incendiary' subjects are often blamed for any copycat crimes that follow. In Quills, de Sade's 'perverted' writing is automatically blamed for the terrible murder that follows- even though the act was carried out by a madman who was clearly a menace before hearing de Sade's prose. This, like most of the moral points explored in Quills, sadly applies today just as it did then.De Sade's fantasies are also clearly shown as rooted in the violence and moral/sexual hypocrisy of the day, suggesting that his fantasy life was actually born of opposition to the dreadful tortures he witnessed (and, ironically, ultimately endured) in the name of law or religion. Perhaps his mind turned the real brutality around and created a internal fantasy world of abused power and abused sex from it- and an outlet for such fantasies in the form of his writing. The unenlightened public and those in power in his day, even today, see 'perverted' behaviour as more dangerous than the 'powers' it mocks.See this film if you value your freedom of speech! "},{"Title":"Taking a few libertines...","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  De Sade - philosopher or pornographer? Well, you decide because Doug Wright's adaptation of his own stage play isn't going to provide any answers.Wright and director Philip Kaufman (The Unbearable Likeness of Being/ The Right Stuff) have taken some enormous liberties (or should that be libertines de Sade fans?) with the life of the far Right's favourite philosopher.Set in post-Revolutionary France in the final years of Sade's life, we find him imprisoned by the State (with the tacit co-operation of his own family) in the Charenton insane asylum. Sade leads a fairly privileged existence, his writing tolerated by the liberal Abbe de Coulmier, played by Joaquin Phoenix, as an outlet for his inner demons. These demons then pull in a tidy profit for him; since the public is clamouring for filth and Kate Winslet's sympathetic laundry maid is able smuggle his work out to a willing publisher. However, when a copy Sade's `Justine' reaches the Emperor, the sadistic Dr. Royer-Collard, as played by Michael Caine, is dispatched to curb Sade's outpourings by Napoleonic decree.The film avoids the more unsavoury facts concerning Sade, whose writing is still seen as subversive two hundred years down the line. Instead an initially witty script sees de Sade, played gleefully as camp dandy (is there any other kind?) by Geoffrey Rush as a kind of Carry On Pornographer. The entrance of Royer-Collard precipitates Sade's downward spiral to literally incendiary ending. The transition from comedy to tragedy is rather uneven and as such the film suffers a certain schizophrenia that can be put down to a lack of resolution as to what tone the narrative should take.This is an interesting film; in particular Geoffrey Rush's portrayal of Sade is absorbing, outwardly flamboyant but he occasionally hints at the darkness within that afflicted his psyche. The other characters are adequate, but Caine's hypocritical Doctor deserves more attention, since a potentially intriguing individual is left as little more than a caricature.`Quills' does raise moral issues, such as self expression and censorship, that are as pertinent today as they were two hundred years ago. However, it fails to address other questions that are particularly relevant to our time. In particular it's portrayal of Sade as a mildly eccentric man wrongly incarcerated is dangerously naieve. Any inflammatory philosophies and fantasies aside, Sade did commit crimes in his early life that would see him imprisoned as a sex offender today. Since, the treatment and rehabilitation of these prisoners is so often in the news at present, it seems a shame that this aspect of Sade's life is sanitised.As far as it goes, the film is entertaining and at times thought-provoking. As previously mentioned, do not go to see it as a straight biography. Equally, if you are a thrill-seeker - don't bother. Any farm-yard animals have been cut out, considering the nature of the raw material, the director has remained remarkably restrained. However, if you are looking for a well made and well acted film that, on the whole, avoids Hollywood conventions, `Quills' is well worth seeking out.  "},{"Title":"Simply astounding","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I haven't seen such an original, daring and downright impressive film as Quills in a long time.  Some might assume that a film encircling the final years of the Marquis de Sade would consist mainly of gratuitous sex and depravity, but under the sensitive direction of Philip Kaufman and the brilliant pen of Doug Wright, Quills never turns that explicit.  The sexuality actually lies within the spoken word, the Marquis' prose being dictated to a bloodthirsty crowd.  There is hardly any visual sexuality, which makes quite a refreshing change.One of the main qualities of this film is the splendid cast.  There hasn't been such a fine ensemble in a while, and each and every member of this cast puts on arguably the performance of a lifetime.  Rush IS the Marquis, playing him with an energetic zest and playful sauciness, before carefully balancing his portrayal as his character declines.  Definitely a performance to rival his Oscar-winning role in the brilliant 'Shine.' Kate Winslet's down-to-earth manner most definitely shows in her role as the innocent, curious Madeleine, embracing her jovial relationship with the Marquis and also her love for the Abbe wonderfully.  Joaquin Phoenix is suitably tortured as the resident Abbe de Coulmier, often relying upon his eyes to say the lines, saying more than words ever could.  There is a twisted, corrupted onscreen chemistry between all the leads, interwoven with the somewhat tragic love triangle (Madeleine loves Abbe, Abbe loves Madeleine, the Marquis loves them both).Do not judge this film by the subject matter, and also do not expect historical accuracy.  The script is blisteringly brilliant, the performances Oscar-worthy and the direction incredibly atmospheric.  If you wish to see originality, dark humour, tragedy and the essence of the human spirit, go rent Quills.  It'll certainly be worth your while.   "},{"Title":"Nothing less than a total masterpiece","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills was rudely overlooked at the Academy Awards in march. The most negative surprise was, undoubtably, that Doug Wright didn't even receive a nomination for his screenplay. Together with director Phillip Kaufman, Wright has created characters that seem utteringly real...mainly because of their enormous complexity and the ambivalence within their motives. Abbé Coulmier in particular (performed with excellence by Joaquin Phoenix in his best performance by far) is a character that feels especially true in this sense. While trying serve God, his lust for Madeleine (a laundry-maid played by Kate Winslet) torments his mind.Overall, Quills is an absolutely magnificent film. Everything, from Rogier Stoffers's cinematography to a great cast delivering career-best performances, is top-notch. Script-writer Doug Wright has written a fizzing screenplay with the best dialogue since American Beauty and director Phillip Kaufman brings up (and deals with) a seemingly endless list of subjects (mostly surrounding themes such as freedom, religion and sexuality) without EVER becoming pretentious. And that is a remarkable achievement.The film takes place in France, during the Napoleonic era. In the Charenton-asylum, Abbé Coulmier rules with a quite liberal hand. A too liberal hand according to Napoleon and his ministers. They send after Dr. Royer-Collard who will now replace the abbé as the director of the asylum. What bothers the french ruler(s) especially is that the works of Markis De Sade, an author that is a patient at the asylum, still can publish his books (who are extremely popular among the ordinary french people, but not with the upper class). The books (120 days of sodom and Justine) was considered unprintable in France for about 200 years because of their obscenity and taboo-ridden, shockingly erotic nature. The doctor is supposed to bring a much stricter rule to the asylum and to Markis De Sade especially (with highly unorthodox methods if necessary). But with the new doctor arriving, definently establishing that he ain't going to give the author an easy continous staying at the asylum, further gasoline (so to speak) is added to the constant creative fire that burns inside the Markis. And when Dr. Royer-Collard one night brings his adolescent wife to the asylum, this prooves simply to much for the twisted perversions inside the head of the Markis.As said, the performances are simply stunning with a very well-cast Michael Caine as the menacing doctor, a tremendous Amelia Warner as his mistreated wife, and career-best's from Kate Winslet, as the laundry-maid that smuggles (in her laundry-basket) the literary works of the Markis from his cell to a publisher waiting by the gates of the asylum, and Joaquin Phoenix as the morally ambivalent Abbé Coulmier. But it's of course the ever so amazing Geoffrey Rush that steals the show in a performance that should have given him a second Academy Award. Rush is one of the most talented actors around (with only Kevin Spacey being his equal) and his portrait of Markis De Sade is simply the role of a lifetime. And Rush really makes the most of it, delivering a marvellous performance that alone makes the film worth watching. Then of course, there are about ten or twenty other reasons as well why one should see this movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent performances, irritating plot","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is a good movie, I'd like to say a great movie, but it simply falls short in the end.  For someone to take the trouble to make a film about the Marquis de Sade and fail to take a stance in the subject matter is a bit surprising (that it can even be done) and annoying in the end.  Perhaps I should appreciate that Quills allows one to draw their own conclusions, but unless this movie is historically accurate (I don't know, but I'm doubting), that doesn't seem the point of this film.The acting is to be appreciated, particularly Joaquin Phoenix who is stunning, appealing, and, as we've seen before, creepy.  His co-stars give worthy performances, but Joaquin's subtlety in expression is beyond convincing.  While the other actors are impressive, this film is worth watching just to see his characterization. "}{"Title":"Marquis de Sade in Love","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is one of the greatest movie of 2000. It belongs on a list of the greatest films ever. Some one said to me that the ending of the movie was straight out of an episode of Tales From the Crypt, but they didn't see the ending under the same light. This is a story about the age old battle for artistic freedom over censorship. Even is de Sade wasn't a great writer, he was a writer, and nobody should tell anybody whats okay and whats not. Quills does the same thing Shakespeare in Love did, it takes a true man and puts him in a fictional word that is based around the time he really lived.Geoffrey Rush gives a great performance has the insane de Sade, while they didn't write de Sade the way he was, because if they did who would care if he got to write, Rush amazingly keeps de Sade insane but with reason.I recommend any person ever pushed down by the man to watch this film.**** (10) "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie was very good acted and told, the performances were great in it, Geofrey Rush did an excellent work, I was impressed. He acted very well. He deserved the academy award, didn't he?. Joaquin Phoenix was great as well, his performance was very patient and very well acted. Kate Winslet was very sweet and helpful, but I really didn't like the fact that at the ending she got killed by Bouchon who cut her tongue off. It wasn't fair, but anyway this movie was great, even if Madeleine died, I liked the ending, because it's different and interesting. But in fact I didn't like the scene in which the Marquis of Sade swallowed the crucifix. The costumes and scenery were flashy. It is worth the effort to watch it.   "},{"Title":"Scathingly Brilliant","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Not a movie for Anglophobes, the illiterate, or the squeamish.  The shocking opening of the film sets the stage for the truly demented times that produced the Marquis de Sade, while the rest of the film shows us a depraved aristocrat who has a way with words.  His biography credits him with little actual sadism as compared with his writings, and my recollection of his asylum imprisonment is that this was his chosen alternative to the guillotine.  SPOILER ALERT  While this film talks a great deal about censorship and repression, it actually has little to do with either except to illustrate that politics will usually dictate any official action (no different from today).  It is an insight into the mind of a perverse aristocrat who believed in the dominance of man's baser instincts.  Since the bawdier servant characters (in a very amusing sex scene) discuss how his works allegedly provoked actual crimes -- and we see an example of it later -- this film could be taking the view that pornography actually causes people to commit crimes.  Except that it also gives a dig at Napoleon who condemns de Sade's book, then sits on his throne with his feet dangling above the floor.The period detail is marvelous in its indictment of the treatment of the insane, aristocratic decadence, the sadistic practices of so-called medical personnel, and the sexual sadism of same.  Not to mention the arbitrary rules that dictated the futures of people who might not have made those choices  Simone, the unfortunate child bride; the Abbe Coulmier, who is clearly an example of a family's youngest son being his parents' bribe to enter Heaven; and the surprisingly earthy humor exhibited by the nuns.Four truly great performances make this film worthy of repeated viewings  Geoffrey Rush, Kate Winslet, Joaquin Phoenix, and Michael Caine.  Screen this only after the kids are in bed. "},{"Title":"Good, but unhappy with the message","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The film, as a stand-alone piece is quite good, I'd give it 7/10.  As I watched it however, I became uncomfortable with the messages it appeared to send out. I have no doubt the writer is intimately familiar with the Marquis' work and life, but he chose to focus only on the end of that life. As a result I feel there is a danger that many people will walk away from this film thinking the Marquis was no more than a latter-day Larry Flint, persecuted by a hypocritical establishment for liberal attitudes we regard as fairly acceptable today.I am not as intimately familiar with the Marquis' early life as the writer must be (and perhaps this is a fair representation, in which case I stand corrected), but from what I do know he appears to have been an extremely unpleasant and vicious character who only remained at large for so long because of his aristocratic connections.  Had he been alive today I suspect he may well have become a dangerous sexual predator.I do not expect Hollywood to become an extension of the Discovery channel, but I do believe they have some duty not to mislead.  As such I do not criticise the film for failing to tell the whole story of this man's life, but I do criticise it for filling the film with such simplistic ideas.  Michael Caines impossibly evil character, to name but one, was ridiculous.  Also, I felt the writer wanted to say, hey, the guy was not so bad in the context of the times - look at the violence, cruelty and sex that was going on around him (the guillotine, the menage a trois, the doctors medical 'equipment').But for me that is the point - this man managed to stand out as a nasty piece of work at a time when violence and cruelty were perhaps more commonplace than today.  He was not some poor, misunderstood, latter-day pornographic screenwriter. "},{"Title":"Was the Marquis de Sade a madman or a worthy writer?","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills attempts to explore the question, rather than answer it. Quills delivers a fictional story that focuses on the life of the late eighteenth century French writer during his imprisonment in the Charenton Asylum. Quills tries to expose the personality of the Marquis de Sade while speculating on the motives behind his incendiary prose, as well as its effects on others.Having secured a somewhat privileged situation within the confines of the asylum, the exiled Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush) has his own suite, drinks wine with his meals, and counts on a constant supply of ink, quills and paper, on which to unleash his wild reveries. Conveniently, the writer has established a comfortable relationship with the asylum's young director and open-minded abbe, Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix), who sees Sade's act of writing as a process of detoxification essential for his recovery. Furthermore, Sade's secret exchanges with the sensuous laundress Madeleine (Kate Winslet) arouse his inspiration and provide a venue by which his provocative compositions may reach the external world. Conflicts arise when a copy of the illegally published --and already popular-- Justine (1791) reaches emperor Napoleon. In an effort to end the Marquis de Sade's pornography, the emperor sends Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine) to cure and stop Sade with more drastic means. Finding an all too liberal atmosphere in the asylum, the doctor seeks to implement his own rules, challenging Coulmier's authority and making a dangerous enemy of the unstoppable Sade. Quills offers a highly theatrical representation of the events sorrounding Sade's final years. Quills quickly and clearly defines the character of Sade as a source of immorality, and establishes people's appetite for his sadistic accounts. (This is repeatedly emphasized by those characters who --absorbed by Sade's stories-- demand Tell me more!) Quills also speculates on the nature of Sade-the-man by offering other characters' points of view. For example, one character tells Sade You talk the same as you write. Another character says of him The more he is forbidden, the more he is provoked. While these statements seem to describe how Sade's contemporaries qualified him as a man, they more accurately point to the film's emphasis on attempting to define Sade as a man who was true to his amoral nature, and as a writer whose compositions are a true reflection of his identity. However, while throughout the plot the character of Sade is attacked for his very nature, the writer defends his work as pure fiction. Thus, with regards to Sade-the-writer, Quills arrives at no definitive conclusions of its own. While Quills focuses visually and narratively on the effects of Sade's prose on different characters, liberating some and offending or provoking others, the film does not delve sufficiently into the literary material to be able to offer comprehensive arguments about his work; a choice which might disappoint those viewers who expect a valuable lesson about the validity or invalidity of Sade's literature. Although failing in this respect, Quills succeeds in creating a portrait of Sade as a man who must fulfill his desperate --involuntary-- need to write in order to affirm his own existence. This intriguing notion is poignantly delivered throughout those scenes where punishing the writer begins by depriving him of any instrument that would enable him to write --such as paper, ink and quills-- and ends by ultimately destroying the man by harnessing the beast that lay within his soul. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece **possible spoilers**","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had the pleasure of seeing this movie in my very own house on a crappy VCD, as it is against the law for me to see it in a theatre. I waited what felt like forever to see this flick and I can safely say it was well worth the wait. Quills is simultaneously funny, witty, raunchy, melancholic, thought-provoking and intelligent and is, hands down, one of the best movies of 2000. The only thing I don't get is why people are calling it disturbing. I have lived only for 14 years and 11+ months; I have not seen much of the world. And what I saw in Quills did not disturb me at all. (Okay perhaps the only disturbing part was when Geoffrey Rush flaunted his manhood, but whatever.) I loved every minute of it; the actors and everyone else involved just went up there and talked a lot of sense. Quills is, to a certain extent, a representation of today's society censorship and its necessity; censors and their reasons for censoring (is it because the materials they censor hold up a mirror to themselves and they didn't like what they see?); censorship and its occasion hypocrisy. Quills simply drips with so much intelligence, I find it hard to look for the right words to describe it. And have you ever seen another cast as grand as this one! Joaquin Phoenix, Geoffrey Rush, Kate Winslet, Michael Caine...it can't get any better than this! And they were all awesome. Rush became de Sade, Winslet was so sweet and charming that what happened to her really sucks, Caine was a hypocrite and a paedophile, and Phoenix, well what else can I say about this wonderful actor besides that he was spell-binding and TOTALLY magnificent?To cut a long story short, Quills is a masterpiece. I'm just terribly vexed that I missed it in the theatres.  "},{"Title":"a miraculous transference of energy","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  from blood to brains to flesh and back...hardly has the passion of creation been so splendidly emblazoned on screen as this flawless adaptation of Doug Wright's play by director Philip Kaufman. i actually walked out on a first release theatrical screening of QUILLS - reduced as it was by the tiny matchbox proportions of the local arthouse multiplex auditorium, suffocated by fidgety, wheezing audience members. finally presented on DVD, the film gets its proper due, as one in my permanent collection. own it! "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant !!!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Geoffrey Rush IS the Marquis de Sade !!!  This film was lavish in its' costumes and settings; the locations were beautiful.  I loved it !!! This film focused on the Marquis' writings rather than his sexual perversions....it was indeed a wonderful change.  I highly recommend this movie to everyone! "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film was haunting, moving, and inspiring.  And sexy.  Never forget the sexy, because, darn it, that's what it was.  There was a sweet romance between the Abbe' Coulmier and Madeleine (aptly acted by Joaquin Pheonix and Kate Winslet).  The Marquis de Sade was brilliantly preformed by Geoffrey Rush.  Ameilia Warner (Simone) was lovely. "},{"Title":"A sanitized Marquis....","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A very interesting movie from many viewpoints.  Good and evil duking it out on an hourly basis, a mesmerizing performance from Geoffrey Rush, costumes and scenery breathtaking and the cinematography just brilliant. What drew my attention the most however, was all the background business and characters, reminiscent of some older movies, the inmates- band playing, choir singing, art classes, some truly remarkable out-of-the-corner-of-the-viewer's-eye performances. The guillotine in all its gruesome detail. The wonderful corridors and rooms of the asylum, the bawdyness of the servant class. I hope there were awards for this.  Michael Caine portrays a complex character, drawn to the outright evil of de Sade, sadistic towards his teenage bride, oozing false compassion on the mistreatment of all his unfortunate patients. I think the essence of de Sade was portrayed here, however, his murderous tortures of the helpless are not mentioned along with many more of his fetishes and extreme deviancy. a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Excellent and disturbing","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who truly values freedom of expression will love this film (and be periodically enraged by it).  A clear 10 out of 10, with solid performances not only by Geoffrey Rush and Joaquin Phoenix but by everyone in each lesser role.  Definitely not a popcorn movie...! "},{"Title":"Best Period Piece Ever","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Outstanding screen play and performances. I became interested in the life of Sade after viewing this movie (DVD) and although it doesn't attempt to follow his biography exactly, I was amazed at the many beautiful and creative methods used in the film to articulate his life, his humanity, and his tortured relationships while he was imprisoned in the Charenton asylum. Along with splendid scenery and dialog, this film never disappoints. Don't miss the opportunity to view it with French dubbing and English subtitles (on DVD) as well! 9 out of 10 -) "},{"Title":"A close parallel to 21st century American society","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful movie!!  Would've gotten the #1 ranking in my year 2000 list of movies hands down!  (But I seen this in Jan. 2001)About the Marquis De Sade in 18th century France, condemned to an institution for madmen because of his writings, which were too erotic.Rush, Winslett, Joaquin Phoenix, and Michael Caine were all great! This movie showed how hypocritical people were in those days, and in some ways reflects on how hypocritical people STILL ARE in this, the 21st century!!   Might be hard to find in the movie theatres, showing even MORE the shortcomings of today's society.  GRADEA+ "},{"Title":"Knobs out for a jolly good romp!!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Debauchery, deviants and devilish dialogue. What a great time I had watching this film. As it only received a limited release here in Australia (you savages!!) most missed this wonderful piece of cinema. Over-the-top performances from all involved, lashings of thunder and lightning and dark, dank cells all add up to make this stylishly directed piece of film well worth watching. Rush always delivers the goods and has great range, Kate Winslet likewise and Joaquin Phoenix is starting to prove himself a worthy player (his early scenes with Rush are hilarious.) Let's not forget Mr Caine who always does 'nasty' with vigour. Oh, and a bit more of the delicious Amelia Warner please. All that and a beheading to boot (and who doesn't love a good beheading scene?) So relax, forgive the accents, enjoy the lavish settings and loose yourself in a wonderful film - thank you sir, may I have another? "},{"Title":"Almost perfect.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Unless you have been living in a bucket for all of your life, the Marquis de Sade needs no proper introduction.  But chances are that if you're an American, you've been living quite comfortably in your bucket.  So along comes this period film to enlighten you--a film so comical and entertaining, that it's difficult to believe that it deals with such morbid subject matter.Billed the father of sadism, the Marquis lived in a time when new ideas were the driving force behind society.  During this intellectual revolution, however, certain ideas were deemed far too dangerous among government officials--say, for example, pornographic novels such as those written by the infamous Marquis himself.We are first introduced to de Sade (Geoffrey Rush) in an asylum for the mentally insane, run by Abbe Coulmier (and perfectly played by Joaquin Phoenix, no less).  An idealist at heart, he urges the Marquis to purge his wicked thoughts on paper, believing this will ultimately cure him of his obsession with his creations.  Little does he know, however, that the chambermaid (Kate Winslet) has been smuggling out his work and giving it to a publisher, negating the very purpose of the Marquis's stay at the asylum.These novels, which are considered as much of a horror today as they were then, prompt the government to arms, and in its ever-savvy line of actions, it sends Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine), a self-righteous, hypocritical son of a bitch, to deal with the Marquis on his own terms in order to cure him.The film, with its astoundingly theatrical presentation, is at times downright hysterical;  its script's savage wit is constantly accentuated by the Marquis's snide remarks.  At one point, he offers Coulmier some wine, along with the following insight Conversation, like certain portions of the anatomy, always runs more smoothly when lubricated.  It's difficult not to crack a smile at sardonic remarks like these, especially when one considers Rush's remarkably innocent portrayal of his character.In fact, the movie appears to paint him in this light throughout its first half, in order to develop a genuine pathos for the character as various incidents cause his life to spiral quickly downward.  Only at the end is the Marquis shown in a truer light, when actual sadism creeps into his stories as opposed to petty, mischievous sexual desire.  It works rather well in the end, however, as it's used as a device to adequately develop and round out the Marquis's character.Equally enthralling are the various themes the movies discusses.  Whether it be politics or religion, all themes in this movie point to a single truth  we are what we are, and any attempt to act otherwise results in either hypocrisy or self-delusion.  I didn't create this world of ours! I merely recorded it! the Marquis exclaims when he begins to lose everything, including his sanity.  And in all honesty, it's this type of thought process that the movie embraces, as sickening as it may be.  All the residents of the asylum are fascinated by the ideals of the Marquis;  they embrace his prose like none other, despite the fact that they may not personally understand all of it.  Its essence is what drives them, as it sates a primal hunger that is hardly acknowledged outside of the intimacy of a bed.Unfortunately, to make everything more accessible to the audience, the film centers a bit more on the freedom of speech aspect than the actual content of the work;  scenes such as the one between Phoenix and Winslet at the end are what truly would have made this a spectacular film had they been used more often.  Yet as it stands, this piece of work remains a highly entertaining, enlightening vision that discusses themes that have been of the utmost importance to us as a society since the beginning of time.  It's not perfect, but it comes pretty damn close.9/10 "},{"Title":"**** Excellent!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Excellent drama about the Marquis de Sade's influence on the keepers and inmates of the madhouse Charenton, where he spent his last days after being declared criminally insane by French authorities. Geoffrey Rush lives it up in a mostly-convincing performance as the Marquis, and Kate Winslet is letter-perfect as the charwoman who he adores for her innocence. The issues of censorship and its backwards application by authoritative figures is the message here, and it is executed gracefully by Philip Kaufman's sure direction and the performances by the ensemble cast, particularly Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix as the noble hearted priest who runs the asylum. Better than the other film about the Marquis made the same year, Benoit Jacquot's Sade, but in that film its star Daniel Auteuil made a better lead. This film has some very explicit content that is at the same time shocking and refreshingly honest. Very handsome production and a very good film.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 2000","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a terrific film about the infamous Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush), who wrote pornography from his cell in a mental institution and smuggled it out to be published to the delight of Napoleonic France.  The story is brilliantly written by Doug Wright, who also wrote the play upon which the film is based.  The rapid-fire dialogue is intelligent and biting and the humor is delightfully nasty and ironic.Philip Kaufman's direction is excellent.  The pace is exceptionally good and he brings out inspired performances from the entire cast.  The period is well rendered without excessive flourishes.  The costumes are appropriate, but not overly ornate as would be expected of the characters (Jacqueline West was nominated for an Oscar for best costume design for this film).  Kaufman allows the characters to dominate the images rather than trying to insert slick effects and stylish perspectives, a definite plus in this film.The story is a dark and twisted examination of the Marquis and his relationship with the Abbe Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix), who runs the asylum, Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine), who is sent by Napoleon to keep the Marquis under control, and Madeleine (Kate Winslet), who helps him to smuggle his bawdy manuscripts to the publisher.  Despite all their efforts to keep the Marquis from writing, he always outwits them and produces another `masterpiece'.  The scene where he puts on a play about Royer-Collard and his child bride is hysterical, with the mirthful invective coming so fast that you have to rewind it a couple of times to fully appreciate it.As good as Geoffrey Rush was in `Shine', I thought he was even better here.  Rush is electrifying, playing an extremely complex character on the very brink of insanity.  He plays the role like a man possessed, and ranges from wickedly funny to frighteningly frenzied.  His performance was nominated for the Oscar for best actor that went to Russell Crowe for `Gladiator'.  Both were deserving of the prize, and it is a pity one of them had to walk away empty handed.Joaquin Phoenix (who ironically co-starred with both best actor nominees, and was nominated himself for best supporting actor for `Gladiator'), turns in another fine performance as the Abbe, and continues to prove himself one of the up and coming dramatic actors of his generation.  Kate Winslet emerges from her self-imposed banishment to obscurity (`Hideous Kinky', `Holy Smoke') with a wonderfully rich performance in a supporting role.  No Winslet performance would be complete without at least one frontal nude scene, and this film is no different in that regard.  However, she also provides a well-acted portrayal of a very sympathetic character in Madeleine that makes one think that perhaps her Oscar nomination for `Titanic' wasn't a fluke.  Michael Caine, as always, is fabulous as the underhanded Dr. Royer-Collard.  Caine is a highly versatile actor, and he brings vibrancy to almost every role he plays.This has my vote as one of the best films of 2000.  It opened in theaters in limited release, so many people are not familiar with it.  Now that it is in the rental market, perhaps it will find a larger audience.  It is splendidly directed, the acting is superb, and the writing is intelligent, darkly humorous and engaging.  I rated it a 10/10.  Though not a film that will have mass appeal, it is a delight for the uninhibited intellectual viewer. "},{"Title":"How did James Woods NOT get Best Actor???","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The movie was excellently written.  The content was not what I expected.  The best thing was the performance by James Woods.  I have not seen Gladiator, but I can't imagine how Russell Crowe could have provided a better performance. I am assuming the movie itself swept Crowe in as the winner. "},{"Title":"Top-class acting and a great story","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It's a pity Quills has been poorly distributed, as was Wonder boys but unlike Finding Forrester. Three recent movies about life and writing. Quills is the more emotionally achieved in its way to speak of writing as an art and the expression of humanity.Emotion thanks to the excellent actors increases as the movie goes. Geoffrey Rush is some kind of a genius in the body of Le Divin Marquis. Kate Winslett plays in the right tune. Sir Michael Caine is impressive as always even if his character is not very well written. For Joaquin Phoenix, we are used to great performances but Emperor Comodus is still the best of his parts.The full flavor of Quills appears as Sade is compelled to show us his need for writing. No matter how weak or wooden the other characters may appear in comparison. The main weaknesses of the movie are concentrated in the beginning especially with a useless and ridiculous characterization of Napoleon as a childish Emperor leaving his counselor decide. The mysterious horse rider waiting to take Sade's papers is a bit ridiculous too as he rides away, his hair floating. Those scattered weaknesses are eventually nothing compared to the quality Quills offers us.Touching, really. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie--Too bad no distribution","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is wonderful.  It is the tale of the Marquis de Sade and his escapades while in an asylum.  Geoffrey Rush plays the Marquis, and after seeing his performance, I cannot picture the Marquis any other way.  Kate Winslett's role is a far cry from Titanic and she is actually allowed to use her accent!  Joaquin Phoenix took my breath away as the troubled and kind Abbe, especially at the end.  The movie did not get a chance to stretch its wings because of the lack of distribution.  It was deemed too scandalous. And these are the same people who allowed Scary Movie to fall into every theater in the country??!!  Rent it, buy it, and see it if you can! "}{"Title":"Is it a biography, an adaptation, or something else entirely?","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The most brilliant aspect of Phillip Kauffmans film is how faithful he remains, not only to the screenplay by Doug Wright, but to the era and indeed, most amazingly, the subtle way he captures the very essence of Dessad's work. The film plays out in episodes, which at first feels somewhat disconnected, then gradually binds together, forming what is in fact, a version of one of the Marquis works, or something approximating it. The film is gloriously made-stunning costumes, art direction, interesting cinematography, fine performances, especially from Kate Winslet and Joaquin Pheonix, as well as another robust turn by the always impressive Geoffrey Rush. For those looking towards this film as a history lesson, it is not. For those looking towards it as a vision of French culture in the late 18th, early 19th century, it could be, to a degree. No, what this film is, essentially, is a story of some very twisted individuals, a film which even begs the viewer to decide for themselves, at what point do you say someone has crossed the line?But, more importantly, how much would you enjoy crossing that line yourself? "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  To put it bluntly, I LOVED this movie. Having been made a fan of Joaquin Phoenix after seeing him in 'Gladiator', I couldn't wait for Quills, and was not disappointed. This is one of the most unique films I've ever seen. Geoffrey Rush and Kate Winslet are fantastic, and of course, being the biased Joaq fan I am, Joaquin Phoenix just stole the show as the handsome young priest torn between his duties as a priest and his desires for Kate's wonderful Madeline. 10/10 a classic. "},{"Title":"A joy to watch","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I loved every minute of this movie- visually stunning, beautifully acted, cleverly written, and interesting, throughout. Perhaps the most important thing I can say about this film is that it made me think about the hypocrisy of religion and censorship. While there are some scenes that are unpleasant to watch, there is no gratuitous violence, and it is a surprisingly sweet movie. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The movie was willing; the ending was weak.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I think that many reviewers have pinpointed my own feelings about this well-acted, well-directed movie I was impressed with Quills' potential, but let down by the final product.Certainly, the writer should have incorporated more of de Sade's actual history and less sensational fiction; we should have seen more character study and less melodramatic plot. My greatest problem with the movie, though, was that it never moved beyond a very trite and cursory theme. We all knew it would be about artistic freedom when we pulled up our red, semi-reclining theatre seats. But the movie barely touched on the deeper implications of de Sade's life and work, and certainly never moved beyond a simple tale of the persecuted author in any meaningful or provocative way.The ending, especially, became quite didactic and overstated. Some questions should have been left unanswered...but, sadly, few were raised to begin with. "},{"Title":"I get it now","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  First a disclosure.  I do not enjoy watching heads or tongues being cut off.  Somehow it just hits me the wrong way.  So, perhaps I should not even be commenting about this film, just as I would not comment about a karate film or other high body count features.  But this film has a claim to being important, as the N.Y Times said, Best Picture of the Year Material. Lets do some deconstruction.  What is the message of Quills.  It seems ultimately a modern morality tale, freedom and sexuality, whatever the consequences or outcome, prevails over stern, punitive repression.  Forgetting the grossness of the film, the stereotypical characterizations were simply a bore.  The James Cain character could only have meaning to those who have never fully freed themselves from a repressive superego and can take seriously this personification of ultimate repression.The most forceful argument against pornography is that it represents violence against women.  Good pornography is liberating when this is refuted, when the joy of sexuality is shared by all parties.  It is the imature or distorted mind that associates this freedom with pain, since for them this just may have been the case.  There is no beauty, and very little art in depicting such pathology and then fitting it into this simplistic allegory of repression v. freedom.When I recently saw American Beauty with it's brilliant depiction of sexuality, I felt that this was a payoff for the lack of censorship that we currently have. Quills is a silly movie.  It would have been a silly movie if it were made under 1950s censorship. As made in this era it is trivial as well as assaultive to the sensibilities. But then again, having sensibilities in this age may be a character flaw.Al Rodbell     "},{"Title":"Performances can't quite make brilliance.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills tells the 'tarted up' story of the last few years of French Aristocrat the Marquis De Sade. As the film begins, the Marquis is imprisoned in a mental asylum. This is, however, not stopping him from publishing stories of a pornographic nature with the aid of a buxom chambermaid Madeleine (Winslet). Emperor Napoleon, unhappy that this literature is reaching the masses orders the Marquis silenced and as a result evil Dr Royer-Collard (Michael Caine) is sent to the asylum.The performances in 'Quills' are universally excellent; Rush received an Oscar nomination for his performance. Indeed, Rush carries large portions of the film, pitching the marquis somewhere between careless arrogant rogue and 'carry on' character. But for me the performance of the film was from Joaquin Phoenix, outstanding as the priest running the asylum before Caine's involvement. 'Quills' is a good film but could so easily have been a great film. Script and acting are both fine, as is the feel of 19th century France. The problem comes from the story-line, it drags in parts and the climax is given away several minutes before it happens. The only other problem is Caine, whose costume and performance kept reminding me of when he played Scrooge in ' A Muppet's Christmas Carol '.  "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is the story of the Marquis de Sade, the infamous 18th century french libertine writer. From his cell at Charenton, the Marquis, played by Rush, still diffuse is writing across France. It is quite interesting to see how he is attached to his art and how he practiced it. Rush is simply sublime as the Marquis. Kate Winslet is also good. I can't say the same of Joaquin Phoenix and Michael Caine. They failed to deliver a good performance. I gave it a 8. "},{"Title":"Not quite what it was hyped up to be.....","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found the movie was interesting in its way, and the acting was very good, however I did not feel a single thing for any of the characters! I didn't feel love, like, dislike, hatred, sympathy, aversion, or in fact, anything.I also think the fuss made about Geoffrey Rush's nudity was overdone, and all in all, the movie made little impact on me. I will state for the record that I believe I am singular in this, as my niece and her husband enjoyed the film immensely, as have a number of people I know. I think Traffic was a better and more absorbing film.   "},{"Title":"Really disappointing","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  At the beginning, the movie seems great- you know, great actors starring, fantastic costumes etc.- but, in the end, it turns out to be really disappointing. I knew that the story wouldn't be pleasant, but I had no problem. What disappointed me so much was the actors' performances. I found Michael Caine terrible, Geoffrey Rush not so good as he was told to be, Kate Winslet good- although she could have done a bit more, and Joaquin Phoenix fantastic. I mean, the man was great. He is a very talented actor. Although that I hadn't heard much for him, I thought that his performance was what made this movie seem good. But if you are having any doubts in seeing the movie, I suggest you to go and see it, just to have an opinion about it. I mean, who knows? You might like it, as others did.  "},{"Title":"I could almost feel Geoffrey Rush drool.  He nails the character of the Marquis!","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I don't see what people see in Phoenix and Winslet, and in retrospect I hardly remember Caine being in this movie, but Geoffrey Rush became the Marquis de Sade!  What can't he do?  In my opinion he is by far the most superior actor on the screen today.  None of the other nominees' performances hold a candle to Rush's portrayal of this role.  He gets my vote hands down. "}{"Title":"I was expecting much more","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is a beautifully made film. Great cinematography, costumes and atmosphere. It isn't though what I was expecting. How can one make such a polished picture of Marquis De Sade? Since it's rated R anyway, they could make it rougher and more original. Sadly, this is a movie made obviously to please the female audience (and it does, just see the IMDb ratings). Sometimes it gets excruciatingly mild and corny. Geoffrey Rush and Michael Caine give to the film quality with their acting, while I would expect much more from Winslet and Phoenix (especially the latter given his performance in Gladiator). "},{"Title":"Fine Performance By Geoffrey Rush","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Geoffrey Rush has once again proved to the world that he's one of the finest actors around. His portrayal of the Marquis de Sade in this movie is hardly matched by others.Kate Winslet is also brilliant. She gives much better performance than the one in Titanic. Joaquin Phoenix is getting better and we can hope more from him in the future.However, the movie is a bit too slow here and there. The nudity is unnecessary. The extended ending hurts the movie in whole. If only it could be edited, it would be a much better movie.This one is not a mainstream movie. If you like art movies, see it. Otherwise, go and catch other movies. "},{"Title":"Rush Brings de Sade To Life","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  	The infamous Marquis de Sade spent the final months of his life in Charenton Asylum for the insane, where within the confines of his cell, he was free to put quill to paper to record the erotic musings of his imagination, thereby (it was hoped) purging his bedeviled mind of them.  The writings were not, however, to leave his cell; but-- as they say-- where there's a will, there's a way, and soon his anonymous manuscripts were causing a stir among the good citizens of France, up to and including the Emperor himself, Napoleon.  `Quills,' directed by Philip Kaufman and written by Doug Wright (adapted from his own play), is a fictionalized account of the Marquis during that period, and of the effect he (and his words) had on those with whom he came into contact, either directly, or through his writings.  It's a film that runs the gamut from the bawdy to the perverse, while maintaining an objectivity throughout that allows each individual member of the audience to judge the ramifications of it all for themselves.  It's an interesting film through which some insight into human nature may be gleaned; or not-- depending upon your own perspective and point of view, as well as the level of sensitivity and sensibility with which you receive the information afforded herein.   	Visually, the film is striking; Kaufman successfully captures the essence of the era, and the performance by Geoffrey Rush (as the Marquis) alone is worth the price of admission.  Rush accords himself a freedom of expression entirely consistent with the character he portrays, holding nothing in reserve as he brings him so vividly to life.  His Marquis is emotionally complex-- personable and repugnant at the same time-- and it's that depth of character with which Rush manages to imbue him that makes him believable.  Rush was nominated for an Oscar for Best Actor for it, and deservedly so.  Kate Winslet gives a notable performance, as well, as Madeleine, the laundress who smuggles the Marquis' writings from the asylum and turns them over to an agent of his publisher.  There's a natural, earthy quality to Winslet that lends just the right touch to the character and makes her memorable.  And a nod must go to Winslet for making some bold career decisions after her mainstream success in `Titanic.'  With her pick of any number of `safe' roles from which to choose, she had the daring to take parts with substance and character-- like Madeleine-- as well as the roles she opted for in `Hideous Kinky' and `Holy Smoke,' rather than sit on her laurels and let her talent stagnate.  It's a rare quality in an actress of her caliber, and it would be an injustice to let it pass without comment. 	Michael Caine, on the other hand, though arguably one of the most talented actors of our times, turns in a fairly anemic performance as Dr. Royer-Collard, who is personally dispatched by Napoleon to the asylum to rein in the exploits of the Marquis.  And the fault, perhaps, lies not with Caine, but with the character itself; for as a battle of wills ensues between Royer-Collard and de Sade, the good Doctor must maintain a rather stoic countenance, which contrasts unfavorably with the flare and single-minded zealousness of the Marquis.  Joaquin Phoenix, too, as Coulmier, the Priest in charge of Charenton, gives a passable performance, but one that seems somewhat tentative, especially compared to his superior turn in `Gladiator,' for which he was nominated for an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. 	The supporting cast includes Billie Whitelaw (Madame LeClerc), Patrick Malahide (Delbene), Amelia Warner (Simone), Jane Menelaus (Renee), Stephen Moyer (Prouix) and Stephen Marcus (Bouchon).  A provocative film that makes something of a statement about righteous hypocrisy, `Quills,' taken as the work of fiction that it is, will be a satisfying cinematic experience for most; but be forewarned-- this is not a film for everyone.  The content and subject matter may be a bit too strong for some, depending on personal taste and sensibility.  And, those who come to this film seeking historical enlightenment may be disappointed.  But taken with regard to artistic merit, this is filmmaking at it's best; work for which Kaufman and Co. are to be applauded.  I rate this one 8/10.         "},{"Title":"completely overrated","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  On the poster they write something like 'best movie of the year' - well, it's not bad and worth seeing, but nothing special. A typical big and boasting production, but pretty superficial. Especially the characters are all very pale, although the acting is good (maybe because the story is an adaptation of a theatre play).  I like very much 'The Unbearable Lightness of Being' of the same director, but 'Quills' is something you see and forget. "},{"Title":"SURPRISINGLY WELL DONE WITH WELL-DEVELOPED CHARACTERS","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The tawdry subject matter of this film made me loathe to see it, but the buzz I got from friends drew me in. And I am glad I went.Quills is well-acted throughout, with special commendation to Rush, and also to Phoenix who deserved an Oscar nomination far more for his complex and tortured portrayal of the priest than for playing Commodus in Gladiator. The movie deals with the obsession of the Marquis de Sade to express his sick and warped ideas to others, first by writing and publishing, and then by other (more disturbing) means when his writing quills are taken away. Revolving around the Marquis is an intriguing cast of characters; by far the most interesting is Phoenix' priest (and head of the asylum where the Marquis is imprisoned) who not only has to confront the infamous Marquis, but has to confront his own obsessions and fantasies vis a vis the lovely chambermaid (Winslett), who has a curious fascination with the Marquis and, eventually, a sexual attraction for the priest - yet she remains chaste.Many other characters are involved, and it is their interrelationships I found well-developed and credible. The plot itself continues on an an inevitable, and self-destructive, course as set by the Marquis.I have no doubt some reviewers were unjustly off put by the subject matter, even though the film is not as explicit as they led me to believe by their reviews. I for one was pleasantly surprised by a fine plot, characters that were involving and compelling, and acting performances that were above the norm. This is a very good movie.       "},{"Title":"Between a Quill, an asylum and a hard place (no doubt de Sade would approve!)","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  With the guillotine edge we are introduced to the Marquis de Sade in the asylum of Charenton where he's been incarcerated for crimes not specified in this film. His writings are smuggled out of the asylum by Madeleine, (Kate Winslet) a servant who finds multiple uses for her laundry basket. She's addicted to the writings of the Marquis. Napoleon, on the other hand, is most perturbed by the writings of this madman and the scientist Dr Royer-Collard (Michael Caine) is sent by order of Napoleon to Charenton to establish order and on the way picks up his child bride from the convent. Madeleine and the Marquis find ever inventive ways of getting his word out. The person in the middle is the Abbe Coulmier (Joachim Phoenix), who's idea of running the asylum is one of, what would be considered to be fairly modern ideas of rehabilitation (See, isn't it better to paint fires than light them?) clash harshly with those of Royer-Collard.I must admit that I know very little about the Marquis de Sade apart from the fact that he was a prolific writer, lived in the late 1700's (during Nepolean's era), was incarcerated in mental institutions/jails for most of his life and that most of his writings were destroyed without trace.  I was not expecting to garner a great deal of information about de Sade from this film and it was just as well because I'm lead to believe from a very learned friend of mine that there was great poetic licence taken in tarting up the facts.The excellent casting in this film more than makes up for dead spots in it (of which there are few).  Geoffrey Rush shines (sorry, couldn't resist it!) wonderfully as the Marquis more than managing to carry off the role with divine duplicity.  One wonders at times, who is the more sadistic character, the Marquis who dreams of cruelty or Royer-Collard who carries it out.  It's a film that will take you out of your comfort zone, and bring you back, then take you out again.  What a wild ride! "},{"Title":"Good actors, bad script","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw Quills twice in a non-dubbed version, mainly to see Kate and Geoffrey Rush, and I certainly wasn't disappointed of them. I'm not so sure about the movie itself, though (that's also why I wanted to see it a second time). My favourite scene is the kiss for each page right at the beginning, because it is a very well acted dialog with a process going into a clear direction. And it has a knock-down charming Kate in it! At this point, the film is still working fine, developing characters in a believable way. Unfortunately, from then on the movie starts eroding, disintegrating, just lagging increasing orders of magnitude behind its own demands.I appreciated the timeless idea of the movie, choice of setting and characters. Also I found the Marquis to be a believable person in a way, that is, he takes truly some effort in expressing himself (ink, wine, .., nice idea, but wearing out fast), he even humiliates his wife. Some of his feelings can be easily identified with He wants to kiss Kate (and does so, too, lucky chap..). He is deeply concerned, that she might be in great danger, which of course is dealt with truly sadistically in turn by the bad guy. But is he also a really convincing agent of anti-censorship? No, he is not. I'm not talking about the contents of his art. Personally, I don't have any problems with peoples' choices of their individual ways of life whatsoever, besides, there aren't any truly risque scenes in this movie at all (and I mean it). The screenplay tries to put across a serious statement on censorship, and it does so by focusing on de Sade's private longing for publicity. But what are his motives exactly, why does he insist on writing, what is his inner agent? We hardly get to know. I'll never be with the characters I create he says (correct quote?) - that's about it. I wanted an -artistic- argument for the protection of art, because I believed this movie to be inspired by artwork itself (D. Wright's play, which I haven't read). What I got was a lame de Sade merely gibbering about his obsession over and over again.The movie features a timeless idea, choice of setting and characters. However, it succeeds only in the slightest respect when comes to a diligent inspection of the issues. The additional Sadism- facette is by far not properly dealt with. The existence of the Abbe as a moral institution is so much out of date, so stimulus-response-like, that it stands proof of the limitations of either the scriptwriter or the expected audience.*** Little spoiler *** And, for heaven's sake, why should Madeleine suddenly fall for a bland, if good looking priest, when she even dared opening de Sades' bedroom curtains? I don't buy it.Still, the lighter moments of the movie are very enjoyable and it features great actors throughout. They don't have enough coherent screentime though (as they had in the kissing-scene), possibly due to the adaptation of a theater piece. "},{"Title":"Rush at his very best.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie has it all, a twisted plot, great acting from all lead roles, great costumes and scene design and, well, sex!Now, I was expecting great things from this movie before I went to see it, and it did not live up to my expectations. I found that it dragged on a little too long. The plot was really very good. But, the scene stealers were the actors. Geoffrey Rush shined (excuse the pun) in the lead role. He has a great grasp of crazy characters like the Marquis and was virtually perfect for this role.Michael Caine and Joaquin Phoenix put in brilliant performances, in my opinion, worth at least oscar nominations. And Kate Winslet pinned her role down perfectly, in one of her best performances (better than Titanic).This movie gave a great insight into life in a madhouse at that time, which I thought was all a bit too civilised. The Serenton asylum went from a calm, controlled environment at the start of the film, to complete and utter chaos at the end of the film.The sheer brilliance of this movie, is how the actors could work together and synergise so well to perform a brilliant but very complex script.It's going to be a real battle between Rush and Hanks for Best Actor Oscar this year and I think Caine and Phoenix should have been nominated for Supporting(Phoenix was but not for this movie!)Go out and see it, everyone!  "},{"Title":"Torture","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Why is everyone falling over themselves over this film? Just because it's a period film starring Geoffery Rush doesn't automatically mean it's good. Truth is, Quills is not good, and I don't mean that it just needs a spanking. Its mission is to rise to the level of its subject matter by creating scene after scene of people being naughty. That the Marquis De Sade's imprisonment, torture, and silencing symbolizes the right-wing censorship of the entertainment industry today is a bit too obvious. No one deserves to be tortured for their personal beliefs or art, but the Marquis is almost made out to be a heroic figure, a saint. In truth, he was a very sick man, and not even a very talented one, judging from the little of his writings the film exposes us to. There is still much controversy over the degree the entertainment industry is to be held accountable for acts of violence it inspires. Quills wants you to cherish the freedom of expression we have in a free society. What left me cold throughout the experience of watching Quills was that the garbage that the Marquis was dumping on his society. I had to ask what made this drivel so worthy of the struggle. If only the Marquis had actually been a good writer and not just a pervert with an overly active imagination. I suppose the point is that freedom of expression is freedom of expression, no matter what that expression happens to be.The Marquis' captors made the mistake of trying to silence him. The more they tried, the louder his voice got. They made a martyr out of a man who didn't deserve to be.Grade C-   "},{"Title":"Good but not that good","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The first part of the movie was quite funny and hilarious. The second part was pretty depressing. It's like watching 2 movies crudely joint together. That's probably a script or directing problem.Geoffrey Rush's performance is excellent in the movie, worthy of the Oscar nomination. The motivation behind his writing though is not depicted clearly and the viewer has to blindly accept his passion in writing.Still one of the better movie around. "}{"Title":"Quills was close to very good, but there was too much action","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Everything reached technically to good levels. I am thinking what the story was meant to tell? The movie was a mixture of commercial action, history of man and literature, drama, moral aspects and erotic tension. The combination of those elements were not in good balance. The removing of some violent episodes would improve the message of the interesting story. -Anyhow, I can recommend it.   "},{"Title":"Does Makes Its Mark!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Marquis De Sade was one french aristocrat writer that definitely has left his mark. His sexual controversial literary works helped coin the term- `Sadism.' `Quills' is set during the last phases of De Sade's life when he was imprisoned in a mental asylum. Geoffrey Rush shines again portraying De Sade with fierce energy. Kate Winslet sinks into her role as the laundry girl with sexual enticement. Also, I was more impressed with Joaquin Phoenix's role as the constrained priest here than the selfish conqueror one he played in `Gladiator.' So remember to mark you calendar and sign on to see `Quills.' **** Good  "},{"Title":"what's g. rush doing when he isn't acting brilliant","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really liked the movie...the dark mood of the asylum worked perfect with the humourous Marquis de Sade...i liked G.Rush...brilliant actor, capable of making the difference...I liked him since Shine and I hope he'll play more parts in the near future.Or maybe that's his charm ,not boring us with his person all over the news and tabloids.I also think Michael Caine played brilliant too, sadly he isn't nominated for anything this year.The film was directed very good till his half when it seemed that the director got scared of what he could've made...same like, if you wish, Hollow man...you get to become invisible and what do you do ?you start killing people for fun...Come on !...The Marquis de Sade was a very complex person that should have gotten more attention...especially that he was played by such an actor.I really liked Bouchon...i liked him since his times as NICK THE GREEK (l.s.&2 smoking barrels)...Joaquin Phoenix is getting better since The Gladiator, playing very good the role of Abbay de Coulmier...that blend of desire and fear of commiting no sin...brilliant film!It could've been a masterpiece but the director settled for the Charenton Asylum as only set ...little you hope little you get ...though the plot could have given more. "},{"Title":"The Marquis De Sade Politically Correct Only OnScreen!","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  On Bastille Day 1789 starving Parisians released all the prisoners from the famous jail.  Among those let go was the Marquis De Sade. De Sade, a Nobleman, remained in danger from the Terror that swept over France and dominated the country for years.The Phillip Kauffman-directed play turned movie nearly skips the French Revolution.  The opening scene has De Sade (Geoffrey Rush) watching from a window as a quivering woman faces the Guillotine during the Terror.  When the blade falls and the woman's head drops, De Sade abruptly closes the window, puts quill to inkwell, and, inspired by the scene, renders one of his provocative sentences.Quills is mostly set in a French Sanitarium after the Revolution is long over and Napoleon, the little Corporal has restored order in France.  De Sade, by now a regular in France's brothels, jails and insane-asylums, has finally found a place where he can thrive.  He has the run of the place.  Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix), the Priest in charge, is a tolerant liberal.SpoilersCut to the Palace.  Napoleon is incensed.  This strumpet of a writer is smuggling his disgusting novels out for publication under the very nose of the Priest.  Doctor Royer-Collard (Michael Caine) promises to oversee the errant Coulmier and see to it that De Sade's Writing does not see the light of day.The new job is a godsend to the Doctor who can now afford an enormous house with all the trimmings and a youthful virgin wife who has been exiled to a convent for lack of a Family Dowry, and can be purchased for cash.  There are several concurrent stories with the main one about De Sade and the doings inside the Asylum.There is the War between the doctor and Coulmier; the war between Coulmier now joined with Royer-Collard to suppress De Sade.  There is the story of Madeliene (Kate Winslet), a chamber woman, who has been smuggling De Sade's writings to the outside world and is believed to be the Marquis' lover.  The Quills play included many scenes from Sade's plays.  But Director Kauffman produces only one in the film, a play-within-a-play to match the one produced by Hamlet for his Stepfather.  Apparently De Sade has gotten word that Royer-Collard is being duped by his virgin bride.  The play is an insult to the Doctor and it raises the ante in the War to suppress Sade's free speech.Royer-Collard, with a host of toadying jailers, is constantly scurrying to discover what new outrage the Marquis has perpetrated.  Sade is forced to adapt to the removal of his quill and ink.  He must improvise.  Madeliene is drawn into the conflict.  Coulmier is being challenged by Royer-Collard on the one hand, and De Sade on the other.  The Marquis is untroubled by the rising commotion and violence inside the Asylum, but Coulmier lets his libido get the better of him and begins to betray his vows, with Madeline, who he has always secretly loved. Meanwhile Royer-Collard's virgin bride has replaced the contents of her Child's Garden of Verses with De Sade's Justine (Justine was actually published years before Sade entered this Asylum, but the screenplay suggests this book is the one smuggled from the asylum that set Napoleon off after he came to power in 1810).  Fortified by Sade's writing, the Bride summons the courage to seduce her husband's architect.  Chaos reigns as this examination of free speech under fire moves toward climax.Rush is powerful in one of the best performances of his life on film as the unyielding De Sade.  Phoenix is more energized than we have seen him recently; he gives a good performance.  Kate Winslet is voluptuously acceptable as Madeline.  Michael Caine is OK as Dr. Royer-Collard (I keep worrying that he will refer to the inmates as you wonderful sons of New England.)  The film is much better than the free-speech bromide it promised to be.  But because the Marquis' very provocative ideas are largely ignored by the film, I give it just three stars. "},{"Title":"frightening history told in a gripping tale","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant script. Tremendous acting from the whole cast. Gripping from beginning to end. Hilarious and terrifying.One could smell the dank evil and yet laugh along with the poor inmates of this French mad house. Who were the mad? The patients, prisoners or those who looked after them.If you enjoyed 'Plunkett and Macleane' you will love this. "},{"Title":"The message is over shadowed by the film's mediocrity","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I admire people that come out and tell it like it is.  I may not always agree with them, but at least some people just come right out and tell you what you already know but seem to either forget or just conveniently over look.  Take for example retired basketball star Charles Barkley who has always maintained that he is not a role model.  That he is not responsible for raising your kids.  Some people were outraged by this.  He is an icon, he is a celebrity, he is a sports star that kids look up to and he has to act accordingly.  He responded by saying, yes I am an athlete, yes I am in the public eye, but education and manners and morality starts at home. Not with a man that is being paid millions of dollars to put a ball through a hoop.  No one ever annointed guys like Barkley or Jordan or Britney Spears or the President of the United States to raise your kids.  That is up to the individual parent(s).  Jim Carrey also made a similar point about Eminem at one of the award shows.I start with this opening prelude to the review about Quills because although I thought the movie to be somewhat of a let down, I did appreciate it and respect it for what it was saying and trying to convey to us. Times haven't changed from the 1500's to the 1800's to the 2000's.  Sure there is a greater thresh hold from the public about what will be tolerated and what won't but there is still that insistent fear that if a twelve year old hears the F-word or if an adult watches too much porn that they will act out some asinine, fatuous scenario based on what they have seen and or heard. Marquis de Sade, the man may have been a murdering, heinous man, but not because he wrote about it but because he had acted upon it.  Words cannot kill you, that can only be accomplished by one person's hand.They're only words, he says at one point in the film.Quills follows de Sade's final days in an insane asylum where he is at first allowed to write because the asylum's priest, Abe Coulmier, (played well by Joaquin Phoenix) has actually befriended him in some way.  He believes that by letting Marquis continue his writings this will provide a cleansing of sorts from his noxious fantasies  ( I guess his fantasies were so barbaric that they actually made a word after him, sadism--quite the achievement ). Once his privileges are taken away from his ( because they have developed a cult following outside the prison walls ) he uses any means possible and perseveres by using his clothes, melted wax, his own blood and excretement to get his message out.  This ultimately spells imminent doom as Napolean sends in a hard nosed, sadist of a doctor named Royer Collard ( Michael Caine ).  It is up to him to get Marquis to curve his insatiable desire to write such filth.  Kate Winslet plays the maid who smuggles out his manuscripts.Phillip Kaufman is the man at the helm of Quills and I have to admit that I am not a huge fan of his work.  I found Rising Sun to be a boring thriller and The Unbearable Lightness of Being to be quite slow as well.  I did however admire 1978's Invasion of the Body Snatchers but there was no innovativeness with Quills the way there was in Body Snatchers.  Perhaps Kaufman's strength lies with great character development and action is not really his forte.  And if that sounds acceptable to you, then Quills works well.  I however, wanted to know more.  I wanted to know how it is that he became so driven, so sadistic, so thirsty for his indelible taste for violent and perverse sexual practices.  I didn't get any of that here. And seeing as this is a film that has such an interesting message about the dangers of sensored sex, sensored writing and sensored living, I am surprised that it didn't offer more.The acting by Phoenix and Winslet and especially Michael Caine is wonderful. I was however a little surprised with Rush's performance.  To me, he was good but he didn't seem any different than he was in The House On Haunted Hill.  The two characters could have been reincarnations of one another. To agree with Roger Ebert, Christopher Walken and Willem Dafoe or an aged and makeup enhanced Steve Buschemi would have been quite interesting in the film in the lead role.Quills is interesting if not a little slow.  I admire it for all that it says about us as human beings.  Life is deranged enough as it is with real instances of violence and rape and sodomy.  To blame that all on what we read and watch is taking the easy way out.  We have to lay the blame on usas parents in some way or another.  I grew up listening to NWA telling me to f*** the police and to country and western songs ( my parents listened to WCXI, all country, when I was 7 )about cheating spouses and that doesn't mean that I am going to gun down an officer of the law or have sex with someone other than my wife.  I understand right and wrong, so do most other people.  If they do these things it is because they wanted to not because they were influenced or compelled to because of a song or a movie or a book. On that level Quills is excellent.  It just falters in other avenues. Still, it is a good effort.6.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a surprising treat","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This was one of those movies I went to see simply because one of the actors in it (Pheonix) is goregous and the plot seemed rather interesting. I in no way expected to enjoy it as much as I did. It is one of those movies that makes my friends look at me and say how could you like that? and makes me ask myself the same question. While both grusome and overly sexual the movie uses these two things to further the plot. It is not like so many of todays movies where violence and sex are simply placed in movies to make money. The acting was suberb, Kate Winslet and Pheonix were by far in one of their greatest roles to date. I can understand why others would find it disgusting but i pesonally found all too appealing. "},{"Title":"Very impressive but...","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  When it's finished, you get out really exhausted - not knowing whether a good film or not, still confused by what you had seen. The players were good but among them all Geoffrey Rush is showing great performance. Big bravo for art direction, set decoration and costume design also. Altogether it is very thrilling. The problem is, Marquis de Sade story was stylised (which reminds me Milos Forman's Amadeus) and became some sort of farce with its very own ethics and a load of blood. We don't get to know who is this weird man called Marquis. What's really in his mind? He's talking impudently, he's been to hell, but we only read about it (and now watching the movie). But this poor and beautiful laundress is intelligent enough to understand and help him survive in the asylum he was kept. Though we keep the concern of whether it's the real story or not, it's not easy to keep from thinking why are the characters we made to like are punished while statusquo win again. "},{"Title":"Mediocre film, one brilliant performance","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It is extraordinary that I fell asleep in the middle of a movie about the Marquis de Sade, but there it is. I'm sure this was considered pretty racy stuff in Peoria, but I wasn't shocked. For a lot of the time, I wished everybody would stop talking and get on with whatever was going to happen.  There was, however, one absolutely brilliant performance Jaochim Phoenix. He is truly a phenomenal actor and he had to run a prodigious gamut of emotion to pull off this role, which would have been trite and tiresome in the hands of a less gifted actor. His final anguish was terrifying. Had he not been in the movie, it would have been a total bust. With him in it, it was a noble failure. "},{"Title":"The Marquis de Sade is back for good","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  QUILLS (2000) ***½ Directed by Philip Kaufman. Starring Geoffrey Rush, Kate Winslet, Joaquin Phoenix, Michael Caine.The time is the 19th century and the place is a mental institution in France. There, among the ordinary patients, is one of the most famous and polemic personalities of his time the Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush), one of the most sexually perverted and subversive men that we've heard about- a genius for some and a repugnant being for others. He has a different treatment in comparison with the other patients, but the most extraordinary thing is that he continues writing and earning money with his sarcastic and kinky books. His contact with the outside world is a maid from the institution, the virginal Madeleine (Kate Winslet), who sends his writings to the city by a horseman. But Napoleon doesn't appreciate the back of Sade and sends a doctor (Michael Caine), adherent of curious methods in order to cure the patient, to the institution. And, audience, this story is just beginning...With such a promising story and many other qualities, QUILLS, the new film of director Philip Kaufman (THE RIGHT STUFF, THE UNBEARABLE LIGHTNESS OF BEING), fulfilled all my expectations and even more. Can you remember of any period picture that is gorgeous, thought-provoking, richly acted, written and directed... and entertaining, all at the same time? Maybe 2 or 3 came to your mind, and now QUILLS. The fact is that it doesn't break new grounds for technic or narrative. But, while it could have been another cold, slow-paced and stale film intended to win some Oscar statues, it brings the audience into the story. Director Philip Kaufman deserves merit for that. All his previous works were about serious and mature subjects, but they had some very slight humor. In QUILLS it's not different. Even having a subject directly related to sex in hands, he didn't make a film with cheap sex scenes- the sexuality is never out of place. The audience I attended to, including me, laughed during some peculiar moments, especially because of Sade's ironical comments, unexpected attitudes and kinky writings. But Kaufman doesn't let his hand get heavy, because the screenplay, maybe the best thing here, has strength, great character development and is unpredictable. Unfortunately, it wasn't nominated to the Oscar, giving place to the disjointed writing of O BROTHER, WHERE ART THOU?.If the screenplay wasn't nominated to the Academy Awards, Geoffrey Rush didn't give place to some amateurish actor. His performance is a hell of a one, just brilliant and unconventional. He could have easily fallen into lots of clichés and easy solutions, but he is powerful enough to remain terrific every time his character is on the screen. Kate Winslet is great, wasn't nominated, but the best supporting actress category was difficult this year- Catherine Zeta-Jones (TRAFFIC) wasn't nominated too. Joaquin Phoenix and Michael Caine also have space to show their talent.With so many qualities, QUILLS has a third act that is not so great as the other two, but this isn't a big flaw, since I was entertained and the story kept my attention during the entire film. I highly recommend this if you enjoy a mixture of period drama, thriller, irony and kinkiness. Kaufman makes a picture that is quite similar to Milos Forman's THE PEOPLE VS. LARRY FLINT, talking about freedom to express your thoughts, but never turning it into a radical speech. And the first scene is one of my favorites of the year powerful, surprising and beautiful in a strange way- just as Marquis de Sade's writings... and the film in a whole. "}{"Title":"One of the best films of 2000 (spoilers?)","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Let me start with a rebuttal of those who say this film is historically inaccurate Quills was based on a recently written play by Doug Wright which partially fictionalizes the actual life of the Marquis de Sade. Showing the complete life and times of the Marquis de Sade would  be unfilmmable and perhaps boring. (The only real movie where historical inaccuracy is a major problem is Gladiator (2000). Nevertheless, it has become one of the Academy's top favorites due to the number of nominations and soon-to-be awards.) The direction by Philip Kaufman was superb. The script was superb. The acting was superb. The cinematography was superb. (Everything is so superb!) The only thing that keeps this from being perfect is the breakdown of Phoenix's character at the end, which did seem out of place. The religious hypocrisy of the time made you loath Michael Caine's character as the hospital warden, who contradicts his own disapproal of the Marquis behavior by an arranged marriage with an underage nun.  This is one of those films that you have to see on a big screen to comprehend the atmosphere of the set. So, when it releases on video, see it on DVD! "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A brilliant film that contains more complex and interesting ideas than a decade's worth of Hollywood films, without losing the sense of a narrative. If you want a film which gives you the story of Sade's life then don't go and see this, as it takes massive liberties with the biographical facts. Instead the film engages with some of the questions raised by Sade's work and the way it has been received - what is the relationship between writing and responsibility, or between art and freedom? What creates violence and cruelty - irresponsible art and ideas, too much freedom, or the repressive nature of the state? But it doesn't do this in any didactic or heavy-handed way; instead it poses these questions in the context of a well-constructed narrative which is often moving and funny. Although he won't win the best actor Oscar (he fails to qualify on the grounds that he's not Tom Hanks), Geoffrey Rush puts all the other contenders into the shade with his amazing performance as Sade. All the other main actors are outstanding too, although it's a shame that Billie Whitelaw wasn't on screen more often.  "},{"Title":"entertaining, but probably quite far from the real story","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Well, another film about the Marquis de Sade. This time the anglo-saxon way gross gore and violence, reluctant sex scenes, and a lot of adjusting of the real story in order to fit it into a ...comedy? I doubt that Sade's writings had such an amusing impact on every other woman as it was shown in the picture. But, with history and eroticism put aside, the movie is far more entertaining than the recent French version Sade (2000). The story and the characters are multifaceted and fit well together. A couple of sub-plots have not been followed to the end, but that's no big defect. Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix made it really worth the admittance. And did I see a male dick there? It should have been erected, but maybe that was inside the cut out minute of the subtitled British version I saw. "},{"Title":"COMPLETELY AMAZING","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you are into funny,exciting, thought-provoking, riveting drama then this film is for you ! Geoffrey Rush's performance is truly exceptional and Kate Winslet is brilliant as always but in my opinion Joaquin Phoenix's performance is breathtaking.  If you haven't seen this actor before check him out in this film NOW. I'm positive you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The write stuff","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Phil Kaufman's Marquis de Sade biopic perhaps closely resembles a Carry On movie, Dick being the obvious choice for fans of that series.Kate Winslet is Barbara Windsor - bubbly, sexy - Geoffrey Rush is Sid James, always ready with a double entendre and a lusty laugh.Whether this works in such a big US movie is open to question.For the most part, Quills is an absorbing study of censorship which descends into grim satire by the inevitable conclusion. The cast are excellent and Michael Caine gives a fine performance as the man who brings De Sade down. Not exactly uplifting or for the easily shocked but a brave stab at a tricky subject. "},{"Title":"I needed a shower","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A few years ago I stopped reading film reviews before going to see films. Being a student of film, I prefer to know as little a possible going into a movie so that I may form my own opinion.  I knew that Quills was about eroticism and I know little about the life of the Marquis de Sade.  The first hour intrigued me.  Drawn in be the character of the Abbe and held there by the misguided chambermaid.  Both Joaquin Phoenix and Kate Winslet reflected a piece of human nature that is intrinsically good and none perverse.  Both have impure thoughts and feelings, yet cannot. will not express them through action.  Geoffery Rush represents all that is vile and wrong with society of today and the period in which the film is set.  His writings, the way in which he and the public live out the darkest depths of the soul suggest that man is intrinsically evil and must have a way to express their dark desires in a form that is non-harmful; his script. Through all of this, Phoenix attempts to help the Marquis, truly believing he can be helped, that he is a good person on the inside.  The result of this man's love for man is the ultimate suffering.  Michael Caine plays the unloving Dr. Royer-Collard and destroys all the dear Abbe has done.  He allows the one man, in the world this film creates, who could have provided any shred of decency and love to fall into the same pit of hell that de Sade himself is victim. A viewer can gain two things from this film.  A sense that all people in the world are intrinsically evil and need some way to release all feelings of hate and anger in a way so not to harm each other, only so that they can stand to be near themselves.  And that religion is only something that begs to be rejected.  Even in his last action of grace for Phoenix must stand by and watch Rush swallow the cross that can save his soul. This film was not expressly graphic, nor was it grotesque.  I admit I have seen porn with more graphic nature and material that would turn your stomach, yet this is the only film I have ever seen that left me with a feeling of disgust.   I felt as though I needed a shower after watching this film.  The ideas and images it suggested disturbed me beyond anything I could have imagined. Now that I have seen the film, and that I understand it is tame in comparison to the Marquis true life, I still feel that if the intent of this film was to open the mind to the depths of the perversion and vileness of this man's life, I'd say his job is done.  Cinematically and artistically, this film is a masterwork, but as the subject matter goes, I have never been more disturbed by a work of film in my life.  "},{"Title":"Quills is witty and charming...","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is witty & charming in the ways it arouses our most devious of desires. Some of us anyway...The similarities between the Marquis and the Doctor are subtley displayed yet the movie would be less meaty without them.The best thing about this movie is the playfulness in which it portrays his madness. At first you feel as if you want to place him in the same category as Lord Byron... then you realize the extent of his psychosis.My only disappointment is how far the story strays from the actual life of the Marquis. Which was odd to me since he real life was so much more interesting. Watching this movie will make you want to know more about him... Quills shrivels in comparison... "},{"Title":"Philip Kaufman's Worst Film Ever - A Wasted Quill","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This dark depressing art-house film is a true disappointment. What a waste of a good quill..... Any decent reviews of this film are probably just plants by Fox SL Studios as the extremely poor box office performance speaks for itself. Quills is really about Philip Kaufman spouting his own personal dark sexual perversions and negative kharma as the only true art produced here is the lingering taste of paint thinner the film leaves in your mouth.... why even go there...A complete waste of the studios time, energy and money (as well as mine). Maybe Mr.Kaufman should try and make a film with a HAPPY ending sometime... it might just pay off. "},{"Title":"AN EROTIC PLAY","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the most adult I've seen in a long time.  Geoffrey Rush makes some good points about the sexuality in human nature.....that those who preach against it, desire it most, making them hypocrites.  As the Marquis de Sade, Rush has never been better and could pull off a surprise win at the Oscars.  Michael Caine, as a torturer and sadist, posing as a medical moralist, is brilliant as well and holding his own is Joaquin Phoenix as a priest whose loyalties are dictated by conscience.  Kate Winslet also performs well here as a simple chamber maid who helps fight the censorship plaguing the Marquis de Sade.  Doug Wright has written a vicious sexual odyssey and Philip Kaufman directs with parallels to his 'Henry and June' and 'The Unbearable Lightness of Being' "},{"Title":"The fascinating and somewhat pornographic life of the infamous and dramatic Marquis De Sade","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie was excellent.  The story is one that has you laughing with hysteria, gasping from passion, and flinching from exlpisideness.  I think that all the actors were amazing, and I can guarantee that this wont be the last time I go see this.  Geoffrey Rush is a given as De Sade, but Joaquin Pheonix won me over.  He was so amazing, and I think that he deserves an Oscar nomination, if not the statue itself.  GO SEE QUILLS, you won't be disappointed.  If there was ever a movie that not only arouses oneself, but lures you into the life of a madman and creative genious, it is Quills. "}{"Title":"Best mainstream film of 2001","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I desperately wanted to see Quills before finalizing my top 10 of the year 2000 and in good cause.  Critics were raving about this film since October, and I couldn't wait to see them right, partly because I wouldn't be caught dead with mainstream films (most of my top ten is filled with independent flicks) like Nurse Betty and Pay it Forward on my list.  Bref, it was a very weak mainstream cinéma year compared to 1999.  I was not disappointed by Quills though. It fell exactly in my typical  favorite picture of the year which is the exquisitely told story of the descent to hell of a main character(s) which is not taking sides for good or evil (in that case, puritains versus Marquis de Sade followers). Aside from the brilliant acting (kudos again Mr. Rush... you even made Joaquim Pheonix shine), the film didn't fall for the easy trap of either showing only the extreme consequences of Sade's writings (i.e. potential injury or death inflicted by some of his readers to their sexual partners) or only  showing the hypocrisy of people reprimanding Sade (having troubled sexual lives themselves, like the elderly man marrying a 16 year old).  The film showed BOTH these facets, so for that it gets an automatic 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Silence of the lambs in 19th century France!!! BRILLIANT!!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film yesterday at a free preview and what can I say I was expecting to either see mild porn or be bored silly. But all I could say was WOW this film had me gripped from the outset the acting is superb and Rush steals every scene. What a breath of fresh air to see such performances after a year of wooden and mindless acting. Winslet does her usual turn of being brilliant, and to my surprise considering the content stays pretty much in her corset throughout the film (to the dismay of my boyfriend).This film is deliciously disturbing with lavish cinemagraphy and great costume. You'll be laughing one minute and cringing the next. This film is an utter delight and for the lover of A* acting and intriguing script this is a film they can sink their teeth into. The images (no matter how gruesome) will stay with you well after. This is a cult classic in the making. If you see one film this January make this it, it's well worth it, you'll be pleasantly surprised.Rush deserves an Oscar nomination, Winslet gets back to the meaty roles she deserves (In my personal opinion the parts have been badly written and dull since Hamlet. Oh yes Academy why no nomination for her amazing turn as Ophelia) and Joaquin adds another brilliant film to his growing CV definitely an actor to watch after his performance in Gladiator. And what can I say in what minor role he does have; it's definitely proven why he's Sir Michael Caine.Word of warning though this film is not for the faint of heart as it does get pretty gruesome.  "},{"Title":"truly breathtaking","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  and brilliant, erotic and disturbing, this movie paralyzed me.  I was giddy all the way home.  I wanted them to rewind the film and play it again and again and again...Phoenix is achingly lovely, Winslet is coy and pure, Caine's malevolence is palpable.  But the true praise goes to Geoffrey Rush who proves once again that he is one of the finest actors working today. A true must see.  "},{"Title":"Perfect for the age of Eminem","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  FargoFan's reaction to how Quills treats history is totally valid. However, Arthur Miller's Crucible commits the same crime of taking real people and distorting history for dramatic effect; I don't attack that work or Quills, because essentially both are allegories addressing bigger social issues.Quills is perfect for the age of Eminem- another artist whose profane scandalous works of sex and violence are selling like wildfire around the country and world  (The Real Slim Shady was No. 2 on the top 40 in Ireland.) Meanwhile, the content is assaulted by rights groups, coalitions of rightist Christians along with liberal feminist and homosexual groups. Questions of free speech, rights of record labels to profit off such lyrics, the place of government, and whether work such as Eminem's will incite violence all arise.Quills handles these very issues in a provocative manner.  Abbe Coulmier poses the same questions to De Sade that we pose to Eminem.  Why can't he write more positive work?  De Sade I write of human fundamentals.  We live. We eat.  We s**t.  We f**k.  We die. It's religion's obligation to illustrate virtues, not art, and a religion that can't tolerate the opposition is a weak one.  Coulmier says that De Sade writes wooden characters and flat dialogue, just as many accuse Eminem's work of repeating the same self-aggrandizing themes over and over again.There is the issue of profiting from such work- De Sade's wife eventually uses the tainted money from Justine to fund the renovations of the asylum, just as Collard later uses profits from the Opus Sadicum to further expand Charenton, and probably funnel a good deal to his mansion.  The film enters an ambiguous moral territory by showing De Sade's work used to further the oppressive potential of Charenton.Quills seems to see corruption as the first step to redemption, but nowhere does one get the sense that there is a light at the end of the tunnel.  You leave the theater asking questions and having no answers. The virtuous dashing hero, Abbe Coulmier, turns into a madman.  The Marquis is progressively stripped, in every sense of the word, of any power or potential.  There is no one to root for.  While inspired by the ingenious measures De Sade takes to write, I turn against him when faced with his monstrous insults to the Abbe, his lechery towards Madeleine, and violence towards his wife.Indeed, the character you end up rooting for is the nun-turned-whore wife of the Doctor.  She inspires De Sade's most volatile play, and De Sade's Justine in turn inspires her to escape her cage and run away into a lewd affair.  The film seems to just barely hit upon the sexual rights of women.  Part of what inspires the furor about De Sade is the way he seems to inspire women to sexual awareness- witness the first shot of the film, a ravishing young woman stripped of her maiden head at the guillotine while the crowd roars.  In some strange way, the Marquis seems to wish the liberation of these women from piety and convention through eroticism. Indeed, the only moment when De Sade hits a genuine emotional note (SPOILER) is in discovering Madeleine died a virgin he collapses in sorrow.Quills sacrifices any possibility of a happy ending from the moment the government decides to silence De Sade for the good of the nation. Napoleon seeks to end the scandal caused by the Marquis' words is to silence his tongue.  The words are sometimes brilliant, but often just childish perversity.  The people enjoy De Sade though- why not just allow the open consumption of his books?  There are rumors that readers of his books are led to murder and infidelity.  The response of the Abbe is simple If a man tried to walk on water and drowned, you wouldn't blame the Bible.The only answer seems for the government to neither fear the Marquis' work, but equally discourage making it into an enterprise.  De Sade should have been allowed to write freely and to be published, but not for profit. You don't have to listen to Eminem (and you certainly shouldn't award him before a national TV audience), but you do have to stop trying to shut them down.  You can try to counter his brand of rap with a more positive activist kind.  Unfortunately,  political rap gets little attention from commercial radio stations here, because the lyrics so often go against their commercial ends, sympathies, and hope to reach the largest possible audience by stripping the music of any genuine social or political positions.  Sorry for the thoughts, but like I said, Quills is a quite provocative allegory. It's also one of the best films of the year.Quills should win best adapted screenplay.  Kate Winslet, Joaquin Phoenix, Geoffrey Rush should be nominated for their work, along with cinematography, art direction, and director Philip Kaufman.  "},{"Title":"amazing !!!!!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Mr. Rush delivers a performance as good as any I have ever seen!!!!!I know that none here knows me, but I cannot recommend this movie too heavily. The acting was superb and the characters came to life before my eyes.I will go again ... and I must buy the DVD. "},{"Title":"Disturbing but excellent","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film, from controversial director Philip Kaufman, features Geoffrey Rush, in a spell binding performance, as the Marquis de Sade who writes sexually explicit smut novels from his mental ward, which he smuggles out through the aid of a young chambermaid (Kate Winslet, in another fine performance). Also noteworthy are Joaquin Phoenix as the well-meaning head of the establishment, who believes inrehabilitation, and Michael Caine as the mean-spirited doctor who is brought inby Napoleon to try to silence the Marquis. The performances are all excellent and the story is captivating, if a tad disturbing and explicit. GRADE A "},{"Title":"The Quill is Mightier Than The Pikestaff","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Yes, there is nudity, sex and perversion here -- just as with most modern blockbuster movies! However, there is much more to see than Joaquin Phoenix's bare chest or the endowments of Geoffrey Rush and Kate Winslet. Witty quips keep us laughing through all but the most horrifying of moments, while ironic twists and deep themes give much to think about after the movie is long over. Quills is a true work of art, well crafted in both prose and performance.Within the walls of Charenton, a French asylum for the insane, the Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush) is locked away in a prison of luxury. The Abbe de Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix), a very positive reflection on the loving nature of his God, seeks to treat the Marquis through the therapy of writing. Madeleine (Kate Winslet), the beautiful and pure laundry maid, is the woman that they both care for, each in his own extreme way. Into this precarious, but comfortable triangle, arrives the tyrannical Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine). Sent by the self-described despot, Napoleon, to calm the Marquis' exciting, yet embarrassing quill, the doctor is versed in such modern medical techniques as leeches, the iron maiden, and a calming chair which is used to repeated dunk and almost drown patients.Soon we are asking ourselves who the true sadist is here- the man who writes of prostitution, necrophilia and murder, or the man who forces himself upon a woman half his age, keeping her caged as a gilded bird? -the man who welds restraints and floggers via the hands of others or the one who shares it all with the world via his pen? And is the one who imposes such floggers and restraint upon himself a masochist, or simply a man true to his beliefs?It is interesting that a movie based on the man after whom sadism was named -- a sexual orientation that in actual practice is often concerned with the consensual disciplining of another -- reflects so much on the subject of disciplining oneself. We are shown the extremes of this - the facade of outer discipline in the Doctor, and the way he tries to impose it on others, - the maddening work of inner discipline on the Abbot, and- the desire to slip beyond discipline of the Marquis. The effect of each is shown on psyche of the man who lives it. All the while, Madeleine retains a reflection of simple, straightforward, acceptance of oneself, reminding us that Some things belong on paper, others in life. It's a blessed fool who can't tell the difference.As the Marquis literally uses a mirror to create words, his words seek to mirror life. His real sin a deep-seated *need* to open to the light of day the darkness that lies deep within the soul of man. He has the power, strength and insight of a man who knows his own madness, something that the Abbe later comes to understand all too well. Again and again, we see the theme of a man driven mad by the truth that burns within his soul, for whom writing is his only redemption. The questions of whether art can be used as therapy and whether such productions can be blamed as something so evil that it incites others to immoral acts is central to the movie. But the biggest question of all is who has the right to judge the artistic expressions of another, what drives those who would set themselves up to do this, and what hatred and immorality is stirred up when we start doing so. As a last note, I should point out that this movie is not necessarily true to historical accounts of the Marquis' life, especially in the manner of his death and in the nature of his relationship with Madeleine. Based on the out-of-print play by Doug Wright, I feel like much like The Crucible, this piece is meant to be more of a statement on the insanity that is created by the judgements of society, than it is to be a historically accurate treatise. I also believe that historical accounts of any person or event are only one viewpoint that has been filtered and changed through time, and therefore it does no harm to to entertain alternative interpretations and possibilities. "},{"Title":"The nicest surprise of 2000","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  After the rather bad movie year of 2000, _Quills_ was a pleasant surprise.This movie is good.  It's really, really good.Rather than become a French _One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest_ or a simple tale about censorship, _Quills_ takes a higher road and tells a complex historical tale about compassion, sadism, insanity, and the deepest longings of the human heart.  The screenplay itself is incredibly powerful and well-written (although perhaps Michael Caine's character is a bit too over the top) and the editing, though modest, is executed extremely well.Then there's the matter of actors and actresses.  Joaquin Phoenix, Kate Winslet, and especially Rush give unbelievable performances that deserve to be rewarded.Probably the best thing about this film though (and a rare one indeed these days) is that it allows the audience to work out the conflicts to satisfactory conclusions.  Unlike so many other films that seek to manipulate the audience, _Quills_ is open-ended and non-judgmental.  As a thinking movie fan, I cannot overestimate the importance of this aspect. "},{"Title":"Intense to say the least","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw Quills with a friend of mine, and after the film, she was saying that she didn't know if she liked it or hated it.  I didn't really fall into either extreme, but suffice it to say that this movie is definitely an experience.  Geoffrey Rush gives a brilliant, emotional performance, exquisitely portraying the Marquis de Sade's passion for life, for sex, and for writing.  I agree with some others that the movie had a few plot holes and even some exaggeration, but I absolutely thought it was beautiful and sumptuous visually, with gorgeous costumes and countryside and imposing old buildings.  The best thing about it was that the writers knew what would amuse modern viewers, whether by shock or pure wit.  SPOILER WARNING Michael Caine, in one of the most sinister performances I have ever seen of his, made the doctor appropriately absurd to the audience, and I practically cheered when that poor wife of his (beautiful newcomer Amelia Warner) made off with the architect.  In general, I would recommend this movie to anyone who's a real film buff - perhaps it's not perfect, but I think it deserves recognition for its overall composition. 9/10 "},{"Title":"What `Amadeus' did to reveal the genius behind Mozart's music, this film delivers to the Sade's obsession with passion.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  What seeds insanity?  Can any of us get there from here?  Is it born of genius, obsession, or perhaps two passions in direct conflict with one another?  This is a story about obsession.  It is marvelously told in two hours.  What `Amadeus' did to reveal the genius behind Mozart's music, this film delivers to the Sade's obsession with passion.Set at the dawn of the nineteenth century, it is the story of a French author known as the marquis de Sade whose sexual offenses confined him to an asylums for a quarter century . . . where he wrote obscene romances - including Justine (circa 1791).   The film covers perhaps a dozen of those years, though in the scenes . . . just a clip (no pun intended, when you see the film, i.e.).This is about a man whose soul drives him to write. There's an insatiable passion &#150; to compose &#150; no matter what the odds -  the barriers - to have his stories told.  He tells bawdy tales, either loved or loathed by his contemporaries &#150; but with no one abstaining from opinion.  The Sade `must publish' &#150; no matter how &#150; no matter the cost.  And the cost can be considerable.  And the domino effect is the most interesting feature.Geoffrey Rush delivers the performance of his lifetime.  Defined in the movie `Shine' (and better still in his supporting role in Elizabeth), he converts this role to pure gold.  Between Holy Smoke and Quills, Kate Winslet abandons the mediocrity tag I mistakenly assigned to her after Titanic.  She has become one of my favorite actresses.  Michael Caine and Joaquin Phoenix give supporting performances worth of Oscar nominations right alongside Rush and Winslet.  Why?  Because I was transported to this time vicariously through their portrayals.  This is a jaunt worth taking.  The entire cast (forgive me Geoffrey) shines.Stephen King published a book last year I loved called `On Writing'.  In it, he describes the joy He experiences in every phase of the writing process.  The marquis de Sade is the personification/caricature of the writer's writer.  He must either write or die.  It is a compelling tale, no matter how you might judge the subject matter about which he writes.Next Thanksgiving, I will still steer my mother toward re-renting Bambi before popping this particular tape into her VCR.  But for those with a love of `story' and character development, this is a film worthy of twice the admission price.  8 out of 10 from me.Now, to find a copy of Justine.     "}{"Title":"You Can't Keep a Bad Man Down","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  In Quills, directed by Philip Kaufman, Geoffrey Rush proves to be an unstoppable force to be reckoned with as the salacious Marquis de Sade. Confined to his rather comfortable quarters in an 18th century mental institution, he amuses himself and infuriates others by cranking out volumes of erotic, depraved material. And it's no accident his controversial fantasies find their way to eagerly awaiting publishers. Kate Winslet, as a chambermaid-type by the name of Madeleine, not only befriends the Marquis, but also delights in reading his stories and promptly smuggling them to the outside world. As always, she is voluptuous, genuine and a pleasure to watch. Of course, there are those, not the least of which is Napoleon himself, who are determined to put an end to the Marquis' prolific tomes. Without a doubt, his greatest adversary is Michael Caine's very effective Dr. Royer-Collard. As the newly appointed and not-very-nice proprietor of the asylum, we soon learn he'll do practically anything to maintain order. As a pawn to Royer-Collard is Coulmier, an angst-ridden priest played by Joaquin Phoenix. Coulmier's intentions are virtuous, but his unrequited lust for Winslet and his soft spot for the Marquis are his potential downfalls. Rush is the star and driving force of the film. His amazing, relentless performance is forceful and eloquent. Right behind him, however, is Phoenix, also creating a memorable portrait of a tortured soul in the middle of appalling circumstances. Overall, the film is quite good on virtually every count, partially because director Kaufman doesn't get too caught up in a frenzy of  excess and embellishment. Such indulgences would be tempting traps for this kind of subject matter and create the kind of deliberate, sensorial overload that can obscure or undermine good material. A minor criticism is that the film seemed a bit long at two hours and fifteen minutes. More than once, I expected it to end; yet it continued running to the crucial last scene. To date there have been few, if any, decent attempts on film to portray the life of the Marquis de Sade, undoubtedly one the literary world's most infamous writers. And this is all the more reason to see Quills. It stimulated my curiosity, and ever since seeing it, I've wondered how closely the film parallels the true facts and circumstance surrounding his life. Guess I have some research to do...     "},{"Title":"Who runs the asylum?","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The subtitle of the film could be MADNESS MADE MADDER. We see virtue, vice, and the full spectrum in between. Vice pretends to be virtue and vice versa and only the truly  discriminating person can tell the difference -- if in fact there is a difference in the madhouse that pretends to be the normal human world.This is an unusual film -- to say the least. It dares to take us into the labyrinth of the human mind. Enter if you dare. You might never return -- at least not without being touched by madness and evil. This is a very, very dark comedy that makes you wonder why the human asylum is run by inmates. "},{"Title":"The Folly of Sexual Repression","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is a rare example of intelligent movie-making, a film featuring fearless acting, fine direction, eye-riveting cinematography, and, most importantly, meaning and idea.A lot of pretentious critical ink has dripped on this film, claiming that it is about the plight of the artist.  It is not about the plight of the artist.  It is about what happens when a society represses sexuality. What happens?  All hell breaks loose.  It is about what happens when an individual represses sexuality.  What happens?  That person's sexuality rechannels itself into acts of warped sado-masochism.  That sado-masochism often wears a pseudo-noble mask  cruelty is excused as therapy or justice or penance.  Quills exposes these lies and shows us the folly of sexual repression and high-minded censorship.The writer and director have chosen to use a real person to explore this idea, the Marquis de Sade, and they have taken much license in doing so. Hats off to them; their embroidery works.  Hats off to all the actors too, especially Geoffrey Rush who gives a fully-drawn, piercing and incredibly brave performance.  Don't take your grandmother, don't take the kids, but see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Satisfies, but disappointed (spoilers below!)","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I returned from Quills slightly disappointed.  I thought the film's look was excellent, appropriate for the time period and the plot.  The script provides complex and compelling characters.  I thought the acting was superb.  Joaquin Phoenix's performance as the tortured abbey blew me away. He is an excellent actor and his talent has much improved since his lukewarm Gladiator performance.  Kate Winslet proves yet again what an amazing actress she is, and both Michael Caine and Geoffrey Rush deliver concentrated, convincing performances.So why did I feel let down as I exited the theatre?  I commented to my friend that the movie died when Kate Winslet did.  The Marquis de Sade all but disappeared near the end of the film.  The death of laundress Madeleine seemed totally unneccessary.  After all, her rape was foreshadowed numerous times and her would-be rapist cut her tongue out? There are worse fates than death, after all.  Wouldn't it be interesting if she, rather than the Abbey had been driven mad and carried on de Sade's work?My other problem involves the Abbey's insanity.  Why would a man who dealt with all obstacles by removing himself from them ultimately embrace the vile principles he abhors and fears.  I just did not buy his madness at all. It seemed totally incongruous with his character.Lastly, my comments on the final scenes.  The symbolism should have been toned down.  Gee, the evil doctor is a hypocrite?  The prudish maid is now the doctor's coquette?  The good abbey has been driven mad?  Sex has triumphed over piety?  Freedom of expression cannot be stopped?  I knew all this at the Marquis' death, so why must it be blatently rehashed?Otherwise, I enjoyed the film.  In spite of its shortcomings, I rate it eight out of ten stars.  "},{"Title":"Roseybuds and longstaves...This film is rated R?","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I agree with others who went into this picture FAMILIAR with SADE that this was very tame by comparison to his writings. I read parts of 120 days of Sodom and found poorly written perversion on perversion...In fact it was just plain gross. Not the erotic, 'naughty' scribblings that the higher powers found so disturbing in the opening of this film, but really disturbing, graphic depictions of brutality that should'nt, and cannot be taken lightly.Quills shows a rather sunny side to the Marquis, indeed the first half of the film feels more like a 'comedy'...the second falls into high melodrama that bordered close to camp. You only get a small taste of what the Marquis is truly capable of with  one scene showing an interesting version of 'the chainmessage game'.Other than that segment, he seems to be just a perverted libertine with a passion for dirty words. Taken on it's own, it was'nt a bad movie...but Oscar contender? Is the Academy that desperate? The story is simplistic...(Towards the end of his life, the Marquis lives lavishly in an insane asylum, his writing is snuck out by a chambermaid, upon its publishing catches the eye of those in command, a 'inquisitor' is sent to silence the marquis...)There is'nt much depth there...(and yes, there is more to the story, but no, I'm not going to rewrite others same synopsis) What the film lacks in dramatic power it makes up for in witty, biting diologue early in the picture, an outstanding performance by Mr. Rush as the Marquis; nods to the suberb technical qualities including cinematography and costumes, and of course, Kate Winslet's boobs. The film, while wonderful to look at, was like eating an eggo straight from the toaster...hot, tasty...but lacking substance. Another point, how the heck did this film pass with an R? While tame to my standards I found the crowds reactions to the sex and bawdy talk to be quite humorous...It's funny to think of those familiar with Kate Winslet in Titanic gasping with shock at phrases like 'roseybuds' and 'longstaves', then giggling nervously like children in sex ed. There was more sex, and considerably more violence in it than your average picture... 'NC-17'...hmm, that whole ratings thing urks me. On this note, which brings home the whole or part of what the film relishes in, is the glory of truth...in the good and evil that is everpresent in all... The film was'nt dark enough...it was far too 'enjoyable' and light given that it centers on the MARQUIS DE SADE, who is known as being one of the most depraved minds put to print. Overall, an ok job of bringing the  Marquis to 'MAINSTREAM'cinema, ...but the only nuts that the picture dares to exhibit are those that live in the sanitarium with him.Check out Paris, France or Henry Fool to experience underrated films with cajones and true staying power!  "},{"Title":"Quills tickles desire","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm 24 now, but when I was young I remember reading justine and bedroom stories, I was expecting Quills to be stories or dream image sequences of eroticism mixed with sadomastic images. The film supplied none, but it did leave me with a word at its conclusion- Brave. Mr. Rush plays an intoxicating-rabid Marquis de Sade, and although it takes you with him to the brink of madness not felt since Mozart in Amadeus, he becomes somewhat comical and takes away the seriousness we should expect from him. J. Phoenix and Kate Winslet have scene stealing chemistry but Dr. Royer took away the concentration of the time era and brought it somewhat to the present. I wish the film had more story of Sade, to get the reason for his character, a little back story, simply because I dont expect the audience to know anything-while the films portrays Sade as always being unstable  and confined. I felt the movie was Brave because it was so close of being a masterpiece and the climax of the film was a tidal wave of emotional horror. "},{"Title":"The best movie of 2000","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is without a doubt the best movie of the year 2000.  The acting is superb, the script is brilliant, and the direction is masterful.  DO NOT miss Quills.  It is the most deliciously naughty film to come down the pike in years! "},{"Title":"Enjoyed the previews over the actual film...","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film has been lauded, but came across as rather laundered to me.Oh Quills will come across as scathing to some; as there is some nasty violence and male nudity. Odd how some people are more frightened by a penis attached to body than a head severed from one.I'm filing this under the coulda films...I wonder what this coulda been without the quivering lip love story...or what it coulda been with more complex characters...heretics need more than hypocritical authority to contrast their genius. Or was this the Howard Stern story....yawn.While I regret that I was not more familiar with de Sade, I was curious to see if this film would either show him as a talent far ahead of his time, or if it would show him as one reason why it can be so difficult to have something as obviously necessary as freedom of speech. I guess the film leans towards the latter...but it coulda been so much more.Did someone make a movie about the kids influenced by a Judas Priest song? This film swoons slightly towards that...I know a lot of people are going to see this, I hope some of you will also check out Bamboozled by Spike Lee. And I hope there will be more films on heretics...God knows we need 'em. "},{"Title":"Oscar time","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Okay, it's not the most magnificent movie of all time. It is definitely the best movie I've seen in this  very forgettable year of plodding movies. There were several things that were noticeable. &#149; The play that was acted for the benefit of the Doctor (Caine) was just like a mirror or the audience  viewing Quills. Some were offended, others were shocked and some left. The ones that stayed  were fascinated by the debaucher monster - the Doctor or de Sade. At least de Sade never  forced the chambermaid. He at least understood the meaning of the word love. He had a distorted  view of it, but he was far less a hypocrite than the Doctor. &#149; Joachim Phoenix can act (!). I knew he could perform lines adequately, but this is the best bit he's  ever done, including To Die For and definitely better than Gladiator in which he simply preened. &#149; (SPOILER) What is it with Kate Winslet and watery graves (Titanic not her, but close,  Hamlet, Quills, and rain-related near-death pneumonia in Sense and Sensibility) &#149; Amazingly enough, there was more male than female nudity. I think this is a first. Not integral to the  comments on the movie, but a couple of days after I saw the premiere, it struck me as a surprising  fact.I can't wait to see it again. "},{"Title":"No middle ground on this one.","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw Quills the other day.  Throughout the film, I heard laughter and gasps of shock and horror in equal measure.  As I left, I overheard one couple exclaiming to anyone that would listen that That print should be burned!  However, I left the theater literally in tears.  To me, Quills was one of the best, if not the best, film I've seen in a while.  This film seems to divide people sharply into those who hated it, and those who loved it. The acting in it was amazing.  Michael Caine was truly evil in his role -- he really is an amazing actor.  Kate Winslet was also incredible.  She blended the right amounts of innocence and seductive charm.  Of course, Geoffrey Rush was unbelievable as the Marquis de Sade.  I can't imagine the Marquis being much different from Rush's portrayal.  However, the best performance in my opinion was that of Joaquin Phoenix.  His portrayal of the Abbe torn between his loyalty to his morals and vows and his feelings for Madeleine.  His descent is truly chilling to watch.  Granted, the film is not for everyone.  The material in the movie varies from highly erotic to deeply disturbing, sometimes almost to the point of stomach-turning.  It is a film about the Marquis de Sade and his writing, but it is also a film about morality and censorship versus the freedom to engage in pleasure-seeking...but at what point do you draw the line?  Should there be a line drawn?  These are the questions addressed in Quills.  They're addressed in a frank, direct way that is (understandably) disturbing to some.  However, if you have a) a strong constitution and b) the desire to see a film that will keep you thinking for days afterward, go see Quills!   "}{"Title":"Best Movie I've Seen This Year","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've seen around 40-50 films this year (nothing too obscure, mostly the standard Top 10 fare), and I thought this was the best new release I've seen yet (close runners up were Titus and X-Men). A bit talk-y, very dark/disturbing, riveting performances all around. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Best Picture material","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  In a year that will probably be forgotten in film history books, Quillsstands out as a masterpiece by comparison. It's far from perfect,but it satisfies and titillates and doesn't wince away from the truth.Philip Kaufman, director of  Henry & June and The UnbearableLightness of Being, is a master of the erotic mood. The tone of hisfilms draw you in to other times and naughty mindsets. And yet hesomehow manages to avoid purience and downright lewdnessthrough intelligent writing and fascinating characters.Quills is not for the easily offended. In fact, I'd say it stands as anintentionally affront to those who pale in the face of the baser (andtherefore truer) side of human nature. I saw this film last night in alocal theatre (in oh-so-offendable Marin county). A woman sittingbehind me kept gasping in horror throughout the showing. Halfwaythrough, a threesome of grey-hairs walked out. But for those who can stomach real art, this film is like a paintingbrought to life. The incidental characters all looked like they juststepped out the walls of the Louvre. The lighting invokes thestrokes of the somber, candle-lit oil paintings of that time period(post-revolution France). Of course, all the actors speak with anEnglish accent, so some sense of authenticity is lost there.However, this is more than made up for by quality of the acting.Geoffory Rush is amazing, as always. Kate Winslet is perfect.Michael Kane is sufficiently intimidating, always making youwonder who the real Sadist is.See it with someone you lust after.  "},{"Title":"First Look at an Oscar Contender","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"       I hate period films.  They are often boring, stuffy and difficult to understand.  Quills is none of these things. Within the first ten minutes you a drawn in to this movie and Geoffrey Rush takes you on a rollercoaster ride of awesome act- ing.  All I can say is wow!      This film is visually pleasing, with scenery that captures the the period as well as the spirit.  The acting of all thecharacters is spellbinding.      Rush captures the spirit of the tortured soul that needs to get his fantasies on paper at any cost.  And for all who know him...they pay for that cost dearly.      You'll laugh and you'll cry!  For those who enjoy seeing actors at their best- this is the movie to see!  "},{"Title":"Squirming never felt sooo good!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The best film I've seen this year. An unforgiving roller coaster of emotion, No excuses. Awesome performances, Even better script, costumes, cinematography everything was almost perfect. Not since the English Patient have I been raked through the coals and loved it so much. "},{"Title":"Compelling drama in contraditions","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I totally enjoyed -- or experienced is perhaps more proper -- this production  its writing, direction, casting, location etc.  It balances humor, violence and pleasure in a well crafted drama that propels itself to the very end.  Having very little knowledge of the real Marquis de Sade, I was as curious as I was satisfied.It is a story in contradictions where the crime is lesser than the cure or punishment; where politics and power clash and abuses abound that mirror the purported crime(s) for which Sade himself was charged and punished.Being so satisfied in viewing 'Quills', does such pleasure make me a Sadist?I most certainly hope so.   "},{"Title":"Dark, dark, dark.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"    The 1966 Peter brook film, Marat Sade, was a dark rendering of the innards of the same Napoleonic asylum seen in Quills. However, Marat Sade is a sunny walk in the park compared to Quills.    Mr. Rush is absolutely brilliant as the infamous Marquis de Sade. He holds the screen in every one of his scenes. Joaquin Phoenix is also extremely impressive in his role as a tormented abbot. Ms. Winslet plays a very complex character well, but I have to say that she could have gone a little deeper. In fact, her performance is uneven, in my opinion. She comes off as a silly airhead by the end of the film. This has much to do with the film's climax. (No spoiler here.)    Now, about the dark thing. The film had me laughing constantly at first, but the viewer is drawn into a descent into the horror and madness. By the end of the film, I was almost depressed. Now, I am no happy ending freak. And I did rate the film highly. It is a technical success all the way, with that one Winslet exception. I am just reeling from its darkness, that's all. Michael Caine, of course, is the film's amazing Prince of Darkness. For those of you who, like I, usually like Caine, even when he is a villain, be prepared for a surprise.    Great film. A must see, but do yourself a favor and go to a matinee on a sunny afternoon.     "},{"Title":"Good acting and direction, so-so script (and not really about Sade)","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Let's just say the plot was inspired by de Sade's life, rather than based on it. One nice point, this Sade is just as antireligious as the original, but his quips are better Your god hung up his own son like a side of veal -- I can only imagine what he'd do to me.In any case, the character here is a writer locked up in a madhouse, who above all must keep on telling stories (in this case pornographic and/or violent) to live; and an establishment which simultaneously condemns his writing and (very literally) profits from it. The authorities keep taking away his writing instruments (the 'quills' of the title), but he perseveres, using wine, blood, even feces to keep scribbling away.I realize they're trying to make some political points here, but they're not well thought out. For example, the virginal Madeline says If I wasn't such a bad woman on the page, I couldn't be such a good woman in life. This sounds clever but it's not at all true virgins don't read pornography as part of a program of self-restraint, nor does it seem plausible that it would have this effect. The screenwriter knows this, too, as shown by the carryings-on of some of the minor characters.Better served is the idea that Sade's writing is no more horrific than the world he lived in, specifically the Terror which followed the French Revolution. This is reflected both in the opening scene (which I won't divulge, but is quite well done) and Sade's excellent line (to Coulmier), I've been to Hell. You've only read about it in books.The characters are not particularly complex, but the actors do an excellent job of hiding this. The hardest job is given to Michael Caine, whose character is really a cartoon villain, but he carries it off.I think I can warn you without 'spoiling' that the film has a nice 'madmen playing telephone through the prison walls' sequence about two-thirds of the way through, but the plot goes disappointingly awry after that.It should be noted that film owes much -- perhaps too much, there are many near-quotations -- to such wildly diverse sources as Silence of the Lambs (gore, mayhem, an imprisoned mad genius), The Pillow Book (a mania for writing and reading made flesh), and, most expectably, Marat/Sade (the politics of nihilism vs. revolution). It's unfortunate that Quills is not as good as any of them. "},{"Title":"Quills - 4 Excellent Actors deliver 4 Star Performances.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This period film is an invitation to peer into the keyhole of a castle, which is actually a mental asylum in France in the 1700's. The richness of the scenery, brilliance of performances and depth of character development made for an extremely entertaining and memorable film.  Geoffrey Rush was outstanding and perfect as The Marquis de Sade. The genius mind creates interest, intrigue and controversy in the institution and through his writings, within France.  Kate Winslet is magnificent and beautiful as Madeline who is fascinated and a friend to the Marquis.  Joaquin Phoenix's performance a tour de force. As the placid and sensitive Coulmier, he must come to terms with his own longings, separate from his role as care giver and friend.  Michael Caine, as Royer-Collard arrives by horse and carriage and forces those around him to make changes in their lives and brings morality issues to the center stage. The unfolding story, colorful cast of supporting characters and rich dialogue makes for a film not to be missed and an example of film making at its best.  "},{"Title":"Larry Flynt in a periwig?","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Doug Wright, the playwright and screenwriter, is a smart,smart guy, and the turn QUILLS takes from middlebrow  free-speech movie into Gothic horror is so ingenious itseems even to take the director, Philip Kaufman, by  surprise. Think of it as a comic version of Ken Russell'sTHE DEVILS a period-setting war between Larry Flynt andKen Starr. (The movie feels hobbled slightly by its lowbudget Kaufman's astute rendering of the French  Revolution is as chintzy as it is crafty.) Wright is an intuitivemaster of the Furthest Logical Extension the Marquis deSade, deprived of his quills, pricks his fingers and writes apornographic novella on his Tom Wolfean white suit. Andthe apocalyptic set piece, in which a Sade story is passedtelephone-style through a madhouse and causes riots,  suggests a waggish take on John Grisham's lawsuit  against NATURAL BORN KILLERS.Geoffrey Rush, a wonderful actor, sometimes seems to  think he's still in THE HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL, but  Michael Caine, as his tormentor, is so Joe Pro he  threatens to turn the other actors to powder. Kate Winslet,so frequently noisome in her cheekiness, is hugely  appealing here, and Joaquin Phoenix, a specialist in  self-doubt, is starting to give Montgomery Clift a run for hismoney. Not since The Marshall Mathers LP has  something so dark and asocial proved to be so...pop. "},{"Title":"Great production + flawed script = a disappointment","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills admirably aims to take a stand against censorship through dramatizing the Marquis de Sade's last days.  Trouble is what worked for the stage does not interpret well on-screen. The dialogue is excellent and witty, however the story relies on tired plot devices (e.g. the priest, Joaquin Phoenix, and the laundress, Kate Winslet, fall in love--Gasp! Shocking!) which take away from the Marquis.  A lot of time was spent on characterization and dialogue without fully realizing how the plot would flesh out and serve the film's purpose.  Ultimately, Quills will not do much to promote free speech.The acting is very strong here, with excellent performances by Geoffrey Rush, Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix.  Once again, Michael Caine phones in another uninspired performance.  The directing is thoughtful, humorous, and well-paced.  Kudos to the production designer, costumer, and cinematographer. "}{"Title":"An incredible film. Catch it in the theater if you can.","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Turns everything you have ever thought about De Sade on its head. I never expected so much wry, intelligent humor--but I guess the film was made by the same guy who directed The Right Stuff and Henry and June. Really, if you come to this film expecting an extravaganza of sex and pain, you will probably walk away unsatisfied. This film takes you by the scruff of your neck and puts you face to face with the darker part of yourself; then it twists things around until you have a hard time knowing which way is up, what is good and what is evil. You walk away with you mind reeling and have a hard time telling your ass from a hole in the ground. How the hell can a movie about DeSade be one of the more tender and touching romances that has come out in a while, I have no idea. Go and see it. Rush's acting blows away everything I have seen this year. "},{"Title":"Best film of the year.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It is rare indeed that a film of this caliber is made. Intelligent writing, superb performances, and uncompromising film making make this a must see film. That a despicable character (the Marquis de Sade) can be made sympathetic is an achievement of unimaginable proportions and a credit to Doug Wright's (original play and screenplay) skill with the language, Geoffrey Rush's talent and dramatic/comedic range, and Philip Kaufman's mastery of the medium. Kate Winslet's portrayal of a virginal laundress is both impressive and enthralling. Michael Caine's doctor and Joaquin Phoenix's abbe round out a cast to be proud of. I would not be surprised to see multiple Academy Award nominations spring from this film. "},{"Title":"Funny, sad and at times horrific","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A very thought provoking movie about censorship and what we should or shouldn't be allowed to read, along with being a funny,sad and at times horrific movie. Geoffrey Rush as the marquis gives a virtuoso Oscar deserved performance. The rest of the cast is excellent particularly Joaquaim Phoenix. The violence is mostly in the mind but still a strong stomach may be required. The final conclusion a year after the events we watch is deeply ironic and says a great deal. Good direction and a lucid script, expect this to feature strongly in next years Oscars.  "},{"Title":"Very intelligent, superbly made!!","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Like so many other Kaufman films, this film is superbly made, and is very intelligent.  I felt that it was very funny at times, and sexy. As with the main subject, the film is very interesting and witty, appropriately dark at times, and at the end, a great film. A true original (as Kaufman's other films) - go see it!! "},{"Title":"","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"   **SPOILER**   **SPOILER** I just saw a sneak preview of a film that really blew me away. Quills is a film about the last days of the Marquis de Sade and it is so outrageous that it had me both laughing and crying.It begins during the French Revolution, when the aristocrats were being guillotined, and then cuts to the Marquis years later in a mental prison during the Napoleonic period. The film is about good and evil (but it's not what I expected to see!) and has a lot to do with today's mentality of repressing artists. It relates so much to what is in today's news.The real revelation of the film is the brilliant and funny Geoffrey Rush who plays the Marquis de Sade. He and Kate Winslet (she's really stunning in the film), who plays a maid in the mental asylum, have amazing chemistry. Rush is a genius who can play anyone in the world and get you to like them. The Marquis is one of the most wicked characters in history but Rush gives you a deep sympathy for him.Wonderful acting from Michael Caine as the real villain Royer-Collard who is sent by Napoleon to silence the Marquis. Caine has a way of smiling that gave me an eerie feeling of someone like Ken Starr, who really enjoys going after people's private lives and seems to get pleasure from inflicting pain on others. Ironically, the Marquis says that he's a man after his own heart! A real Sadean hero.Joaquin Phoenix plays the tortured priest who runs the asylum and has to deal with all the fireworks. He acted well and I've never seen a priest do some of the things he does! What a powerful performance. He and Kate have their own terrific chemistry as they try to keep their hands off each other.The other actors were all top stuff, especially a really hot young actress who plays `Simone.' There are great actors all through the film, but I especially enjoyed the mental patients and in particular the bird man was really rad!I loved this wild film and I can't wait to see it again.  "},{"Title":"Good story, excellent cast, Awesome director, what more can you ask for?","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kate Winslett was amazing in this movie, I have respect for her on a whole new level!  Finally after a summer filled with mediocre movies, Quills is the first to catch my undivided attention.  I don't want to give the movie away, but I can say that it was played out superbly as expected from a star-studded cast AND Phil Kaufman.  This one will stick with you.  It's definitely a movie with substance.Can't wait to watch this one again! "},{"Title":"Awesome movie yet again from Phil Kaufman","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This amazing film by Phil Kaufman about the infamous Marquis de Sade who delivers his audacious message of individual freedom at all costs provokes the viewer to examine his or her own life.  Kate Winslett, Geoffrey Rush, Michael Caine and Joaquin Phoenix are superb. Guaranteed Oscar! "},{"Title":"Kate Winslet is superb so is 2-time Oscar winner Michael Caine","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kate Winslet stars in the incredibly Art Directed peace called  Quills . This is the best peace she has done since TITANIC she is an excellent actress. Geoffrey Rush still delivers his story of what a swell actor he is in this film, Michael Caine and Joaquin Phoenix are excellent! Philip Kaufman did an extraordinary job in directing this film. See it! It's Oscar-worthy for all it's performers! "},{"Title":"Jean-Paul Marat, where yo guillotine?","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If you look at the cast names, as I did when the credits rolled, you may think you're in for a wonderful time. You're not. There is something about Western society in the past half-century or so Our self-appointed social visionaries can't relinquish the silly idea that sex and more sex will release us from our backward hangups, usher in a new era of equality and peace, and maybe do the ironing, too. Despite all evidence to the contrary since the '60s, this conviction is advanced with energy and enthusiasm bordering on obsessive/compulsive disorder. The rest of us can only watch in bored disenchantment and growing impatience.This movie really has nothing to say. It makes a few gestures about free will clashing with priggish authoritarianism. There's some gas-bagging about importance of ahhht and ahhhtists. Some women are stripped bare by a director who evidently feels he has something to say. ...And ...we watch in bored disenchantment and growing impatience. There's a scene about halfway in, set as theatrical production by asylum inmates under direction of the Marquis (Geoffrey Rush, in acting service above and beyond the call of duty). He's burdened with a thudding, anachronistic line about shocking his audience with... the truth or something. It would be fine burbled at some academia cocktail party; not so convincing a sentiment in 18th-century France. The scene is supposed to be deliriously funny and invigorating as the prudes have their nose rubbed in clumsily staged sex acts. It fails on both counts. This is the time to go out front for a cigarette, beer or mind-numbing narcotic, just to shake out the fake laughter banging in your head.Where's Peter Brook when we really need him? I give it three stars for great cinematography and art direction. Minus-two for storyline philosophy that should've been junked with all those old Hot Tuna albums. "},{"Title":"As a final gesture we'll leave puddles of love on the Peruvian marble. Not for me...","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills tells the tale of the infamous Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush) who in late 19th Century France finds himself imprisoned in the Charenton asylum for the insane run by the liberal priest Abbe du Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix) whom allows de Sade to write his filthy pornography at will, a servant girl named Madeleine LeClerc (Kate Winslet) then smuggles the Marquis's writings out of Charenton to be published & distributed all over France. Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte (Ron Cook) is more than a bit upset at this sort of filth being distributed throughout France & the fact the Marquis is considered a celebrity, Bonaparte eyes a publicity opportunity & orders the strict disciplinarian Dr. Royer Collard (Michael Caine) to go to Charenton & 'cure' the Marquis. At first the Marquis humiliates Collard & his young bride Simone (Amelia Warner) a consequence of which his quills are taken from him, however this only makes the Marquis even more determined to continue his sauded tales & has to find other ways to write such as using red wine as ink & a chicken bone as a quill. Collard starts to dislike the Marquis who provokes him any way he can which Abbe fears will lead to Charenton being labelled by Collard a failure & closed down...This American, English & German co-production was directed by Philip Kaufman & isn't normally the sort of film that I would sit down to watch. There are three reasons that I did decided to watch it though, I had the opportunity to see it for free, when I checked on the IMDb it was listed as horror (along with drama & romance) & I don't have many comments for films that begin with 'Q' so with these in mind I thought I'd give it a go. The script by Doug Wright was based on his own play & I don't think is a particularly accurate account of the Marquis de Sade's life, the real Marquis was a nasty piece of work & it's from his name that the word sadism (Sade-ism) is taken so as far as I was concerned portraying the Marquis as some lovable pornographer who you end up rooting for was a mistake, he is almost the hero of the story when surely he should have been the villain? What do you think? Am I wrong? Forget about any horror as the IMDb would try to have you believe exists in Quills because there isn't any, this is solid talk for nigh on two straight hours. I mean that's not necessarily a bad thing you understand but I'm just one of those people who lose interest & patience in a film if nothing happens & it's just dialogue, I simply don't like long dull films. It's well written with good character's & a decent story but for me the subject matter didn't work that well, I became bored with it & it's just not the type of film that I enjoy watching. One more thing, if this is set in France why does everyone speak in English & there isn't a (good) French accent in sight?Director Kaufman does a good job & Quills looks sumptuous throughout although a decent budget & some beautiful English locations probably helped. The film has some nicely edited & stylish moments & opens on a well shot scene of someone being decapitated. Some of the porn dialogue is actually quite funny. Surprisingly given the subject matter Quills is a tame film, there are some severed heads at the start but apart from this it's virtually bloodless, even the nudity was brief & I can't remember any female nudity although Rush takes all his clothes off. Nice.Technically Quills is great, the locations, props, costumes & the whole 19th Century French setting is lovingly recreated. The acting was pretty good, Rush plays the Marquis as some likable anti-hero, Kate Winslet does OK, the main man Michael Caine is class in anything & Joaquin Phoenix does his best playing someone who in real life was a four foot tall hunchback...Quills wasn't for me, it tells a story effectively enough I suppose but I couldn't get into it that much & I became bored well before the final credits started to roll. I'm sure there is an audience for a film like Quills unfortunately I don't want to be part of it... "}{"Title":"Quills - an outstanding Oscar worthy film","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills has been sitting on my DVD shelf for at least a good month now. I had been meaning to watch it, but something always seemed to get in the way. I figured I would just wait until school let out. School let out and a week passed...I finally put the DVD into my player.I know I would enjoy the film even before I began to watch it. Being a Rush, Phoenix, Winslet, and Caine fan I knew I couldn't go wrong. I wasn't let down, I thoroughly enjoyed this film. It was entertaining from beginning to end. My only complaint would be the Dr. Royer-Collard story line. While it wasn't boring...far from that...it just seemed rather awkward. I'm not saying it was bad, so I guess that I can't very well call it a complaint. It just seemed out of place to me.Geoffrey Rush as The Marquis de Sade was of course deserving of the Oscar nomination that he received for this fine performance. I believe that he was the most worthy actor to receive the statue that year...he deserved the nomination and should have gotten the win.Kate Winslet as Madeleine LeClerc. Though, it may have been the weakest performance of the main four actors, it still was fantastic nonetheless. For me I'm on the fence as to whether or not I think she should have received a nomination.Joaquin Phoenix as The Abbe du Coulmier made me bump him up to one of my favorite actors. Phoenix played the protagonist, and had great emotional depth to boot. He definitely should have received a nomination next to his nomination for his role in Gladiator.Finally, Dr. Royer-Collard played by Sir Michael Caine. The good doctor, as he is called, was a wonderful character. Caine really did a fantastic job of making me hate him. Though, he didn't need any proof that he is a great actor...this is indeed the proof right here.Quills had a major Oscar nod and two minor ones, but I believe that it should have made it in the following categories Best Picture, Best Supporting Actor (Phoenix), Best Screenplay based on previously published material (Mr. Doug Wright), and possibly Best Actress (Winslet). This was a great film and I give it a nine out of ten. "},{"Title":"Quills is a great movie, but read this first...","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is a great movie, but it's very weighty. I think any viewer would be able to pick up the main message--that censorship is bad/ineffective/hypocritical--but I think the movie makes a deeper moral commentary than simply that. Largely, it's a demonstration of what's wrong with 'evil' and what's wrong with 'good.' 'Evil' drives its constituents to madness, and the allure of goodness is stifled by the self-censorship and hypocrisy of 'good' people. Furthermore, the movie raises the question of why goodness is so good and why evil is so wrong. Definitely something for nihilists and radical conservatives to ponder.Joaquin Phoenix, Geoffrey Rush, Michael Kane and Kate Winslet all deliver convincing and compelling performances (as always). The only flaw with the movie was that the last scene or two was completely unnecessary. There is quite a bit of explicit dialog, and the sexual activity isn't as prolific as one might expect. One brief scene is very graphic, beyond that there's a wet dream and an attempted rape. Certainly not a movie for children PERIOD, and not a good date movie. I'd recommend the movie for clergymen north of Kentucky and most college graduates. I couldn't dream of fully appreciating this movie without three years of college under my belt. "},{"Title":"Exquisite","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is full of memorable one-liners,but it is much more than a series of clever quotes. It, like the Marquis own work, deals with the basest aspects of human nature (hypocrisy,perversion, religion, the negative effects of art and much more). However, it's not nearly as crude as de Sades graphic novels. Geoffry Rush plays the part of the troubled Marquis extremely convincingly and with boundless zest and fervor and his is not the only notable performance; the strong cast of Michael Caine, Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix are supported by an array of talented minor actors most notably the patients of the asylum. To me,the finest component of this piece is Doug Wrights script. Overall, a rich and enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"The Abbe as the tragic hero","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" An absolutely brilliant movie. Many themes have been discussed in other's comments on this site, all of which I have found interesting. I do wish to offer a slightly different discussion point. For me it was the Abbe's role of most interest. Joaquin Phoenix's character bore resemblance to the traditional 'tragic hero.' He acted upon threats of closure of his beloved Charenton in a cowardly, yet arguably essential manner, in forbidding the Marquis from writing. In a choice (albeit a very restricted choice in the face of power) between asserting his own values in allowing the Marquis to continue his therapeutic activity, and succumbing to the wishes of the powers that be, he chose the latter. In not remaining true to his values, he initially prevented the closure of Charenton, however he was to suffer a fate much worse. Following the banning of the Marquis from his therapeutic activity to appease the wishes of the doctor (whose belief system was extremely opposed to that of the Abbe) the Abbe found himself on a moral descent, being forced to administer more and more inhumane and amoral punishment to the Marquis, to the point even of removing the Marquis' tongue. Given his introduction in the early part of the movie as a caring and humanitarian head of a mental asylum in an era where this was perhaps quite rare, this is a far cry from the Abbe acting in a way that is true to himself. Instead he is abandoning his moral standpoint to act upon fear - that is the fear of closure of his facility. As a pawn in a corrupt game of revenge from the doctor on the Marquis, the Abbe is unable to see that he is to suffer a demise much worse than the closure of Charenton - that is, the loss of a friend, a love and his own sanity. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best story ever told on film","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" While this movie is not for the faint of heart, anyone who has the guts to watch it will be treated to what I consider to be one of the finest stories ever told on film.The Marquis' love for his insidious form of self expression drives the story from its almost light hearted beginning to its (not entirely?) tragic end when the plot resolves/comes full circle. Underlying themes the loss of innocence, love vs. lust, art-imitates-life-imitates-art, religion as/vs government etc etc are all explored with such intensity by the actors that I can't help seeing the characters from Quills every time I see their actors in other films.Hats off to Doug Wright & Phillip Kaufman! "},{"Title":"one compelling viewing","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  QuillsGeoffrey Rush is in peak form in this harrowing 2001 Philip Kaufman film about the Marquis de Sade, a man whose life is as frighteningly defiant as his writings.Confined in the infamous Charenton asylum, he continues to grunt out his lewd writing on blankets and sheets that Kate Winslet, a laundrywoman, smuggles out to a mythic Zorro-like figure in the gate. His literary pursuits detail graphic sex, incest, debauchery, blasphemy and other aberrations, among other things.The film illuminates the Marquis' act of writing rather than his life, which is actually one long sadistic bacchanalian adventure. The insane are highly stylized, full of verve, venom and innocence, but Mr. Kaufman's over-reaching enthusiasm deprives his work of the gorgeous sensuality that throbbed in 'The Unbearable Lightness of Being'. The voluptuous Ms. Winslet has that wild streak that redeems her from her ill-starred Titanic extravaganza, and Michael Caine as the evil villain and Marquis-torturer is the perfect husband for that mad nurse in 'One Flew Over the Cuckoos' Nest'.Beautiful shots, admirable blocking, seamless editing and hapless Jude Law's star turn in the end balance the barefaced caricatures and dramatic provocation. This film is one compelling viewing.  "},{"Title":"Extraordinary and thought-provoking!  A wonderful piece of filmmaking with an incredible performance by Geoffrey Rush!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  After failing to see this movie in theaters, I was glad to catch it on video.  Like I expected, it was brilliant!  A disturbing piece that will definitely be off-putting to the squeamish, faint at heart and conservative--but that's what makes it work.  Anyone who has any awareness of the Marquis De Sade should know what they're in for.  This is no children's story.  This is a haunting tale of a controversial writer in 18th century France, whose writings were found abominable because of their pornographic nature.  Whether you support De Sade's work or not, you shall have a better--and more supportive--sense of his ambition after watching this film.  You learn that De Sade (Geoffrey Rush in a truly incredible performance) was, in fact, a disturbed human being.  However, he became disturbed because of what he saw.  What he saw was sex and violence.  Extreme torcher, people getting their heads chopped off--this was all part of his life.  And writing was his only salvation, to free himself, to keep himself from rotting away internally.  There are writers who fixate on all things that are beautiful.  There's nothing wrong with that, but other writers choose a more grounded approach--a more brutal look at life, the way it's seen through their eyes.  You know they say  Write what you know about.  De Sade's perception of life is, as said in a memorable quote  We eat, we s**t, we f**k, we die.  De Sade was in fact an artist of his time, and his presence in history lingers highly significant.  He had a truly inventive mind, and protesters simply failed to realize his artistic ability, since they were overshadowed by morals and principles.A movie like this proves that sexual candor and its expression in art has been occurring way, way before many perceive.  Many think it's a recent concept.  This is not merely a period piece.  This is not a piece of fluff meant to flaunt fancy costumes and sets--though the production is excellent.  This is the kind of story that could be well-updated to today's society.  It has that great, timeless quality.  No matter what decade we're in, there will always be artists who seek to break the barriers in their fields to express what THEY want expressed.  And there will always be those who will do whatever it takes to destroy these tainted works of art.  Unfortunately, the consequences in 18th Century France weren't at all pretty, as you can tell by the punishments De Sade had to endure.  And he would do anything he can to keep writing.  When they took away his quills and ink, he cut his finger and shed blood.  He used the blood for the ink and wrote a new story all over his clothes.  This movie gives a raw look at an artist's creative energy at its fullest.Yes, this movie is explicit and graphic, so be prepared.  This is a journey into a dark but brilliant mind, and there wasn't much that could've been done to make it better.  This is an unforgettable, thought-provoking work, with another mesmerizing performance by Rush.  Why Russell Crowe deserved an Oscar for suiting up in armor and swinging a sword around, as opposed to Rush who dug deep into the demented psyche of the real Marquis De Sade, is a question to be pondered for ages.  A must-see!!!My score  9 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Just not sensual enough","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie could've used alot more sex.  I mean hardcore, raunchy, Marquis de Sade-type sex.  This movie was pure Disney.  Must we always be forced to like the protagonist?  The Marquis de Sade is a unique historical character, and Quills turned him into Ward Cleaver.  I haven't been so tempted to walk out of a movie since I went to Look Who's Talking Too.  God, it was boring.  The only interesting scene in the movie was the necrophilia fantasy.  It could've used alot more of that, and alot less of that hackneyed Cane character.  Geoffrey Rush wasn't bad as the Marquis, but he didn't have much to work with.   "},{"Title":"Joaquin Phoenix is so hot!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I know it's a little shallow to say this, but if for no other reason, see Quills because Joaquin looks really good in his priest outfit!  If you're not shallow, you should still see it.  I thought it was an excellent movie. It's disturbing, and makes you think about things you probably don't want to think about, but the storyline was fascinating.  All of the acting was great, although I wish Michael Caine would have played someone nicer. =) However, it was filled with twists and turns, and I would recommend it to anyone who was not my parent. ;) "},{"Title":"Good but not great!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills starts off well but ends totally wrong. The actors are game and the writing is good but the director (not one of my favorites) assumed midpoint into the movie that everyone would be so engrossed with what was going on that in lieu of continuing with the good dialogue and acting decided to resolve everything with standard melodrama. The film falls apart when de Sade's wife visits him in his chambers. Terrible acting on her part. From that point on, the whole film degenerates into a quasi mess. There are still some interesting moments here and there but all in all, the ending unsatisfies in more ways than one, which are too numerous and complicated to mention here.The biggest weakness in the movie is Michael Caine, who plays, hmm, Michael Caine. His character should have been a bit more evil to warrant all the tragic goings on at the end. But instead, he comes across has a buffon-like character who is not necessarily evil but more of a simple opportunist. The whole part with Caine and the young bride seemed pointless because nothing really memorable came out of them scenes. And some scenes, like when de Sade cries, were forced, not felt. The film feels like the director didn't get it. Maybe because he's not French, and the story definitely needs a French attitude to all of the devilishly sordid goings on. Kaufman's direction is a bit too dreary and leaden at times. Wait for the DVD.  "}{"Title":"Marquis de Sade as a naughty little boy","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"    Quills wants to be a polemic against censorship, but it blunts its own point by transforming the Marquis de Sade, the man who put the sade in sadism, into a naughty little boy fascinated with telling dirty stories.  It's easy to attack censorship when the subject is as attractively played as the Marquis is here, and his writing doesn't even rise (or sink) to the level of a letter to Penthouse.  The People vs. Larry Flynt did a much better job of arguing that the value of the First Amendment is that it protects scum, like Larry Flynt.     The film is good, though, especially the acting.  Geoffrey Rush is appropriately flamboyant as the Marquis, Joaquin Phoenix is sympathetic as his jailer, and Kate Winslet is excellent as the chambermaid who becomes De Sade's accomplice in smut (as an aside, she also provides the film with more cleavage than any film in recent memory).  If only the writer had taken the Marquis de Sade a little more seriously. "},{"Title":"Boring claptrap.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I strongly disliked this film. A puff piece about Sade, rife with puerile non-laughs and out-of-place morality. Meant for idiots in the Upper West Side. For real film fans, I would suggest renting the DVD of Salo rather than suffering through this cut-rate dreck.  "},{"Title":"For a story about passion, this film is oddly passionless","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  For a story about passion, Philip Kaufman's film, Quills, is oddly frigid.Kaufman's directing of this star-filled cast is painfully impotent. Kate Winslet is lacking in lust, bawdiness, and believability as a laundry maid involved with the Marquis de Sade. Joaquin Phoenix and Michael Caine's languid portrayals of the abbe Coulmier and Royer Collard respectively provide limp battle of intelligence and wit to Geoffrey Rush's singularly strong performance as the Marquis. In telling the story of one man's sacrificial obsession to his art, Philip Kaufman ends up sacrificing much substance in his highly stylistic film. "},{"Title":"Almost Laughable","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  What an incredible disappointment!  What was this film actually about? How do the characters relate to each other, in a sincere way?  What happened to the Marquis' wife after she asked the doctor (Michael Caine, in perhaps his most under developed character, ever) to fix her husband? What role did the the doctor's young wife pay in helping tell this story (besides being young, nymphish, and pretty).  Too many concepts touched upon, and none ever really flushed out.   In this day and age it's not enough to make a spectacle of human sexuality... you must still tell a story that people actually care about.  If Milos Forman made this film, it might have worked.  Rush gave a spirited performance (and kudos for his efforts) in an otherwise unmemorable film..save for the few unintentional laughs  "},{"Title":"Call me a prude","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was not impressed.  If the film was to be about how free speech and art should be unhindered by censorship...then this is a poor attempt at illustrating that point.  The Marquis de Sade is whitewashed in this version.  As depraved as the film portrays him, actual historical accounts show he was far worse.  I find the whitewashing unfair, for the sake of this particular argument.  A better example is out there somewhere. Beyond that, I predicted the ending of this film within the first 15 minutes.  I can't rate it any higher than a 5.  "},{"Title":"A wasted opportunity and a waste of good talent","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Rather disappointing - a bit of a modern Carry On film - waste of good talent, waste of a good opportunity to say something meaningful about censorship, waste of a good opportunity to do a semi-biographical film about an interesting character and his work.Quills focuses on the period of the life of the Marquis de Sade when he was confined to a mental asylum. It makes no pretence to be accurate beyond using a few life incidents and largely fails to convince that the writer had any insight into the man's work. Taking the mainstream current view that de Sade was not a genius but did have some interesting insights, Quills certainly takes not the best of what de Sade wrote, in fact or the spirit, but gutter pornography that requires no intellectual effort.For the first few scenes I thought I could overlook the flaws but it soon degenerated into boring titillation. If the sum total of what de Sade wrote was enshrined in the ability to include lots of vernacular and anti-papist sentiments then he hardly would have achieved the reputation in history that he did and people wouldn't be using his name as an excuse to make an insufferably bad film. The one good thing about it, I kept thinking on and off through the whole tedious two hours, was that it will maybe now provide the challenge and impetus for someone to make a worthwhile film about the character that Kaufman has trashed better than Forman trashed Mozart. At least Forman left us feeling his main player was brilliant, whereas one wonders why Kaufman didn't pick someone he thought of as being more than a stand-up prop for inane porno-humour dialogue. "},{"Title":"historically inaccurate and rather gruesome","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Rush, Winslett and Caine do tremendous work but the movie is very dark, harrowing and gruesome in many places, is historically inaccurate (the real Marquis De Sade died in his 70's, at home) and is rather 'politically correct' in toning down aspects of Sade's sexuality and in having more male, than female, nudity rather than attempting equality. The movie is based on a play, and should have displayed a paragraph containing the actual facts at the end, lest viewers assume that the events actually happened and so be all the more haunted by them. "},{"Title":"Despite the Ups & Downs of the Movie .. Geoffrey Rush's Performance Sticks in Mind!","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Geoffrey Rush is the real star in this movie which would be an OK at its best without such a powerful performance by Rush.It is a good movie .. showing us a part of one controversial writer's life.Michael Caine was good .. Kate Winselt wasn't that good. Joaquin Phoenix was good ..One of the best things of the movie is the high sarcasm .. which plays on the nerve very well.It is uneven movie .. some parts were better than others but in the end you will see an amazing performance by Rush that will make you turn a blind eye on most of the disadvantages of the movie. "},{"Title":"Not the worst, but so close","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This merits a 5 only because Rush, Winslet & Phoenix tried so hard. Otherwise it's complete cr*p.If you like plays - where everything is spelled out in dialogue, more dialogue, and then more dialogue; broken up only by some talking and some verbal moralizing - you may like this.If on the other hand you prefer something that presents multiple viewpoints and allows you to reach you own conclusions, this isn't for you.It's really a shame that Winslet & Rush chose to waste their time with this; and that Kaufman decided to go ahead with it - 3 otherwise talented individuals.No doubt it will be seen as controversial and thought-provoking and daringly erotic. Really it's about as much shock as you can cram into a story that's set in a time before chain saws were available.And it's meaningful, oh so meaningful. There's no doubt of this as the characters spell it out for you and scream it at you in case you weren't paying attention. "},{"Title":"Strong Stuff Portrayed Frankly With Bravura Acting","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Quills is a companion piece to The People vs. Larry Flynt though here when they're dressed the excellent cast is in Napoleonic costumes and speak with British accents. Geoffrey Rush is mesmerizing and Joaquin Phoenix puts in, amazingly, his third terrific performance of the year as a man forced into conflict with himself.This is compellingly about all sides of the pornography issue -- how it corrupts (sets free?) the creator, the stimulated and the censor.This is strong stuff portrayed frankly -- though we see the brutality of the punishers more graphically than the enjoyment of the libertines, because, after all, De Sade's threatening weapons of delight are just the words of an artist while TPTB, whether Revolutionary or counter-Revolutionary, have control. (originally written 12/15/2000) "}{"Title":"Quills","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this historical film once before, but the only thing I can recall is the male and female leads, so I had to see it again, from director Philip Kaufman (Invasion of the Body Snatchers, The Right Stuff). Basically it is the 18th Century in France, where in Charanton Insane Asylum the infamous writer The Marquis De Sade (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Geoffrey Rush) is imprisoned who has managed to get write many sexual situation books. He has also managed to gain friendship in his cell from priest The Abbe Du Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix) who runs the asylum, as well as beautiful laundress Madeleine 'Maddy' LeClerc (Kate Winslet) who is fascinated to read his material. Emporer Napolean wants someone to oversee the asylum, so psychiatrist Dr. Royer-Collard (Sir Michael Caine), renowned and famed for his torturous punishments is sent there. The Marquis hears some things about the doctor, such as him marrying a foreign woman much younger than him, and this inspires him for another story, which later become a publicly performed play, which due to it having insane inmates doesn't go well. Soon it is discovered by Abbe that the Marquis has been passing his work around and that it is being secretly published into real books, so his ink and partridge are taken away from his as punishment. He does however come up with another way to get his words across, he used a glass of red wine and a feather to write his work on his bedsheets, but of course this is found out too. After this he is moved to another cell, and his next attempt to get his words written down by Madeline is passing messages from cell to cell to reach her, and this works until a fire begins. One night a prisoner breaks out and murders Madeline, and the Marquis is taken to the torture cell completely naked being blamed by Abbe, and as severe punishment he has his tongue cut out. Now unable to speak, the most disgusting thing he does to get his words across is write on the walls with his feces, before he commits suicide. In the end the asylum has become a printing press, with the Marquis's work being printed, and Dr. Royer-Collard oversees this too. Also starring Billie Whitelaw as Madame LeClerc, Patrick Malahide as Delbené, Amelia Warner as Simone and Jane Menelaus as Renée Pelagie. Rush is fantastic in the leading role as the mad writer, Winslet is really good as the laundry maid, Phoenix gets his moments as the religious man looking over the asylum, and Caine gets his good moments too. It is a reasonably simple period story exploring the themes of cruelty, repression and hypocrisy, the scripting is impressive, and it really shows how imagination can corrupt, a most worthwhile biographical drama. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Costume Design, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Costume Design, Best Make Up/Hair and Best Production Design, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay. Very good! "},{"Title":"Disturbing, very disturbing","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" That's the best word to describe this picture. Since history already knows the Marquis de Sade to be a twisted if not controversial figure, I had some concern this film would shed a sympathetic light on him. In the end however, that is entirely up to the viewer. The insight into Napolionic asylum cell life is a bit more tolerable than expected, and the viewer can find himself starting to even care about some of the inmates. Performance-wise, the acting is brilliant. Geoffry Rush gives us a stubborn and unrepentant Marquis always hell-bent on writing. Phoenix presents a priest we can easily root for. Winslet's Maddy and Caine's Collard are no exceptions either. Multiple reviews have warned viewers with delicate stomachs to practice caution with this movie. Very true. Some scenes behind the asylum's walls are brutal and difficult to watch, bordering on utter human abuse. The insight into the perverted mind of the Marquis is no more pretty, as it manifests itself into often violent and devastating consequences. By the end of this movie, where sympathies lie is entirely up to the viewer. For this commenter, this movie repeated a theme we are all too familiar with today Pornographic material ruins people and causes violence and tremendous harm against women. "},{"Title":"Really pornography is a good thing....for sanity...","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I had been wanting to see this film for quite some time but I always chose something else when I went to the video stores. From what I heard, this film shocked some people but Geoffrey Rush was nominated for an Oscar so it had to have some redeeming value. The film met my expectations. The acting from the top names to the smaller roles were excellent. Both Rush and Michael Caine do outstanding work in their roles and they further prove what great actors they are. The pacing was good and the film never felt bogged down. All of the scenes in the film had a purpose in the storyline unlike many other period pieces where the audience has to sit through historical expositions. The DVD has quite a few extras. Overall this film is quite good and never boring. I would recommend it.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"All about the acting","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Art is the expression that separates man from beast, or at least that's what this film appears to be saying. I say 'appears' because the message is rather cloudy...that's if there's even a message at all. However, when a film is this entertaining; it doesn't really matter what the message is. Geoffrey Rush stars as the Marquis de Sade; the main character of the film. His performance is delicious; over the top and fun throughout. He draws you into the performance with a mixture of charisma and good heartedness (despite his character being a madman, we are still able to care for him). Starring opposite Rush is Kate Winslet. Winslet is a great actress that doesn't get nearly as much credit as she deserves. With the obvious exception of Titanic, Kate has turned in good performance after good performance and yet she's still something of a side-lined actress, that gets more supporting roles than the leads she deserves. She's also incredibly beautiful, but that's another story. Excellent support is given to these two leads courtesy of Michael Caine and Joaquin Phoenix. Another two vastly underused actors that I would like to see more of.Quills is an actor's movie. The film leans on the actors throughout and it is the over-dramatic performances that will stick in your mind once the film is over. The film is flamboyant and oddly beautiful, and this lends it a style that few movies have managed to capture before or since (although one movie of recent years that is similar in style is Moulin Rouge!). As I mentioned earlier; the story isn't the most pronounced aspect of the movie; and this is evident as when the film does try to give you a little bit of story (Caine's wife's part, for example), it isn't as good as when the leads are strutting their stuff; it is thoroughly obvious throughout that this is based on a play in that respect. Despite this, however, we are still able to get to know the characters somewhat; although maybe not as much as you would expect given that this is a drama.Quills is an exhibition in acting, and one that is very enjoyable and entertaining. Everyone involved in the movie impresses in their own way and overall; this is a very decent movie indeed, if not an out and out classic. "},{"Title":"Defend against censorship","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Having seen darker appetites indulged and the repercussions in reality, I thought to always steer clear of this film, due to the subject matter.I then read that Joaquin Phoenix was fantastic in it, and being a Phoenix completest, I decided to bite the bullet and give it a watch.It is an amazing film. I still did not care for the (generally perceived) subject matter, but found myself, as a writer, viewing it in the larger context of censorship. And like all writers, I'd fight for the right for a colleague's work to be read, even if I hated it. The acting is unbelievably good.Joaquin Phoenix was perfection as the corrupt Emperor Commodus in Gladiator (I can't even envision anyone else in that role) yet, he is perfection in this radically different role as well. That takes a prodigious talent to pull off. I think he could have handled the Mel Gibson role in Signs, instead of being cast as the brother. I hope that he has a long and happy career.Geoffrey Rush has great range as an actor, and this role proves it beyond a doubt. Michael Caine continues his great stride, and Winslet is developing with each picture.This isn't a film I'd want to watch often, (I can't stomach the reading of Sade's prose for long) but it is a film which is better than expected.  "},{"Title":"Now ain't this a perverted little movie?","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Like the Church Lady would say Now ain't that special!WOW! This sure was a boring movie. Basically the only good thing about this movie is Kate Winslet and the fat guy who keeps trying to rape her.1(*)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"A Fascinating story about The Marquis De Sade.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is not the type of film i would normally watch but because of it's high IMDB rating i decide to give it a go and i am pleased i did. This is the Story of The Marques De Sade and how , against the authorities wishes, he published his erotic sado masochistic stories to the world. Each time they got through to the public from his cell in a sanatorium, he was punished more and more until he paid the ultimate price as did his conspiritor. The role of the Marquis is superbly acted out by Geoffrey Rush along with some other excellent performances from Michael Caine and Billie Whitelaw and Jaoquin Phoenix. The whole film is tastfully done considering the content of the story and looks superb. The ending is good too , showing how the authorities became the biggest hypocrits of all....no change there then. 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Heavyhanded (what a shock!)","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Interesting film that is marred by a heavyhanded story that doesn't trust the audience. Obviously without regard for history (not a major flaw) we are lead by the hand down the garden path of moral relativism...everybody has evil thoughts so how is anyone in a position to judge? The theme of the day is weakness...as everyone is exposed for the sinner that they are. This is very deep stuff...also very simplistic. It was embarrassing to see the scene of Caine's character taking his wife on their wedding night... just so we can see he has a (gasp) sadistic streak. The college kid who wrote this should have left it in his closet...only to bring it out occasionally to recall what a foolish, idealistic boy he was. Acting was pretty good except for Phoenix ( who always stinks) and Winslet who I never believed in for a second  She dies a virgin! I'll bet that had em howling in the aisles at the old alma mater. "},{"Title":"Dishonest whitewash of De Sade's life and work.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you watched 'Quills' without having any idea about the Marquis De Sade, you would by the end of it think that it was a powerful story about art being destroyed by censorship, and that De Sade had an awful time of it. All he wanted to do was write his potentially life altering erotica and THE MAN wouldn't let him! Boo to small-minded puritans trying to suppress a true artist!The thing is all you have to do is read a dozen pages of one of De Sade's novels like 'The 120 Days Of Sodom' or 'Justine' and you will immediately see that erotica hardly describes his work! His novels were catalogues of the most extreme perversions. Rape, torture, murder, paedophilia, incest, coprophagia, you name it. Now I am FAR from being a prude, and I am NOT saying that his works should be banned. All I am saying is that if you want to make a movie about art vs. censorship just be HONEST about what he wrote about and stood for, otherwise you are just being manipulative and dishonest. Geoffrey Rush portrays the Marquis as being a saucy, naughty little boy whose antics show up the hypocrisies of his age. In the movie there is no real harm in him. This is so far from the TRUTH that it is a joke. Just read about what he was REALLY like, then judge him.As to the movie itself, it's visually spectacular, but not only is the plot simplistic and historically inaccurate, I thought most of the acting was average at best. Rush has impressed in the past, but I found this just to be another one of his wild and crazy guy roles like 'Shine' or 'Mystery Men', with no real depth. Kate Winslet looked as beautiful as ever, but I was never convinced by her character or her relationship with De Sade. Michael Caine hammed it up as a stereotypical baddie. The only one who impressed was Joaquin Phoenix who tried hard as the sincere Abbe, but was let down by the mediocrity of the script.'Quills' is typical of so many contemporary movies - all style and no substance. If Doug Wright had portrayed De Sade as the frankly horrible excuse for a human being that he was, and not shied away from the truly objectionable and extreme nature of his work, then he might have been able to pull off an interesting movie about a complex issue. The way it is this dishonest whitewash of De Sade fails on every level.  "},{"Title":"I don't appreciate QUILLS","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Marquis De sade was a mad man who was also a writer, but Quills tries to portrait him as a writer who was also mad. But why? Does it try to make him a genius? He's no genius but a psych. I can't believe that he's a writer at all. He used to write, alright but it doesn't make him a writer. Don't you think that it would be better if the movie dealt with his entire life? He had an adventurous life and I believe that his entire biography is more interesting than its last part and Quills focuses on the last days of his life in an asylum. Besides, I didn't like Geoffrey Rush's acting in this film. He was magnificent at his previous movies(Shine, Shakespeare in Love, Elizabeth), but at this one he was too ordinary. And the character Dr. Collard doesn't suit Michael Cain.   "}{"Title":"This film sucks bad...","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Once a paradigm is set up where certain pleasurable acts are seen as evil, someone like the Marquis De Sade is bound to emerge in any culture.  The thing is, the approach/argument/view/whatever the Marquis embraces is not really liberation, but more so revenge.  And my problem with this film lies not with its terrible acting, lame script, and British accents dominating a supposedly French setting, but with the way it presents the Marquis as some sort of liberator from censorship.  This, to me, is pure nonsense.  How about the reality of this type of domination culture?  Most people (even the very rich) were probably quite unhappy in aristocratic France because all of their acts and thoughts were tinged with guilt, shame, and fear--if not from the Church than from the Emperor.  Even people like the Marquis, who no doubt tried to liberate people from the absurdity of this good-evil/high-low paradigm, were also probably terribly unhappy (much more so than the jovial Geoffrey Rush portrays).  And I guess the whole thing seems so tragic and ugly to me that I feel it is not worth incorrectly glamorizing on the movie screen.  The one redeeming thing I was thinking while I was watching this film was  Why didn't Kaufman just making this into a musical with everyone singing and dancing, even during the most violent scenes?  If he had done that, I think I would have enjoyed the film a lot more.   "},{"Title":"Good film, seems most viewers missed the point, read my review.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The rating we give a movie depends a lot on what we individually like. I like positive, uplifting stories, which Quills isn't, but it is so well done I give it 8 of 10. However -- stick with me here -- the last scene is very, very important.CAUTION -- SPOILERS MAY FOLLOW --In the very last scene, the imprisoned Abbe (Joaquin Phoenix) finally gets paper, a quill, and ink smuggled in by the deceased Madelaine's (Kate Winslet) mother, and as he starts writing, we hear a voice-over by the Marquis de Sade (Geoffrey Rush), warning us that it is going to have some tough stuff in it, and challenging us to turn the page. How can a character, dead over a year, supply a voice-over? Because it is as if you were reading his book, instead of watching a movie of his book. The whole movie we just finished seeing was a fictional work of what the Marquis de Sade might have written, and even included himself as a character! Not until that final epilog do we realize that!  Pretty nifty writing, eh, although it has been done in other movies.The real Marquis de Sade was in trouble almost from his youth. By all accounts he was a pervert, cheating on his wife, with both very young women (girls!) and with men. The more he was admonished, the more he spoke out. Sort of a Larry Flynt of the 18th century. Although he was imprisoned at Charenton, after imprisonments at Versailles and at the Bastille, this movie, Quills, is a complete work of fiction. Much as Shakespeare in Love was a story of fiction about a real person.This film uses de Sade's book Justine as a vehicle for introducing the controversy surrounding his writing.  Because of his passion for  writing, he is allowed to write to stave off his madness, but he is strictly forbidden to publish anything. However, he smuggles manuscripts out via the laundry, willingly helped by Madelaine, and Justine is published. Enraged, the government orders all copies gathered and burned, and a new doctor (Michael Caine) is sent to Charenton to help straighten things up. De Sade greets him from his cell, Welcome to our mad house, doctor, I trust you'll feel right at home! Soon, the doctor goes to collect his 16-yr-old orphan bride that had been promised to him. Whispers and gossip about the March/October love affair leads de Sade to write his next piece, a play, satirizing the doctor and his bride. The doctor shuts down the asylum theater. After all his quills, his paper, and his ink are taken away, de Sade then really appears to be mad. He has thoughts and he needs to write them down. He finally figures out he can write in wine on his white sheet, using a chicken bone. Madelaine transcribes it to paper in secret. When they then stripped his room, he wrote on his clothes using his blood! Then he was naked in a stripped cell!The young wife of the doctor ran off with the architect. Madeleine had a secret love for the Abbe. An inmate started a fire, a retard killed Madeleine, the Abbe had a dream where he made love to her even as she lay dead on a slab. De Sade's tongue is cut out, he writes his final script in his own excrement on the walls of his cell, and dies. Which leads to the final scene, the Abbe beginning to write, and de Sade's voice telling us it had all been one of his stories, and a very fantastic one at that. This film can bring up all kinds of discussions about freedom to express, and of course the film industry has a vested interest in the subject. About whether writing fantastic fiction can be held responsible for a crazy person subsequently acting it out and doing harm.I saw Quills on DVD, and the picture and sound are fine. To achieve an old look, the whole film was printed with a green cast to it, which I found a bit distracting because I think it was overdone. In a similar period film, Dangerous Beauty, that was not done and the film was beautiful. The director commentary that can be selected is very good, one of the best, as it gives pertinent commentary then shuts up rather than rambling as many do.  Overall a good movie experience but not one I want to watch again very soon. The Marquis de Sade truly was a despicable person, and I don't want to be reminded of him too often. "},{"Title":"Stays in your mind","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Almost everything has been said about this film. Brilliant philosophic story (oversee the weak epilogue), brilliant acting by all leads (only Michael Caine suffered a bit from a character being just too bad). In Germany, Quills was supported by the P.E.N.-association with the punch lineFreedom of speech is the freedom of others in the first place.We get to learn, that we don't want the Marquis to be hindered in publishing, although we may not like his works, particularly.Besides its other qualities, I give Quills 9 out of 10 simply for one reason It disturbs you and stays in your mind and heart and stomach for days. And a film can't do much more that that. "},{"Title":"sorely disappointing","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Amid the trite dialogue, unbelievable characters, and an oh-so-hollywood storyline, Geoffrey Rush still comes through with a stellar performance. He was one of the reasons I wanted to see the movie so badly.  I just wish his character (the Marquis de Sade) would have been the FOCAL point of the film. This movie could have been a great piece of art.  It's more like a soap opera with the Marquis as the loveable scamp. "},{"Title":"Needlessly graphic but provoking","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Somewhat sophomoric and unsubtle critique of hypocrisy.Nonetheless, arresting images regarding the power of language.The graphic scenes were unnecessary and did not add to the poignancy. "},{"Title":"Such good acting, such a bad movie","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Joaquin Phoenix is amazing, and Geoffrey Rush is nothing to sneeze at either.  But the movie is garbage.  Many people have commented on it being thought provoking.  It could have been.  Instead, the viewer is beaten over the head with the theme of we're no better.  I usually love things that deal with that theme, but this was beyond ham-handed.  We could have easily gotten the point without all of the pretension.  My biggest problem with the movie, however, is that its main attraction is simply being ghoulish.  As the movie continues, it falls deeper and deeper into shock the audience territory without any need.  Some would argue that its showing its theme, but there was no need to pound it in like that.  And given the brutal violence of the last tale, how can anyone POSSIBLY identify with the Marquis?  The movie's success hinges on that one point.  The viewer MUST recognize that there is a part of the Marquis in everyone.  But he is too ghastly to possibly evoke such empathy, and the movie fails.Great individual scenes, great acting, but great movie?  Far from it. 3/10 "},{"Title":"If only they had handcuffs in the 1800s...","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Binding the Marquis' hands could have saved a couple of tongues and maybe even lives.  Rush's performance was incredible, and I look forward to seeing more of his work, but I was expecting to see a character driven rather than plot driven film which is why I normally watch foreign/indie films rather than those from Hollywood.  The author seems to have written the ending and been determined to get the characters to it no matter what it cost the story.  The Abbet's (sp?) refusal to bind his friend's hands even after he realized he (the Marquis) would rather destroy himself rather than stop writing just didn't make sense.  I realize this move could have cut out a lot of the drama and sensationalism, but it would have been more true to the characters I saw.   "},{"Title":"Shockingly Disappointing...","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  In a movie that could have been so good, it is stunning to see how much went wrong. Quills is not thought provoking, since each theme is laid out with the subtlety of a shovel to the head. All the fuss surrounding Eminem in today's culture is spelled out in Quills; how far can freedom of expression go?... Does life imitate art?... Are artists responsible for deeds done in the names of their creations? Conservatives and Liberals have argued over these issues for centuries, likely with more tact than Quills. With the infamous Marquis de Sade as the protagonist in the film, the audience should be able to figure out the issues at stake, but Quills feels the need to recreate every known cliche of plot and character to set the stage. The acting is superb (especially Rush), but, aside from the Marquis, the actors are given little to work with. -SEMI-SPOILER- The characters of the Doctor (Michael Caine), and his wife, are laughably one dimensional. Caine, the 'villain' who wants to silence de Sade's immorality, is, of course, not so moral. His young wife, brought up by nuns, is, you guessed it, tainted by the Marquis' writing. Phoenix, the priest and head of de Sade's asylum home is (gasp!) tempted by the pleasures of the flesh and in turn questions his religion. The script is cute, rife with smart one-liners, which are not smart enough to hide the fact that they are still one-liners. Everything takes place for the purpose of making the viewer think, instead of helping them think. Of course, the subjects that Quills raises are important ones, and the movie does bring them into the open. The means by which is does, however, are both insulting to the movie going audience and film itself. Art is about a dialogue between the artist and the audience, a dialogue which is non-existent in Quills. Being spoon-fed does not make for an enjoyable movie experience. "},{"Title":"A dark and engaging tale that is well scripted across the colourful characters and well delivered by the cast within the convincing world created by all","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" For his infamous and unspeakable crimes, the Marquis de Sade is held at the Charanton Insane Asylum. Despite his interment, he has befriended young serving girl Madeline and has gained the favour of priest Abbe de Coulmier. This favour has allowed the Marquis access to writing material so he can treat his sickness by writing down all his perverse thoughts. His friendship with Madeline has provided him an outlet for his writing as she smuggles it out to a public that awaits to be shocked. Napoleon gets wind of this shocking literature and commands the Marquis be killed, but his court convinces him to merely send brutal Dr Royer-Collard to cure him instead. Royer-Collard arrives to find de Coulmier unable to contain and control the Marquis.Moving past the known reality of the Marquais de Sade, Doug Wright's play and screenplay suggests the dark impact that he could have had on the inmates of Charanton in a tale that mixes the comedy and horror that the word gothic suggests so appropriately. Although not to everyone's tastes nor a family film by any means, the film still creates the world really well and paints a colourful and engaging story full of wonderfully dark characters. It is a simple enough tale but it is enjoyable to see the Marquis de Sade infect everything around him to the degree he does; he is truly careless and selfish. Although there are points to be made about the degree that art causes crime and influences criminals, the film doesn't really linger on these, preferring the narrative arch instead. As such it is still very engaging and, despite the simple story, never struggles to fill the running time.The script has several threads running across it, all of them with de Sade's fingers guiding them to good effect and helping to keep the film lively and dark. Kaufman's direction is good but he is well supported by cinematographers, set and costume designers who all work together to create this most convincing and depressing world. The starry cast take to all this well, eating it all up. The one with the biggest mouthful is of course Rush. He dominates every scene with a character that is arrogant, disgusting and interesting from start to finish, while also allowing him to be pitiful and broken at times. Phoenix is probably one of the weaker links in the chain but he is still solid enough to do the job. Winslet is good alongside Rush and gives a good performance while Caine turns in a dry and cruel Collard. The various supporting members of the asylum are all well delivered and add to the convincing setting.Overall this is a darkly enjoyable film although viewers should be aware that it is cruel, heavily sexual and has a humour that will not have you laughing that often. It is an adult movie and, for all its limited appeal, is a very well crafted tale full of character and interest. Well worth a look as long as you are not looking for some light entertainment that you can veg through. "},{"Title":"Not for those who are looking for fun","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was truly impressed by great performance of the cast.  Especially, Joaquin Phoenix played the Abbe very beautifully.However, although the story first looked intriguing, it turned out to be rather dull and long, leading us nowhere.   "}{"Title":"Boring and trite","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A surprisingly flat and uninteresting movie, with little to recommend it.  The Marquis de Sade is portrayed as a sad old man, nasty to those about him, exploitive of his fellow inmates, but with a secret crush on his laundress.  The Abbe, his keeper, is an anachronistic social reformer with repressed sexual desires. Michael Caine's Royer-Collard is introduced as a crypto-sadist then has to be goaded beyond belief he will apply his scientific methods to the perverted and irritating de Sade.  Even his child bride, who suffers the outrage of brusque sex with no foreplay, can manage nothing more outrageous than having sex with another man on his bearskin rug and leaving a nasty note.   In short, a major disappointment. "},{"Title":"Repugnant, unpleasant, depressing","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quills is the worst kind of  movie &#150; it boasts superb acting performances that mask its shortcomings, specifically, the manipulative script that actually paints the Marquis de Sade as a martyred victim.  The movie could have really made a powerful statement at the end by showing how extremism can be a bad thing, even on the side of `good.'  But instead it chooses to depress us all by showing the `good' characters all succumbing to evil or dying, and the evil de Sade &#150; with his engaging personality &#150; rejecting a chance to denounce evil.  What I am saying here is the most compelling character in the film is a wife beater, a pervert, and a lover of evil.  The screenplay and/or direction could have easily given the other side equal weight, but chose instead to make Joaquin Phoenix's `good' character out to be repressed and boring.  At least until he gives in to evil at the end.  What a dangerously subtle and evil little message this film is trying to convey.Geoffrey Rush is outstanding.  Kate Winslet is always good.  And Joaquin Phoenix actually turned in a stellar performance &#150; I was shocked after seeing him act so dismally in Gladiator.   "},{"Title":"Kaufman's de Sade movie - excellent","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Casting Geoffrey Rush as the Marquis de Sade was a great coup which takes 'Quills' to a whole new level. At this time he was still riding high after his two Oscar wins (for 'Shine' and 'Shakespeare in Love') and was the ideal actor to put across the complexities of the depraved lunatic writer who gave the word 'sadism' to the English language.Kate Winslet plays the servant girl, Maddy, who becomes his muse, his obsession, and his unwitting victim; while there's a sterling performance from Joaquin Phoenix as the guilt-stricken, kind-hearted Abbe. The remaining main role is sadly miscast - Michael Caine as the psychiatrist determined to make the Marquis pay for his misdemeanors.Kaufman's film is claustrophobic, sordid, comic in a black way, a screwy love story, and - in its conclusion - horrifingly bleak. It looks sumptuous, with a perceptive and involving script and enough twists and turns to keep the audience interested.De Sade as writer, no matter what, is of key importance to 'Quills' - when his paper and pens are taken away he finds other ways to continue adding to his imaginative sexual fantasies. It is not a possibility that this man could stop writing. You come away with a strong sense of the power of the creative word, for whatever purpose, and this, for me, is where 'Quills' really succeeds. "},{"Title":"what the heck were they thinking","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I forced myself to sit all the way through this movie (since i paid my 7 bucks already), but it was difficult. The characters were completely exaggerated and unrealistic, and it seemed like the movie had been written by about 4 different people and then just thrown together randomly. The only decent part was the acting job by geoffrey rush, who was a good choice for the marquis, and played the part very well.  "},{"Title":"A beautifully-done, boring film","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I didn't like this film at all. I stopped it and rewound it about 30 minutes in.The acting was good; I am particularly fond of Michael Caine and Geoffrey Rush. The directing was good. The cinematography was first-rate, and the costumes were perfect. I liked the glimpse of Napoleon and the trip into the morés of that time.It was the story I didn't like. Not the screenplay, mind you - the story. It is a boring story. I am no prude; I've done many of the things that the adolescents who post on this board snicker about. I'm as much a hedonist as the next fellow.However, in my opinion, if the Marquis de Sade had not been an aristocrat...if he were writing in another time - say, this one - he might possibly get some action at a free-hosted web site. Beyond that, the man's life is a huge bore. This film will even have Satanists yawning. "},{"Title":"Grade-A perversion story","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Despite realized with a large budget, despite featuring eminent names both in front and behind the camera and despite scoring reasonably well at box office, Quills is quite a popular movie among the fans of primitive and out-of-the ordinary exploitation movies. This selected group of cinema freaks (myself included) usually avoids the big blockbusters, but still took the effort to check out Quills and label it as a successful amalgamation between mainstream film-making and cult. This has everything to do with the legendary character of Marquis de Sade, whose notorious writings were &#150; and still are &#150; a rich source of inspiration for underground movie makers. Just think the sleazy classics directed by Jess Franco (Jusine and Eugenie) or Pier Paolo Pasolini's hugely controversial classic Salo, or the 120 days of Sodom. These are genuine cult gems and, naturally, the avid fans are interested in a full-feature film dedicated to the life of the Marquis. I don't know how accurate Doug Wright's screenplay really is when it comes to details, but it's generally known that Marquis de Sade indeed spent several years locked away inside a mental asylum and indeed he nearly got executed for spreading literature of perverse nature. Unlike I expected, Quills doesn't focus on how the Marquis ended up at the Charanton asylum or how he managed to convince the ordinary chambermaid Madeleine to smuggle his sex-laden stories to the outside world for publishing. The film merely revolves on how the Marquis continues to express his perversely wicked imagination even after the hypocritical Dr. Royer-Collard confiscated all of his writing-material. The absolute greatest sequences in Quills center on how he thinks up new stories and writes them down on sheets, walls and clothes using basic equipment like chicken bones and even his own blood and faeces. Talk about dedication! The more his opponents realize this man is impossible to censor, the more unendurable his living conditions at the asylum get. Especially when Dr. Royer-Collard's under aged wife runs away with a young and potent architect, clearly influenced by Marquis de Sade's graphic novel Justine, his stay at Charanton turns into a living hell. Quills is a fascinating film that surprisingly doesn't hold back on strong sexual content and violence. Listening to Geoffrey Rush's insanely perverted imagination, you often get the impression you're actually watching a sleazy and exploitative 70's gem, but with the masterful set-designs and costumes of a fancy Hollywood film. Speak of the devil; Rush obviously enjoyed depicting the Marquis and literally his every grimace and monologue is performed with diabolical delight. Michael Caine, in a rather unusual role, is perfect as the ill-tempered 'curer of evil', hypocritically hiding himself behind a veil of religion and political protection. Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix are adequate performers but rather miscast in their roles of well-meaning supporters of artistic freedom. And, last but not least, another reason for horror fanatics to check out Quills is that it features numerous gruesome images of severed heads, attempted rape, cold & uncanny interior shots of a Napoleonic asylum and naughty young girls. "},{"Title":"OH MATRON","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Hollywood like to think they've made something daring. Well they haven't. There's more titilation and insight from a Carry on film with Sid and Babs.The talented cast is wasted. It looks good, but lacks drama, humour and life. Very poor. "},{"Title":"This movie bites the big one.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  So, we're to believe everyone in France speaks with an English accent? Quills is a comedy/drama/whatever which tells of the disposition and antics of the Marquis de Sade after being confined to a asylum for lunatics. The film didn't work for me on any level. It was not funny, not erotic, not good drama...pretty much just boring crap, terribly flawed, full of anachronisms, too theatrical, miscast, silly, pompous, nonsense. However, it received critical acclaim, good reviews, and numerous nominations and awards. So, one man's opinion is Quills sucked bigtime. "},{"Title":"two minutes of hope, two hours of despair","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  being fond since childhood of historical movies, or at least costume movies, it has been particularly excruciating to sit thru this one, wondering what it was all about (since it's not sexy, not amusing, not historical, not consistent, not tongue-in cheek and chiefly not well written- besides, it's awkwardly directed), wondering also how (or with how much) Michael Caine could have been lured into this and what happened to American Movies. It's a pity because the first sequence (lady and guillotine) is first class in its genre. Maybe it was second unit. "},{"Title":"I simply did NOT enjoy this movie!","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It's too bad, because there are good actors, good cinematography, etc., but the content of the film too often was full of the macabre. Spare me movies like this!!!!!!!!!! If you enjoy watching things like the atrocities of mental asylums in the Middle Ages maybe you will like it, I don't know. I can't find any redeeming virtue of this film enough to recommend it to anyone for any reason. It's one of the few films I feel I would have had a happier life had I never seen it at all.Disgusting.When I read reviews, before watching it, that it was sick and perverted, I assumed such reviews were written by prudes. But no. They were simply stating the facts. Ugh. "}{"Title":"For a movie ostensibly against censorship, it provides an excellent case for censorship.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A lot of people have said that Quills is a good movie for the quality of its performances and its art direction. While I do not dispute this, I cannot call it a good movie. It seems like it wants to be a satire against censorship, but it doesn't makes any point particularly clearly. In fact some would take it as an argument for censorship. Without going into too much detail, the Marquis' writings change a number of people's lives in this film. But unlike the similarly themed Pleasantville, the changes are all for the worse. Much much worse. What's worse the film itself serves as an example of a corrupting influence, especially since it's only rated R (I don't know what NC-17 is for if not this movie). The film demonstrates the effect of incendiary material correlates strongly with the strength of character of those who view it, so why would it's makers allow it to be seen by children? "},{"Title":"Bad Movie, yuck!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  What a totally stupid movie.  It was a waste of talent.  It's not even remotely historically correct and did not catch my interest at all. Save your time and money.   "}]