[{"Title":"A gem of a movie for those of us of a certain age","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I've had this video in my armoire for many months and finally got around to watching it last night.  What a complete delight it was!  Quirky, interesting, sweet-natured.  As a middle-aged single I particularly enjoyed the romantic plot strand involving two people of my vintage.  Amy Irving is incandescent as always.  This movie has a wonderfully European (okay, Brazilian) feel and sensibility.  Not the usual canned Hollywood fare. "},{"Title":"Ahhhh! Two tickets to Rio, please.","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Bossa Nova is a fun and light hearted film about the romantic involvements of an ensemble of diverse but interconnected characters including one relationship hatched over the Internet. This charming little film features plenty of samabas, postcard panoramas of the Copacabana, and a 90 minute story which moves along quickly and will leave a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"Made me want to take off my sandals and stroll on the beach","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Let's be honest. Bossa Nova is not a heavy weight film. Nor does it pretend to be. That's its core charm. A bit frothy, yes, but leaves a sweet aftertaste that happily lingers for days.I hadn't seen Amy Irving (Mary Ann) in quite a while and was glad to see her in this film. Her timid interplay with Faguendes (Pedro Paul) was sweet and touching. I enjoyed watching their love story unfold. Faguendes is obviously a well-known, beloved actor in his home country. It's the first time I've seen his work and I can see why he's so popular.But there's plenty more to take note of. Watching Faguendes' family ties nearly unravel is almost heartbreaking at times. To see three generations is almost unheard of in today's movies. I was pleased to see it.The other subplots are equally fun. The soon-to-be exported Brazilian soccer player's quest to learn how to curse in English is hilarious. And watching the girl dream of her online boyfriend is something many of us can relate to. Not to mention the soulful longing of the young man (Pedro Paul's son)who wants her but isn't brave enough to state his case.All this plays out against an almost idyllic backdrop of sand dunes, towering mountains, charming cafes and crashing surf. Sure, it may not be the entire face of Rio but would you want to see the sewers in New York City? I doubt it. I've never been to Rio but this movie had me dreamily considering it.Jobim's music, by the way, is the perfect choice. Like sunlight on water...  "},{"Title":"Postcards from Rio","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Most Brazilians complain that Brazilian movies only show the poverty and the arid landscapes of Northeast Brazil. I particularly think that we shouldn't conceal the sad reality of so many places in Brazil, and films like Central Station and City of God are brilliant in their own right. But we can't deny that there should be more Brazilian movies out there showing all the beauty from this country, and Bossa Nova is one of those rare movies.Director Bruno Barreto (Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands) doesn't try to start a socio-political speech here. He cast his own wife Amy Irving as a charming American lady who teaches English in Rio, and falls in love with one of her students, a lawyer played by mature leading man Antonio Fagundes. Barreto's intention was to make a romantic comedy in Rio de Janeiro, dedicated to/inspired by Tom Jobim and François Truffaut. Not an art-house flick, not an Oscar movie. Just an enjoyable love story with great music and beautiful landscapes. And he succeeded. Far from being a masterpiece, Bossa Nova is a lovely film that should be seen by anyone who'd like to spend some pleasant 95 minutes, watching a not so popular (at least, not as it should be) side of this unique country. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Antidote to City of God","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Don't get me wrong - City of God is a cracking film. This film is for when you want a rest from the wave of ultra violent films that have streamed out of Brasil in the last few years. This is a lovely,light romantic comedy with elements of farce and fantasy. It was the directors intention to show a picture postcard version of Rio. And he succeeds wonderfully. This film probably resonates more with me than most because I met and married a Brazilian in Rio and we shared a first kiss in front of the Copacabana Palace Hotel (were you spying on us Mister Barreto?) And I would just like to point out that I am not middle-aged and still know how to have a good time so ignore all the comments saying this film is for the oldies - since when did romance have an age limit?! "},{"Title":"Sweet and funny just like Brazilian people!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  For the first time, people around the world will be able to see Brazil from a different point of view on the movies no misery, no poverty, no masked thieves... And for the first time the movies are showing some of the Brazilian bright side. There is also some kind of magic the director got on the screen which made possible for us to notice the kind of relationship established between the American and the Brazilian people and culture. Besides, it is full of sense of humor and wonderful actors. It is really worth it... And I really left the movies very proud! "},{"Title":"A nice Feel Good movie, but not without flaws","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Rio de Janeiro's wonderful scenery and beautiful music make this film worth watching, especially with your girlfriend/wife. Unfortunately, the plot's got some holes in it and the movie as a whole doesn't flow very smoothly. However there's plenty of good acting and funny moments. But if you're heart-broken, this is not the film for you. "},{"Title":"****  Wonderful romance set in beautiful Rio","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Warning All cynics should avoid this movie like the plague!!! Full of contrivances and cliches, ridden with all the typical plot elements of any kind of ensemble romance piece, this film on the outset seems like nothing new. But there's just something about it I couldn't let go of-maybe it was the beautiful Rio de Janeiro backdrop that this film is set against. Maybe it's the opportunity to see Amy Irving once again in all her glory. I don't know which, but the lady should definitely be in more movies, especially in ones where her husband directs her and therefore gives her the best role and makes her the most sympathetic in the film. Irving stars as Mary Ann Simpson, an English teacher in Rio who teaches classes by night and private students by day. Across the hall from her classes is the shop of an elderly tailor, whose lawyer son Pedro Paulo (Antônio Fagundes) is helping his father get out of an alimony fix that involves a much younger wife. One night Pedro Paulo runs into our heroine on the elevator, and love at first sight is born. Right away he forgets about Tania, the ex-wife (Débora Bloch) he was having trouble letting go of, and goes after this mysterious new woman in his life. Along the sidelines there are plots that involve Irving's student Nadine (Drica Moraes) and her online romance with a SoHo artist `Gary', and another regarding the lawyer's intern Sharon (Giovana Antonelli) and her romance with both her boss' brother Roberto and the famous soccer player Acacio (Alexandre Borges), who also happens to be taking private English lessons from Mary Ann. All these lines cross and meet and even out in perfect form, and yet somehow at its most typical the film manages to be at its most enjoyable, possibly because Barreto has such a good time entertaining his audience that one can't help but dive right in. Worth a good look.  "},{"Title":"After enduring the execrable Anaconda, thank God for Bossa Nova","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"   This film is a delightful romantic comedy and shows off the  director's love for the city of Rio. A film that Brasilian  Americans can be proud of instead of ashamed of like they  were at the pathetic Anaconda from summer's past.  I wish  all NorteAmericanos could see this flick to experience  the unique beauty of Rio. Yes, it's idealized and doesn't show the bad with the good, but this is true of many many  movies.  Gladiator made ancient Rome glamorous, which it  was not.  Rio, on the other hand, is a city filled with  unique beauty, as anyone who has ever been to Sugarloaf or  Corcavado can attest to.  For those who may be curious, my  imdb handle of M2b means married-2-Brasil and you can easily fugure out what that means.  I loved this flick. See it and see it in wide screen, not video! "},{"Title":"Your chance to go to Rio....","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I just recommended Bossa Nova to a friend. I have to agree with other user comments that there is not a deep plot, however this is a movie for all your senses. If you like Bossa Nova music, you won't be disappointed. One of my favorite albums of all time is Getz/ Gilberto. This movie satisfies the ears with Girl from Ipanema and Corcovado, both found on the Getz/Gilberto album. Other Bossa Nova favorites in this movie are Wave and One Note Samba. If you like the Portuguese language, again you won't be disappointed. I was very curious about Amy Irving and her ability to speak this foreign language. Was she dubbed or did she learn it? She sounded authentic. Bossa Nova is also a feast for the eyes. Much like Enchanted April is a virtual trip to Italy, this movie takes you to Brazil. If you have been waiting to go to Rio but won't be going any time soon, this is your chance to get a virtual Rio experience. This movie was for me about the atmosphere of the place, not the typical movie experience. Bossa Nova is definitely worth seeing from your couch or comfy chair! "}{"Title":"Simply beautiful","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Simply beautiful. Great landscape of Rio. Each shot has more than tv commercial quality. Very rich and crispy images. Must see if you like to feel Latin. This is comedy. This is drama. Pedro Paulo, the lawyer takes his father's divorce case and fall in love with his English teacher Mary Ann. Shows escape from marriage through two generations. Isn't it fun or what. "},{"Title":"A Lot of Fun","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  We watched this movie the other evening and found it to be a delight. Nothing deep, but a lot of fun.  The music is good and one wants to dance. The scenery, beautiful and the actors most attractive.  This affords one a pleasant evening.  "},{"Title":"Robert Altman with a Portuguese accent","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  While other comments here have focused on the 'feminine' quotient of the picture, it should be noted that Bossa Nova goes beyond the formulaic approach ala Return to Me, and instead goes for a more Altman-like approach. The confluence of a myriad of characters of diverse backgrounds (including Alexandre Borges the star of the epic Um Copo de Cólera as a soccer star about to be traded to an English League team) comes together in a fashion not unlike Altman's Nashville, with some winners and some losers, including nice guys. No, as mentioned earlier, this does not show you a gritty, realistic Rio, but after the fantasy Broadway song and dance sequence, who the hell would have expected it? Ultimately, the film leaves you feeling good, albeit a bit empty, like most summer fare here in the States.  "},{"Title":"Pretty pictures, interesting soundtrack, but not much else.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Bossa Nova has lots of great shots of Rio de Janerio, and lots of pretty actors, and a soundtrack that combines old and new bossa nova tunes.  Unfortunately that's about all it has going for it.The film is about the romance between an American woman who teaches English to the wealthy and her corporate lawyer student who bears a striking resemblance to Marcello Mastroianni.  Both of them are supposed to be in their early to mid-forties.The age aspect is one problem I have with this film.  I'm not against middle-age romance on film, but it's just so obvious that Antonio Fagundes is closer to fifty.Another problem I have is with Amy Irving's acting skills.  At times, it's obvious she's reading straight off a cue card.  Good actors never let us see them working.But the biggest complaint I have about this film is the plot, or rather the lack thereof.  The film is filled with lots of confusing little subplots, some of which never resolve themselves.  This, I guess, is to distract the audience from the fact that the main plot is so threadbare.Many American critics have praised this film.  This is largely, I believe, because it is not an American film and was not bankrolled by a major Hollywood studio.  However, I always use the same barometer to judge a film, regardless of its origin or pedigree.  I give this film the same criticism I would give to a film such as How Stella Got Her Groove Back or The Horse Whisperer  It's beautiful to look at, but once you get past the scenery and the actors' looks, there's not much left.  I give this film a 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"From Brazil With Love","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I must confess I didn't expect to see a good movie when I went to the theater, but after it, I felt pride of being brazilian! The movie is perfect the story is very good, the actors and actresses are playing wonderful ropes and the music... Ah, the music! Very good songs. This movie may not get the Best Foreign Movie Oscar, but it's the best brazilian movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Charming romance set in Rio de Janeiro to the music of Jobim","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Bruno Barreto has directed this charming and appealing romance, Bossa Nova,set in the colorful city of Rio DeJaneiro. Amy Irving (Mary Ann) is an American living there and working as a teacher of English to eager Brazilians. When Antonio Fagundes (Pedro Paulo), an attorney in the process of his own divorce, sees her in an elevator, he enrolls in her course. This is just the beginning of a sweet relationship. The people around them (her best friend, his legal assistant, his father and brother, and an American e-mail pen pal) all become involved in a series of humorous and emotional incidents that will have you smiling. Barreto uses the magical music of Antonio Carlos Jobim to fine effect, as well as the various scenic wonders of Rio. It is a pleasure to see some middle aged characters finding romance and companionship in a contemporary film. Brad Pitt, Cameron Diaz, and Leonardo DiCaprio notwithstanding, everyone falling in love is not in their 20's and 30's. There is still hope for us all. "},{"Title":"Bossa Nova Baby","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Bossa Nova (2000) Dir Bruno Barreto / Cast Antonio Fagundes, Amy Irving, Alexandre Borges, Drica Moraes, Debora Bloch Brazilian comedy about the nature of romance. Amy Irving stars as an English teacher who has a friend in an Internet relationship. An attorney takes her English class in hopes of meeting her. His wife dumped him for a tai chi instructor. Director Bruno Barreto populates the film with interesting characters. He previously made One Tough Cop and Four Days in September. Irving is terrific as a widow confused about her emotions yet takes a chance on a new relationship. Antonio Fagundes is hilarious as he tests the depths of love, but one may question whether the attorney made the honourable choice. Hilarious supporting work by Alexandre Borges as a soccer player who steals every scene he is in, and Drica Moraes who indulges in Internet dating perhaps because it presents a mystery. Director Barreto succeeds in presenting these characters realistic yet with effective comic twerks that pay off. The conclusion makes the romantic elements somewhat questionable, but this film thrives more on humour and the cast pull through big time on dialogue and funny situations. It presents romance within culture and our methods of pursuit, whether effective or not. Theme of influence is evident but boarders on sex, which is flimsy yet entertaining here. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"The funniest Brazilian comedy movie since Oscarito's","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Funny, romantic, multilingual... There is a lot to say about this movie. It's one of those that put Brazilian cinema again in the path of quality. It's a good surprise seeing Bruno Barreto, who directed many erotic movies, did a very nice piece without any nudity, even with lots of babes in the cast. The story is about the romantic involvement between Pedro (Antônio Fagundes, our senior superstar) and Mary Ann (Amy Irving) and lots of funny things that happen around them. I could say I don't like Irving's performance because she looked very bored all the time. She was there only because she was Mr. Barreto's wife. On the other hand, all Brazilians were terrific, with lots of good acting from Alexandre Borges (Romario's alter-ego), Drica Moraes (Mary Ann's friend who dated with an American through e-mail), Giovanna Antonelli, Pedro Cardoso, Débora Bloch, and so many others that shine even in small roles. I particularly like Alberto De Mendoza (the tailor, Pedro's father), Spanish-speaker , helping his son on impressing the English teacher, in a very unusual way - watch it and check it out. If the movie's plot was not so original, I tell it doesn't matter. As in Centralstation, the most important is how the story is told, the cast quality, music score, and so many other things that make the real difference. I really recommend this movie for people from all nations, since the comedy shown there is universal. "},{"Title":"A fine set of stimulations to the senses...","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie exploits the beauty of Rio's beaches and the idea that people around the globe has about them. And I love that. It's also light as long as there aren't big dramas exposed at its highest notes. The teacher has already lost her husband, the lawyer doesn't care too much for her ex-wife (in spite of he appeared drunk at the start of the movie), and his father is about lo loose a dispute with his last wife. An even all characters look like they feel comfortable and unstressed. (That might be what pisses some people off, as they consider the movie is contributing to what they argue is a misconception of the reality of the city).Listen to the soundtrack. A great number of light weighted bossa nova themes drop in throughout the movie just like a CD track after another, even surpassing the number of those who have been gathered for the soundtrack CD. Listen to the sea tides sounds. There's practically no moment in the picture that you don't hear them.  Watch the wind moving trees, bushes  and also penetrating the rooms turned into soft breezes. Watch the bright sun light surrounding offices and appartments, all of them sharing the same beautiful sea view.What the female characters and you'll notice that all of them aren't a romantic cliche by themselves. But they do aspire to cliche livestyles, and that forces you to look into their personas, just to discover how adorable they surprisingly come up to be.I would've liked to have seen this movie with a Frozen Lemonade and a pair of sunglasses. The experience is the same. If you are generous to take into account a cute and easy going story with some contemporary moral common places, give this movie a chance, and maybe you'll be among those of us who think that no matter its lightness, this picture deserves a place between cult movies. "},{"Title":"Glad I went to see it","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I came because of the promise of seeing some of Brazil's scenic beauty but became engrossed in the finely woven mesh of story lines.  That they all reached closure of one sort or another at the end left me satisfied.  But, to be honest, I wouldn't have minded another thirty minutes of this film. The characters and story line were delightful. "}{"Title":"A refreshing change and very entertaining","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  No blatant sex, no hip innuendo, just a refreshing contemporary romance comedy with a nice Brazlilian twist. Amy Irving is still a very comely lady, and plays her role in a charming understated way. The Latin actors are fresh and credible. Altogether an enjoyable film and a good date movie, particularly for those 30 and over. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Sentimental Date Movie","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Although I saw it alone, it made me wish I were on a date. First of all, I've always been a lover of Brazilian music, and this movie is chock full of it, with a heavy emphasis on Antonio Carlos (Tom) Jobim.It's not another *Gone with the Wind* or *Casablanca*, but who can resist the blue sky and water of Rio de Janeiro, with Sugarloaf Mountain looming over the city and the azure sea? This all might have been wasted if the cinematography Hollywood competent, which it is. It made me want to move to Brazil at the first possible opportunity.The story is comic and tragic at the same time. Amy Irving is delightful. The rest of the cast is generally more than competent.All in all, it was 2 hours very well spent. "},{"Title":"Enchanting Romance, Perfect for Women","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  OK, so the Rio de Janeiro Bossa Nova shows us is not the real Rio.  So the movie has no poor, no hunger, no favelas, no political unrest.  Is there a law written somewhere that says films have an obligation to show all of that?  No.  The people who made Bossa Nova very self-consciously steered away from the grit to concentrate on the romantic state of mind of the characters, surrounding them with gorgeous locales and a dazzling soundtrack filled with Brazilian classics, which is exactly right for the story.  Amy Irving is absolutely enchanting as the protagonist, showing the kind of irresistible innocent charm she exercised in Crossing Delancey and Yentl.  Granted, the film gets a bit silly at times, but if you're willing to suspend your disbelief and go with the flow, buy the coincidences and accept the magic, the final result is a decidedly seductive romantic comedy, the kind they rarely make anymore.  I'm a guy and I loved this movie, and I'll bet money there isn't a woman out there who won't like it at least as much as I did.  Personally, I saw this on a studio-released tape before it opened in theaters and will pay to see it again on the big screen to take in the gorgeous widescreen cinematography and the fabulous music as they were meant to be experienced. "},{"Title":"Feel good film and amazing visuals of Rio","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Yes this is not a deep movie, but it made me feel good! It shows the beautiful side of Rio, the spontaneous optimism of Cariocas in very beautiful visuals on screen. It is very funny and touching at times, covering several lives and relationships between Gringoes and Cariocas. A Gringoe that escaped to Rio and made a new life, a famous Soccer player getting ready to leave his beloved Rio, a Carioca couple going through a rough patch and a Carioca in love with her online Gringoe. I feel the happiness they feel about life even though they deal with death, betrayal, loss... It makes you feel good about this life we all live, even if it does not show the bad side of Rio. If you want to escape into a modern Hollywood version of a Gringoe in Rio interacting with Cariocas, this is it! "},{"Title":"I loved this movie! Saudades! We miss you Rio!","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie warmed up a  very cool afternoon on the northeast side of the U.S.  I like to see Brazil through the perception of a native born director such as Bruno Barreto (Gabriela). I simply loved that movie also.I hate those producers/directors whose mission in life is to go abroad and show the world the ugly side of most countries. I am always seeing movies about Brazil where the main theme is poverty and the slums of Rio. Some of those producers/directors, should go in front of and across the street from the White House Yes, in Washington D.C. and make a movie about the homeless that sit there all year long including during the long winter, snow and all!  That is sad! I don't even need a plot, just give me that type of photography of Rio and Bossa-Nova and who needs anything more!  The script is witty, realistic to the Brazil I know, the characters are funny and full of idiosyncracies. I loved the Brazilian law clerk all casual and being herself. You would never see that in the U.S.!  I love the work of Antonio Fagundes (A Compadecida) (whom I used to see all the time having coffee at a little coffee shop in Sumare, Sao Paulo,  where Channel 4 used to be and where he did so many fun soap-operas). I love the work of Amy Irving (Yentl, The Competition). Way to go Amy. Way to go Amy and Bruno, show the world some of the lovely side of that beautiful country!  I loved this movie! Saudades!  "},{"Title":"Better-than-average romantic comedy","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Three things save this movie from being, at bottom, an ordinary comedy of romance and misunderstanding.  Two of them are the music and the scenery, which have already received extensive comment from others.  The third is the intricate network of character relationships--romantic, professional, and familial--and for me the greatest pleasure in Bossa Nova lay in figuring out this network.  It's not as seemingly naturalistic as the comparable web of relationships in Magnolia, but no less satisfying a puzzle.  Overall, a pleasant experience and an excellent date movie, with just enough potential heartache to accentuate the sweetness of the romance. "},{"Title":"An infectious lovable piece from Brazil","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Right off the bat we see on the first frame that the film is dedicated to Antonio Carlos Jobim and Francois Truffaut. An easy-flowing piece with samba music accompanying the main course, it's simply wonderful and effortless to consume. The story and parallel plots may be predictable, but that did not get in the way of enjoying this movie. It's definitely entertaining drama, romance, the ups and downs of man-woman relationships -- even included a cyberspace courtship, along with the mistaken identity and comedy of errors, the audience can swing along with Jobim tunes, hum along and cruise along on this ride with Amy Irving leading as Mary Ann, directed by husband Bruno Barreto (Dona Flor and her two husbands 1978). The supporting Brazilian cast is just as colorful Brazil's leading man Antonio Fagundes as Pedro the admirer, Debra Bloch as the wife, Giovanna Antonelli as Sharon the youthful assistant, Alexandre Borges as Acacio the soccer star, Drica Moraes as Nadine and  U.S.'s Stephen Tobolowsky (Groundhog Day 1993 opposite Bill Murray). At times almost feels like a dash of Almodovar sentiments sprinkled for spice. If you want a filmic vacation and have a relaxing romp, go see BOSSA NOVA -- even the credit roll is with bright colored swish and swashes animated to the music tempo scored by Eumir Deodato.  "},{"Title":"retarded fluff from Bruno Barreto","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  well, 2000 was a banner year for crappy Brazilian exports.  Bruno Barreto and Caca Diegues both scored big with this film and the equally bad Orfeu. Going against the tradition that has been set by most Brazilian artists, Barreto manages to make a work with no ideological or aesthetic backbone, a simple minded piece of junk which tries and fails miserably to handle love in the same way the Bossa Nova musicians did.  He considers this film an homage to Jobim and Truffaut, and you're better off skipping the middle-man and going straight for Jobim's music and Truffaut's films.This film should be an embarassment to Brazilians, considering the way he portrays our country, and the lack of ambition that permeates the film. Even compared to Central Station, which was good but not great, the weakness of this film becomes apparent.  If you want to see a horribly idealised version of Brazil, or a film that consists of Brazilians trying to do the Hollywood thing in portuguese, go see this.  Personally, I'm glad I got to see Chronically Unfeasible, a far better film which restored my hopes that there is something good left in Brazilian cinema. "},{"Title":"Rio's landscape, Giovanna Antonelli and Drica Moraes made the movie worth seeing!","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  The warm and beautiful images of Rio de Janeiro and the moving sound track are the strong features of a movie made to show that love is still in the air. With a less than strong plot and characters a bit loose Giovanna Antonelli and Drica Moraes are very good surprises! Worth seeing! "}]