[{"Title":"Another of My Guilty Pleasures...","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know why I'm afraid to admit it, but WHAT PLANET ARE YOU FROM? is definitely one of my guilty pleasures which I have viewed multiple times and still find highly entertaining. This cute and entertaining comedy stars Garry Shandling as an alien sent to earth to impregnate a woman and bring the baby back to his planet. He ends up targeting a real estate agent and recovering alcoholic (Annette Bening) as his target, but he doesn't plan on complications like love, marriage, friends, business competitors...those little things that we earthlings deal with on a daily basis but an alien from another planet would have no concept of. The opening scenes of the aliens being educated on the female erogenous zones are quite amusing as is Shandling's explanations of women to aliens when he returns to his planet after impregnating Bening and stealing the baby. Bening is charming in a rare comedic turn and even gets to sing. Greg Kinnear scores as a slimy co-worker of Shandling's and Linda Fiorentino makes the most of her brief appearance as his sexy wife. John Goodman is solid as a cynical UFO investigator who can't get anyone to believe there is an alien on earth and has to deal with his paranoid wife (Caroline Aaron) who is convinced the man is cheating on her. Ben Kingsley, in a refreshing change of pace, plays the stone-faced leader of Shandling's planet and Camryn Manheim, Nora Dunn, and Ann Cusack appear as Bening's girlfriends. Shandling co-wrote this comedy, smoothly directed by Mike Nichols, of all people. It's no masterpiece, but there are worse ways to kill 90 minutes and there are laughs to be had along the way. "},{"Title":"Wildly funny and original","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Planet Are You From is a very original comedy and I was laughing the whole way through.  Garry Shandling co-wrote the script, and plays the lead character well.  Fans of Garry will love this movie.  I liked the scene where Annette Bening and Shandling are making love, and we cut to the dancing fountain at the Belaggio, as we hear their sexual moans in the background while Lionel Ritchie's All Night Long plays in the soundtrack.  That was a well-crafted scene.  And there are many others.  The supporting cast is great, too.  This is a comedy that's funny, original, intelligent and stylish.  It's a real gem.  If you want some big laughs...you can't go wrong. "},{"Title":"Funny Interplanetary Sex Farce","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a cute little sex farce starring and written by Garry Shandling.  Harold Anderson (Shandling) is actually an alien on a very special mission.  He must impregnate an earth woman to begin the infiltration of earth for eventual domination and takeover.  He has done his research and learned to be a good listener, dutifully repeating `uh huh' at every utterance by a female.  Unfortunately, there are certain subtleties he hasn't mastered in the fine art of seduction, and he gets his face slapped repeatedly.After countless humorous failures, he meets Susan (Annette Benning), his future mate and discovers that the only way she will have sex with him is if he marries her.  After the nuptials he learns that all the rules of engagement have changed.This droll script ranges from mildly silly to hysterical as it holds a circus mirror up to our mating rituals.  Shandling is always funny with his deadpan whiney style, but the real treat here is Annette Benning.  She makes this film work as Shandling's overwrought love interest.  As she did in `American Beauty', she plays another caricature role to perfection.  Here she is the aging female who has been a continual loser at the dating game and is desperately searching for love.  Her brilliant performance is a treat that upstages Shandling at every turn.  In addition, the rest of the cast is wonderful and fits well with Shandling's wry sense of humor.This is a fun and very light comedy that works well most of the time.  I rated it 7/10.  Viewers who are offended by nudity, profanity and sexual situations should pass.  Others will probably enjoy more than a few good laughs. "},{"Title":"So stupid its funny; effective if your sense of humor applies. *** (out of four)","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WHAT PLANET ARE YOU FROM? / (2000) *** (out of four)By Blake FrenchMike Nichols' What Planet Are You From? is one of the most honest comedies I can remember-and it is a funny one, too. The script features distorted stereotypes dealing with human relationships. Men are only interested in sex with women, you say? Women want emotional support from men, so I hear? This film examines those concepts in such a unique and straightforward fashion even several technical flaws fail to interrupt the creative flow of colorful ideas.Sex is the topic in What Planet Are You From? but what it truly gets at is the differences of female and male relationship perspectives. Gary Shandling stars as an alien called H1449, who lives with an all-male race on a distant, technologically advanced planet. The race reproduces by cloning only, and because the men never use their sex organs, they have shrunk and disappeared. The leader of the planet, Graydon (Ben Kingsley), plans to take over the entire universe, targeting Earth next. Taking over the planet from the inside is his strategy. After extensive training and dispensed with a penis, H1449 is sent to Earth to breed with a woman. 	H1449 disguises himself as a home and commercial loan officer named Harold Anderson. His first and foremost mission is to impregnate the first available woman, the problem is that his targets are scared of the humming sound that comes from his penis, in correlation with his state of arousal. He does manage to  bed a few easy women, including a flight attendant and a strip club dancer. After meeting his adulterous coworker, Perry (Greg Kinnear), and becoming a candidate for a big promotion, his mission becomes more and more unimportant. 	Harold soon meets Susan Hart (Annette Bening), a recovering alcoholic/real estate agent putting her life back together. Her biological clock is ticking, so she finds herself marrying Harold after learning about his desires to have a child. Under great pressure from Graydon and an FAA agent (John Goodman), who is set on proving Harold is an alien, the confused H1449 must not only focus on his demanding mission, but also with his new Earthly duties and emotionally needy wife.  It's fun watching Harold realize the emotions of being human; when he experiences feelings like anger, jealousy, sadness, and sympathy, we feel oddly touched. There are a few funny moments from the hilariously frank sexual gestures. With nonstop sexual innuendoes and extremely blunt material, the dialogue is irresistible. The vibrating penis gag has potential, but it is not fully explored. What Planet Are You From? has a lot of laughs, but could have had a lot more fun with its plot elements.I really liked the performance by Gary Shandling. His calm, confused state of mind makes for a light-hearted sense of humor. He often provides the film with hilarious moments, with simple, frank facial expressions. Annette Bening provides the story with a comical charm fitting for the role. The supporting cast is top notch even to minor roles. Such small but effective performances come from Nora Dunn (Three Kings), Janeane Garofalo (Clay Pigeons, The Matchmaker), Judy Greer (Jawbreaker) and Linda Fiorentino (Men in Black, Dogma). Mike Nichols has made better movies, such The Graduate, The Birdcage, Primary Colors and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? What Planet Are You From? is by far his silliest production, and I am actually a bit surprised to see him involved with this kind of movie. It is downright stupid at times-just plain dumb. But it is a funny stupid. The story evokes laughs from its utter foolishness. I enjoyed the film-not a lot-but it often connected with my unusual sense of humor. If you like this kind of offensive, perverse, and superficial buffoonery, and you know who you are, you might just find yourself having a ball with What Planet Are You From?  "},{"Title":"Gary Shandling rules . . .","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have long been a fan of Gary Shandling ever since his show on Fox.  He has a perfect way a delivering the dead pan punch line.  Gary is perfectly cast as the emotionless alien who comes to impregnate a woman in order to take over our world.  What Planet Are You From has its flaws and arguments could be made for not liking this film.  At times it is uneven and not sure what direction it wants to take.  Sub plots are left unexplained or ended in a somewhat confusing fashion.  All of these distractions are a side note to hilarious writing and stellar acting from a great cast including John Goodman, Greg Kinnear, Linda Fiorentino, and Annette Benning.  The jokes are all dead on and Shandling's performance, especially as he develops into the more atypical male stereotype, is brilliant. "},{"Title":"PLANET is in a world of its own","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Garry Shandling is an unattractive man who looks as if he is suffering from a perpetual state of constipation, and, can you believe it?, he still manages to be enjoyable (and even loveable, of all things) in his latest movie, What Planet Are You From?  Despite a clunky title and an unlikely leading man (even Shandling himself seems stunned by the reality of it), this movie manages to just barely pull off a decent performance.The premise seems much more suited to an hour and a half of repetitive penis jokes (and, in some ways, it gets close to that) Shandling plays Harold Anderson, an alien from a planet inhabited by impotent, super-intelligent men bent on universal domination.  Led by a stiff-lipped Ben Kingsley (whose neck seems to have disappeared) this race of uber-men has lost all semblances of emotion, let alone sexuality.  In their quest for universal rulership, they have chosen Earth as their next target.  Their goal?  To impregnate a human woman and begin populating the world with their kind.Of the millions of available aliens, Shandling is chosen as their ambassador, and after being fitted with an artificial and somewhat dysfunctional penis (it hums when erect), he travels to Earth in a glowing white ball and immediately begins incorporating the lessons he learned about the delicate art of female seduction.  For instance, he has an endless bevy of nice footwear and nice perfume remarks, including some slang Kitty likes to scratch!Sounds like a one-hour one-liner, huh?Fortunately, it's not.  It's safe to say the movie would have fallen flat on its alien face if it weren't for the stellar performance of Annette Benning as the one woman who finally falls for the bumbling alien's charms.  She manages to take this ludicrous premise and bring a touching dose of reality to it, giving a normally crass idea a glimmer of merit.  She is what diversifies Shandling's occasionally monotonous character, and it is through her eyes that the film sheds its hokiness and becomes a real movie.Co-stars John Goodman and Greg Kinnear, to their credit, do a great job as well, both of them displaying an untypical amount of restraint.  As far-fetched as it seems, it is the undertones and quiet moments in this film that render it watchable.  Likewise, those moments are what keep the joke from getting old.  Director Mike Nichols (who gave us such gems as Catch-22 and The Graduate) has combined the quiet soul of his Regarding Henry with the flamboyant ditziness of his The Birdcage to come up with something truly remarkable  a Garry Shandling movie that works.It certainly has its flaws, like most flicks, and many times the plot seems to stop and start just like Harold's malfunctioning member.  However, although the jokes reach levels the man from Nantucket would be proud of, they mostly act as reminders that, no matter how much we poke fun at sex and marriage, most of the jokes are true.  What Planet Are You From? has its out-there moments, but it still hits close to home.  "},{"Title":"Cute, somewhat weak in areas, but cute with a touch","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much, but found the movie to be nice and not a waste of time. The story quickly gets to meat of the matter in how aliens intend to take over the earth. And the depictions of their planet is interesting, but most of it revolves around a classroom environment.Annette Bening plays another real estate agent, and so one can guess she's probably qualified to be one in reality by now. Greg Kinnear is typically excellent, he should be a cheaper version of Tom Hanks someday if not already. John Goodman did well as the chaser and did as well as Richard Benjamin did in a '70's Dracula comedy. The story is nice and possibly predictable, as is the ending, but it's a pleasant and feel good movie. Strange for a movie that has the ending like it does (awkward to say the least), but whenever you end the whole thing with a baby laughing it can't be any better. Ben Kingsley was ok as the boss, but his talents weren't used to their fullest, but playing the type of character he was probably didn't require him to tap into his full ability. Would recommend this movie if you can handle penis being said. Every young man should see this movie before growing up and trying to get into women's pants.Shandling does a good job of being himself and his expressions are excellent, it's too bad he's not done this type of stuff more, he's much better than Jim Carrey and not as thick as Robin Williams, but then again he does another type of comedy than they do.Isn't that sound normal when a guy has an erection...  ; )...ok, so that may just be all the blood flushing from my brain to my...  ...penis that I am hearing. "},{"Title":"Criminally Underrated","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mike Nichols; Gary Shandling; Annette Bening; Ben Kingsley; John Goodman; Greg Kinnear...Some may look at this list of utterly-undeniably talented people and expect great achievement, while others may anticipate a too-many-cooks effect. Whatever *you* expect from What Planet Are You From? I can tell you one thing; Let this be the only review you read!!I have read countless reviews of this film, such as Roger Ebert's One-Star one-note write up (in which he sounds as if he wishes he wrote the film), The SF Examiner's feeble complaint and Time Magazine's bile explosion in paragraph form, and they all nitpicked the film to death while ignoring the beauty of it all. Some focused on the 'buzzing penis' gag which leads me to believe they only screened previews and slept through the actual film. Yet others complained that Gary Shandling isn't sexy and shouldn't have starred in the title role. Uhhh... OK, lets cast Fabio, for his looks and great comedic timing.I've seen plenty of movies, many of them comedies, and this one ranks with some of the best. I feel the casting was inspired across the board and features one of Greg Kinnear's best performances as a slimy womanizing cretin. Shandling is stellar as always, seeming to have an endless supply of one-liners and expressions for any situation. Annette Bening is possibly the best actress of her generation, and this performance clinches it.I'll bring it into focus for you it's a comedy of manners featuring a procreation-obsessed alien and a sex/relationship-disfunctional planet. The script is a Shandlingesque miracle and the performances are perfect. The film mixes universal truths about the human condition and truly funny situations which could have been clichés but were saved by the sly screenplay. I don't know what the negative reviewers were expecting, but I got exactly what I thought I would gifted actors and a fantastic director making what should have been a huge hit. Unfortunately, it seems that the prejudices and laziness of reviewers have sent this great movie to the bargain bin. See it today. "},{"Title":"Funny! Funny! But so true in some things.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great movie.  I think it is better on video because at home you can laugh out loud and not offend anyone. All the actors had great lines through out the movie.  But a new one to watch for is Rebecca the stewardess (Judy Greer).   Linda Fiorentino was outstanding, as usual, to bad her part wasn't larger.All is all a lot of fun. Enjoy!!!! "},{"Title":"Space Oddity.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"       The new film from director Mike Nichols who did such classics as THE GRADUATE, and WORKING GIRL.  Now his newest film is a sort of a different pace for him, it's still a comedy but it has science fiction mixed in with it.  Nichols newest film is is WHAT PLANET ARE YOU FROM?  This is a intresting sort of film since it mixes AMERICAN PIE with MEN IN BLACK.      PLANET is about a alien from a planet far away, where there are only men.  The leader, (Ben Kingsley)decides that it's time to start breeding and to begin taking over Earth. A alien is chosen, and it's Harold (Garry Shandling), who goes to Earth to help the future of his planet.  Harold arrives in Phoenix to find his lucky future mate.  He meets a slimy and cold co-worker (Greg Kinnear)who gives Harold tips on how to meet, one night stand women.  When they go to a alcholic annonymous meeting, Harold meets a woman who he feels fits his  profile (Annette Bening).  But Harold then discovers what it's really like to live on Earth, and what Earth women are really like.  Meanwhile, a Federal Avation Agent (John Goodman) is tracking down the mysterous jolts with the airplanes that Harold caused.     I did enjoy this film for so many reasons.  1.) It was filmed in Phoenix, (where I live) and it was fun spotting the locations on where they shot the film.  2.) The acting by everyone is good.  Garry Shandling does a great job playing the lead.  At times he is really give a convincing performance by acting weird, like a alien would.  Anette Bening (playing a real estate agent again) is also great, giving a good performance.  And I also enjoyed John Goodman as the agent determine to pursade the unwelcome guest.  3.) The cinematography by Michael Ballius and production design by Bo Welch was great, since they also both worked on MEN IN BLACK. 4.) The jokes are very dry in this film, yet they do work and succeed.  At times they can be cruel, but they are funny. and 5.) Believe it or not, the film does have a heart in it, which does make it meanningful.      For a screwball style comedy with very good sets and special effects, PLANET succeeds. However, at time the story does get disjointed and some actors appear and disappear, when you would like to see more of them.  But overall, it is entertaining and funny.  I don't think teens would enjoy it, but the older adults will giggle as they see the poor reproductiveorgan that Shandling's character has.  This is a funny film, and I do suggest to catch it when one gets the chance.  It's not a classic, but it is very enjoyable.  **** (out of five)  "}{"Title":"An amazingly funny movie","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've loved this movie from the first time I saw it. Maybe I'm just a Garry Shandling fan, but I laughed my ASS off in the theater. So I had to buy it. So just the other day (Jan 15th/05) I had quite a few people over, kind of like a final end to the party. It was getting really late. So we started watching it, and we were all laughing non stop, everyone was like where did you get this movie from. None of them have ever even heard of it. So now they all want to get their own copy.It's a great movie from beginning to start. Any man would wish they had that kind of attitude with women, and would actually work with most of them. "},{"Title":"I hate rom-coms, but this is just brilliant!","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As an avid action, horror, comedy, and anything non-rom-com fan, I hate the typical Hollywood bull of same old same romantic comedies they are constantly spitting out expecting audiences to appreciate!But on its release, I was lucky enough to fall upon this little gem of a film from the hilarious Gary Shandling - What Planet are You From?From the get-go this film is hilarious, with Gary's dead-pan humour and ridiculous faces. Annette Benning is fantastic as is most of the other cast who fit their roles perfectly and look like they are having a blast doing so!Carrying enough romance without being sickening, the film is almost perfect with constant laugh out loud moments and an over-all feel good achievement by the end of it.Was great to see it again after so many years and found it even funnier this time around! "},{"Title":"Inventive comedy, more for adults than kids, a solid 7 rating.","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Garry Shandling conceived and co-wrote What Planet Are You From. There is a line, delivered by Annette Bening, surprised that Shandling's character isn't more persistent in asking her out, says What planet are you from?, and it takes him aback! The premise is simple -- Shandling's world across the universe is highly evolved, no one has emotions anymore, and reproductive organs have evolved away since all reproduction is done by cloning. So Shandling gets trained on how to deal with human women, and is sent to find a woman to have a child with so that his race can eventually overtake Earth. Fortunately for the plotline, he isn't trained on everything, and that presents lots of amusing incidents.CAUTION -- SOME SPOILERS FOLLOW --There is a lot of inventive dialog, mostly humor that adults will appreciate more than the under-25 crowd. A running gag is that Shandling's implanted sex organ makes a humming sound when he becomes aroused. He is planted into a job as a banker in Phoenix. Greg Kinnear plays his nemesis at work. He eventually succeeds in finding the right woman, Bening, but he has to marry her. So they do.  His training has not prepared him for the vagaries of human interaction, like when Bening says sarcastically, OK, just go and buy that new remote instead of staying to talk to me, he takes her literally, not recognizing the sarcasm.The aliens enter the Earth realm via a flash of energy into a commercial airline flight, momentarily upsetting the plane and passengers. John Goodman plays an FAA investigator who suspects that it might be aliens and, after all these years of dull investigations, he might actually have something cool going on.The pregnancy is amazing, lasting only 3 months and a full-term boy is delivered. The alien planet's chief steals the baby and brings it back to his planet, Bening is upset, Shandling is beginning to develop human emotions, retrieves the baby boy, and the last scene shows them driving in their VW Bug, discussing where they should live, because Shandling has been chosen to be the new chief of his planet. He decides to commute.This film is an adult theme comedy with some nudity and fairly graphic sexual scenes, but done in good taste. The thread of humanity and emotions makes it more than just a Sci-Fi comedy. I rate it 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Mildly amusing date movie","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was interested in seeing this because of Shandling's press for his HBO shows.  The underlying premise for the movie seems based on the Men are from Mars... theme and it goes for many of that predictable type of gags, adding to it a repetitive use of the alien's (Shandling's) prosthetic penis that makes a humming noise when interested (energized).  This strikes some people as being just hilariously funny and others as being either mildly amusing or possibly boring -- (as various as reactions to boogers or whoopee cushions can produce, but not  necessarily for exactly the same people). This is a cartoon-like farce that takes some liberties with reality.  You won't like it if you insist that everything hang fairly tightly together and make logical sense. Annette Benning and John Goodman do nice jobs in their roles (in American Beauty she was one-dimensional -- here she has a broad range including vulnerability & hurt); without their roles the movie would have been lifeless.Consider it as a light weight date movie with some value for suggestive comments; it can easily lead to saying things like, 'do I hear something humming?' or 'you've started something buzzing.' "},{"Title":"A delightful, often misunderstood film.","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I believe that this film is often misunderstood.I believe that one would have to be a fan of Gary Shandling to thoroughly enjoy the film. If you find Shandling to be unfunny, then the entirety of the film will be lost on you.  If you find yourself laughing at Shandling and his wry sense of humor, as I do, then you'll most likely find this film as a underated diamond in the rough.It is my opinion that the Extra-Terristrial/World Domination plot of this film is strictly metophorical, and should be taken as such.  Shandling masterfully uses this as a platform to illustrate the world of difference in the psychies of men and women.  Though we speak the same language, Shandling is showing us that we are often hearing quite different things. He shows men as we truly are, an evolved species that is still driven by are primitave nature of 65 million years ago.I wouldn't classify this film as laugh out loud funny, but I believe that there are several witty and insiteful jokes that show us just how different we truly are.  I would highly recommend this film to any man, or woman, in a secure and typical relationship.  If you have ever struggled to wonder what your companion is truly thinking when they say the things they say, or do the things they do, then I don't believe you will be disappointed by this film. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie didn't do very well at the box office and I don't know why it has to be one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Gary Shandling has never been better as an alien sent to Earth to have sex with a female and bring the child back to his home planet. But while on Earth Shandling runs into all sorts of problems. One of the more funny happenings in the film is that whenever stimulated his penis generates a humming noise. John Goodman is also hilarious as the man trying to find the alien. It is very entertaining to watch Sandling who comes to Earth as a horney alien turn into a slob of a man after he is married to Anette Benning, maybe this movie could be much more accurate than we give it credit. So although it is no Snatch or Made if you are looking for something less gross out than American Pie but still craving those masculine sex jokes this movie is sure not to dissapoint.   "},{"Title":"Another viewpoint of human earth living","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You might say as an alien from another planet, Garry Shandling's deadpan demeanor fits the role perfectly. And it's believable that he would say all those lines and react as he does. This is his movie. Annette Bening, Greg Kinnear, John Goodman, Ben Kingsley (in a fun role being straight face through it all), and Linda Fiorentino round out the humor-loaded supporting cast. If you subscribe to the 'alien' depiction on how a marriage is maintained between a man and a woman, and how a family is developed or begotten, you'll truly have fun watching Shandling and Bening's pairing in this not so off-kiltered comedy about life on earth. (A bonus You get to hear Annette Bening singing High Hopes.) "},{"Title":"Hilariously Touching (in the battery-operated sense)!","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I laughed, I cried, I pitched a tent....Garry Shandling had the audience rolling with his subtle brand of humor, and those great facial expressions. Fiorentino was sexy as usual, and Kinear has never been more amusing! I highly recommend this as a date movie, it has something you'll both enjoy! "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud funny....","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a little slower than a lot of comedies, but I still laughed out loud at several parts... The only warning I would give people about this movie is that if you don't like Garry Shandling, you won't like this film... I loved The Larry Sanders Show, and Shandling's sarcastic humor floors me every time... I do know that a lot of people don't find him funny at all, and this movie would be lost on them... I laughed my ass off though...Annette Bening is great (as always), and Linda Fiorentino has a great part, albeit small... John Goodman is funny and Greg Kinnear is good as Shandling's co-worker... "},{"Title":"The funniest and most unique movie of the new millenium.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Though I've been disappointed with many movies of late, What Planet... is definitely not one of them.  I absolutely loved this picture.  I've never watched Garry Shandling but I enjoyed him very much.  The basic story is very silly but I found myself laughing consistently.  I was laughing so hard, tears were rolling down my cheek.The idea of alien impregnation is not new; but it is taken to a whole different area here.  Shandling is sent to find a woman  to impregnate and any woman will do.  The problem he runs into, is the same one any man has; Women are very complex individuals and just asking for sex doesn't work.Humor comes in all forms.  Whether its regarding his new tool, adjusting to the female species or to relationships in general, he soon realises that the mission has become a lot harder.It can be somewhat vulgar but it is extremely funny nonetheless.  I absolutely recommend this movie to anyone who doesn't take themselves too seriously.  I haven't laughed this hard in years! "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just caught the sneak preview of this movie, and I loved it.  There are a number of scenes that made me laugh out loud.  Shandling is perfect for this part (as he should be since he developed it).  Ditto for Bening, who also had the part of Susan developed for her.  Overall, I was very pleased with this movie. "},{"Title":"Cheap and primitive, but very funny!!!","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This comedy really rocks. It's way too cheap and awkward by any standards, and so primitive and full of stereotypes that in the end it comes out just right and funny. The intelligence level of this movie is between a Sunday afternoon film and a kids' series, somewhere near to 'The Mating Habits of the Earthbound Human'. I couldn't decide during the whole movie, whether it was intended to be so funny, or they meant it serious - telling all the time 'we humans are special', 'we have feelings', 'what is love and it is so important' and such. Annette Being is really sweet in her role of Susan and Garry Shandling is marvelous as Harold, this is not an outstanding movie, but watching Harold is most fun of all. I only missed the evil Perry to get his punishment in the end. You have to be in the mood for this, but really recommended, 7/10! "},{"Title":"The alien doesn't know what he's doing; the humans don't know what to expect...","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An alien planet wants to take over the Earth, but they don't have spindly bodies and big heads (in fact, they HATE the guys with big heads!)  No, it's an advanced world of male clones with chiselled features and great suits. For their plan to work, the most highly trained of their kind is given a mission to blaze the trail -- and get an Earth woman pregnant.Garry Shandling, as the alien Harold Anderson, is neither as manic as Jim Carrey would have been in the role, nor as mute as Joe Morton in THE BROTHER FROM ANOTHER PLANET, but Shandling starts appropriately emotionless, understated and bewildered in the role.  Anderson thinks it will be a straightforward mission; come in, go out.  But he is unprepared for the subtleties his boss Graydon (Ben Kingsley) hypothesizes the aliens may not be prepared for, from their simulation of Earth women from 1950's TV signals.  Subtleties which mean that Anderson comes off as an insensitive pig (like most Earth men are), and that the women he meets are bewildering, irrational and unsure of what they want in a man (like most Earth women are).The film uses a lot of low humor which doesn't always work, plus the recurring gag of Anderson's buzzing sound saber, to put it mildly.  But John Goodman is typically great as a bored FAA investigator who is sucked into the intriguing X-FILES schtick, and Annette Bening is convincing as a woman who regrets her promiscuous past and is looking for direction, when Anderson moves in her direction.  The best humor comes from observations -- or Anderson's misobservations -- about relationships, about dreams and goals and even the power of love.  Inevitably, Anderson gets torn between his mission and his emerging affections, leading to a comic showdown and resolution.The underlying message is that men may be from Mars, but, hey, at least they're not from four solar-systems past Mars...  "},{"Title":"Almost completely without value","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw that Mike Nichols was making another picture, I was automatically interested. After making motion pictures like The Graduate and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, he had slipped severely, making only a couple decent films since. So, naively, I went to What Planet Are You From to find out if he could stem the tide of failures.And, triumphantly, I left the motion picture with an answer no, no, no.If What Planet Are You From? succeeds at anything (and that's a big IF), it does succeed at having a surprisingly talented cast and crew, for what otherwise represents a made for USA motion picture. Starring Garry Shandling, Annette Bening, Greg Kinnear, and Ben Kingsley, I expected something decent, at least from the last three. But, they all disappointed me.The story of What Planet Are You From is a one-gag premise Garry Shandling plays an alien who has been sent to earth to impregnate a woman, thereby allowing his alien race to reproduce and slowly take over Earth. That ends up being the entire story. Never any twists, never anything clever that the beginning of the film indicated.The film opens with thousands of the aliens being taught what human women are like, providing the only legitimate laugh of the entire film. Then, Shandling is sent to earth, bumbles around, meeting the sleazy Greg Kinnear, who takes him to AA meetings to meet women. He meets Annette Bening, who seems to be phoning in her performance as a recovering alcoholic/real estate agent. She insists on marrying before having sex, and so the alien marries her. All through this point, every time the alien had tried to reproduce, his mechanical genitals made a whirring noise. Apparently, this passed for humor, because Nichols depended on this noise for about 30 minutes of the film.Then, they marry, they try to have children, are frustrated, and eventually she gives birth. Then, the baby is kidnaped by Kingsley (the leader of Shandling's planet), and the alien returns to steal it back, setting up a trite ending and giving the audience a merciful stay of execution.The film is a massive disappointment from everyone involved, and I give it 1/2 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"What Planet is the Screenwriter From?","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What Planet are You From? (2000) Dir Mike Nichols / Cast Gary Shandling, Annette Bening, John Goodman, Ben Kingsley, Greg Kinnear Interesting concept derailed by excessive vulgarity and a complete lack of intelligence. Gary Shandling plays an alien sent to earth to pregnant a woman and bring back the child. He encounters a woman at an alcoholics meeting. Problem is that she wishes to get married first. Predictable and vulgar with cheesy special effects. Director Mike Nichols is capable of so much better than this. Films such as Primary Colors and The Birdcage showcase his talent for directing comedy but here he is way off scale. The first problem is that Shandling is unsympathetic. Annette Bening fares much better as a woman battling addiction and takes the idea of commitment seriously. It is truly funny that she came away from a great performance in American Beauty to being reduced to this crud. John Goodman had potential as someone out to prove an alien has landed but the role is cardboard. Ben Kingsley plays the alien leader who beams down via toilet. Perhaps that is where he should have sent the script. Greg Kinnear plays a womanizing co-worker of Bening's who attempts to pick up women at Alcoholics Anonymous. This isn't even remotely funny, and the production values aren't any better. Film spoofs commitment but one must wonder what planet the screenwriter is from. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"World Domination??? isn't it always....","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I found out Nichols directed at the end credits my jaw dropped, this easily surpasses Graduate and Virgina by far! This was fun, educational and surprisingly touching. The line by Linda cracked me up the most why is he humming, oh he doesn't know the words...hilarious!I cannot fathom how I have never heard of this film from almost 15 years ago. No cultural references, no quotes, nada. Beats me, but glad I found it because I was in dire need of levity with panache after dying from exposure from watching all the grueling death, destruction and Armageddon fare of late.High recommend for Shandling (writes/acts in this) fans, wow is he Orange! Sure wish Linda could calm down enough for more film roles, she is absolutely stunning. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although this movie has a talented comedic cast I found it to be only mildly funny. But do not let this stop you from enjoying this different approach to a romantic comedy that thankfully won't qualify it as a 'chick flick'. Shandling and cast were well suited for their characters and each brought a very special aspect to each to the table.  I really can not give a good reason as to why I would enjoy this comedy that I did not find particularly funny, except maybe the endearing characters and the romantic comedy that is more male oriented. Worth watching, but do not expect belly laughs. "},{"Title":"Worth watching  but don't expect too much","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an intermittently amusing  movie, which however lacks the sharp edge one might expect from a film directed by Mike Nicholls, and written by, and starring, Garry Shandling. Shandling plays  an emotionless and sexless (until fitted with an artificial penis) alien, with earthname Harold Anderson,  sent here to impregnate an Earth woman as a first step in world domination. After various clumsy failures to fulfil his mission, he succeeds with Susan, played by Annette Bening; but in the process he is converted to human values.  The lesson of the movie - if it isn't too pretentious to try to find one - is that virtues and strengths such as love and loyalty can only exist alongside vices and weaknesses such as cheating and greed; but that the latter are a price worth paying for the former.The movie would have been more effective and funny had Shandling been able to convey - both through the scenario and his acting - the deadpan, otherworldly  persona Harold should have in the early scenes, when he first encounters Earth women and tries the crude pick-up techniques he has been taught on his home planet; but he comes over as the opportunistic, insensitive and all-too-human wiseguy he portrays in the Larry Sanders Show. Bening is touching, in a gentler version of the same neurotic role she played in American Beauty - even her job of real estate agent is the same. John Goodman gives good value as an airline investigator looking into the UFO-type phenomena caused when Harold and his planet's leader (played almost straight by Ben Kingsley) meet up from time to time. Greg Kinnear as Harold's sleazy work colleague, and Linda Fiorentino as Kinnear's sexy wife, also provide a few laughs.To sum up, this might not be a highflying rocket, but it is no damp squib.  "},{"Title":"A must for Gary Shandling fans !!","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most people probably do not appreciate Gary's understated humor, but I find him hilarious. Greg Kinnear and Annette Bening also are very good. Ben Kinglsey is also good as the leader of the alien planet of men, searching for a way to continue the species by having Gary find a mate on earth. The scenes where they try to understand what a woman says, and what she actually means are hilarious. "},{"Title":"High Hopes","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Annette Bening singing 'High Hopes' off-key can be either nauseating or poignant depending on how you view What Plant Are You From?,  the screwball comedy by Garry Shandling about the intergalactic battle of the sexes.  This is a deftly subtle, nonchalant comedy that seemingly has little substance.  What makes What Planet Are You From? work is the forever misunderstood Shandling, a furrowed brow, slyly smiling source of continuing laughter and sympathy.     He comes across as the ultimate contradiction - the sex-crazed alien who can politely walk away when women reject his sexual overtures, the programmed alien who learns to be human, and yes, even the standup comic who performs like a seasoned actor.  Never mind that the film rest on a flimsy plot or that a lot of the dialogue seems like the 'Larry Sanders' television show (the bar scene between Shandlin and an old, near comatose hag or the tit-for-tat between the future bride and her girl friends or the one-liners about gay waiters, 'The Crying Game', or Andy Rooney) or that comic devices are overused (where is that vibration coming from?). In the hands of the masterful director Mike Nichols, minus Elaine May, this film works the many angles of romantic, enticing courtship and the let-down after getting married and getting pregnant by satirizing these same stereotypes.  The alien, Harold Anderson (Shandling) is told that all earth-women talk incessantly and without much sense and the earth-men should just say, 'ah-ha', to prevent the women from thinking the men are not interested.  AA meetings seem to be the best place to find women you can comfort and then seduce.  After Susan(Bening) successfully gets pregnant, Bob seems more interested in the remote TV device than any desire for intimacy, a not uncommon complaint even among earthly couples.  And finally we see the neurosis that occurs after multiple marriages from Susan's failed musician husbands and her attempt to beat the biological clock to Roland, the flight investigator (John Goodman at his best), who finally has a stable wife after three attempts, only to lose her because of his overzealous work habits.  What Planet Are You From is an OK film with such good performances from Shandling and Bening that you can excuse its deficiencies for the price of seeing these unconventional characters at their gut level best. "}{"Title":"A light and amusing comedy","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite its bad reviews, I thought this movie was funny and enjoyable. It makes fun of the different point of views between men and women when it comes to sex and relationships. The ending was a little weak but it shouldn't be taken too seriously anyways. All in all, I would recommend this movie to couples who want to get a laugh. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We rented this thinking it would be just OK, a few chuckles - but we laughed hard and often.  Garry Shandling's great - weird and quirky, just as we like him.  Greg Kinnear's character is a wonderful sleaze - his methods for picking up chicks are hilarious.  Annette Bening, John Goodman, and Ben Kingsley are great, too. "},{"Title":"Liked it","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a pleasant romantic comedy.  The casting is perfect.  It only made me laugh out loud once, but I smiled through the entire movie. Any man who has ever been a virgin will identify to some extent with Gary Shandling's character (an alien from an all-male planet where reproduction is via cloning, who is sent to Earth to impregnate a female). "},{"Title":"A giggle and a half","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Enjoyed it far more than I thought possible.  Shandling is great when he is playing Shandling, Benning is more than an adequate comedic actress, and the rest of the cast plays it to the hilt.  Goodmans paranoia seems almost real, say it ain't so, John.  Worth the time and money to see it. "},{"Title":"A Comedy With A Heart! I liked It!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Planet Are You From will provide you with a lot of laughs and send you away afteward feeling great. Annette Bening and Gary Shandling have a great chemistry and you will find yourself  caring deeply about the characters they play. John Goodman is also cast perfectly as a detective who looks into some strange happenings that occurred on  a commercial flight bound for Arizona. I'm giving it a strong 7 folks. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A cute movie","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For the first time in a long time, Hollywood has given the movie going public a rather intelligent sex farce.  It doesn't lean too much into the science fiction element, but it's plenty spaced out for some.  Garry Shandling proves he can fill a 106 minute film, although he really is more comfortable in his usual 30 minutes on TV.  Ben Kingsley has a lot of fun making fun of his friend Patrick Stewart, and Annette Bening is funny as the object of Shandling's desire. "},{"Title":"A nice romantic comedy.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A truly pleasant movie, the first one of the year.  I came out of the movie laughing, always a good sign.  I felt the movies pace was a little off at points in the movie, it was either going too fast or too slow.   But the movie kept me interesting. It was a great movie that showed what dating seems like every now and then. and with a humming penis, you can not go wrong. It seems to be the first the first really great date movie of the year.  I would recommend that people see this.   "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just caught the sneak preview of this movie, and I loved it.  There are a number of scenes that made me laugh out loud.  Shandling is perfect for this part (as he should be since he developed it).  Ditto for Bening, who also had the part of Susan developed for her.  Overall, I was very pleased with this movie. "},{"Title":"More Shandling than Mike Nichols","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You have to be a fan of Garry Shandling's type of cynical-neutral emotion humour to like/appreciate this film.  A little too uncomfortable for many adults who can recognise many of the aspects of the procreation process that is one of the main drives of human life, it uses the vehicle of a non-emotional alien master race that sends a procreation scout to impregnate a human while studying the notion of emotion.Light, intelligent humour that is easy to follow without being an Adam Sandler torturefest... unfortunately meaning that it is rather dilute light comedy. Fine for dates or discussion over a post-viewing diner without fear of big arguments. "},{"Title":"Funny and weird 7/10","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I feel no shame in saying, I like What Planet Are you From? The film is charming, funny, and surprisingly sweet.  With an excellent cast, especially John Goodman, What Planet Are you From? is a great and wonderful little comedy that deserves to be seen.  "}{"Title":"fabulously funny","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  don't know why this movie bombed but i suspect this country/culture of ours is in deep puritanical retrograde...again. this is not only one of the funniest movies i have ever seen, but one of the few movies that treats sex in a totally open honest non-prurient & extremely hilarious manner, revealing so many of our (males & females) grossest hang-ups & fantasies. just great!!! "},{"Title":"Funny and Interesting","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A romantic comedy star Mrs Betty is simply excellent. One of the most funniest comedy i have ever seen.The leading cast is also very talented in his field. By providing the role as Aliens and Husband at the same time.One of must see movie. "},{"Title":"Waste of time.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I couldn't wait for this movie to end (the other two people I was with liked it better so I couldn't leave).  In the words of Jay Sherman It stinks. It has a few funny moments. Most of the humor is cheap sexual humor - watch any TV sitcom and you'll get the same results.  Save your money at the theatre and the video store - if you're looking for funny from this Shandling flick, try Albert Brooks or Woody Allen instead.  "},{"Title":"tough to like characters","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A clone alien race led by Graydon (Ben Kingsley) sends down an agent (Garry Shandling) to earth for its eventual takeover. He is given a mechanical penis with a mission to find a female and procreate. He lands in a plane bathroom heading for Phoenix. He hits on the flight attendant Rebecca (Judy Greer) and airline investigator Roland Jones (John Goodman) is on his case. Perry Gordon (Greg Kinnear) mistakes him for new fellow banker Harold Anderson. Don Fisk (Richard Jenkins) is their boss. Perry takes Harold to an AA meeting to pick up girls. Harold reconnects with Rebecca and meets Susan Anderson (Annette Bening). He's also after Perry's wife Helen Gordon (Linda Fiorentino).This is generally not funny. Garry Shandling is not that likable in this. He's an emotionless sleazy skirt-chaser. Most of the other characters are also unlikeable. I wouldn't call them annoying but they are mostly unfunny. I didn't laugh once. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but succeeds in sneaking thru the chinks in my armor","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, I found myself deeply touched at a few key places in the film.Next, I enjoy ensemble work by great comedic talent; and there's plenty of that in this flick.Also, I love good dramatic talent, like Bening.Here's where the mystery arises Comedies with tired or near-nonexistent story lines, relying on seasoned talent to overcome this weakness, usually leave me cold. A great example of this was Tropic Thunder, which left me utterly disinterested; I turned it off at about the halfway mark.But there's something about What Planet that kept me engaged. It may have simply been that I so deeply respect the acting talent involved that I opened the tabernacle of my heart and let them in, in spite of myself. And, as I already mentioned, the effect was to have experienced some serious tugs at my heartstrings! If I reflect on what I saw, sifting through it a bit, here's the redeeming stuff I find The writing, really, never drops the ball. One interesting effect relates to the fact that Kinnear was given freedom to ply his unique brand of comic, over-the-top sleezeball schtick, yet the scripted words coming out of his mouth kept him reasonably grounded (i.e., sort of believable as a type) over about 95% of his screen time. Annette Bening was very well directed She gives you something you can hang on to. And I'll add that it's perhaps a good example of artistic direction focused on that kind of goal; to deliver great laughs, while also keeping the laughs warm and delivering a redemptive payload. Susan's contribution is to remind us of a simple thing; that some people really can change their lives and find love and relationship. Finally, there really are some fantastic bits; like the exchange between Garry and John Goodman in front of the house, at the end. Warm, witty, deadpan... the stuff of great comedy! And this all succeeds in communicating through a kind of haze; and I'm talking about the haze of middlebrow concept. Yes, I'd be blind not to have noticed that.So If you like lighthearted comedies, but have been put off by formula or mythic weakness, I say rent this one and give it a spin. It ain't high art, but it *is* more than an evening's time-waster. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was surprised to see such a low, average rating (5.5) for a movie that is so very funny.It plants benign little seeds of humor that might seem obviously pedestrian while actually being subtly witty. That is something I like about the humor so very much.I believe that if it were not for the very special, perhaps accidental, recipe of actors, writing, direction, etc., the movie would probably be unremarkable. It has that certain something that is not easily definable, something that will probably not be appreciated for decades.I love the strange yet reality-revealing interaction between the characters. Annette Bening's character, Susan, is wonderfully screwed-up and open minded, which works off of Garry Changling's character, Harold, so well. Harold is such an innocently unapologetic pig, which pulls Susan in because of his raw honesty. This is both strange and refreshing in a vulgar way. "},{"Title":"Earth. What Planet Are You From?","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What Planet Are You From? is a likable sexy romp that revels in adult matters, mainly the relations between men and women. Harold Anderson comes down to Earth in this down-to-earth comedy to discover that women might not be so easy as he thinks. Garry Shandling is Harold, a highly evolved alien void of feeling emotion, whose about to come into full contact with the purely emotional human race, namely the human woman.The cast stands out. Shandling co-wrote and stars. He well deserves this movie and he's especially agreeable in it. Annette Bening is wonderful in this type of role. I really love seeing her play quirky and eccentric, and she's quite funny. John Goodman amusingly plays Roland Jones who would appear to be cuckoo if not for the actuality that Harold really is from another planet. Greg Kinnear is great as he presents his acting range and also his handsome charm. Ben Kingsley gives a fittingly unemotional performance; that seems to be well in his wheelhouse. Linda Fiorentino makes an arresting appearance. Judy Greer gets topless and is as cute as she can be. Don't forget Richard Jenkins; he's a standard in comedies.At the crutch of the plot is a penis that vibrates. The movie somewhat revolves around Harold's vibrating penis, as it were. It's ridiculous but I suppose it does carry its symbolic message - enjoy yourself.What Planet Are You From? is particularly humorous and promises for a few chuckles. It really never gets bad and it has plenty of polite moments. It's well-written with very good dialogue and a good cast. The story lacks firmness, but that's alright, the movie is silly and not too full of itself, making it mildly refreshing. I wish I could give this a higher rating because I really like it, but a 5 is good. "},{"Title":"Several funny bits in mediocre film.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WHAT PLANET ARE YOU FROM is never boring so much as it is forgettable.  There are many big laughs scattered throughout, with the cast in fine form and Shandling giving a particularly hilarious deadpan performance.  The problem is that this is essentially a one joke movie being milked for two hours.  Many of the scenes feel as if they are merely filler.  Although it is amusing, it is frequently lacking in momentum, and its deadpan humor at times just comes out flat.  After a while, you just have to feel that you've got the idea already, and all the jokes begin to amount to nothing.  A disappointment from a usually reliable cast and crew.  The main weakness in the film is its script.  But as harmless entertainment, there are worse things you could find to do with two hours.   "},{"Title":"A fun flick","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With FX that are as good as those in PHANTOM MENACE and a similar story, this movie is different in that it is much better than that bloated circus. This one is delightfully funny because of the performances of all the cast, but I must say that I thought John Goodman really stole the show. As to the vibrating but unseen member of the cast  -- well, you'll just have to see the movie to enjoy that. "},{"Title":"Funniest thing I've seen in a long time","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Reading the rest of these comments, I realize that I must be from another planet, but here goes this was the funniest thing I've seen in a very long time, and I recommend getting it and watching it right away. I don't know if it was Mike Nichols or Garry Shandling or whoever, but I couldn't stop laughing.  "}{"Title":"I love this picture!","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No faint praise here.  On my fourth viewing, I was still howling with laughter.Garry Shandling is virtually unique in his ability to deliver an earthy joke with a light, even elegant, touch.Even this pic's defenders allow that it's not high art.  Maybe not.  But then again, just maybe. "},{"Title":"Relatively good, worth a rent...","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first Garry Shandling movie I've seen, save for an appearance on TV. He is an entertaining comedian, with good timing and ability to play off his supporting cast. John Goodman, Annette Bening, and Greg Kinnear are also entertaining, with their comedic and offbeat characters. Kinnear plays the conniving co-worker, Bening plays the often confused lady friend, and Goodman is the suspicious government operative who has a feeling there's more going on. A funny movie, worth a rent. "},{"Title":"This planet is no heavenly body.","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Planet Are You From?  When the denizens of an all-male planet decide they want to conquer earth, they decide to plant a spy - literally.  An emissary is dispatched to find a woman and get her pregnant, but, things don't go quite as they planned. There are several amusing gags that made me laugh out loud, but unfortunately they are too few and far between.  The film relies on every relationship cliche known to humankind women want commitment, men's priorities are football, sex and booze, the remote is an extension of a man's...well you get the idea.  The humming groin gag was amusing in the trailers, but after you've seen it for the fifth time, it becomes annoying.  And what was with the X-files sub-plot?   John Goodman is no Fox Mulder.  Worst of all was being subjected to Shandling's naked behind - the image is still burned into my retina.Pass.  "},{"Title":"A one-trick pony that lasts 90 minutes?","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Garry Shandling, both his old TV show and the more recent Larry Sanders Show.  Granted, the information on this movie was not promising, but with Shandling writing and acting, I thought it would have to be at least somewhat funny.  Well, wrong-o!  The laughs and clever moments in this movie could have been condensed into a 3-minute sketch.   "},{"Title":"The greatest Decrescendo for all Time.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie would have to be one of the biggest decrescendos of all time. From the start its incredibly funny, but as time goes by we find ourselves bored and its rather high rating drops significantly. The part of the alien is also a little inadequate, and although Gerry Shandling does a good job, everyone knows he could have done better. Fantastic opening scene - horrifically dull ending scene. "},{"Title":"You're making a noise...","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film can be summed up like this Garry Shandling really needs to star in more films.An alien from a planet of cloned men is sent to Earth equipped with mechanical genitalia that happens to make a whirring noise for the reasons of impregnating an Earth woman. At this point in the film, you either go with it, or you don't. So if you're not into the film already, you might as well stop. For your own sake, I hope you choose to take this ride.The awkward space-being lands on various dysfunctional women until he lands on a woman so experienced with dysfunction, she's found a way to be charming with it. The alien, Harold, has many problems to deal with in the workplace, the home, and the home planet.Annette Bening, Greg Kinnear, and John Goodman all make for a good supporting cast, without them, Garry Shandling's awkward and hilarious comedy of wouldn't be effective. And thankfully, it very much is. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly reserved behind all the earthiness","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Planet Are You From? (2000) Garry Shandling, Annette Bening, John Goodman, Greg Kinnear, Ben Kingsley, Linda Fiorentino, Judy Greer, Richard Jenkins, Caroline Aaron, Nora Dunn, D Mike Nichols. In an attempt to take over Earth, an alien on behalf of his planet is sent to Seattle, acting as a banker, with a mission to find a mate and procreate in two days. After a few failures, the extraterrestrial finds a real estate agent (Bening) recovering from alcohol abuse, and they quickly marry where he gains human emotions to love and care. Predictable, off-the-wall comedy has a couple cheap, misfired jokes, which you won't find any appeal in except if you're a Shandling fan. It's not the greatest film of the new millennium; just as it has no mean bone in its body, it's unexpectedly reserved and good-natured behind all the congested earthiness, and funny in more places than one. Shandling co-wrote the script. Janeane Garofalo appears fleetingly. Running Time 107 minutes and rated R for sexual content and language. ** ½  "},{"Title":"strange to think that Mike Nichols directed this","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Knowing that Mike Nichols directed greats like The Graduate, Catch-22, Carnal Knowledge and Silkwood, it's a real shock that he directed something as silly as What Planet Are You From?. The movie has space alien Garry Shandling coming to Earth to impregnate a woman after the men on his planet lose the ability to reproduce, and a bunch of goofy things happen. How many times have we seen this sort of story? It's not a bad movie, but not any kind of masterpiece. A way to pass time at best. Maybe we're too cruel to Mike Nichols, expecting some great every time. An OK movie. Also starring Annette Bening, John Goodman, Ben Kingsley, Greg Kinnear, Richard Jenkins (aka Nate Sr. on Six Feet Under), Linda Fiorentino and Caroline Aaron. "},{"Title":"Shandling is in fine form in this wildly funny sci-fi comedy","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WHAT PLANET ARE YOU FROM? (2000) *** Garry Shandling, Annette Bening, John Goodman, Greg Kinnear, Ben Kingsley, Linda Fiorentino, Caroline Aaron, Nora Dunn, Camryn Manheim, Ann Cusack, Richard Jenkins, Janeane Garofalo (cameo). Garry Shandling, with his pinched expression suggesting comical disdain and quixotic confusion, makes his first starring bid as a film star (he has been on the silver screen prior to this ambitious effort in cameo roles  here and there, but this is his first legitimate lead role) in the wildly funny sci-fi comedy that attempts to answer, really, are Women From Venus and Men From Mars? Shandling (who co- wrote the sharply funny screenplay with Michael Lesson, Ed Solomon & Peter Tolan), is the chosen cloned eunoch from a race of male aliens from a distant planet making final plans to invade Earth with his sole mission of achievement to get the wheels greased and running to impregnate a woman.Seen in an assembled display of how to react to an Earth woman's conversations (the reliable and ubiquitous response of a barely interested `uh-huh'), he clearly has his work cut out for him, particularly with the fact he has to have his sexual appendage attached for said close encounter (giving an all new meaning to `alien probing'). With a few words of wisdom by his leader Graydon (Kingsley) he is beamed aboard a commercial airliner and winds up in Seattle as the assumed identity of a Harold Anderson and walks into an unsuspecting bank as their awaited new accounts manager.  Met by the smarmy Perry Gordon (Kinnear oozing oily malfeasance with canny glee), his soon-to-be rival, he quickly attempts to find his mate to be (only after several hilarious attempts from the airplane to his new job and the fact his member noisily vibrates whenever he's aroused).At an AA meeting (Perry explains it being one of the best pick-up spots in town for vulnerable women), he is taken by a recovering alcoholic named Susan Hart (the beguilingly sublimely funny Bening) and sets his phaser for stun.After hooking up with her in an unlikely situation and one date he explains to her in no uncertain terms that he wants to have a child. Susan, thinking finally  a real man in touch with his emotional core, succumbs to his sweet yet eager charms and accepts his impromptu marriage proposal the next day.  From there they honeymoon in Vegas with a marathon of sex (`126 times' he says matter-of-factly upon returning to work much to the amazement of Perry) figuring the seed has been planted and to just wait it out. What next comes is a series of truly unsettling changes in his being namely emotions and finally realizing just what will become of his only child.Shandling - who has already become an icon with his pitch perfect accuracy of skewering the world of show business in the classic HBO series `The Larry Sanders Show' and his self-deprecating sexual hang-ups - scores big laughs as the alien with a heart (despite his overachieving goal of surpassing his horniness to save his race!), and makes this heavily trodded hybrid genre (heck go back to Robin Williams in `Mork & Mindy' or all the way back to Jerry Lewis as a misfit extraterrestrial in `Visit To A Small Planet') a welcome return.  Getting his smart alecky alien to parallel the real off-balance of the sexes with men roles as being piggish louts who'd rather watch the game on the tube than actually talk to the women in their lives is one large step he attempts and neatly dispatches, as well as the well-timed deflations of pick-up lines he uses apparently circa 1965 with much hilarity ensuing.Bening proves to be a truly giften comic actress (hell her first big role in cinema was the John Candy/Dan Aykroyd romp `The Great Outdoors' and has shown up more recently in her acclaimed Oscar nominated turn in the pitch black comedy/drama, `American Beauty') and matches Shandling step by step as the confused 12 stepper attempting to find some footing in her second chance at some sort of life; she gives the film its soul.Goodman is in fine form as well as Roland Jones, the FAA agent who seems to be channeling Fox Mulder from `The X-Files' (hey one small quibble, why the HELL didn't Shandling even attempt to ask his good buddy David Duchovny, so furiously funny for his guest star shots on `Sanders', in a little piece of stunt casting??), who is hell bent to prove the alien exists when he's not busy trying to save his marriage to the suspicious Nadine (Aaron, a fine comic character actress best remembered as Woody Allen's sister in `Hannah And Her Sisters') who has many of the film's best lines (after accusing Goodman of eyeballing a female co-worker GOODMAN `She's in a wheelchair, Nadine!' AARON `Yeah, and don't think she doesn't play that for all it's worth!') Kinnear is proving to be a fine comic actor in his own right as the pompous skirt chasing Perry (although I found it unlikely since his spouse Helen is played by the incredibly hot Fiorentino - who also gets one of the film's best lines; after hearing Shandling's audible arousal  SHANDLING `It's my penis.it hums'.  Beat. FIORENTINO `Guess it doesn't know the words.') Directed by one of the living legends of comedy, Mike Nichols, the film ricochets with razor-gleaned timing, excellent performances and the ability of making a comedy that mines its laughs as well as aim for romantics in the long run now that's an achievement! "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a really funny movie. I am not especially into romantic comedies but this one was a cut above the rest.Gerry Shandling is not known around here but he should be. He was just excellent in this role and I can't wait to see him in another movie too. "}{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a hilarious movie with an ending that echoes Nichols' The Graduate. I have no idea why it did not receive better reviews upon its release. It totally works, it's chock full of very funny performances and is a must for fans of Garry Shandling. "},{"Title":"More like, What Were they Thinking?","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie runs off of two words--> It hums.  Granted, the movie does not hum along simply because it is one dimentional.  What Planet Are You From? is too weird, or too different, or too sexual oriented humor (without being gross-out like of the Road Trip, Something About Mary, or American Pie type).The budget of $50 million shows that the movie studio thought that one-dimentional humor and some stars (Shandling and Benning) could carry the movie, but at bringing in under $10 million, this was a misguided approach.  There is nothing great here and few memorable parts.  Only interesting humor (like huming privates and performing 100+ times in one night).In all, the movie is funny and not half bad, but it barely dented the market and could not hum its way into anybody's, um. hearts.Rating 5Viewed in theatre (Scope) "},{"Title":"A Funny Movie.","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Planet Are You From? is a funny film because of its clever acting and script.  It showcases how beings from other planets can act the same as men do on this planet.  Despite some flaws in the scenes, this film is great for a romantic movie (Gary Shandling and Annette Benning are a perfect couple), a comedy movie, or a movie for fans of Shandling.  Funny throughout. "},{"Title":"Go Garry Shandling!!!","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You should see good old Garry Shandling bump into these good girls in this film. I always thought he would play these kind of roles. Regardless of anything contained in this movie, it was really hilarious, especially with John Goodman and Ben Kingsley who have also joined in. The planet where Shandling is from should be considered Planet of the Ladies Men. Period. "},{"Title":"A Few Laughs, But Mostly Lacking","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not sure where this film went wrong. It had a great cast, there were a lot of jokes within it that should have been funny, but somehow, it just wasn't that funny. There were a few moments that had me laughing (mostly John Goodman toward the end, even he was disappointing in the beginning), but they were few and far between. I'm not sure what it was that was gone- perhaps something lacking in the atmosphere. It was almost there but just not quite.  "},{"Title":"A disappointment, but not horrible","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With this great cast and a raucous premise I expected A LOT! But I was disappointed. It wasn't horrid or anything, it just wasn't very good. I actually yawned often during the opening day matinee today (after my grad school work day, of course).The jokes were tame, the timing loggy-- this is a good idea that could have been a great flick-- but no go here. See it if you live in the sticks and are hard up. Otherwise, rent Eddie Murphy's The Nutty Professor and rewatch the family dinner scenes over and over.Out of respect for the cast, and a FEW OK moments, I gave this a 6. "},{"Title":"What Planet Was I on when I decided to see this movie","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After waiting quite a while to see the preview for this movie, I had wished I had picked better plans. This movie does have some good jokes intertwined with just an overall ho-hum movie of serious predictable cliches and a storyline that reeks. The running joke during the entire movie is the vibration (as seen in the ads), and by the end of the movie you just want to cover your ears by its annoyance. Shandling, Kinnear & Bennett had been in much better flicks in the past, and had better performances. You could tell they didn't put much effort in this film at all. Avoid this film unless you're bored. "},{"Title":"a waste of wonderful talents","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The title of this film - `What Planet Are You From?' - might better be addressed to the people who made this miserable excuse for a romantic comedy.  What could have been a slashing satire on the roles men and women adopt in relationships - the bestseller `Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus' is never very far from the filmmakers' sensibilities - degenerates in no time at all into little more than a series of tired sex jokes on the level of a junior high school locker room conversation.The waste of acting talent in this film is truly mind-boggling.  I am sure that Garry Shandling, Annette Benning, Greg Kinnear, Ben Kingsley, Linda Fiorentino and John Goodman will not be featuring this particular work very prominently on their acting resumes.  In fact, the film may well mark the career nadirs for each and every one of these truly talented performers.And what has happened to director Mike Nichols?  The Oscar-winning auteur of one of the most prescient and groundbreaking of sexual satires - `The Graduate' - seems totally lost in this venture.   (But then again, `The Graduate' was made a whopping 33 years earlier).  Evidence of the casual sloppiness of so much of the writing is apparent in the fact that Harold (Shandling) - the alien from an all-male planet sent on a mission to impregnate an earth woman to help in his civilization's quest for universal domination - is so immediately adaptable to the ways and methods of life on earth that he doesn't seem like an alien at all.  Most of the attempts at humor early on in the film center around Harold's unsubtle attempts to mate with every woman he meets.  But once he has mastered that, he seems totally at home as a man on earth.   The film can't even stay true to its own premise.John Goodman, Greg Kinnear and Ben Kingsley are reduced to little more than embarrassed, gaping onlookers to the main narrative strand, as Harold romances Susan (Benning), a stereotypical AA member who has been converted into a mass of twitching insecurities and neuroses thanks to the cavalier treatment she has received from men all her life.   This storyline, unfortunately, prevents the film from ever achieving real satirical bite because it leads to an inevitable romantic softness as Harold, predictably, comes - through his relationship with Susan - to value the human traits of love and commitment.So where ARE all the courageous movie satirists these days, the ones truly daring enough to push the envelope of iconoclasm and good taste?  Perhaps, as the title of this film would suggest, not on this planet! "},{"Title":"Well-acted, but worthless.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you ask me the genre from which I've seen the most movies, I'd have to say comedy. So I wasn't treading new territory when I rented this. It was the first time I ever saw a movie with Gary Shandling, however. And I hope to God it's the last.Shandling is an alien from an all-male planet planet. He is sent to Earth so he can reproduce. He is zapped directly up the toilet in an airplane, where he is discovered by an airline investigator played by John Goodman. Shandling has trouble finding someone to mate with, probably because he's ugly. (Seriously, how long can you look at this guy without flinching?) Soon he gets a job, working alongside slimy Greg Kinnear. Then, Shandling gets a girlfriend played by Annette Bening. All this time, he tries to accomplish his mission.This is not a very funny comedy. You get that right about the time Shandling's, uh, mini-Gary starts buzzing. That's right. In fact, the only redeeming factor of this film is the performances. Bening, Goodman and Kinnear are very good, but Shandling is not. He really isn't. He has only a couple of facial expressions, which are both variations on exasperation. Without wanting to be a gross-out comedy, it grosses us out by showing us a naked Shandling whapping his buzzing friend against a counter. Director Mike Nichols has made some great films in the past; why can't he renew this success. Still, this gets a 5/10 for good performances. "},{"Title":"so-so effort","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Planet Are You From? is one of those films that you would only want to see in the middle of the night when nothing else is playing in all the channels in your illegal pay-per-view cable box. Come on don't tell me you don't have one! What Planet Are You From? if you don't have one! Anyways, the movie is about an alien whose sole mission is to come to earth to impregnate an earth woman.  Director Mike Nichols as great as he is must have had a few too many Mars Bars when he came up with this plot. The film stars Garry Shandling, Annette Bening, Greg Kinnear, Linda Fiorentino, and Ben Kingsley. If you think that this is their best work in films, than you are an anus or a uranus. The acting was very mickey mouse like or should i say pluto-like (sorry dog!) However, I would be a real big dipper if I lie and not tell you that I did laugh at a few of the running jokes (especially the one with the humming sound.) So remember while it is still playing in an expensive cinema, What Planet Are You From? is one that you should stay way from. *** Average  "}{"Title":"The SECOND worst movie EVER (possibly worse)","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was just like a REALLY great comedy movie...only without the jokes!  With the possible exception of Batman IV, this was the most difficult two hours of sitting in my life.  In addition to being totally unfunny, the main premise of the movie (Shandling, an alien, must go to Earth and get a girl pregnant so that his race could rule Earth), makes NO sense and is never even explained.  If I got a girl pregnant, would I then rule the Earth?  I loved Shandling in The Gary Shandling Show, I loved him in The Larry Sanders Show, and I loved him both times I saw him doing his live standup, but FOR GOD'S SAKE, PLEASE DON'T LET HIM BACK ON THE BIG SCREEN!  I predict this movie will be out on video before next week. "},{"Title":"Parts do not make a whole in this case","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Seeing the preview, I had high hopes for the film.  It seemed like an idea which came out of a good, but out-of-date, pitch.  The script was not there.  The pitch would have been It's 3rd rock from the sun meets My Stepmother is an alien with a twist of Gerry Shandling.  However, it did not pull it off.  It had some funny moments in it, but they were few, and mainly in the beginning of the movie.  Another problem with the movie is that its running gag is tedious, and gets boring.  How often can you laugh at a penis that hums when excited.  Its funny at first, but by the end it is old.  John Goodman also has a hard time making the half-good jokes work.  His last comment has off timing, and barely makes me laugh.  Plus, the movie was just too long for its humor.  It would have worked better if Shandling had just made this into a one-hour HBO special or something to that effect.  There were these stretches of emotion that just ran on, and I got bored of them.  This potentially funny situation has been done before and better by other shows and movies, like the ones mentioned above.  See most of the other movies which are out right now because this one has to be the worst of them all...with the exception of Pitch Black.  It has its funny moments at times, but they run dry long before the movie is over.2/10 "},{"Title":"What Kind of Nonsense?","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just watched this stupid movie on TV and what a bummer!  At First I thought it was hilarious, but after half an hour it started to poop.  I just thought it was nuts, and the writers of this junk should have known better.  No wonder Garry Shandler was in it.  I never thought much of him as an actor or a comedian, but there are some situations that were creepy and some which are funny.  Good actors Ben Kingsley, Greg Kinear, do their best, but it does not do any good with this stupid story.  I got fed up and turned it off; better things to do with my time. "},{"Title":"Don't bother.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I got the DVD out last night because of the cast and the director - so much promise - did not even read the jacket - this was going to be good! Not so - it has been some time since I have seen so much talent go to waste. The movie was not funny, it was slow, had nothing interesting to say and did not make sense. If you are a SciFi fan like me watch Galaxy Quest! "},{"Title":"What planet were they on?","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To think that I was actually looking forward to seeing this! This poor man's Galaxy Quest-meets-Starman has only one redeeming feature in John Goodman's airline investigator (this is hardly surprising as he's good in just about every movie he's in). Garry Shandling lacks any warmth or charm in the lead role....and that's after he's supposed to have learnt how to feel emotions. Annette Benning is slightly less neurotic, but no less annoying  than her American Beauty character. And Ben Kingsley? He just looks embarrassed by the whole affair, no doubt wondering why he got involved in the first place!Poor 3/10 "},{"Title":"Such a waste of talent and money","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When the director of the masterpiece The Graduate, the star of the awards-laden TV show Larry Sanders and the co-star of the 1999 Best Picture of the Year, American Beauty, all come together to make a comedy about the misunderstandings between men and women, one would at least expect an entertaining hour-and-a-half, right?Well, in this case, such a diverse cast of talent converges much like rioters in a frenzy of chaos and in utter misdirection and bungling.Mike Nichols' helms this unfunny, plodding story, which stars the surprisingly unfunny Garry Shandling as an alien sent to Earth to impregnate a human being, played equally bad by the usually fantastic and radiant Annette Bening.  Other members of the cast include the woefully miscast and misused John Goodman and Greg Kinnear.What went wrong here is obviously the painfully dull script that's method for big laughs is a constantly whirring phallus.  This joke, much like the rest of the movie, induces eye-rolling, sighing, and yawning.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An awful but amusing film","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Planet Are You From is one of the more mediocre films I have seen in a long time. All the movies I have seen have either been good or bad. This is simply a disaster.We have absolutely no story worth mentioning. It was so stupid I'm sorry for those who saw it before me. There is one thing that came out of this film that I like and that was the performances of Garry Shandling, John Goodman, Annette Bening and Greg Kinnear. However, it was not enough to save it from complete disaster.  Based upon this I made the determination that this was an awful film as well as a waste of time. I'm glad I saw this it home because it was that kind of movie. DONT WASTE YOUR TIME. "},{"Title":"I might ask that question of Richard Schickel, et al","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Garry Shandling had the bright idea to literalize the notion that men are from Mars--he plays an alien who comes to earth to impregnate a human woman and take the baby home. Of course, human emotions intervene and--well, there's nothing terribly surprising along the way. Except that this mild, sharply written comedy was inexplicably beaten and battered by every critic in the United States. Shandling's persona--a smart, ugly fellow pursing his lips in distaste at his own fate--is ideally suited to this material, and the director, Mike Nichols, gets snappy performances from John Goodman, and from Greg Kinnear as an insurance-agent lothario. (As Mrs. Shandling, Annette Bening starts out as free and easy as she's ever been; later, apparently thinking the material isn't working, she gets as forced and stagy as she's ever been.) The movie suggests a more competent version of the slapdash comedies the SCTV crew made in the early and mid-eighties; it's too bad this seems to be the death knell of Shandling's movie career--he has become a less on, more amenable version of Albert Brooks. "},{"Title":"An amusing 2-hour penis joke.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found the movie to be mildly amusing for a matinee.  The thing that is most amusing to me is that the movie is actually one long penis joke.  I can't help but wonder if the inspiration for this movie didn't come about by Gary Shandling sitting around with friends and wondering, What would it be like if your penis hummed whenever you got aroused?  Or maybe, How can we get the whole country to willingly sit through one long penis joke? "},{"Title":"Interesting film but major flaws","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My biggest problem with this film is Garry Shandling. One has to ask why they cast him in the lead role. He is not handsome, endearing or charming at all. To be honest he is annoying and a mediocre actor at best. I had to wonder why Annette Bening's character even looked twice at him. The film is interesting in an odd way. It is truly original. But it loses steam and could have been much better with a better screenplay and a better lead actor. It's a shame. "}{"Title":"A disappointment.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Garry Shandling is one of my favourite actors- based solely on the wonderful show THE LARRY SANDERS SHOW. His first starring film role in a while is in Mike Nichols' WHAT PLANET ARE YOU FROM? and the film is disappointing. It has an amazing cast including Annette Bening, John Goodman, Ben Kingsley, Linda Fiorentino and Greg Kinnear, but the film is so poorly written, that none of this matters. Shandling does an admirable job at keeping the film afloat, but the weight of the story is too much. The film is laboured and unfunny- a big disappointment. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lets see good cast and interesting basic idea Are men really from another planet when they treat women like that! This could be funny. But no, this is failure. I don't understand men who say this is hilarious. Maybe they are laughing at themselves? Maybe some teenage boys think it is funny if a man says to woman he doesn't know May I insert my penis into you? It could be funny in a movie, but not in the real world. Maybe some men really are from another planet?Just another failed project from a comedian who wants to be movie star. He is no Eddie Murphy and he knows it. One of those movies you lose nothing is don't see it. BORING. NOT FUNNY. "},{"Title":"JUST PLAIN AWFUL!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's nothing good in this movie. It is just awful. It isn't funny at all. It's very very boring. Everything is wrong in this movie acting, directing, the music etc. This is one of those movies that you can't wait to end. This is just complete waste of time. Seeing good actors in bad roles makes head hurt. "},{"Title":"Skin-A-Max Movie With A-Listers and Some Humor","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't say I hated this film. In fact, in a lot of areas, it was pretty good. You have Garry Shandling, who is a veteran comedian who does a pretty good job playing a likable guy in this movie, and he plays very well off of Annette Benning. However, there were too many weaknesses in this movie to recommend.For one, the plot of the film almost fit better into a late night Cinemax (or Skin-a-max) movie. In fact, late one night when I had nothing to do, I actually caught a movie where two women in bikinis were sent down to Earth for the sole purpose of having sex with humans. So to see middle-aged, A-listers tackle this kind of flimsy plot gives the movie a bit more strength, but fails in a lot of areas to actually be the kind of laugh-out-loud movie that The 40 Year Old Virgin was, for example.Of course, The 40 Year Old Virgin came out five years after this movie did, but it was a bigger hit (and was far less forgettable) because it was smart and had a surprising amount of heart to it. The laughter in that movie came out of compassion for the main character, who was put into many realistic scenarios. Making a funny movie about an alien whose primary mission is to fornicate takes away any kind of heart the movie could have, and no laughter based on familiarity follows. For further proof, compare the scenes in both movies where the main character displays his cluelessness about condoms. The one from The 40 Year Old Virgin is much funnier.Needless to say, realistic scenarios also went right out the window. I just saw this movie and thought, There is no way people would actually react that way. For instance, no one in the movie thought it was as weird as they should have for the Shandling and Benning characters to get married after just one date. Plus, the baby they ended up having was born in only three months (I think), and the doctors in the movie just mentioned that fact so matter-of-factly, as if these things happen all the time. It would seem to me that in real life, more doctors would be brought in from all over the world to witness this medical miracle, not to mention the baby would be subject to various medical examinations.Of course, the artifical penis that hums served as the running gag of the movie, although it really wasn't all that funny to begin with. But with it came so many plot holes. Among them, Shandling character was able to copulate infinitely, yet it didn't seem like he himself had any sort of orgasm. I'm going to leave the plot holes at that. If you see the movie, you'll know what I mean.But there were some strengths in this movie. For instance, Greg Kinnear played a really shallow S.O.B., and he played it so well. John Goodman really can't go wrong in a movie, especially as a P.I. Ben Kingsley was also good as the planetary leader who ultimately becomes the villain. Kingsley added a nice dramatic touch. Benning proved that she can do comedy just as well as drama, and she was overall great in this movie. And Linda Fiorentino was just sexy beyond belief. She can play a great seductress.So is this movie forgettable? Not really. There are some moments of brilliance, but the story could have been better and could have used some more realistic elements regarding human reactions. Coming from veteran director Mike Nichols, this movie almost seemed a bit lazy compared to The Graduate and The Birdcage. "},{"Title":"Painful and Embarrassing","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the risk of sounding patronizing, I wanted to like this movie. I really did. I really appreciated the premise, and I was a longtime fan of Shandling. I was a faithful viewer of It's Gary Shandling's Show, and less so of The Larry Sanders Show as I never had HBO.Something just did not work here. All the gags fell flat. Shandling was not in any way appealing in this role. You can see that since this movie, he hasn't exactly been lighting up the screen.Anette Benning is such a good actress that she did not embarrass herself in this film, and almost made lemonade out of lemons here. But not quite. Even an actor of her talents could not prevent the cinematic equivalent of The Hindenburg from going down and exploding.This was one of only two films I saw in a theater that I have ever walked out on before they were over. I stomached about 50% of this flick before I could stand no more and walked out. (The other film was Eddie Murphy's Boomerang.) I had to stop for a burger on the way home just to cheer myself up. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time or energy","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Planet Are You From is one of the worst films I have seen in a long time. All the movies I have seen have either been good or bad. This is simply a disaster.What Planet Are You From? has absolutely no story worth mentioning and was so stupid I nearly turned the VCR off. There is one thing that came out of this film that I like and that was the performances of Garry Shandling, John Goodman, Annette Bening and Greg Kinnear. However, it was not enough to save it from disaster. Based upon this I made the determination that this was an awful film as well as a waste of time. I'm glad I saw this it home because it was that kind of movie. DONT WASTE YOUR TIME.  "},{"Title":"Lackluster","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With a name like What Planet Are You From?, you would expect much more poking fun at inter-species culture, but what we get instead is the oddities of married man/woman relationship.  How did Garry Shandling go from Alien to Joe 6 Pack overnight is beyond me.  The main joke is the humming penis, hardly worthy to carry the whole movie.  John Goodman was very funny though.You get more laughs from a sitcom. "},{"Title":"A wasted effort by a lot of talented people","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A wasted effort by a lot of talented people. The movie really isn't very funny. I got my first (and only) audible chuckle at 32 minutes in. I have to compliment a lot of the actors involved. Annette Bening was believably neurotic. John Goodman was perfect in his role. Linda Fiorentino was gorgeous and good. Garry Shandling, however, just didn't get it done. His one facial expression, a sort of dyspeptic hangdog look, wasn't enough. I know he can be very funny like that, but it didn't happen here. The movie had its moments, a good starting point in the man/woman relationship satire, and was quite droll in a few spots. Overall, however, it got boring. I blame the script. Grade D "},{"Title":"The worst film Ive ever seen- and thats saying something!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this film at a friends house after being told it was 'hilarious!' We had a straight choice between this and 'XXX,' and there has never been a more stupid mistake in the history of mankind! Ive never been so glad I had to go home in all my life! I never saw the end of the film, and I never want to, it is without a doubt the most godawful piece of film making Ive ever seen.  Some films are bad due to bad acting, bad storylines, bad script, bad casting, this one had the lot! I havent seen Annette Bening in anything since, I imagine she was booted out of Hollywood permanently after this debacle! (Not that Im picking on her, she's usually a very good actress.)Any film with X-Rated sex content, and humour for the under 5s has an obvious problem! "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Planet Are You From is one of the worst films I have seen in a long time. All the movies I have seen have either been good or bad. This is simply a disaster.What Planet Are You From? has absolutely no story worth mentioning and was so stupid I nearly turned the VCR off. There is one thing that came out of this film that I like and that was the performances of Garry Shandling, John Goodman, Annette Bening and Greg Kinnear. However, it was not enough to save it from disaster. Based upon this I made the determination that this was an awful film as well as a waste of time. I'm glad I saw this it home because it was that kind of movie. DONT WASTE YOUR TIME.  "}{"Title":"Urggggg! Would cure an upset stomach by inducing vomiting","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not fair!!  I watched 20 minutes and I couldn't go on...Water! Water! Who told Gary Shindling he was funny? Who told the backersof this film it was funny? Did they really think it would make money??   Wow! I walked out on a VHS tape in my own home! Imagine if I had paidto see this MY MONEY BACK! I got the tape at a 3/$5 sale and I feel cheated..   OK, Calm down, Jake! I didn't find this film at all amusing, and I like a good off-color joke... I even tell quite a few! The noisy peniswas too much! Kill that thing! I don't want to know when Gary isaroused! The guy is TOO OLD!!  VIAGRA CITY!! Eww.. I'm ruining my supper writing this! 1 out of 10 (and that is too high)... I would rather watch Ghandi disrobe! ... I didn't like this movie, can you tell?? "}]