[{"Title":"Very inventive!","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, I think I've found the Sadly Underrated Movie of the Year. I think that, between this and the Iron Giant, Warner Brothers Animation has GOT to spring for a better promotion department.  Really, all they'd have to say is something like We just let the creators of 'Something About Mary' and 'Dumb and Dumber' make their own cartoon.  Brace yourselves.All complaints aside, and none of them are really the movie's fault, this is one of the most inventive animated films I've seen in a very long time.  The characters and backgrounds are allowed to look and move in ways that are downright refreshingly bizarre.  The visuals are very imaginative.  The humor, while funny, is still very much what you'd expect from a Farelly Brothers movie that takes place inside a very sick man, so I wouldn't recommend it to little kids or the weak of stomach.  If you have a little future A+P major, however, this is going to blow their mind.  Give it a look! "},{"Title":"Very fun and imaginative","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought this movie was very good.  The people leaving bad reviews are being too critical.  This movie was meant to be fun.  The way the inside of the body is a city, the white blood cells are the police, fireman, etc., the lymph nodes were the police stations, veins were highways, the stomach was a bus station/airport type place, and the germs and bacteria were, of course, the criminals, and so on.  This movie gives a very imaginative way the body works to fight infection, as if the body was a city of people just like in the real world.  You may need to have some sort of knowledge about the body to get some of the puns and jokes, maybe not very young kids will get it, but they will like the animation...this movie is even good for adults.  I give the movie 8/10...I thought it was a very entertaining movie!!!!! "},{"Title":"Clever, with numerous sight gags","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Osmosis Jones is a comedy of human proportions, I guess.  It works enough and when it works well it's a good movie.  Although when you think about it the plot-line inside Frank's body (frank is played by Bill Murray with no shame in great form) is rather routine and for me was the only thing keeping this from being really good.Still, it might be a worthwhile movie, more for kids than adults, but it it watchable for all.  Various voices include Chris Rock, Brandy Norwood, Laurence Fishburne, David Hyde Pierce and William Shatner.  Pleasant most of the way and sometimes cool.  B "},{"Title":"Not extremely funny, but it sure is imaginative and energetic. ***1/2 (out of four).","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OSMOSIS JONES / (2001) ***1/2 (out of four)By Blake FrenchConsider the Farrelly brothers. The majority of a crowd would think of adjectives like shocking and envelope pushing, to describe them, but the most shocking thing about Osmosis Jones, is the PG rating. Originally warranted a PG-13 rating, still a surprise from filmmakers whose credits include There's Something About Mary and Me, Myself, and Irene, the film finally earned the family friendly PG rating after it was subjected to a re-rating. Peter and Bobby Farrelly are known for their crude, rude, and disgusting sense of humor. Breaking free of their traditional styles, their focus is now on something a little more entertaining than gross-out humor-imagination.Directing a wildly amusing script by Marc Hyman, the Farrelly bothers are really on to something here. This is arguably their best film to date. Only There's Something About Mary stands up against Osmosis Jones, a film that jumps between live action and cartoon animation. It calculates each moment with the perfect timing. This is not a movie just for this kids, although it's perfectly appropriate for everyone in the family. This is a feast for anyone's imagination. Osmosis Jones creates a world we seldom see in the movies-inside the human body.Osmosis Jones is not an extremely funny movie. Only a handful of plentiful laughs occurs in the film. None of the gross-out humor works; the ideas are too jumbled within other ideas to payoff. Osmosis Jones does play with a lot of different humor types-from a clever Titanic joke that practically winks at the audience, to a laugh out loud performance by SNL veteran Molly Shannon. In Superstar Shannon proved to be a nuisance.  However, in this film she is a very welcome screen presence.Bill Murray needs to be in more movies these days. He still has the comic connection with the audience that carried Scrooged, his best film, to my list of all time favorites. He stars as Frank Detorri, a lazy, slothful zoo worker who would get life behind bars if hygiene was a law. His wife passed away because of a sickness that their young, but healthy and intelligent, daughter (Elena Franklin) believes evolved from poor eating habits.Frank eats something that contains a deadly virus, and it's up to his immune system to fight back. Osmosis Jones (voiced by Chris Rock) is one of those white blood cells who serves as a cop and must capture various villainous germs and viruses inside Frank. Although not a popular individual among the world of Frank, especially with the Mayor (voiced by William Shater), who is running for re-election very soon, he does have a crush on his assistant, Leah (voiced by Brandy Norwood). After the virus, named Thrax (voiced by Laurence Fishburne), accumulates villainous help and starts on a plan to kill Frank in a record time of forty eight hours,  Osmosis must work with a cold pill named Drix (voiced by David Hyde Pierce), to stop this monstrously powerful germ before it's too late for Frank and his daughter.The movie has some very clever material-various parts of the body represent neighborhoods in the City of Frank. For instance, the stomach is the airport with frequent departures to the colon. The Mafia relaxes in a steam room located in the armpit. Lawyers hang out in a hemorrhoid. When a zit pops up, it's seemingly the party room for the entire body, complete with a dance floor and strippers. Just simple content like that makes Osmosis Jones worth a watch. Even adults will enjoy the live action humor, as well as the film's zest, energy, and irony.In a time when summer movies are at an all time low, Osmosis Jones is here to save they day. It's one of the most clever films of the year. "},{"Title":"A Great Class of Hygienic and Human Body Functions","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Frank (Bill Murray) is a widow without hygienic and bad alimentary habits. He eats food that felt on the floor without cleaning, he does not wash his hands before eating and he eats only junk food. His daughter keeps unsuccessfully trying to correct his behavior. One day, Frank eats a dirty egg and gets a disease. From this moment on, the human body functions are showed through very funny and educational cartoons. The hero, Osmosis Jones, is a white globule, with Chris Rock's voice. The great Farrely brothers again surprise me. This funny (and sometimes scatological movie) is a great class of hygienic and human body functions. Chris Rock and Laurence Fishburne give a great performance with their voices. Bill Murry has the role of a disgusting character. An excellent and very educational movie, indicated also (or specially) for children. My vote is nine. "},{"Title":"Crude humor but funny antics.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  How does the body work?I've always wanted to know exactly what goes on inside my body, and I must say I had a pretty fair idea thanks to my Biology class in school.Then I saw Osmosis Jones, which completely threw me off.The way Frank's body works and the cause/effect situations in this movie are hilarious!  Frank is seen as a huge city, such as New York or Los Angeles, and blood cells live out their daily lives.  The creative abilities of the creators of this movie seems endless even though it is limited to Frank's body.The characters are well drawn-out, and we even learn some of Jones' background (he lived in a certain area of the body and had hardly any education).  Drix is a product of a cold pill and assigned to help out around the place, and we learn much about him as he explains it all to Jones.The music in this movie isn't bad, but some of it didn't really match with the scenes.  Randy Edelman is the composer, and he doesn't do a bad job.  Even the rap and R&B music fit in and didn't sound too bad.All in all, Osmosis Jones is a great movie if you like animation (especially quick-action animated fighting scenes) and imaginative adventures such as these. "},{"Title":"God help me, I really liked this film.","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As an aesthete, this movie goes against everything I stand for, but I found it nonetheless very entertaining. It was like a peculiar yet satisfying mix between the Incredible Journey, Toy Story, and Lethal Weapon or Rush Hour (the whole loose-cannon, loner cop with a new partner bit).I found the idea rather original the human body is like a body of government, the cop is a white blood cell, the president was the cell whose will was that of the man (Bill Murray), the villain is a virus who hangs out in seedy areas of the body with shady characters, the bladder is a sort of train station/airport... clever stuff.I did have issues with the What a zit- I mean, what is it? part, though it landed on her lip! Wrong! I could have gone the rest of my life without seeing that. Molly Shannon is quite a sport. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The stand-out comedy of 2001- someone has a big imagination","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Whoever made this has a big imagination about what goes on inside the human body.  It's very witty and smart.  The whole rookie cop cliche who messes up and is THIS close to being pulled off the force and has a hunch a teams up with an unlikely buddy and ends up being right (for example, Rush Hour) is being given a whole new twist.  The Farrley Brothers have done it again- and made a solid B+ stand out comedy.   B+, 8/10 "},{"Title":"Very clever and some good laughs.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I wouldn't say this is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, but there is definitely some original comedy here.  I thought it was a very inventive story, and quite interesting.  What shocked me more than anything about this film is the fact that it was directed by the Farrelly brothers, who also directed Kingpin, Dumb and Dumber, There's Something About Mary, Me, Myself and Irene, and Shallow Hal.  So this doesn't really fit their profile, but I'm glad to see that they are trying something new.Like I said, not the funniest movie in the world, but it's good some good stuff in it.  If you're a fan of the Farrelly brothers, then you'll probably want to see this film.  If you aren't a fan of the Farrelly brothers, then you still may want to see this film, cause it's a little different than their other films.  I hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"Fun movie indeed","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't believe this movie made such little money it's sad cause it's a very cute and original idea. It's fun to watch how the pill and blood cell travel to different parts of the body. And Bill Murray is good as usual, and Chris Rock's voice fits in with the main character rather well too. I wish the real story could have been put in a little more and the daughter character a little less, plus Chris Elliott is a terrible actor. But overall the movie isn't bad and it's fun and cute, 7/10 "}{"Title":"As a bio teacher, this was exCELLent.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Granted, not the funniest movie ever by typical guffaw standards, but certainly one of the most clever. The intelligence behind the humor is evident (unlike another Farrelly movie, Dumb and Dumber) and is also entertaining for kids. The more you know about Biology, the more this movie tickles your humorous.   "},{"Title":"Like this one","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is simply fun and entertaining to watch. I remembered searching for a fantasy movie which similar to Fantastic Voyage and this one really got it all.It is even better this movie can be made alive instead of just cartoon and it will be a really marvelous story to be seen.Thumb up. "},{"Title":"animation good, but live action gross and boring","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Farrelly brothers are dipping into the animation pool. It's colorful and primitive animation. It's pretty good, but that's not really the problem. Surprisingly the problem is Bill Murray and live action stuff.Frank Detomello is a slob. He eats a hard boiled egg covered with a deadly germ. And we travel inside Frank to see white blood cell policeman Osmosis Jones (Chris Rock) battle evil virus Thrax (Laurence Fishburne) with the help of Drix (David Hyde Pierce).Bill Murray looks awful as he gets sicker and sicker. I have to ask if we're supposed to laugh at Bill? It's just gross. Not the gross out humor that the Farrellys are known for. It isn't funny at all.The animated sections are much better. In fact I prefer they cut out the live action stuff. Chris Rock does a good voice. He has good chemistry with David Hyde Pierce's Drix. They need a few more jokes, but I like the City of Frank. "},{"Title":"Good film but has it's flaws","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When you mention the title of this film to someone, they just look at you and say What?.Yeah, nobody went to see this film when it came out. I think it's because how do you market a film like this? Since this takes place in the human body, there's all kinds of gross out humour in it. Some of it is too much for a PG rated film. That's my biggest problem with this film and why it wasn't marketed very well. It's gross. The scene where the nose dam breaks and a giant tidal wave of snot comes out is not what you're mean to see in a family film. Especially on the big screen. The scene where Frank vomits on the teacher and it is shown in a newspaper headline, we actually see the vomit. You don't show people vomiting in a PG film. Not only that, but it's part of the story. Making gross out gags part of the story is not a good idea.Also, the scene where the zit is ready to pop, we get a big giant close up on it which is enough to make anyone cringe. It's almost like Panty and Stocking with Garterbelt. A show loaded with gross out humour. But that was for adults. This is meant to be a family film.Now, the stuff I do like about it; the animation is great, it's very creative, (making the stomach the airport, the brain is city hall, the armpits are the steam room, I could go on)Laurence Fishburne was fantastic as Thrax. I kept forgetting it was him. Even if you don't like this film, you have to admit, Thrax is awesome. The music's great too. I like all the body puns as well.Not a film for everyone, but has gained a cult following on DVD. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" AMAZING! GREAT! A roller-coaster of emotions. From beginning to end it is an immaculate tale of life, love and action, I don't normally enjoy animated films but this is the Citizen Kane of animation. I have no idea why it did not receive the 8 Oscars it was nominated for. It is a highly under rated film, as was S. Darko the Donnie Darko sequel. As Alvin and the chipmunks would say I want a squeekual. Chris Rock's performance was top notch and it proved that voice acting is a genuine art. It also paved the way for future animations and in my opinion inspired future animations. I hope that future generations will look back and admire this movie and I will be able to say where I was when I first viewed this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Worth watching once- or more!","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I found out the hard way that this movie was definitely not directed at 8 year-olds. Vomit and exploding zits, innocent cells exploding like bubbling lava, and some bodily humor that will fly right over a 2nd grader's head. This doesn't mean the movie is bad. Coming back seven years later, I found the jokes to be funny, especially to biology nuts, and the grosser parts to be bearable. Chris Rock and David Hyde Pierce make an amazing and hilarious team of white blood cell and cold pill, one of the best team of non Disney heroes to ever hit the television screen. Facing off against these two is a nasty virus voice by Laurence Fishburne. Thrax, the Red Death, is one of the most evil villains ever created, easily winning out against many Disney villains. I mean really, you don't get much more evil than a /virus/.This film is sadly underrated, and really is a must-see, just not with your small children. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Movie That Doesn't Get the Recognition it Deserves.","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When most people think of the Farrelly Brothers they think more of movies like Theres Something About Mary and Dumb and Dumber, but Osmosis Jones is a movie that went largely unnoticed. This movie is great, it has a storyline like you would expect by some bad short you watch at school in health class... but done right. What more can a person ask for in an animated world than Chris Rock as a white blood cell fighting off a nasty virus voiced by Laurence Fishburne. You also have Bill Murray in the live action side of the movie playing the unclean and gross, yet lovable Frank. David Hyde Pierce was also great as the Cold Pill named Drix.The animation is really cool, and I guess you could sort of say it's one of the last good animated movies made, seeing as the world has been taken over with CGI (Which is not necessarily a bad thing... it's just nice to see a traditionally animated movie.) I would also like to make comment on the designs of the inside of Frank... they were pretty cool.Of course there is lots of toilet humour and innuendo... but it's all in good fun. Some people may be a bit grossed out though during some scenes. I would recommend you don't let your kids watch this movie if they are under the age of about eight, as there are some dark themes involving death in it.Basically the animation is great, the characters are memorable and the movie is just a whole lot of fun. So the bottom line is if you see this in a shop... I would give a very high recommendation to rent or even buy this. It's just a really good movie. "},{"Title":"Bloody Good Movie","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I think that this movie was horribly underrated in the UK, and it doesn't get the recognition it deserves. I saw the animated series before the movie, and got interested in watching it, but as I have a phobia of vomit, I was incredibly shocked when I saw Bill Murray throw up all over Molly Shannon with visual and graphic sounds. Still, I plucked up the courage to watch the rest of the movie, which I really enjoyed. However, to this day I have to skip the vomit scene on my DVD. I liked the fact that it was a classic cop type story, with a baddie, a love interest, a rookie cop and a partnership too. I thought that David Hyde Pierce played the part of Drix brilliantly and Chris Rock was superb as Osmosis. I also like the fact that the movie teaches kids that it's important to take care of yourself.My friend and I still quote You gotta get spiffy! all the time. I also really loved the soundtrack, I went frantic searching for the CD! "},{"Title":"Disgustingly awesome","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised by watching Osmosis Jones. I was expecting a gross-out of poor quality and humour. Okay, some of the lines and scenes were pretty disgusting, like when Frank threw up all over Shane's teacher after eating some rancid shellfish (we've all had that happen) and then the teacher talking about how her kids, Hurley, (whoops - I meant Shirley), and her two little sons, Ralph and Chuck were being constantly teased. And then Frank blew a zit on her face. But the actual content was very educational and my mom just loves the movie. The jokes were tasteful, as tasteful as bodily jokes can preside and the graphics gave an interesting view on how to see your body. Don't watch while eating! "},{"Title":"My View Of Osmosis Jones","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was 8 when I first saw this film and like any kid I loved it. I used to pretend to be Laurence Fishburne's character Thrax. I loved that film for one whole year then got bored of it. Recently this year my computer died and I can only go on my mum's for short periods so at night I had nothing else to do. I started watching different DVD's then at the back of my shelf came across Osmosis Jones. This film I have to say is brilliant it's quite clever at the end with Shayne's Eyelash and the fight between Thrax and Ozzy. This movie is very educational I recently shocked my Science teacher by telling her what a Hypothalamus is. I would recommend this movie to anyone from the age of 10-110. When my brother is old enough I am letting him watch this movie and I hope he will like it as much as I did "}{"Title":"An evil virus has invaded a man's body and a cell attempts to seek and destroy it.","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I believe this movie is very appropriate. It is also very educational with all the body parts and blood and medicine information. It is very good to me because when I grow up, I would like to become a Surgeon. It is also a very funny comedy and can teach viewers to eat good food and to do plenty of exercise. I would recommend watching this excellent movie about cells fighting off a virus in the Human Body. The acting was also very good. The only reason that I gave it a 9 was because Shane (Elena Franklin) looked at the camera when she was on the bus to school camp. But other than that, the movie was humorous, educational and very good. "},{"Title":"Very well made movie with an excellent plot idea.","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The plot of the story is extremely well thought of and in hindsight i can understand why it is made by the Farrelly brothers, they have a reputation of making offbeat and skew movies, this one would fall into those categories just from the plot idea.The acting is good, Bill Murray pulls off a very believing father who doesn't give a hoot about germs and disgusting food habits, and therefore his body becomes the host of a very nasty virus named Thrax, and then the movie takes off.For those 90 minutes you will be very entertained and at some times you will close your eyes in disgust while your children will scream and laugh, i wont tell you where these things happen but rest assured, THEY WILL! )All in all this is a great movie and the voice cast for the main roles fits perfectly, although i have a little trouble with David Hyde Pierce lending his voice to a wannabe-hero-medicine-cold-reliever just from remembering him from Frasier, but after a little while you could not imagine anyone else giving voice.Give this film a chance in the DVD player, you will not be disappointed if you like  Original Plot idea. Bill Murray. Chris Rock - David Hyde Pierce - Laurence Fishbourne and William Shatner for voices. "},{"Title":"excellent.","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I LOVE THIS MOVIE!Though this movie was a flop, I LOVE it. It was hilarious. I love Chris Rock, Lawrence Fishburn (voices for Ozzy and Thrax) in this movie. I do see that this movie would be good for younger kids and older ones. (if they would just agree to watch it; people judge things too quickly.) I think this movie was awesome and I first watched it when I recorded it on my DVR when it came on TBS one night. Unfortunately,my parents erased the recording. (and believe me,I WAS MAD AS HECK!) I hope to catch it again on TV but right now I think that would rarely happen. ( Well any way. PLZ WATCH THIS MOVIE AND DON'T FORGET TO SUBMIT STUFF ON THE LITTLE GRAY REVIEW BOX AT THE BOTTOM OF THE PAGE!!! "},{"Title":"Great Film! Truly fits the billing PERFECT FOR ALL AGES!!","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I love this movie, and consider it to be a classic animated film---bought this just today and was more than just pleasantly surprised---I was SO glad that I bought it!!!It had my entire family laughing, from the oldest (72) to the youngest (4) from start to finish!! Just cant say enough about this movie, I am so glad that I got a chance to see it, and am Positive that I will be watching this film over and over! I would recommend this movie to EVERYONE!It has everything for everyoneBill Murray (One of his funniest movies--and thats saying a lot!) Great Animation (More than just eye candy, it puts a hilarious spin on the inside of our bodies, and funny ideas about whats going on in there!) Chris Rock (Great how well he fit this part) William Shatner (Perfectly Cast as the Mayor of Bill Murrays Brain) Molly Shannon (Plays great with Bill Murray as his poor daughters teacher) BUFFALO WINGS!! (There just is NO better finger food in the world!! P)This is one of the few films that really does live up to the billing PERFECT FOR ALL AGES! This was the ideal film for my family to watch this Sunday evening, and I'm lucky I heard about it. Go get this film! I'm going to watch it again, see ya! ) "},{"Title":"the best movie ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is the best move ever!!!!!!!!!!!!! I like the songs, and now,after I finally watched the whole movie, (I've only seen chunks of it before, enough to get a brief idea of what its about). I got the soundtrack, the GBA game of the TV show, Ozzy and Drix, and the movie ! (yes, I am obsessed and possessed)I also watch the show every day. Well, I guess I'm done here....hey ! wait! if a pizza is round, why the heck do they put them in square boxes??? I've seen circular boxes before! IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THIS MOVIE, YOU HAVE NOT LIVED YET!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!well,sorry i wasted your time,(who would want to talk with an OZZY AND DRIX fan, if all they do is waste your time)? well, see ya ! ) "},{"Title":"Ozzy is really a cell of a guy!!!","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Osmosis Jones is a very funny, entertaining and clever film brought by the Farrelly brothers, creators of comedies like Dumb and Dumber, There's Something About Mary and Me, Myself & Irene. I've seen the two firsts, and I must say that the best of all is Osmosis Jones. It combines two story lines the story of Frank Detorri (Bill Murray), a disgusting man with a disgusting life too. And the other story line is where the animation takes part and recreates all the inside of Frank's body. This last one is the main part of the film, where we find our white blood cell cop Osmosis Jones (Chris Rock), followed by his partner Drix (David Hyde Pierce), a cold tablet, in order to prevent the body from the attack of the evil and powerful virus Thrax (Lawrence Fishburne). At first glance, the plot seems cheesy and typical, but the movie is an incredible combination of brilliant animation, incredible CGI, fantastic characters and dialogues and very funny gags. I never expected a cartoon movie from the Farrelly brothers. I mean, they have changed a lot their style from There's something.... You still find some scatological elements, but all the action in Frank's body is really good and surprising. For example, the neurones are represented as telephone operators, the stomach is like an airport, the bladder is like a harbor, you find turrets shooting snots inside the nose and so on.The two main characters Ozzy and Drix are quite similar to Mel Gibson and Danny Glover in the Lethal Weapon series. You know, two cops, one quite mad and risky, the other cold and more serious... Also you can find cameos from The Matrix and Titanic, but I would like to mention the appearance of KIDNEY ROCK in the film. Of course, we're talking about KID ROCK, the famous US rock star, considered by himself and lots of fans like the PIMP of the nation. In Europe, it's not very popular, but I consider myself fan of his work, and I really enjoyed his appearance in Osmosis Jones, followed by his small pal Joe C., who sadly died a few months ago.So, go to the cinema right now and watch the movie1. If you like animation movies full of action 2. If you are interested in medicine 3. If you don't think that cartoons are only for kids (People who say this drives me mad, some of my buddies will know what I'm talkin' 'bout ^_^)WORTH LOOK!!!!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Needs to be made into a TV series.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don't bring your kids to the theater; they wont get it. If you have no idea  what the word enzyme means, then don't go anyway. I was almost the only one at  the prime time showing of this who got the references and there's enough  biological visualizations they could have a whole animated TV series on Kids WB (with a big emphasis on health).  Bill Murray, who plays Frank, fans might be disappointed that all he does is make funny faces, say stupid things and be  gross to facilitate the plot but the real comedy is in Chris Rock's character  Osmosis Jones and his partner played by Fraiser's David Hyde Pierce.  I  greatly enjoyed the film except for the sub par sound mix.  The dialog is somewhat inaudible.  Osmosis Jones' introductory lines are too quiet.  Other audio complaints lie in the soundtrack.  The music selection doesn't seem at all appropriate for the story's theme.  However, those elements and others, like the casting of Jones' voice, are rooted in Hollywood's recognition that it's trendy to be black and do urban things.  Another trend is martial arts in movies, but, that's actually a good thing (as a bad fight sequence such as sloppy boxing dilutes the drama).  If you get it, it's still gross but you will laugh and enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"What happens when a kid is taught biology too early","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was not all that bad, however it appeals to kids who wouldn't really understand what's going on. They'd just see cartoon characters fighting, and be entertained and the whole knowledge of the body would almost have no effect on the kids.This movie felt like something an 8 year old would think if they were taught what we're usually taught in Grade 8 about cells and all that other stuff.I think the largest problem with this movie is that it was made to appeal to kids under 10, but it's directed at kids 13-17. So the kids who that it appeals to don't really get the full joy and benefits of the movie and the kids it's directed at don't usually get interested.Another problem it faces is that this type of story, HAS to be a cartoon, and there are SOME people out there who think that cartoons cannot be good, so once again that age 13-17 age really doesn't take interest "},{"Title":"It grows on you like a fungus...in a good way.","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was appalled and disgusted at the blunt humor this movie offered when I first saw it in the theater, only because of its shock value.  I mean they don't leave any of the bodily humor to your imagination.  However, when I bought the movie for my sister-in-law for Christmas as a joke, I actually enjoyed it thoroughly when we sat and watched it again.  There is so much underlying humor in this movie for adults, you cant miss the genius in it.  Well Bodily Humor genius that is.  If you can get through the zit popping, puking and other disgusting characteristics of Bill Murray's character and pay attention to David Hyde Pierce and Chris Rock's back and forth then you are bound to leave the movie having had several good belly laughs.  While this subtly shockingly, gruesome humor is new to me, I must agree with Bill Murray's character at the end of the movie...  Out with the old, and in with the new     "},{"Title":"Neither here nor there.  But tired, for sure.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" 1. This movie is gross. I don't know how you could eat popcorn or something during it.2. It has some funny moments, but it's no laugh fest. (And it's David Hyde Pierce, not Osmosis Jones, who steals the show as the only really likable character.) It is not funny enough to be a real comedy, but not serious or dramatic enough to pull you in emotionally. It does neither adequately, and suffers for it.3. The villain in it is kinda cool.4. It is remarkable that the writers and directors of this film felt it was appropriate to mesh a lot of highly original and creative material (the metropolis of a human body, complete down to every nuance of its function and translated into animation) with a main character setup that is now so trite (the fast-talking, annoying inner city cop with a chip on his shoulder who plays by his own rules and doesn't follow procedure, paired unwillingly with the practical straight man or some other stereotypical partner who will get on his nerves.) Chris Rock as the mouthy, wise-cracking cop from the wrong side of the tracks.. Jeez. Enough already.I had more than enough of him in Lethal Weapon 4. And Chris Tucker, too. (Same name, same voice, same routine, same kinds of movies. Talk about annoying, and I am not even certain that they are separate people.) The Lethal Weapon 4/Rush Hour/Rush Hour 2/Bad Company shtick has been done to death.5. This movie had its moments, but overall it was a disappointment. Score 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Does provide for some decent entertainment.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OSMOSIS JONES (2001) Rating 6/10The animated parts of this movie are entertaining and often very funny. And it's good to see a traditionally animated movie during a time when computer-animated films dominate (though you can't deny they deserve to). Unfortunately for this film, every once in a while we have to suffer through the live-action parts, which are just plain disgusting and not very funny. Bill Murray's character is repulsive and he's very hard to like. He's not a good father and he doesn't treat his daughter very well. Even during the times when he tries to be nice, you still can't like the guy. He should stick to the usual Murray sarcasm and leave the gross-out humor to the professionals.The characters in the animated parts of the film, however, are all quite likable. Chris Rock is almost like Eddie Murphy, in the sense that he has the kind of voice that seems to fit animated movies even if this is only his first animated film. David Hyde Pierce is perfect as Drix the cold pill. You know, the stiff, professional type almost mirroring his character on Frasier, even if it's just his voice here. Osmosis Jones and Drix make a surprisingly good team. Laurence Fishburne makes Thrax's character quite villainous, with his low, evil voice. He makes his point clear that the Ebola virus is a case of dandruff compared to him, using only a large finger to send various cells frying.The script by Marc Hyman is original and witty with puns running a muck in this film. And the direction by the Farrelly brothers is nothing to write home about. It's mediocre at best.This movie is worth renting (maybe buying) if you've got 10-12 year-old boys in the house. It would certainly keep them occupied for an hour and a half. As for anyone over that age, well, it's just too silly to be appreciated the way kids appreciate things. As for me, someone over the age of 12, it's an okay animated feature that's about two-thirds animation and one-third live-action with the animated bits being good enough to deserve a so-so rating. "},{"Title":"Bill's Dentist Appointment.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Osmosis Jones (2001) Dir (live) Bobby Farrelly, Peter Farrelly / Dir (animated scenes) Piet Kroon, Tom Sito / Cast Bill Murray, Molly Shannon, Chris Elliott, Elena Franklin / Voices Chris Rock Creative and unique animation. Bill Murray plays an out of shape father who is constantly warned by his daughter to watch his eating habits. Soon a deadly virus begins to spread throughout his body. It is up to animated blood cell Osmosis Jones and his partner Drix to destroy evil virus Thrax. Live footage is directed by Peter and Bobby Farrelly who are famous for great comedies such as Kingpin and There's Something About Mary. Animated sequences are directed by Piet Kroon and Tom Sito who are given the best part of the film. Animated characters are cool and carry the film but the live performances are flat. Bill Murray holds his own as this unhealthy eater who ends up in the down and out and must rely on Jones to triumph and recreate his health. Molly Shannon has the misfortune of having a zit explode on her face. Chris Elliott has a cardboard role of Murray's brother and co-worker. Elena Franklin is flat as Murray's daughter who cares for her father and his welfare. The voice talents fare much better with Chris Rock leading the way as the free spirited Osmosis Jones whose mission is to render Bill Murray healthy. Creative and well meaning comedy about responsible living. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Space Jam meets Inside Out","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Osmosis Jones is a animated/live action film about a Zookeeper (and a father to one girl) named Frank(played by Bill Murray)who swallows a germ egg at the zoo after a monkey ate it and we later see a bunch of animated charcthers(inside Frank's body) one voiced by Chris Rock(Osmosis Jones)who happens to be a Policeman tries to help Frank from getting rid of the germ inside of Frank within the next 48 hours. So will Osmosis save Frank's insides in time before the virus gets deadly?I happened to have seen clips of this on Nostalgia Critic's review today and the animation looks very nice(as its in hand-drawn form which I miss as there aren't much hand-drawn films anymore. The film is like the new movie Inside Out meets Space Jam for some strange reason. The voice acting is great that are inside Frank's body(Chris Rock was good,and Lawrence Fishburne who plays the deadly virus who is a villain in this movie btw)were also great.I had to laugh that this was made by Farrelly Brothers(yup the dudes that were over my favourite comedy of all time Dumb And Dumber)but if you love animated /live action movies than check it out. "},{"Title":"The Humans Ruined It","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This would have been a great animated movie. However when they added the human characters it was awful.1. The animation was great. The cells moved like they were supposed to move. The world it painted looked interesting and pretty unique.2. The characters that are animated are great but the live action ones are terrible. Ozzy is funny, Drix is smart but has his own comedic side and the villains Thrax is great! Too bad that the humans are dull, gross and unintelligent morons that couldn't tie their own shoes. The daughter is smarter than her father and even then she's still bad at acting.3. The comedy is well done. I liked Ozzy and Drix with their funny banter. The other side characters are also very funny. Too bad that the human comedy is gross out humor that only a four year old could laugh at.4. The story is pretty nice. Thrax the virus tries to kill Frank in 48 hours so he can beat his record at killing humans. Ozzy and his new pal Drix are the only ones who can stop Thrax and have to work together. It's clique yes but it works. The humans...aren't very important with the story and are there just because.Like I've stated before it's the humans that ruined the movie. It's good but cut out the humans and this would be way better! "},{"Title":"Very nice idea, poorly executed.","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I first watched this film, I thought it was amazing. I have recently seen the film again and it was rather disappointing. The idea is still really good and if they'd re-film it, use more experienced people, I think it could be really good. Although the voice actors are people I really like, the performance was very poor. It all seemed to be too amateurish. Young kids, especially the boys, will still like it because it is rather disgusting. No really, it is absolutely disgusting. Under no circumstance watch this film if you are eating. It will take your appetite away.... at very least. The best thing in the film was Bill Murray, but it's a film he could have done without. "},{"Title":"Puts the human body into a whole new perspective.","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a very cool live-action/animated movie starring Bill Murray as Frank Detorre, who after eating some bad food contracted a life-threatening virus. In the movie, the internal organs of Frank's body is an animated world known as the City of Frank, and is where a policeman white blood cell named Osmosis Jones (Chris Rock) and a cold pill Frank took named Drix (David Hyde Pierce) attempt to stop the virus known as Drax (Lawrence Fishburne) from claiming Frank's life.I thought this movie is very clever and imaginative, putting the human body into a whole new perspective. It makes your insides seem like an entire and adventurous different world, where in the film the white blood cells are law enforcement officers, lymph nodes are police stations, veins are highways, blood is water/lava, stomach is a bus station, a rowdy club is a pimple, and the germs and bacteria are the criminals.Marc Hyman wrote a fun, imaginative and adventurous script for the movie, cleverly depicting (in animation) how the human body fights infections and sickness. Brothers Bobby and Peter Farrelly did a fine job directing the film, making you suspend reality and imagining your body working like it is depicted in the film. Kudos to the team who did the animation work - bright, colorful and vibrant - nothing like some of those dull-looking and washed-out CGI animation you see nowadays. And, the live-acting and voice casting were great - realistic and believable.As this movie is raged PG, there is also quite a bit of bodily humor, puns and jokes, especially involving digestion, going to the restroom, passing gas, popping pimples from the face, food in the mouth.. (you get the drill). Therefore, you may not want to eat anything while watching this movie. But overall, it's a fun movie for both kids and adults - very entertaining! Grade B+ "},{"Title":"You need to know what your getting into for this one.","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I recently rented Osmosis Jones, and I thought it was Ok. to really understand what I mean by this, a pro/con list is needed. so here's a pro/con list. PROS -Creative Premise and Environment (some of the body part/city comparisons were brilliant) -Good Comedy(includes several HILARIOUS Sight Gags.) -Cool Villain -Decent Animation CONS -The Parts with Bill Murray on camera can sometimes drag a touch. -(this is the big one) The plot brings nothing new to the table. It is a by-the-numbers buddy cop movie, and we all know what's going to go down. So, don't come into this film expecting a new story. Come into it expecting to see comedy and interesting visuals. "},{"Title":"It's a very good film, but I have reservations.","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Osmosis Jones is one of Warner Bros. several animated films that failed at the box office. Some of those films were very good (The Iron Giant), others completely missed (Quest for Camelot). This one is sort of in the middle for my taste. Let me explain.I feel the animated portions are fantastic. The city of Frank is gorgeous to look at, and the characters are well developed. The story is also very engaging, energetic, and fast paced. For a few Kid Rock fans, he makes a cameo with his posse in one scene. These parts alone are worth the price of admission. Which brings me to my main criticism...The live action sequences are boring and uneven. I don't think the audience really cares about the live action scenes. They are obvious filler, they jut out like Excalibur in the stone. These scenes are only crucial at the beginning and towards the end of the movie.Overall, I liked the animated portions of the movie but could do without the live action. "},{"Title":"This may not be an Oscar worthy film, but it's pretty enjoyable.","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Osmosis Jones is a pretty good movie, it's very disgusting at times but you just have to go with it. This is the story of a guy named Osmosis Jones, a white blood cell voiced by Chris Rock. He lives inside the body of Frank, a slobby zoo keeper who's body is likened to a city it has it's dump (guess where), power plant (heart), ghetto (liver), and even natural disasters (cramps and sicknesses.) So when Frank ingests a hard boiled egg that has been in the mouth of a monkey and on the ground, it's bad news. Especially when the egg hosts the Red Death virus named Thrax (my favorite character), voiced superbly by a evilly suave and utterly unrecognizable Laurence Fishburne. Thrax wants to kill Frank in record time (48 hours) by damaging his hypothermis gland and heating Frank up like A sidewalk on a summer day... Thrax snickers. To help Osmosis fight Thrax, enter the by-the-book and not particularly bright cherry-flavored cold pill Drix (David Hyde Peirce)who wants to prove his worth by curing Frank. my final thought The animated portions of the movie were entertaining and fun. The live action portions of the film were gross and not that funny. If it had been 95% animation, this would have been a lot better film. "},{"Title":"Worth Time-pass because of its story.","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Good Animation, Nicely Voiced and With An Interesting Story, Osmosis Jones is a mediocre unique type of a animated movie which is good for time-pass and can entertain you with its mind-boggling but unique and satirical story about the human body along with nice Voice acting by Chris Rock(who was very good) and Lawrence Fishburne and decent effort from the directors Bobby and Peter Farrelly.The Story is quite unique about the body of Frank Detorre and what takes place in his body which is full of oily and harmful junk food which he consumes on a daily basis, and how the protective cells in the human body fight to destroy the bacteria and virus's which come into the body through the food. The Main Character is Osmosis Jones(Chris Rock), who is a cop cell who always manages to run into trouble and harm Frank's body and he tries to become famous by defeating the harmful virus which wants to kill Frank with his partner Thrax(Fishburne).The Voice acting by the lead actors are very good and they have successfully synchronised their voices with their characters and helped in making the characters look very real! Chris Rock and Laurence Fishburne have done a good job along with William Shatner. They Really put in their best efforts to make their respective characters look real and the characters they've voiced for are the most entertaining of the lot. The Others have also done a decent job in giving voice of these interesting cells and virus's.The Directors Bobby and Peter Farrelly have done an okay-ish job with their crew and have done and tried their best to make this movie very good, but it has its flaws, but you have to give them credit for doing their best. They did a good job with the voicing of the characters and helping the actors blend in with their characters and have made this movie a good one for time-pass.The Story of this movie is quite unique and its a good satirical dig at what happens inside the human body and they have tried to show the importance of these protective cells in destroying the virus's and helping us keep healthy and from getting diseases. The Writer Marc Hyman has done a great job in making this uniquely good script and because of the story this movie is quite worth the watch and worth your time.The Animation team has done a great job in showing all these protective cells and them destroying the virus's and how they ''live'' inside the human body and the animation is spot on in this movie and the animation team has really done their best in giving the audience a good time with this entertaining animation and these interesting characters.Well, if your quite bored and have nothing to do, you can try and watch this movie for time-pass and you will find it quite decent with its interesting story and colourful characters, but if your looking for a serious movie, pass this.My Rating 6.3/10 "}{"Title":"Educative, funny and creative","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is the perfect movie to watch with your kids. In a very creative and funny way, the producers teach us a lot about our body through the adventure of Osmose Jones, a white blood cell, and Drix, a cold pill. Both live in Frank City, inside the body of Frank, who, despite his daughter's advises, isn't very hygiene and doesn't eat well. He catches a deadly disease and, along with other characters, Osmose and Drix fight against it in a very fun to watch adventure. If you like animation and biology you'll certainly like this movie no matter how old you are. Although the acting isn't great, the movie is mainly an animation so it shouldn't be a big problem. "},{"Title":"Osmosis Jones","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Osmosis Jones may not be the most entertaining movie of the summer of 2001. I don't think it's the funniest (That award probably belongs to 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back'), but it's well written and performed, and the animation is wonderful.The film is a mixture of animated scenes and live action. The live action (directed by The Farrelly Brothers) stars Bill Murray as Frank, a disgusting, slovenly pig of a father, who'll eat anything, including soft boiled eggs! Even more gross, this particular soft boiled egg has spent some time in the paws and cage of a rather feisty monkey, and as a result a nasty virus enters Frank and begins to turn his body into mush.If you like animation, Bill Murray, are into science and bodily stuff. You should check this out. It's on YouTube. Just search Osmosis Jones Part __ "},{"Title":"The smartest The Farrelly Brothers have done, but its the worst.","Date":"4 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Farrelly Brothers have done dumb(Dumb and dumber) and dumber(Me,myself and Irene), and all things in between. But no matter what, something about their obnoxious humor wins me over every time. Almost,every time. Recently, I saw a film that I missed out on, called Osmosis Jones.It took them years to direct a smart movie. I mean, there are a lot of scientific facts in this movie, used as jokes.Ironicaly, though its their smartest work, I also found it to be their worst work to date. Not that I dislike it when Rated R people go PG, but I felt that Osmosis Jones tried too hard.The film revolves around a victim,named Frank(Bill Murray). Going on in his body is the flu. And it's up to Osmosis Jones(voiced by Chris Rock) and Drix(voiced by David Hyde Peirce) to stop it.The majority of the cast here works. Everyone except Chris Rock. To me, I felt that Chris Rock was too much of a distraction. Despite him, the rest of the cast is funny. And some of the jokes are kind of clever also.The main reason why I bash Osmosis Jones is that its too childish. I mean, The Farrelly's have written some disgusting things(dick stuck in zipper, Jim Carrey having a breast milk mustache), but here,when they do it, its gross. There is a scene where Frank's zit pops on Molly Shannon's face. It's disgusting.Also, some of their jokes don't work. Though some are clever. All i'm saying is that they could've done better here. Though its the smartest movie they've ever done, I also think it's the worst. Compared to the gross out things the brothers have done before.C+ "},{"Title":"Clever, original and entertaining","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Osmosis Jones isn't the funniest movie I have ever seen, but it is very clever and has an original concept. The humour is crude I agree, but it is actually amusing- the script does have its witty and amusing parts. The animation is not too bad either, certainly a unique style of animation, the backgrounds are nice and the characters have interesting features. And the music is very good as well. As I've said already, the concept is very original and the equally original and well written story(even with one or two predictable parts) does justice to that concept. Also, I liked the characters, Ozzy and Drix are likable and what they get up to is intriguing, fun and often unpredictable, Thrax is a great villain and the voice acting from Chris Rock, Laurence Fishburne, David Hyde Pierce, William Shatner and Bill Murray is top notch. Overall, clever, original and entertaining. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"An original","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well done to the Farrelly brothers for giving us something rather unusual - an original film.We have a live action framing story of widowed Bill Murray and his daughter - his lack of care over his own welfare leads him to eat an egg, the germs on which cause him to become so sick that his life is threatened.And the development of the illness and the battle to prevent it spreading and to save his life are shown to us in animation by way of a stylised police/crime story, featuring a number of clichs to make the events more recognisable to us (the demoted/disgraced cop, the corrupt mayor, the irascible police captain etc.) The film switches between the two, and this works absolutely perfectly. The animation is excellent, the animation design is very good, and the voice talent is flawless.Some of the material is pitched at a near-adult level - the Farelly's are not noted for their good taste - so concerned parents should perhaps preview the tape to see if it meets their particular standards.An unusual and very good film "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Osmosis Jones is a great movie for all ages. I saw the movie with my little sister and grandmother and we all loved it. It is a comical movie that is funny to everyone. It makes the human body come to life with animating certain body parts and making them come to life as people. They made the germs that entered the body be the bad guys and the cells inside the body be the good guys. This film has stars such as Chris Rock, Laurence Fishburne, Brandy Norwood, William Shatner, Kid Rock, and David Hyde Pierce. These are the main voices of this film. I give this movie a 9 out of 10. I like how when the virus comes into the body they have to send out their cops which are actually white blood cells. "},{"Title":"Farrelly's funny body function farce.","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I got to admit, I am no fans of the Farrelly brothers. But this time they hit the nail on the head, the combination of live action for the human world and the animation for the white cells is clever. The story is full of funny if sometimes gross humor works for the story that works. But it's more then goofy gross site gags, it had a heart. The interaction between Frank and his daughter is funny, sweet and touching. The acting is great, the dialog is great. Basically except for some gross humor that pushes the limits of taste, but that is a minor complaint. Now if you ever watched the TV show that followed that movie and haven't watched the movie, then watch the movie. 7 1/2 STARS. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray could of been funnier.","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I didn't see this movie till sometime after it was released in theaters. I didn't know who Bill Murray was at first when I saw this film on TV.Osmosis Jones is about Bill Murray portraying a very unhealthy zoo keeper who's a loser in a way of saying. We get to see what's happening inside him. As white blood cells are fighting off germs and bacteria. The human body is a whole different world microscopically.White Blood cells and red blood cells are like citizens, the stomach is like an airport, and the Brain is like a town hall/core.Osmosis Jones is a White Blood cell. Who isn't getting the respect or luck in being a cop. When a virus enters the human body Osmosis gets team up with a Pill person who is made to a eliminate germs, colds, flu, and other symptoms.Can these 2 unlikely heroes stop the virus from destroying the human body? This movie is OK to watch. Has some funny moments, but not too memorable. Chris Rock has the spotlight in this movie. While Bill Murray just isn't too humorous in this one.If you like Chris Rock you'll like this movie. Otherwise please rent it before buying it. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Frank is not the kind of guy who thinks too much about his health. Give him junk food and beer and he's happy. However, this lifestyle gives the inhabitants of Frank a hard time and when he catches a cold one of the white blood cells, Osmosis Jones, and a cold tablet, Drixorial, teams up as they believe there is more going on then just a cold. At the same time the mayor of Frank is doing what he can to cover it up as just a brief cold to avoid panic as the election is coming up.Osmosis Jones is a clever little movie combining animation and real life to tell the story. While the story may be a little clich with the girl and the dad and maybe a little simple. This film may not need more then that. There is also a very obvious moral in there; Live healthy and take care of your body. Maybe a little too obvious I think, but it is a kids movie.The acting is great. Chris Rock is great as Osmosis Jones and Bill Murry is a good Frank. A young Elena Franklin is also very good as Shane, Franks daughter.This movie is both funny and smart. I guess if you're a kid it offers a great tool in learning some basic stuff about the body's immune system. I guess the movie takes it's inspiration from the French animation series Once Upon a Time... Life witch did much of the same pretty excellent and has a story similar to that of the Norwegian Body Troopers. They've also been inspired to spoof and reference a lot of other movies too.Osmosis Jones is a movie with nice animation and nice design. It has humor, nice characters and is quite enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Clever and Funny!","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This one is clever and funny, using everyday common body parts/functions and making them all part of the City of Frank! A warning for adults some parts are REALLY gross! Kids will laugh till they hurt, because kids love GROSS! Another warning is to be sure and make sure your pause/reverse/slow button on your DVD remote is in good order 'cause you'll want to use it to catch all the gags. Just like the Simpson's is a VCR show (meaning you need to tape it and slow/pause it to catch the background jokes), so too is this movie! There is extra stuff going on in the background and signs that go by a bit too quick for the eye, but are hilarious! Everyone does a bang up job, live and voice acting. The animation is old school which is fine, because it works for this one and is stylish and fun! An extra tip of the hat to David Hyde Pierce, he once again lends a great voice job to his character. He always knock his voice work out of the park. He seems to be able to transcend the medium and give his character's that extra spark! Bravo! "}{"Title":"Overall a Great Kids Movie!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I personally worked on the live action portion of this movie, which was a very cool change from working on commercials! When it was released on DVD, I watched it for the first time with my niece and nephews. They thought it was a cool and new idea for a movie and they really liked the animation. The voices are well-chosen, and the characters are very believable. It's definitely a gross-out movie, and they said ewwwww in all the right places. This film also sort of indirectly teaches kids that it's important to take care of yourself and your body, which is nice. Made me feel a tad old though because my sisters kids (ages 9, 7, and 6) don't know who Bill Murray is! More a kid's movie than adult, but still mostly enjoyable for adults. "},{"Title":"Great idea, well presented.","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This was a very clever idea, that effectively shows a live-action sequence, then presents the interior of a character's (Frank - Bill Murray) body in animation. The voice characters play cells and viruses withing Frank's body. I thought it was an excellent idea, very educational and entertaining at the same time. It reminded me of the classic Disney educational animated specials like Donald Duck in Mathamagic Land and Goofy on Defensive Driving, and the Ludvik von Drake shorts about the atom and such stuff.The voice casting was uniformly excellent, with a great range and personality. There were several great sight gags and action sequences in the animated sections, as well as some brilliant film spoofs (I particularly loved the TITANIC spoof and the JAWS - or general monster movie - spoof especially).The live-action is somewhat overshadowed by the animation, but Bill Murray does play an eccentric everyman character very well - very reminiscent of his early role in CADDYSHACK, where I first noticed him. The whole zoo setting seem a little off-beat, it made me think of FIERCE CREATURES, though not as much fun. The daughter was okay, if a bit bland. And there's a great comic bit featuring actor Will Dunn as a science student which sets off a great gross-out gag.I agree with the comments this is primarily seen as a kids movie, even though it does contain a near-death scene. But this movie definitely fits my definition of a great story idea, that is very well presented - which is the reason it made my top 100. "},{"Title":"Very imaginative, moments of inspiration","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was a spasmodically v. funny film.  More than that though, it was a very creative film.  Watching it was like watching the Simpsons.  My eyes were scanning the screen all the time to see how the signs related to the body.  I found it very imaginative.  There was the NNN, a news network which stood for Neuron News Network I guess?  There was the ticker scrolling along the bottom with sports scores with creatively named teams.  I can't remember what they were called but they were like the Ectoplasm or whatever.  Obviously the Farrelly brothers created a whole other world within the body and they did it very well.  I enjoyed the mayor and his attempts to try to keep Bill Murray fat because then he was happy and would be easier to control.  It's amazing that one can even politicized the opinions of cells!!  This movie had some very funny moments.  It wasn't as consistently funny as for exmple Dumb and Dumber or There's Something about Mary, but I think this was a more clever film.  I think it was funnier than Me Myself and Irene though.  Very smart and sometimes very funny.  Overall, I would recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Osmosis Jones just might be the most entertaining movie of the summer of 2001.  I don't think it's the funniest (That award probably belongs to 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back'), but it's well written and performed, and the animation is wonderful.The film is a mixture of animated scenes and live action.  The live action (directed by The Farrelly Brothers) stars Bill Murray as Frank, a disgusting, slovenly pig of a father, who'll eat anything, including soft boiled eggs!  Even more gross, this particular soft boiled egg has spent some time in the paws and cage of a rather feisty monkey, and as a result a nasty virus enters Frank and begins to turn his body into mush.Cut inside Frank's body to The City of Frank an creatively animated city in which each body part is home to different citizens (The Mafia control the ingrown toenail).  Our hero is a white blood cell named Osmosis Jones (Voiced well by Chris Rock, far more entertaining here than in every other movie role I've seen him in), who has to stop the evil virus before it's too late.Here is the unusual film that is actual more childish and cartoony during the live action Bill Murray scenes (which feature a fight with a monkey, an exploding zit, and flatulence) and witty and adult in the animated scenes.  I saw it in a theater full of kids and I laughed more and louder at the in jokes and clever use of the locations in the city, than the children.  A lot of people throw around stuff like An adult movie disguised as a kids movie but this is really a case where the cliche is true.  This is a great movie to see on the big screen, but I'd recommend checking out the DVD, so you can take full advantage of the freeze frame function and check out the humorous signs and billboards and in jokes that are littered throughout Frank's body.  The summer's most underrated movie. "},{"Title":"Sadly Got Lost In The Summer Shuffle","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I'm writing this review a few weeks after the release of Osmosis Jones, Warner Bros. live action / animation gross-out comedy, and the picture is already basically gone from theatres.  Audiences really did not get on board for this film, which uses traditional animation along with high-tech computer graphics to create a sprawling fantasy world set inside the body of a sloppy loser.  It's their loss.  Osmosis Jones is one of the funnier films to hit theatres this year, an endlessly clever and bizarre comedy with enough visual invention and screwy plot conceits for two films.Frank DiTorre (Bill Murray) is a slob.  Fat, balding, stubbly, he's like a big greasy eating and farting machine, to the neverending shame of his sweet young daughter (Elana Franklin).  One day, Frank finally puts his mouth where it doesn't belong, namely on a hard-boiled egg he fought from the gullet of an orangutan at the zoo.  As he slurps down the egg, we follow it into his body, where Thrax (voiced by a malevolent Laurence Fishburne), the monkey virus that hitched a ride on the egg, initiates his plan to kill Frank in 48 hours, a personal record.Frank's only defense?  Osmosis Jones (Chris Rock), a gunslinging, wisecracking white blood cell and the joke of the City of Frank Police Department.  He knows Thrax is on the attack, but he can't get anyone to listen to him.  His chief thinks he's a screwup, and the city's would-be brain trust, Mayor Phlegmming (William Shatner) is too busy trying to get re-elected by promising his voters a visit to the Buffalo Chicken Wing festival next week for some good binge eating.  The only one on Osmosis' side is Drix (David Hyde Pierce), a cold pill who's a bit stuffy himself. It's up to these two mismatched partners to track Thrax from the bowels to the brain and rescue Frank before he goes into a crash dive and realizes that he really, REALLY shouldn't have eaten that egg.Animation directors Piet Kroon and Tom Sito take us on a truly wild tour of the body, casting each organ in an amusing and oddly appropriate role. Frank's armpits are a steam bath for the city's germ gangsters, the liver is a skid-row slum full of bums, the bowels are the red-light district, the stomach the airport.  It's all grandly realized with a sweep even some live-action films might be pressed to top, and it's as impressive in its way as the cyberthespians of this summer's Final Fantasy (another big-budget animated film that did not fly with moviegoers).  The characters themselves are just as entertaining, thanks to bouncy design and the effective voice work of Shatner, Rock, and especially Pierce and Fishburne.  Thrax in particular is a droll and bloodthirsty villain, and as he stalks through Frank's nether regions, scratching up a fever with his razor talons, the threat to poor pathetic Frank seems surprisingly urgent.The film's live action segments are directed by Peter and Bobby Farrelly, and while I have found most of their recent work as funny as a crutch, here they score some big laughs.  Murray's dissipation is marvelous, and a scene in which he horrifies his daughter's teacher (Molly Shannon) with a volcanic forehead zit is among the most gruesomely funny I've seen in a while.Marc Hyman's script is witty and clever, and the film is peppered with so many throwaway gags that it's really worth seeing twice to pick up all the jokes you missed (my favorite  a sign on the wall of an inner-Frank diner reading No Cilia, No Cytoplasm, No Service).  It spanks along at a nice brisk pace, helped immensely by a catchy soundtrack of pop and rap tunes.I had a great time at Osmosis Jones, and it's really a mystery to me why more audiences didn't go for it.  Maybe the bodily humor was too clever and not gross enough for kids.  Maybe the poster (which featured no actors) didn't help.  Maybe people can only stomach one animated film per summer, and they had already seen Shrek.  Don't let the film's box office failure keep you away, though.  Check it out at the cheap theatres, or at the very least see it on video.  I bet you'll be surprised how much you enjoy yourself.        "},{"Title":"Pleasant, Unassuming, Limited","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Farrelly Brothers try their hand at mixing their warped style of transgressive comedy with family accessibility and the results are generally agreeable if not overwhelming. Part live action, part animation, it's a spin on buddy pictures that takes place in zookeeper Bill Murray's body, where a rogue virus (the voice of Laurence Fishburne) plots to kill Murray while a disgraced police cell (no pun intended) voiced by Chris Rock teams with a cold pill (the voice of David Hyde Pierce) to defeat him. The film has no great aspirations, preferring to draw on the `Lethal Weapon' series and `Toy Story' for its inspiration and the animation, while compelling, is reminiscent of old, one-dimensional Hanna-Barbera cartoons, specifically `The Jetsons'. The gags are naturally about bodily functions and there's lots of playfulness with names and concepts. But the audience these gags are aimed at--the pre-teen crowd--will find most of them going over their heads. "},{"Title":"More Frank! (or Bill, or Chris, or David ...)","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Somewhere between Yuck! and Yuk-Yuk! falls Osmosis Jones, a puzzling but memorable departure for the Farrelly brothers, whose previous forays into bodily functions have heretofore been WAAAY beyond PG and animated only in the sense that they were vividly and hilariously grotesque.The title character is voiced with patent hip by Chris Rock, who brings life to a white blood cell/loose cannon cop on the trail of a particularly nasty baddy named Thrax (Lawrence Fishburne). Fishburne dips an octave or two below the tones of his Matrix alter ego and delivers real power as the virus out to destroy the city of Frank (Bill Murray), who is to hygiene and nutrition what Gary Condit is to truth and justice.A cold capsule named Drix (David Hyde Pierce) and Frank's Mayor Phlegmming (William Shatner) likewise add to a cast that fairly clicks with hammish appeal, and the animation is top drawer, particularly when Thrax happens upon Frank's subconscious. What lacks is deeper imbedding into Frank's infrastructure (what am I saying??) and more shots at laughs given the pedigree of the actors. After 88 minutes, less was not more. "},{"Title":"Creative and Original!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Leave it up to the Farrelly brothers to make one of the most creative and original flicks of the summer.Our journey, following maverick White Blood Cell Ozzie Jones, is a meticulously funny ride that is full of clever details.  It is obvious that a lot of time went into the script and animation.While the live action sequences falter, all the animation storylines prosper.  The movie was non-stop fun from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"The best movie of the Summer!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Today I saw OSMOSIS JONES. It's about an ambitious, but sometimes a little clumsy white blood cell cop named Osmosis Jones voiced by Chris Rock who teams up with a wise-cracking cold tablet named Drix voiced by David Hyde Pierce to protect the human they live inside Bill Murray from an evil virus named Thrax that his making the body sick. I know it sounds really confusing, but it really isn't. OSMOSIS JONES is a funny, well-animated, creative, action-packed, and entertaining family film that should please both kids and adults. Three stars.  "},{"Title":"Witty, underrated","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable movie. The animated segments are a witty battle for Frank's (Bill Murray) health. The reviews seemed to focus too heavily on the gross-out parts of the live action, while the movie is actually sweet-natured and cute, while being laugh out loud funny. Much more engaging than most of this summer of dreck.         "}{"Title":"The Farrellys' ultimate body horror comedy","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What's with people? How did this live-action/animated fantasticvoyage into the unlovely body of Bill Murray get such a limpresponse from critics and audiences? The Farrelly Brothers get toplay their two melodies--bodily horror, and the horror oflower-middle-class clothes and furniture--at John Philip Sousavolume as Murray eats an egg recently sucked on by a  chimpanzee. (Don't ask.) From that point on, the germs enteringhis bloodstream catalyze a parody of eighties and ninetiesbuddy-cop and action-blockbuster movies, all animated, all setinside Murray's unfit, poorly fed, purulent and flatulating body. Thelive-action stuff is quintesential Farrelly (their hideousimage-making techniques are feeling more like a deliberatesignature) and the animated stuff, if not visually dazzling, isconceived with an ungodly cleverness. The movie is consistentfun. Did I ask this already--what's with people? "},{"Title":"Hungry Now?","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I challenge you to see Osmosis Jones when you are really hungry and see if you are STILL hungry after the movie. I never knew that Bill Murray had such a crazy universe inside his body! Since I like cartoons I liked the fact that Osmosis Jones was mostly cartoon (I think 85% cartoon). One thing I adore about this movie was the way that Osmosis Jones and Drix became close and were able to work together as a team. I rate this movie 10/10! -O.S.S. "},{"Title":"my 8 year old loved it","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  And so did I.  Clever enough to keep you watching, although bits of the plot were predictable and pedestrian Bill Murray was as usual terrifically watchable, and the cartoon animation was fun.The press reviews have been poor for this one, but as usual they miss the boat when it comes to kid's movies -my 8-1/2 year old daughter loved it, and still talks about it days later.  Her second favorite movie of the summer (1st was Shrek).Of course it helps if you have a family that laughs at burps or farts... "},{"Title":"Now the monkey's on your back!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is what you get when you mix an allegorical gross out flick with an animated biology lecture? The instructional value seeps out of this comedy leaving a fast-moving parody highlighting the voices of Chris Rock (Osmosis), David Hyde-Pierce (Drix) and Laurence Fishburne (Thrax). This is no Fantastic Voyage meets the Magic School Bus but there's Saturday Morning cartoon series written all over it. In live action, Bill Murray is an underemployed zoo worker who's careless about his ingestion. The 10-second rule doesn't serve him well considering he was sharing a hard-boiled egg with a chimp even before it hit the ground. His daughter's admonitions serve little purpose since he's determined to forage mindlessly.   Every action has a reaction and the cartoons microbial have their hands full. Osmosis is a white blood cell working on the immunity force to keep... alive. When an anthrax virus is introduced through the egg, the plot unfolds as the sinister and seedy join forces to destroy Mayor Phlegmming's (William Shatner) town. And to medicate this virus, ... takes a timed-release cold capsule bringing Drix (David Hyde-Pierce) to the rescue. The live characters play well against the cartoon characters, but if there was a competition, the 'toons take it. Bill Murray's comment that his zoo job. allows me to hang out with a better class of animals, sadly rings true. Molly Shannon (Mrs. Boyd) doesn't transition well to the big screen and Chris Elliott hasn't gone past his overly literal, hapless schmoe role.The animation, sound track and script keep the show moving. Puns are seeping from every pore. But what can you do when you're spit up creek w/o a paddle? Maybe for entertainment lets go to the Kidney to see the Stones....Had enough?  There's not much reason to see this film unless you take a kid with the sensibilities to appreciate the story. Will they learn anything? Well maybe, and probably through Osmosis.CyCy  "},{"Title":"The inside scoop","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is the product of extremely vibrant imaginations.  It is hard not to marvel at the very idea of this film, and it proved to go well beyond my expectations as the filmmakers took me through the bustling labyrinth of Bill Murray's insides.For those reasons, you should see this movie.  I would be remiss, however, if I left out the fact that there is a side of this movie that is a little hard to take.  Without giving it away, I'd just like to warn the viewers that on the outside of Bill Murray's character's body is an emotionally drippy plot that is supposed to make the audience feel something through its thickly coated sentimentality.  Yuck.  It is poorly done, bordering insulting.  Luckily, we spend most of the film watching his insides, and that is where the real treasure is. "},{"Title":"dumb dumb dumb dumb dumb","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OK, before I start bashing this movie, I want to offer some praise Not every filmmaker could come up with an idea like this. This is not a bad idea, but it was poorly executed. The Farrellys can do much better than this.I think the problem here is that the Farrellys are used to doing crude, sexual humor. In this animated PG-rated movie (obviously trying to appeal to kids because they got it down from a PG-13 rating), the Farrellys can't get away with it. So they try doing some gross stuff while keeping the mood PG-rated. The result is disastrous. Without sexual humor the Farrellys bomb, and this movie is not funny at all.They pull off a few good sight gags here. It's amusing to see what the body looks like under the Farrelly imagination (such as, making a zit into a sleazy nightclub). This is slightly amusing, but it never made me laugh out loud. The dialogue was even worse.Chris Rock is terrible here. His usual humor, of course, is out of place in a kiddie movie, but his usual pace is also slowed down. He has absolutely no good jokes in this movie. The other animated figures are very cliche - you've got the trusty sidekick, the corrupt politician, the damsel-in-distress. Since when have the Farrelys used such cliches? None of the jokes by the animation cells (pun intended) are good.But if you think the animation scenes sound mediocre at best, wait till you see the live action. Bill Murray's comic talent is completely wasted, as is Chris Elliott's. I completely agree with the only other person that gave this a bad review - you just don't care if Bill Murray dies, since he's a piggish jerk in the movie. I'll say one thing though - whoever that girl is who played Shane, she does a good job acting for someone so young. It's her first movie, and she pulled off her role quite nicely.However, her part doesn't save this movie. All the jokes fall flat. No one in the theater was laughing at all. To make matters worse, this film has a moral, and one that no one wants to hear - eat right and exercise or you'll die. Who likes being told that they're fat?The funniest thing about this movie? Hands down, it was the preview for Shallow Hal. Let's hope the Farrely brothers can redeem themselves. "},{"Title":"He IS one cell of a guy!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Upon seeing the previews for this movie for the first time, I thought very well of it.  From Thrax's I'm contagious! to Osmosis' Ooh!  Why do you hit so hard? I simply thought to myself, Man, that's GOT to be good!So, per tradition for myself, I paid to see it, opening night.  And whaddaya know?  I was right!The plot *basic plot, small spoilers* involves a slob named Frank (Bill Murray) who eats an egg that a monkey stole from him and put in its mouth (which ALONE shows you how little he cares about his health!) which carries a evil virus named Thrax (voice of Laurence Fishburne).  Enter Frank's germ-fighting forces, led by rogue white blood cell Osmosis Jones (voice of Chris Rock) and 12-hour cold capsule Drix (voice of David Hyde Pierce) who are, as Ozzy's license plate reads, da cure.  Laurence Fishburne makes Thrax's character seem quite villainous, with his low, evil voice and garb.  I look at him and I know that he's not meant to be a joke.  Chris Rock and David Hyde Pierce get some humorous lines, playing off each other good cop, bad cop style.  This movie also uses body humor, like a stream of snot (inside Frank's nose, natch).  I do think that some might be a bit disgusted by it, though (I won't spoil everything, just watch for yourself).  But, that's what our bodies are huge, disgusting piles of gore that we all can laugh at. I believe Chris Rock's voice is suitable for animation, and he should do some more like Osmosis.  After seeing his disappointing Down to Earth, I'm glad he can choose better roles.If you're interested in trivia  This is a rare kids' movie, one that never had a fast food promotion.  In fact, McDonald's, Taco Bell and Burger King avoided promoting this movie like a case of salmonella poisoning.  Its general content and moral (Keep yourself healthy) sent them all running.  I also learned that this movie just escaped getting a PG-13 rating.The WB animated movies are getting better all the time.  This is a quite imaginative movie, and hopefully, the WB can promote it without the aid of fast food, and hype it a little more than they did with The Iron Giant (another recommendation).  And hey, we can all relate.  We all have a little Osmosis Jones in all of us.Osmosis Jones, he IS one cell of a guy! "},{"Title":"Great movie! ....to fall asleep to.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I've never written one these before but I felt that I had to because there were far too many complimentary remarks for a movie that really was not very good. Someone was obviously paid to give this film a good review. Bill Murray was totally repulsive and not funny at all. I can say that my seven year old son enjoyed it but I think he is just saying that because it was his idea to go. The in jokes and little signs and parodies were above him. So...if your feeling tired and would like to nap in a nice air conditioned theater by all means check it out. "},{"Title":"He IS one cell of a guy!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Upon seeing the previews for this movie for the first time, I simply thought to myself, Man, that's GOT to be good!So, per tradition for myself, I paid to see it, opening night.  And whaddaya know?  I was right!The plot *basic plot, small spoilers* involves a slob named Frank (Bill Murray) who eats an egg that a monkey stole from him and put in its mouth (which ALONE shows you how little he cares about his health!) which carries a evil virus named Thrax (voice of Laurence Fishburne).  Enter Frank's germ-fighting forces, led by rogue white blood cell Osmosis Jones (voice of Chris Rock) and 12-hour cold capsule Drix (voice of David Hyde Pierce) who are, as Ozzy's license plate reads, da cure.  Laurence Fishburne makes Thrax's character seem quite villainous, with his low, evil voice and garb.  He makes his point clear that the Ebola virus is a case of dandruff compared to him, using only a large finger to send various cells frying.  Chris Rock and David Hyde Pierce get some humorous lines, playing off each other good cop, bad cop style. This movie also uses body humor, like a stream of snot (inside Frank's nose, natch).  I do think that some might be a bit disgusted by it, though (I won't spoil everything, just watch for yourself).  But, that's what our bodies are huge, disgusting piles of gore that we all can laugh at. I believe Chris Rock's voice is suitable for animation, and he should do some more like Osmosis.  After seeing his disappointing Down to Earth, I'm glad he can choose better roles.If you're interested in trivia  This is a rare kids' movie, one that never had a fast food promotion.  In fact, McDonald's, Taco Bell and Burger King avoided promoting this movie like a case of salmonella poisoning.  Its general content and moral (Keep yourself healthy) sent them all running. The WB animated movies are getting better all the time.  Hopefully, the WB can promote this movie without the aid of fast food, and hype it a little more than they did with The Iron Giant (another recommendation).  And hey, we can all relate.  We all have a little Osmosis in all of us.I repeat, Osmosis Jones, he IS one cell of a guy! "},{"Title":"Fluid Animation...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this at a preview, August 5th, at the Star Southfield.  It is a highly entertaining (if admittedly gross at times -- bodily fluids _are_ involved) mix of live action and (mostly) animation.  The animation is colorful, has a unique look, and is well beyond average TV-quality.  The voice acting is good.  Watch for the cameo by Kid Rock and (the late) Joe C.  The plot is amusing, and while it _is_ by the Farelly Bros, it is by far the most family-friendly film they have yet produced, though I would not recommend it for kids under about 8 years old due to the gross-out humor and the intense ending.  Those caveats aside, everyone else should have a good time. "}{"Title":"A very entertaining funny family movie","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After reading the latest review posted on this page, I felt it very necessary to clarify a bit about the movie. I also have seen the movie and can tell you that in no way does this movie suck. This movie is in no way meant to be a film.....it is an entertaining family movie. This movie isn't supposed to be anything like reality....as the author in the latest review criticized...it is only meant to entertain. Everyone in this movie is extremely talented and in no way just picking up paychecks. If any person young or old is able to not laugh out loud during Molly Shannon's science fair scene, then they must have no personality whatsoever....Bill Murray is hilarious as usual, and yes, you can sympathise with his character Frank...and young Elena Franklin does a wonderful job as Frank's daughter. This movie is one that both kids and adults will enjoy....as long as it's not taken too seriously. Unlike Disney animation, where the adults can't wait to leave the theatre, this movie has Farrelly brothers humor, so the adults will thoroughly enjoy it. The kids will also love this movie, as its animation is superb and very funny. If you don't come out of this movie smiling, than you have a problem. It's a carefree, entertaining, silly family movie, not meant to be taken as a serious realistic film.  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is amazing!  I caught the World Premiere (saw Fishburne, Farrelly bros) and it was simply amazing.  I also overheard the Farrelys in the bathroom afterwards, saying how they thought everyone liked it and how good the music was.  Anyway, a solid movie.  Bill Murray rules! "},{"Title":"In this film, Bodily Humor is definitely an inside joke!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Are you ready for this?! Inside Bill Murray's body exists an entire parallel universe, populated by cartoon characters who regulate all his bodily functions in the most creative ways imaginable. This is a brilliant concept, brilliantly executed, one that shouldn't be spoiled by too much detail, so just go see it. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good premise, but it wears thin fast","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This was an odd directorial choice for the Farrelly Brothers (Dumb and Dumber, There's Something About Mary). It's an animated film (in parts) about the internal workings of a man's body.The man is played by Bill Murray during the live action sequences. These are intercut with animated sequences that involve cells and amoebas and organs and so on and so forth voiced by the likes of William Shatner, Chris Rock, Laurence Fishburne, David Hyde Pierce (Niles from Frasier), Kid Rock and Ron Howard.The cells are all animated cartoon characters who look, talk and act like humans. They live in the vast metropolis of Frank (Murray's character). When he feels sick, the metropolis begins to wither away.Chris Rock voices one of Frank's defending cells who teams up with a special medical pill (swallowed by Frank) to take on Thrax (Fishburne), the maniacal germ causing Frank to feel sick.If you think this sounds really weird, you're right. It is. But it's also very clever and unique.The problem is that the animation is poor, the vocal talents are a bit too self-conscious and the animation is almost too realistic at time - it originally got a PG-13 rating. It's pretty seedy stuff.The live action sequences are okay but Murray looks kind of out of it. Overall I was disappointed because I expected something funnier and cleverer, when in fact the movie dies out really quick and resorts to lame jokes like popping whiteheads on people. "},{"Title":"Disgusting ******SPOILERS****","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  (** out of *****) When I saw this movie in a theater, I knew that it was going to be disgusting, just by seeing the commercial on TV. Way too many bathroom jokes, and most of the humor was aimed at 6 year olds.The part that particularly made me want to puke was when Bill Murrays zit popped all over the teacher ( forgot her name). I have no idea why anyone would find watching a pimple blown up to 10x its size on screen pop in front of their faces and landing on someones lip entertaining. Overall, this was an OK movie, could have been much better without the bathroom jokes.  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really like this movie! I really can't see why this movie got the bad ratings and reviews it did. Sure, it was gross on a lot of the parts and it's not THE funniest movie ever, but it was still good. The animation was awesome and the acting was really good. I didn't catch this movie in theaters, so I wouldn't know if people were gagging in the theaters, but I did gag on some parts. I like gross stuff though and maybe that's why I liked it. Some people, like my mom, can't take stuff like that. She turned the movie off 15 minutes into it. But I don't know why people think this movie is bad for the younger kids. My cousin watched it when she was four and loved it, but of course this is my cousin we're talking about. She likes to act like an adult. She did love it though. Anyway, it's a great, but under-rated movie. "},{"Title":"Healthy life promotion","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Frank is a ZOO worker. His dream of enjoying holiday takes its place in Buffalo (chicken) Wings Fest - 122 sauces for 99 forms of wings. He wears something we call beer-belly (space enough for 20 pieces o). His daughter is a clever 10yr old Shane. She doesn't like the way her father deals his life - beer and McDonald's-like food. Not an interesting plot so far. But the movie has its animated part too. Takes place inside Frank. So called City of Frank has millions of inhabitants - cells, viruses and a villain politician - Mayor. The City is in a pre-poll era. The mayor wants to keep it without any turbulences. An outcast cop - leukocytus Osmosis Jones, joined by a cherry-taste cold pill Drix find out that an evil virus, Thrax, has found his way into the City. His aim is to kill Frank within 48 hours (he's kind of vain, his best performance yet was 3 days, so he wants to get better (Ebola is just a flu compared to me!)). But hunting down the virus is just the kind of disturbance the mayor doesn't want to accept in order to be reelected... What will prevail? Shane's and Jones' will to save Frank or Thrax's plan to rewrite the medical books and mayor's standstill? Really worth watching. "},{"Title":"Underrated but great adventure for cells and pills alike!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I missed it in thearters,and i forgot to rent it,but recently i saw it on a movie channel.The characters are funny and imaginative,and the animation is colourful.It all starts in a zoo,where Frank(Bill Murray) eats an egg that's been in a monkeys mouth(yes,i thought it was gross too ><).Now the animation part comes in.A white blood cell cop,Osmosis Jones(Chris Rock),and that annoying smart guy cold pill Drix(David Hyde Pierce)have to get rid of the virus from the egg,Thrax(Laurence Fishburne).Sounds complicated?It's not.It's just a buddy cop movie taking place inside The City of Frank.The live action looks funny,but it is gross and just horrible.How?Hmm...let me see..Frank barfs on his daughters teacher,and his zit pops.Just pops outta nowhere,and it lands on the teacher(she must live a terrible life XD).And it's not funny!The jokes that were attempted never made me laugh.But if you have a young kid who likes toliet humour,knock yourself out. Osmosis Jones is a humourous adventure for anyone who likes animation,or mabye if you like medicine and biology.I give it 10 out of 10.Don't rent OJ,you gotta buy it.It's one cell of a movie!^-^  "},{"Title":"A good and creative idea for a movie.","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I meant to see this in the theater 2 years ago.  Then I mean to rent it last year.   I just never got around to it.  I just saw the movie on HBO for the first time, and I was very pleased with it!  I just might add it to my ever growing DVD collection of 39.  Maybe...  I for one have always thought Billy Murray was an excellent actor, and the little actress who played his daughter in this film was absolutely adorable!  Watch out for this girl.  This movie was solid, and the creativity was endless; the plot wasn't for everybody, but the more creative and childish you are at heart the more you will enjoy Osmosis Jones.  Rent this movie if your in the mood for a creative film that is like no other to date.  I give it a 7/10.   "},{"Title":"Funny in every way","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I rented this film and thought it was funny in every way. It starts out with a man named Frank and his daughter at the zoo Frank catches a cold and doesn't realize that there are people in his body. Osmosis Jones is heading somewhere and asks the driver where are we going? The driver tells him not to worry. Frank tries to call a doctor but this voice in his head says As a matter of fact I think i'll take a cold pill. Then a cold pill named Drix comes to the rescue and fights all the bad stuff in Frank's body. This woman asks Mayor Phlegmming to fire Osmosis Jones but he gets to stay on. One time Osmosis was on the phone with the library and the librarian asked him to get her a book Osmosis said he'd try to get that book but all he could think about was sports. We soon discover Frank got sick because he eats fatty and greasy foods. In the end Frank's daughter thinks that Frank is dead but he remains alive. See this if you haven'tTen Stars "}{"Title":"What a CLEVER film!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A lot of people have wondered why this movie tanked.  I think that the problem was that this was marketed as a COMEDY.  I think the movie is really more of an incredibly CLEVER film rather than FUNNY film, with puns and gags, but very few laugh-out-loud jokes.  Think Sports Night the television series for a perfect analogy (clever and witty and often humorous but not really in a laugh-out-loud manner).   I am a medical student, and I can tell you how clever some of the dialogue/background animation is! The references to physiology and anatomy is really  wonderful!  In this regard, I feel that the movie's flaw is that it can't decide which of these types of movies to be... the Farrely all-out comedy genre (Dumb and Dumber) or the purely clever and witty genre with a touch of heart and humor (Sports Night).  7/10 (it passes) "},{"Title":"Very well done!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The film is very well done. It's funny, it has greate animations and it has a hole bunch of new ideas. The mix of real movie (10%) and cartoon (90%) is okay, but a too much constructed (a white human cell who can leave the human body AND come back is a little to much for me). But I'm sure other adult persons will have as much fun as I had while I was watching this movie. And for parents OR children who spend the most time sitting in front of the TV and eating chips, it's just perfect ;-) "},{"Title":"You will think twice before eating badly again!","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, So i missed this at the cinemas, but found it in the new release's at the video shop.  Rented it and thought I would give it a go.  And WOW!  Ok, First things first... The animation was really well done.  Great looking animation, and the characters were great.  The voices were something great too.  It was good to see a film like this with a very well known cast (Chris Rock and David Hyde Pierce to name a few!).  Bill murray was ok, but could have been a little more believeable in his role. Overall, the film is not just for kids.  Turn off your brain, sit back, and enjoy the best film about the human body!  You will think twice before you eat badly again! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting movie","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I wasn't sure if I wanted to see this movie because I'd heard rumors about how appallingly disgusting it was. There are really only a few parts that the weak-stomached may not be able to digest. There have many other scenes in movies that way more disgusting than this movie. That said, Osmosis Jones is a pretty interesting movie in that it manages to follow two separate story lines (filmed in different medium live action and animation) fairly well. First we have Frank, played by Bill Murray, who is a slob. His daughter Shane has had enough of his ways. Frank's slobbish ways allow him to swallow food with a nasty virus named Thrax. Moving to the animated story line, Osmosis Jones (voiced by Chris Rock) is a white-blood-cell that discovers the virus and must stop him from killing Frank, and all the people (cells) in Frank's body.I found myself interested in each story line, and the transfers between live action and animation kept the movie exciting. There are many references to various bodily functions that are creatively animated and sometimes very humorous. Osmosis Jones was fun to watch! "},{"Title":"High Energy Fun","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the funniest animated films in  recent memory proved to be one of the  most overlooked. Sure, some of the idiots  of the world will state `none of the actions  of the characters would ever be correct,' I  say, WHO CARES! It's a movie! I really loved  some of the inside jokes placed all throughout  the film, utilizing current terminology in our  world and eschew it in a miniature world  of blood and cells. Fun to watch, especially  the opening scene with Bill Murray and his  daughter. One of those films I'll watch more  than once. "},{"Title":"A fun animated film- I only wish the live-action scenes were better","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The selling pont of Osmosis Jones is the quirky plays on bodily functions, which it brilliantly transforms into cop-buddy movie cliches-sweat glands are Mob steamrooms, vaccines are informers, the lymph nodes are police precints, the bladder is the Last Bus Out Of Town. When Oz sees a villainous germ in the stomach, he immediately hits the PUKE button- creating the ultimate panic button scene. Chris Rock, who made his career playing comic cops, here gets the ultimate straight man in David Hyde Pierce (Frasier's Niles) who somewhow manages to play a superhero cold pill convincingly. The two work well together; I'd like to see them both on Frasier sometime. But the best thing about this film is Fishburne, whose brilliantly designed Thrax (Looking like a cross between Ice-T and the Red Skull from Fantastic Four) is complimented by his unusually campy performance. In one of the film's wittier allusions, Thrax causes damage with a literal fever spike, an extended, sharpened digit that heats up whatever he touches.The problem with this film is the live action sequences, which are dull and uninvolving. Bill Murray, one of the world's greatest physical comedians, is forced to spend much of the film moaning on his back, so one would expect him to rely on his snarky sarcasm for laughs. Unfortunately he isn't allowed to. Instead the humour is derived from grossing the audience out as much as possible, which worked in the Farrelley Brothers' previous films as long as the actors were allowed to play along, but here they all wear serious faces. I think this film would have done better as a fully animated film, perhaps even as a weekly show. Instead it is merely average, which is a shame. "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm a bit surprised that this movie did not get better reviews, I thought it was very entertaining, fun, and creative - for both adults and children alike!  It wasn't the most deep, intellectual, thought provoking movie of all time, but then again... it's not supposed to be!  If you're looking for a fun movie, aren't offended by gross out jokes, and just want to take your mind off the stresses of THIS world, check out The Body of Frank's world... you won't be disappointed ) 10/10 stars "},{"Title":"hmmmm","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie isn't one of the most funniest that I have ever watched, but it is creative.  Some parts of the movie are a little humorous but also really gross.  One thing that I loved were all of the spoofs, such as The Matrix and Titanic. The appearance of Kid Rock was also good.Overall this a movie for kids but others might find something that they like in the comic but mediocre Osmosis Jones. "},{"Title":"Charming Movie","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Osmosis Jones is a very clever movie that was cleverly cast. With voices such as Chris Rock, Brandy, William Shatner, and David Hyde Pierce, this film provides a chemistry in a cartoon that is rare. Bill Murray is funny as the scrubby Frank, whom all these characters make up his body. Very cleverly written and funny, with plenty of one-liners from Rock, Osmosis Jones is pretty much a good family film and very enjoyable to watch. 3 out of 4. "},{"Title":"A great film.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought that this was one of the funniest movies ever( but then,I am a huge fan of Chris Rock).Before I was finished laughing at one thing,another funny thing happened.It was just plain funny!I loved this movie.I'd give it five stars.Osmosis Jones was one of the best films I've ever seen(but like I said,that may just be because I'm a huge fan of Chris Rock). "}{"Title":"Very fun, refreshingly new setting","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As the summary suggests, it's definitely a change for the different, and not your average animated adventure.  Excellent characters and imaginative plot make it definitely worth seeing. I'd gave 9.5 rounded to 10. "},{"Title":"Oh uh, Mr. Colonic. What's that smell?","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think that Osmosis Jones is a great animation movie but a lame real life acting movie! The acting wasn't that expressive. The part that I noticed the most was by Bill Murray (Frank), when he is walking up four steps and then had a cramp. His acting was extremely poor when he yelled out in pain. If you have seen the movie you'll know what I'm talking about. The good part is that O.J. is mostly animation so that made my overall rating a great one. Chris Rock (Osmosis Jones, Ozzy) did a fabulous job of playing crazy hilarious cop. In this movie you will be provided with wild and nasty scenes to view (that was my favorite part about the movie). If you like cartoons like Ren and Stimpy or Beavis and Butthead then this the movie is for you. It's Ozzy vs. Thrax, and can Ozzy stop Thrax from claiming another life (Frank)? It's a crazy world in the City of Frank so sit back and enjoy the show. Would I recommend this movie? You bet. My rating 8/10. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it!!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I actually wasn't expecting much from the movie as my friends all thought it was an OK movie only.. it turned out to be hillarious.. I loved the creativity that the writers had!! They really played their part in addition to Chris Rock who was great.. I recommend it... "},{"Title":"Great for kids...","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you have kids it is a must to watch movie. Why ? Because beyond all those cartoons there is some reality. The love for parents... The movie actually inspires that. Also, the action of it is very nice. And even if you grew up, watch it, because you will laugh a bit... "},{"Title":"A FANTASTIC VOYAGE","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In a summer of mummies, man-eating dinosaurs and man-hating gorillas, OSMOSIS JONES is a neglected gem which, sad to say, flopped at the box office, likely because of the aforementioned blockbusters featuring the mummies, dinosaurs, and gorillas, (don't get me wrong-Ive seen two out of three of the above and still recommend them).Still, OJ beats them all. *************************POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD****************** I rented this movie over the weekend, right after throwing away good money to see BEHIND ENEMY LINES (see review), so I was somewhat skeptical about this one.Needless to say, I was pleasantly surprised. No creative constipation here!Bill Murray is Frank, a typical slob of a guy whose life is threatened by a particular nasty virus, (voiced by Laurence Fishburne). It's up to Osmosis Jones, a white blood cell, and his sidekick, who happens to be a time-released cold capsule, to take down this killer virus before it takes down Frank. The final battle, which takes place atop Frank's daughter's eyelash(I can't believe I'm writing this) has to be seen to be believed!All in all OSMOSIS JONES is about the best thing to come along this year.Then again, I could be wrong. I haven,t seen RUSH HOUR 2 yet.Rating  ***** out of *****P.S. Don't rent this video. BUY IT! "},{"Title":"Shatner finds his niche","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I loved Osmosis Jones and recommend it wholeheartedly for everyone, young and old.  As the other commenters point out, Chris Rock, Laurence Fishburne, and David Hyde Pierce are all fantastic in their cartoon roles, each making the most of lines that are for the most part delicious already.  This is definitely a movie to see more than once; there's so much good stuff going on in the background that you can never catch it all in one go.But I found two things particularly charming about this movie that haven't been mentioned much by other commenters.First is the absolutely and literally stunning performance by William Shatner.  Even if you know going into the movie that he provides the voice for Mayor Phlegmming, you may not be able to believe it when you hear it. I'm no Shatner-basher; I like Captain Kirk and I think Shatner himself is a genuine cultural icon . . . but when I saw his recent attempt at comedy (Miss Congeniality), I thought, Geez, he just looks uncomfortable. Worse than not funny.  I felt he seemed lost.BUT in Osmosis Jones . . . well, as I said, you might not even believe it is him!  His voiceover work outshines all the other actors.  Sure, Rock and Pierce are great, but they're just doing another take on their on-screen personae, the same way Robin Williams just did his own schtick as the Genie in Aladdin.  Fishburne's role requires more acting, and he's a fine menace.  But Shatner's Mayor is a masterpiece of subtlety and vocal shading -- and he's in a role that's the opposite of every other part he's known for!  Self-centered, deceitful, short-sighted, and greedy.  Yet Shatner uses imaginative nuances and perfect emphasis and timing as if he'd been playing this part all his life.  Who knew he had it in him?  Mr. Shatner, I apologize for any unkind thoughts I may have had about Miss C., and implore you to take another cartoon role.The second extraordinary thing I liked about the movie was that it was filmed in my elementary school.  That was a bit of a shock. -) "},{"Title":"One of the best animated films ever!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After the disastrous newest addition to the Ferrelly brothers portfolio, Shallow Hal, my faith in them was restored with Osmosis Jones.  This is an absolutely first-rate animated film.The concept is great, combination of live-action and animation, with Bill Murray playing a most disgusting and disheveled character.  But it's the animation which takes place inside his body and the writing that are so good.The cast is first-rate and the humor is very, very funny.  It's completely beyond me why the movie bombed in the theatres and on imdb.  It's enjoyable by kids & adults alike.  There are a few scenes which may be disturbing for young kids, but those aside, it's a winner for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny and imaginative","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was pretty disgusting but imaginative. The way that Bill Murray lives his life in this movie is downright wrong and gross but can be pretty funny watching him go by his ten second rule in eating things. His disgusting life style is shown through his body which is imaginatively run like a city basically making sure that he stays healthy all his life and that he lives life well. Even though this movie gets sily on the outside a little bit it's still funny and there's one particular scene involving a zit which is downright hilarious but downright disgusting. Overall a kick ass job in the animation but the real life scenes could have been better. "},{"Title":"Wildly imaginative","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't understand why people hate it so much!  This is no contender for any awards, but is still a wonderful movie.  The plot is a bit formulaic and the acting isn't always very good, but there's no denying the fact that this movie is a daring attempt to rise above the idiocy that is Hollywood. "},{"Title":"The best animated film of the 21st Century","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I dare anyone to tell me otherwise.  It's a travesty people slept on this film, it is absolutely brilliant!  The animation is top-notch, the off-center theme is fantastic, and contrary to what some reviewers may state---the live action portions are NOT distracting and contribute greatly to the film.I can't say enough good things about this movie.  I own the DVD and have the opportunity to view it as many times as I want, to pick out the very clever details jam-packed into this feature.  And when I say clever, I really mean CLEVER like no other animated feature has come close to reaching.  White blood cells that are police officers?  A saliva boat that mops up the meals Frank has eaten?  Hair follicles that have been laid off from the scalp?  Genius!Maybe it's Warner Brothers---this is the second time in 2 years they've mis-handled a brilliant animated feature (the first being Iron Giant, another artistic triumph), and I hope to GOD we can have more films of this quality.go watch it now!!!!! "}{"Title":"Good film for kids 7-11. Boring for mature adults","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film was very well done for what it is. It is a kids film. I saw this movie at a dinner theatre and thanked god I was able to drink pitchers of beer while watching. So bring the kids, and sit back and enjoy some brews, and if you can't drink at the theatre don't bother, wait for the video and drink in your living room. "},{"Title":"The worst Bill Murrays film I've ever seen","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Not really bad idea, but miserable implementation, poor graphics, many disgusting episodes.No funny moments either - during the film you will hardly laugh twice. I am sorry I spent that time and money  "},{"Title":"It's unimpressiveness is impressive...","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've read a few of the other (positive) comments about Osmosis Jones and I'm convinced they must've been written by WB marketing folks...this movie sucks.  The audience I saw it with was largely quiet and seemed as uninvolved in it as I was.  About the only thing going for it is the vocal talent (Rock, Fishburne, Pierce, Shatner) but even that ended up being disappointing.  The concept just doesn't work.  There's a major disconnect between the live action sequences with Frank (Bill Murray) in the real world (which make up perhaps 1/3 of the movie) and theanimated sequences of what's going on inside his body.  For me, this very cartoony anthropomorphic world of his internal organisms (the animation design reminds me of the Simpsons a little bit) just cannot possibly exist at all in the real world...yet we are supposed to believe that Frank's white blood cells look like Smurf/Bart Simpson hybrids and sound like Chris Rock...it was just impossible for me to suspend my disbelief as the film cuts back and forth between these two completely different universes. That said, I guess the filmmakers do what they can with it, the way they visualize the city of Frank (the inhabitants refer to his brain as Cerebellum Hall, the armpits are where all of the evil bacteria and viruses hang out and veins are shown as busy highways) is somewhat clever but, again, entirely too fantastic to exist in the real world.  And then when these wholly disparate worlds collide, andthe animated micro-organisms are literally travelling from one person to another AND THEN BACK AGAIN via phlegm and tears in the real world...well, that's when the impossible becomesTOTALLY LUDICROUS.And it doesn't help that all of the live-action actors (notably Murray, Molly Shannon and Chris Elliott) appear to just be collecting paychecks.  Murray has achieved a new low here...I enjoyed his recent turns in `Rushmore' and `Charlie's Angels' but this is just plain embarrassing for him.  The Farrelly brothers just must've told him to be as disgusting and slovenly as possible, which is fine I guess but that's all he has to do in this and what a waste of his talent.  And the result is we just don't care about his character...he's repugnant and an idiot.  So what if the Thrax (the virus) causes him to die?  The audience feels no sympathy towards Murray and that is the fatal flaw of the film.And really, I expected more of Rock...there are a couple of scenes where it looks like he was able to improvise and do his thing but for the most part the filmmakers keep him on a pretty short leash and stick to the script, and I really think that an opportunity may have been missed there.  Used properly, I think Rock could do great voice-overs for animated films.Oh yeah, one more thing...why can't a comedic film come out without some dumb film parody in it?  You've seen the action in the Matrix parodied a million times already...well add another attempt (very feeble at that) to the list.  It's really getting annoying, and pedestrian animated films like this one really have no new insights to add as far as that parody goes. That's what we have Simpsons and South Park for.One final note...I had this weird feeling when I walked out of the theater...as if the film just didn't work, and I knew the movie reminded me of another, but I couldn't remember what at first.  Then it came to me...remember `The Last Action Hero'?  That film left me with that same feeling, because Arnold Schwarzenneggar plays the role of a movie character that comes to life in the real world.  It was just totally impossible to believe and renders the film - no matter how well it's done and how well everything else is conceived - toothless.  And Osmosis Jones falls flat for the same reason.  Audiences can suspend their disbelief...but only to a certain point. "},{"Title":"hard to digest","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Frank (Bill Murray) falls victim to flu like symptoms after he eats an egg that has been in a monkey's mouth then on the ground. It's up to a white blood cell and an cold tablet to save the day. They find out it's not a flu, but the deadly new disease Thrax, who wants to kill Frank in 48 hours. Imagine Lethal Weapon crossed with Fantastic Voyage, only mostly animated and dumbed down considerable and you'll know what this film is all about. Yawn inducing to adults, to intense for little kids, and not enough 'potty/puke' humor for teens. Farelly Brothers have struck out with this one. An obvious sore spot on an otherwise unblemished career. (thus far. I haven't seen Fever Pitch, yet) Wait I'll just lay all the blame on that hack Marc Hyman instead.My Grade D DVD Extras Commentary by Animation Directors Piet Kroon and Tom Sito, Writer Marc Hyman and Producer Zak Penn ; Frank's Gross Anatomy Interactive Adventure; HBO First Look Behind-The-Scenes featurette (14 minutes); Voice Recording Sessions (5 minutes); Deleted Scenes (5 minutes, 49 seconds); and Theatrical Trailer 3 Easter Eggs Go to the 'Theatrical Trailer' then highlight the Gas Next Exit sign for a bonus clip; select The Earl Of Hurl in the Frank's Gross Anatomy and select The Earl Of Hurl highlight the Funny Bone for another clip; In Subtitles, go to the next page, DVD Credits then highlight Drix's head for an unused theatrical Trailer. "},{"Title":"FUN LOW BROW HUMOR","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  DEFINITE SPOILERS CONTAINED HEREIN. I never thought I'd live to see the day when William Shatner got farted out of Bill Murray's butt. If you're a kid or an easily amused adult such as I, then you'll love this potty humor movie. This could easily be on a double bill with The Garbage Pail Kids Movie (another classic). The movie has very clever dialogue spat at a lightening pace, which makes for catching what you missed enjoyable for repeated viewings. If you couldn't have guessed, this ain't a high class movie. And there lies its charm. It warmed my heart and made me laugh. I really liked the little girl who played Murray's daughter. She was cute and a great actress. I was sorry to see that she wasn't in anymore movies.  "},{"Title":"Awesome movie for those who, get it!","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was an awesome movie! It was just panned because people didn't understand the science and humor that surrounds the plot. It's not a silly cartoon! It's the journey, the agony, the incredible feats our bodies go through everyday to keep us healthy and alive. Yet the producers personified it! I love it! It also figures that comic geniuses like Bill Murray, Chris Elliot, Chris Rock, David Hyde Peirce, and Molly Shannon got it, as well and agreed to do the picture! I'm a massage therapy student and we're studying the systems of the body and I must say that the movie is true to science! The fact that there is a little Chris Rock inside of you, is not, but there IS a T-Cell making his rounds trying to find the invader that he, and he alone can kill. We take our bodies for granted! That's why so many of us are sick, overweight, smoke, drink, do drugs - terrible things. And we do them without even thinking about our poor little cells in chaos running around trying to fix us, when all of a sudden more beer enters the stream. It's a helpful way to look at your body. Treat it nice! It is constantly taking care of you! So you be good back! "},{"Title":"Clever premise, too much of a gross out though","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Though the inner workings of the human body being brought to the screen is nothing new (Fantastic Voyage, Innerspace, etc.), you gotta give the writers credit for creating a fun world, where the various functions are used to parody the real world. The exterior scenes with Bill Murray and Chris Elliot are a bit weak with a standard single father raising a precocious daughter storyline that is only marginally enhanced by the utter vulgarity of the characters. Unfortunately, if you're old enough to get the in-humor of the inner universe scenes, such as finding a lawyer in the hemroid area, you're likely going to be utterly revolted by the gross out scenes, something thirteen year old boys probably will find hilarious -- but not many others. The movie is somewhat engaging, likely due to the voice characterizations--standouts are David Hyde-Price as the by the books cold capsule, and William Shatner as the slimy Mayor. If you like Chris Rock, you'll probably like his character. I dislike his humor but taking out the vulgar language makes him at least reasonably funny. Laurence Fishburne is nicely menacing as Thrax, presumably some mutant strain of Anthrax. This won't win any awards for directing or editing, or anything technical, the animation is mediocre, they did far better things back in the forties. The real world acting is also thoroughly mediocre, somebody please put Molly Shannon back from wherever she came from, she only has a few scenes and is remarkably unfunny to the point of irritation. So there it is A basically average movie enhanced by the really clever rendering of a been done Hollywood plot line, but sadly dragged down by mindlessly immature gross out scenes. One thing seems certain, this is a boys movie, the fairer sex might want to keep away unless the idea of picking up an egg from the ground after it's been in a chimp's mouth and eating it, with the invocation of the ten second rule, sounds funny to you. "},{"Title":"Farrelly Brothers on Animation","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" What was great about this movie? The cast, the crew, the story, and the animation. What was bad about this movie? Well, the animated story is cool, and even though it deals with the body and bodily functions, there wasn't anything really bothersome or disgusting in it. Which is why I was happy to take my girlfriend and her son to see this film. But during the live action parts of the film, the Farrelly Brothers returned to their true comedic film making form where nothing is taboo or out of bounds, and gross-out equals funny. My girlfriend nearly puked about four different times during the live action portions of the film. She stormed out of the theater before the credits even began rolling because she hated the live action so much. Somehow it all became my fault. Fortunately she dumped me recently, so her opinion on this film means squat to me now. But I would have to stand, as a critic, on the ground that the animated sequences of the film did not flow smoothly into the gross live action scenes. It's almost as if you are getting top-notch Don Bluth post-Titan A.E. animation, then you have to cinch up your stomach and settle into barf-and-zit-popping comedy served up Farrely Brothers' style. It just didn't mix well at all. Everything else was fantastic. The cast, the animation, the story, the soundtrack, the back-story, the overt sub-plots, everything. The only real problem was that the two parts of the story didn't blend well. It would have been better if either Matt Groening or Mike Judge had directed the animated story so that it would be more adult oriented humor, or if Ivan Reitman or someone of his ilk had directed the live action bits so that it would have been more family oriented humor. Because trying to do both in the same film doesn't work. "},{"Title":"A Gross Out Kids Movie.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Osmosis Jones is a really disgusting and gross cartoon/not cartoon movie. Bill Murray, Chris rock, Brandy, Molly Shannon, and Ron Howard were great. I was also surprised to hear a voice from Kid Rock in the movie. This movie is germy and disgusting, but is a fun kid's movie. I give Osmosis Jones a 7 out of 10!  )  "},{"Title":"A Rare Germ... err .. Gem","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is one of those rare gems that gets better and better with each viewing. There are so many in-jokes and subtleties packed into it, that it is impossible to get them all with just one viewing. Each repeat viewing evokes a new and unexpected chuckle or grin. Best viewed on DVD so you can pause and review what you just thought you saw. (Does that sentence make sense?) Although the Live Action parts are rough around the edges. Bill Murray is genius, as always, and the animation scenes are obviously a work of love. The one drawback is Chris Elliot, who, no matter what project he is in, brings the whole production to a crashing bore, due to his complete unlike-ability as an actor and a person.Those who get this film get it, those who don't, chances are - never will. "}{"Title":"Very original, but some crude humor","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie includes a bit of humor that I didn't care for, and a lot of other people probably won't either, but it's definitely worth getting over for the extremely original plot and plenty of other fun aspects.This is an unusual narrative that includes both animation and live action; it's not like in Who Framed Roger Rabbit or (shudder) Cool World where the animated characters mingle with live action ones, it jumps between worlds. The animated world takes place inside Frank Detorre's (Bill Murray's) body, where white blood cells behave like police officers and viruses behave like criminals, living in Frank's body as if it were a city. The City of Frank is run by an irresponsible mayor who has lead to a huge decline in the slovenly Frank's health. Frank ingests an extremely lethal virus named Thrax, and it's up to blacklisted cop Osmosis Jones and cold pill Drixenol to stop him before it's too late. Even in animated form, some of the humor is a little hard to stomach (no pun intended), though not as much as the live action parts. It's interesting that other movies that take place inside the human body like Fantastic Voyage or Innerspace are actually live action in their entirety, but are definitely less grotesque. The animation is done well, it's energetic and visually appealing. It's fun to see how exactly different sections of the body translate into the concept of it being a city, the zit, the nose, and the brain being the most imaginative areas.Thrax is a cool villain, and he actually kills quite a few characters in various gruesome and brutal ways on screen, which isn't something you'll usually see in a film primarily targeted at younger viewers. Osmosis Jones and Drix make for good protagonists, each having their own troubles they come to terms with. Their relationship is a bit stereotypical buddy cop movie style at times, but there's definitely some good stuff regarding Ozzie's past mistakes and Drix's fears of being ultimately useless.The live action side of things isn't as good as the animation, but it still has its moments. I'm a big fan of Bill Murray, and though he's still funny at times in this, it's definitely not his best work. The live action gross out humor is never outright disgusting, but things like the throbbing zit popping on a woman's lip are still pretty gross.Some unappreciated crude humor aside, I do recommend the film. "},{"Title":"Brilliant idea","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I think that Osmosis Jones was a very well thought out movie. I liked that it sort of explained what your body was made of but in a CG funny way. I thought that the way that it was trying to get rid of the virus or *red death* it was very well done. It was good funny, informing, and entertaining. There were some gross parts like when Franks zit popped and when Frank puked all over the teacher. But it was still funny. I wouldn't recommend it to kids under 8 because of some really gross parts and there are some parts that are a little scary because of the red death kills some of the germs. Also there is some adult language and content. But other than that a very well done movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"quite a body of work","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This could only come from the Farrelly brothers! When zoo-keeper Frank Detomello (Bill Murray) accidentally swallows a germ named Thrax (Laurence Fishburne) that starts causing trouble in the city that is Frank's body, cop Osmosis Jones (Chris Rock) sets about trying to find the trouble.Of course, since this is from the guys who gave us Dumb & Dumber and There's Something About Mary, you know that the plot is an excuse for a series of gross occurrences. And there certainly are some here (just think of what all one can do with the human body). It's hard to say what's my favorite scene. All that I can tell you is that this is not a movie for the fainthearted. Pretty cool. Also starring Chris Elliott, Molly Shannon, and the voices of David Hyde Pierce, Brandy, William Shatner, Ron Howard and Kid Rock. "},{"Title":"Very creative, and is a great movie, especially for kids","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie wasn't a big hit when it was playing in the theaters during summer 2001. I remember going into an almost empty theater when I saw this movie. It is really a lot better than it looked. I'm guessing most people were just expecting a Disney type of movie.This is a great movie for kids, not because it is part cartoon, but also because it has plenty of great science facts in it. This is a fun way for kids to learn what would probably bore them to death in a class room.This is part animation, and live action. The best scenes are the scenes that take place inside of Frank, because the live action scenes don't have much life to them. Some of the live action scenes can be quite gross as well, with the ingrown toenails, the vomiting, and the popping pimples.The animation is great. Chris Rock is great at providing a voice for a white blood cell, and one of my favorite actors, Lawrence Fishburne(Yes, that's Morpheus from The Matrix) is the voice of a disease. He makes a very cool, convincing, and terrifying villain.This is a good movie. Despite it's poor box office success, it is shown on Cartoon Network, it is shown in science classes a lot, and it has a cartoon series based upon it(it's not a very good series though). Watch this movie, it's great, and let your kids watch this movie too. I'm sure they will love it. "},{"Title":"A semi-fantastic voyage into the heart (and other body parts) of a slob.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Osmosis Jones was out of luck on both sides of the Atlantic; in addition to bombing in America, it was pulled from British cinemas thanks to the anthrax scare (the villain of the piece is called Thrax). It would have been surprising had it been a smash hit, but it still deserved better than the reception it got.The movie's at its best when the action stays inside the City (i.e. body) of Frank, the nauseatingly unhealthy zookeeper played by Bill Murray; the layout and characters are fun, especially the running-for-reelection Mayor of Frank and cold pill Drix, and the little details dotted throughout (my favourite the computer screen displaying Frank Online in lieu of America Online) make it seem like a living, breathing world. Though I'd like to know how they managed to get hold of Sophie Ellis Bextor records for their club (really, reall small discs?). The inner workings of Frank and the plotline of a vicious germ who's out to set a new record by killing Frank in 48 hours are more compelling than the live-action scenes, which for the most part just get in the way of the real meat of Marc Hyman's screenplay when they aren't being more gross than they have to be. (Then again, the TV series Ozzy & Drix - and why did Warner Bros. make a TV series out of this anyway, given the film's lack of success? What with Evolution, Godzilla and this, I wish studios would wait until something's actually a real hit before launching the spinoff machine - lost the sense of different worlds that this one has, because the scenes inside Hector the boy who Osmosis and Drix were transferred to in the first episode and out were entirely animated.)Osmosis himself is less entertaining than most of the other characters, but it's colourful and fast-paced, and doesn't get drippy enough for it to hurt. Warner Bros. has had its shield on some utterly horrid cartoons, but this definitely counts as one of their better efforts. If only the stuff outside the body was as wide-ranging... "},{"Title":"What was that?","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is once again evidence that cocaine abuse is rife in Hollywood. Why make a movie like this anyway? Was it supposed to be educational, entertaining, comment on society or what?Bill Murray does what Bill Murray does. Archtypical slob he does well, but what else can he do?Worst movie I have seen in years. "},{"Title":"Whole is way less than sum of parts","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great concept, perfect characterizations and voices, but a complete waste of time. A real shame since had it aimed higher, it would probably not have been the bomb it was (is); way too dependent upon scatological humor, for starters. I'm amazed by comments from educated reviewers referring to the good science behind this piece of puerile trash. Unlike Finding Nemo, where (with a bit of suspension of disbelief) attention to detail was staggering and the science was as good as the context would allow, Osmosis Jones was utter nonsense; don't kid yourself about the science. Humor aimed at eight-year-olds but subject matter suitable more for some unsophisticated teens.  "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a boring movie.  While it did have humorous parts, it was just plain boring and lengthy (for a 90 minute movie).  I believe that the cause was a lack of action.When I rented this movie, I expected to see white blood cells combat the evil viruses, but no such luck.  It was more that the virus was thwarted than defeated.The movie had promise, but since made for little kiddies in mind, it did not meet its potential, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"uuuuuuuuuuuggghh! I want my money back!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a total lump of poopoo this was! You've got to be kidding people! Any positive reviews of this movie are plants or insiders from the movie makers themselves! yuuck! disgusting movie!, not gross digusting but just plain awful! "},{"Title":"Just like the contents of the colon...","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I got this thinking my children would enjoy it...The bit they liked best was when I turned it off half way through.We didn't find it funny at all. The body part jokes were either too corny for me to even raise a smile or way beyond my children's biological knowledge for them to understand.The animation also seemed poor to me.If you're brushing up for a biology exam then I guess you may find the huge list of body parts and functions some use.Other than this I wouldn't recommend it.Avoid !! "}{"Title":"Neither funny nor educational","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I am a substitute teacher. Middle-school science teachers often leave this movie in lieu of a lesson plan. This is unfortunate because the movie teaches nothing and is also not entertaining.As best I can tell, the producers saw one of those Science is COOL! posters -- feeble propaganda that fools nobody and embarrasses those who do like science -- and said, let's make a movie of it! They decked it out with a star-filled cast and plenty of fart/poop/bodily fluid jokes. It never adds up to any more than the poster. But you can look away from a poster. This just keeps going, and going, and going. (And normally I have to show it to FIVE CLASSES).The problem is that no age group will get anything from this movie. It is not engaging or funny enough for teens and adults, and has enough gross jokes to alienate many of the latter. Elementary-school kids might like the animation and goofy/stereotypical story.There is no scientific lesson here. The only lesson is, Eat healthy and exercise. I'm pretty sure we don't need a 90-minute movie to get that across.Teachers, please knock it off already! "},{"Title":"Embarrassing","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie just was not very funny. There's not much else to say, other than that it was kind of embarrassing for Laurence Fishburne and David Hyde Pierce, both of whom deserve much better than this. Also, I don't understand why, after this movie completely and utterly bombed, WB insisted on making it into a TV show. "},{"Title":"Very bad influence to kids 2-8","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I was driving home after work, I bought some movies for my four year old twins. I had bought this movie my kids would enjoy. I watched this with my children. My 10 and 17 year old were about to throw up. In this movie ,the dad acts like a tard. My little ones would watch it every day.One day, they threw away all our movies.I SOLD THE Omosis Jones movie on Ebay. My Grade F++++++++++++++++ I rather be seen on the worst dress list.My kids now hate this dumb movie. If gives the idea that germs can talk to each other. I wonder how the dumb movie sounds in Japenese. I broke the CD in half when I got irritated of seeing it over and over again. No offence but, Brandy & Elena's acting was the best "}]