[{"Title":"A Love Story and a Castigation of Stalinism","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  In 1946, Stalin invites Russian émigrés to return, in patriotic fervor, to help rebuild from WWII. Unbeknownst to them, all returnees are considered imperialists and spies, and are to be treated accordingly. East-West explores this nightmare scenario through the eyes of a family who returned; a Russian doctor, his French wife and their young son.  Because of his doctoring skills he is spared the Gulag or execution, but his life in Kiev is certainly not what his wife is used to. The collision of cultures, the hardships, and the Stalinist tyranny all take a deep toll as they struggle to survive and escape.Dark, and claustrophobic, this is a gripping tale from beginning to end. And it is in the end a great love story, of devotion and sacrifice. At the showing I attended the tears flowed freely in the audience.  I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"Intense and powerful!","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I sat in the cinema after the credits had rolled almost unable to bring myself to leave, get in my car and drive home. I was completely overwhelmed by this intense film and its in your face storyline. Whether the story the film was based on was true or not, I thought the performances of all the actors and actresses were exceptional, the photography was excellent and overall though not a film that could be called 'enjoyable' because it was so sad, I was intensely moved and gave it 9/10.   "},{"Title":"Making political history tangible.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I went to this film without realizing that it told a story which had parallels in the history of my own Russian-emigrant family. My grandmother's brother repatriated under Stalin, had his goods and land confiscated, died in Siberia, and lost his two young sons to the Soviet Army.The film is absorbing and disturbing. The most shooting is done at eye level. There is a true sense of witness for the viewer in a very elemental, unavoidable way. Strangely, I think this improved the experience of the predictable horrors of life in Stalin's USSR. It made the experience seem, for me, much more present and less sentimental.The performances were very good. Ms. Bonnaire was totally believable and very likeable, despite the naivete and hysteria of her character. Mr. Menshikov played Alexei with great complexity and nuance, which allowed me to be less judgmental and to see his irrational need to belong among his own people as a very natural inclination. Mr. Bodrov, a Russian Brad-Pitt-alike, was very magnetic in his role as Sacha.I simply love to see Ms. Deneuve in any role, but her playing a mature French actress with admirable values was very moving for me. She carries her own maturity so regally. She was perfect for this role.I think this film is a wonderful model of cross-cultural cinema. I would like to see more films of this type in the US.   "},{"Title":"Cinematic Gesamtkunskwerk","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  The cathartic nature of this film was such that found myself unable even to cry until the credits began their long slow march across the screen, and even then getting up out of my seat was not an option.  I don't think any other film has made such a profound and immediate impact on me.Set in the years following Stalin's invitation to former expatriates to return to their native Russia &#150;a call many answered, blissfully unaware of the dire consequences their decision would have- it is filled with the Russian spirit that sees people stubbornly persevering, and touched with the French one that not only looks for escape but insists upon it.Some films would be rendered incomprehensible simply by the sheer amount of quiet action that here, thankfully, only adds to the audience's investment in the film, without losing focus.  It was unquestionably the best film I have seen in recent memory.  It is the closest I have ever felt to experiencing a Gesamtkunstwerk in a movie theatre.  "},{"Title":"Hard to take but worth watching","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  For a guy who was a French communist until the age of 35, it was a hard movie to take, but it is a superb film, well acted and very realistic. My father was a french communist (the heart on the left and the wallet on the right) and he actually contempleted emigrating to the motherland of socialism when I was a kid, thank God, his wallet was heavier than his heart... Go to your video store and rent it, you won't regret it ! "},{"Title":"A you must see movie","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" 'Est Ouest' is an impressive production based upon the true story of family comprising a Russian émigré husband, French wife and a little boy.In the heyday of Coldwar, Stalin invites all émigrés who left the country in the time of 1917 Civil War.The émigrés are promised a heaven once they promote to the restoration of order and rehabilitation of the war-torn economy.This demand is no surprising in view of the fact that Soviet Russia was the country hit by the war the most in terms of human and material resources. Once euphoric, the returnees find themselves disillusioned by old-fashioned, paranoid and corrupt political and economic fabric.The story is capturing sometimes thrilling. I have shared the excitement, fear and hope of heroes and heroines vividly. The music of the film pulls you vividly to understand how precious one's freedom can be.Unlike some criticism that the film misdirected reality,I would confidently maintain the belief that the story of the film is only one of the hundreds of tragedies in the Iron Curtain. Stalin's notorious reputation in employing violence and pressure is nothing but a historical truth. Eastern Europe is so beautiful..Kiev and Sofya..I shall never forget the dance scene at the hotel in Sofya. What is also worth-seeing is the entry of heroes to the Greek-Bulgarian boundary on the mountains capped with snow.This is the Balkans.. I must admit that I spent much time in trying to find this film as DVD.Swedem,Norway,Denmark,Germany,Belgium..nowhere..I did not have chance to request it online.I did not have credit cards..)) Finally,I found it in mega store Virgin( Thanks Virgin)in Paris. I have soundtrack album of this unforgettable film too. If you haven't seen this film yet, you have missed a lot! By watching and- if possible- purchasing this film, you will have done a great contribution to movie industry which suffers from prevalence of crap movies. I am still under the influence of 'Est Ouest'.I hope u shall feel the same.. "},{"Title":"Go see it - if your political system lets you.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Shot in dark tones of the Soviet popular colors, this movie will transport you right into the heart of the Communist system during the 1950's Stalin period. Within half an hour you'll be sorry that you came, because the director will make you fear for the unlikely heroes. You'll be holding to your chair and crave for the safety of your favorite TV soap.To call it a political thriller is not doing justice to the emotional overtone of the story of Marie and her husband Alexey. Director's rendition of the Marie's courage hidden in the simplest acts is quite dazzling. That, and good acting is the major special effect of this film, theme of which cannot be dismissed as a history to be forgotten. A system similar to the Soviet communism may sprout in any country, and the fate of the condemned people may depend on the valour of both insiders and the citizen of the free world.Don't worry, the movie is not moralizing. Do yourself a favor, go to see it - if the political system of your country permits you to do so (if it does not, smuggle it in and invite all your friends). "},{"Title":"At what price freedom?","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  East/West ventures into a time (post WWII) when the Iron Curtain shrouded Stalin's Soviet Union and a curtain of suspicion and distrust shrouded every soviet life. The film follows a French family of three as the patriarch returns to his Russian homeland where he and his family are held prisoners of conscience by communism. The film focuses on the characters, their silent suffering and yearning for freedom while living in a state of constant paranoia as it tears husband from wife, mother from son, and heroism emerges from the most unlikely places. East/West is an entertaining watch for all and, though fictional, offers a sense of what the Cold War was about. "},{"Title":"Trapped","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Alexei, the young doctor who decides to go back to the Soviet Union after a generous invitation of Josef Satlin, should have had his head examined! After all, as a professional he seemed to have been doing well in France. With all the best intentions, he takes his wife and young son to the old country only to find himself trapped in a totalitarian system that made him and the family virtual prisoners.Est Ouest, directed by Regis Wargnier, shows in vivid detail what Alexei and Marie, his wife, have to endure when they are taken to Kiev, where he is assigned. Little did Alexei and Marie knew about the dismal housing problems of those years when the family is given a large room in an apartment that is being shared by five families!The film concentrates in the eventual break down of the marriage caused by the environment. Alexei ends up having an affair with Olga, another flat mate, and Marie falls in love for the poor Sacha, a young man who is left alone in the world when his grandmother dies. Marie blames Alexei for all the misery they have to endure; she is regarded as a foreigner, but she can't even go back to her native France.The film has an ironic end when Marie, helped by Gabrielle, a French actress, who is sympathetic to her fellow countryman. Marie realizes at the end of Alexei's tremendous sacrifice and ultimate punishment when she and her son are able to escape the communist hell that has imprisoned them.Great acting in general by Sandrine Bonnaire, who as Marie, is totally credible. Oleg Menshikov, makes the best of Alexei, at times appearing uncaring and selfish, but who deeply cared for his wife. Sergei Bodrov Jr. is also excellent as Sacha, the young boy in love with Marie.The film was shot in drab color, perhaps to emphasize the hard times during the Stalin regime. One gets only glimpses of some of the splendid, and opulent interiors, whenever the action takes place in one of those buildings or theaters. Unfortunately, the principals of this story never really had a chance to enjoy anything because the nightmare that became their lives under that totalitarian regime. "},{"Title":"Annoying","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" It's hard to criticize a movie which is based on true facts and in which people suffer great injustice. But I wonder if it does justice to the real events and the actual persons. It is overly melodramatic and somehow I felt it insulted my intelligence. When I am supposed to be outraged about something I would like to have a solid reason.Perhaps the biggest flaw is the complete absence of motive. Why does a Russian French couple with a small son move from France to the Soviet Union in 1946? Idealism, patriotism, homesickness, love of Communism? And what exactly did they expect? They must have known that at that time almost every town in the Western Soviet Union was practically razed to the ground by the Germans. Entire cities along the river Dnepr were rebuilt practically from zero. So, seeing the family move into a shared flat in a comfortable apartment bloc in an intact neighborhood in the center of Kiev makes them come through as comparatively privileged and well embedded into the system. What else, what better could have happened to them? It did not help either that the main character, the French woman, comes through as a self centered, bitchy, constantly nagging chauvinist, played by Sandrine Bonnaire, France's answer to Jessica Lange. There is not much there to like in her, and her air of superiority is pretty hard to bear. &#132;At home we speak French, she on one occasion admonishes her son in an angry tone of voice, straining to make him understand their special situation, their being different, transferring her very private concerns to her son. It is not entirely surprising that her husband turns to another women after a while.Probably the story closest to this one is &#132;not without my daughter, which I have not read or seen on the screen. So maybe this is more a movie about a clash of cultures and less about historical realities. "}{"Title":"East-West is superb.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Despite the fact that I was completely ignorant of the circumstances under which the characters suffered, I was swept away by this movie.  All of the actors gave amazing performances, but I was most impressed by the way that Sandrine Bonnaire(Marie) and Oleg Menshikov (Alexei)  were able to age their characters ten years using only their faces.  Sergei Bodrov, Jr., was excellent as Sacha, the teenage lover of Marie.  At the beginning of the movie he was scared and immature, but as the plot progressed I saw him evolve into a strong, determined man.  The scenes of him swimming in the river involve some of the most captivating cinematography I've seen.  I hold Bodrov's performance to be the best in the film.  Not to be ignored is Catherine Denueve; though her role as a French actress, Gabrielle, determined to save Marie was small, it was critical, and she pulled it off brilliantly.  East-West is a sweeping, engaging epic that will captivate even the most historically ignorant viewer.  "},{"Title":"well made film that depicts post WWII life in the USSR accurately","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This movie hit pretty close to home. I am a first generation American. Everyone else in my family left the USSR(Ukraine) in the 1970's.One of the many reasons they left is because of the daily life problems that this movie depicts. People were afraid to say anything, or express their thoughts even remotely on how they felt about life in thing wrong with it. If they did so they would be either murdered thrown in jail or taken away never to be heard from again. East West is a well made and easy to understand film that can be enjoyed by a lot of mainstream audiences. "},{"Title":"rare depiction of  workers paradise","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" For a system that endured about seventy years,it is amazing how so few movies have really given us a sense of what life there was like,and this movie does it brilliantly and flawlessly. While the background is the big falsehoods of soviet Russia,like baiting émigrés to return,only to take revenge for the sin of yearning freedom,the true power of the movie is in penetrating and superb description of everyday's life,the housing with shared common facilities,total lack of minimal privacy,shoppingRussian style,and the pervasive drinking. I had the feeling of being and living in one of those housing units as I was watching the film. The plot is superb,full of surprising twists and the acting,all the way down to the smaller roles,is perfect. The movie is a true gem.The only achievement of the late Soviet regime is its success in hiding the true nature of life behind the Iron Curtain for so many years "},{"Title":"The Day of the Swimmer","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" East West is a fantastic, beautiful film part-love story, part-historical drama and part-Cold War thriller. It has elements of Frederick Forsyth, John le Carre and Boris Pasternak but surpasses them all by reaching the heightened realms of George Orwell. It really is that good.Alexei (Oleg Menshikov) and the beautiful, sensational Marie (Sandrine Bonnaire) are a married couple in France who naively believe the Soviet Union to be a socialist/communist paradise. They promptly pack their backs and emigrate, arriving in Odessa with their son to settle down and start a new life. But they realise almost immediately, however, their dreadful mistake they have entered not socialist heaven but an Orwellian nightmare of totalitarianism, brutality and deprivation from which there appears no escape.At this point, the film really takes off, becoming an awesome, intoxicating blend of Dr Zhivago, Spy Who Came in From the Cold, 1984 and Day of the Jackal. Only, it surpasses them all.Perhaps it is the Russian contribution that makes the difference, turning this film into a masterpiece Sergei Bodrov and Rustam Ibragimbekov providing a simply brilliant script. The acting is superb and the plot is riveting, even depending on the outcome of a swimming trial and the chance to travel to the West and defect.The location filming is sublime and the Odessa depicted on screen has all of the faded charm of classical buildings and dachas decayed by years of communist neglect and overcrowding. It is just so realistic.Sandrine has a bit of fun along the way, going to communist dances and concerts, enjoying a love affair with Sergei Bodrov Jnr, the master-swimmer, but, ultimately, is betrayed and undergoes severe torture and brainwashing, like something out of Arthur Koestler. That is before the denouement, however, which has all of the drama and pace of a John le Carre novel. "},{"Title":"Is it east and west, or east or west? One has to decide.","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Having spent some time in Russia from 1973 to 1995, I was relieved to find that the details of the everyday life in the Soviet Union presented in the film mostly counteracted the stereotypic quality of the harsh interrogator. I found the scenes of the interaction among the inhabitants living in the communal apartment to ring the truest.  The ability of the Russians to suffer and celebrate at the kitchen table also seemed humanly authentic and prepared me to accept the Dr. Zhivago story line.  I found myself questioning if I or my wife would give up the comfortable life the family had found at the end for the freedom of one of us separating.  "},{"Title":"Serious, complex","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  It's good to see a movie that looks in a clear-eyed way, without relativism or equivocating, on the horrors of the Soviet period.  It tells a small and ironic story of patriotism and idealism cruelly and almost madly betrayed by paranoia and the power of a totalitarian state to corrupt almost everybody. The movie is about people, not politics, but it is politically compelling nonetheless.  If you see this movie, you might find yourself thinking, for example, about the Elian Gonzalez tragedy somewhat differently.  You will also find yourself considerably more forgiving of the current Russian turmoil. "},{"Title":"Yes, Virginia, there really was a Soviet Union","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Most people reviewing this excellent film by Regis Wargnier (Indochine) clearly understand the backdrop of a Soviet Union in the grip of a national paranoia that flowed from Stalin himself and infected everything from the highest positions of Party power to the most banal and mundane aspects of daily life. The film explores the destructive force that a monstrous ideology can have on ordinary people, artists, athletes, and even on love itself. Stalin's Soviet Union in 1946 was everything this movie portrays it as and worse. This is not some anti-Soviet propaganda film by any stretch, and people who think it is need to attend to some history of the time and place. Literally millions of returning Soviet émigrés and soldiers were either executed outright or sent to the gulags on various trumped-up charges like 'actions detrimental to the State' and espionage. There was no one as paranoid as Stalin, and he either believed his own fears, or he wanted everyone else to believe them. Probably both are true. That is why I welcomed this film which tells the story of a Russian émigré physician and his French wife and child who accept the deadly invitation of repatriation to the Motherland. Against this background of terror, repression, and despair we are made to watch what the pressures of the system can do to one family.Alexei, Marie, and Serioia go from what must have been a comfortable, bourgeois life in France to a nightmare when they end up, thanks to Alexei's being a physician, in Kiev. The story goes into detail about how Alexei has to behave against his wife's expectations &#150; unrealistic, it turns out, and very dangerous to boot &#150; in order to fashion the possibility of escape. The film has a very real feel to it, and one can believe that what we are seeing is what really happened. I am a bit astonished that people today either know nothing of this period, or they actually think that the film is unfair to the Soviets. The preposterousness of this idea can only be cured with information, but the willfully blind will remain so regardless of hundreds of thousands of archival pages to the contrary. This film is true to its subject, and if you can sit through the nail-biting drama - where an NKVD agent seems to appear on every corner - you will be rewarded. An excellent movie full of the pain, heartbreak, and eventual triumph over evil. "},{"Title":"Another historical period never again to be repeated","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  So many themes have been overworked as reminders to us all, that certain events should never again happen. While enough can never be said about these tragedies, some have been relatively ignored. The horrible Stalin era has been largely forgotten in our post- Cold War World. EAST WEST vividly illustrates the hell of this 20 plus year regime in a sweeping epic, in my opinion, among the best of all time. The film illustrates what was perhaps the greatest persecution and mass murder of all time the Stalin purges. Not including the 20 million Soviet World War II dead (for which Stalin, as Hitler's ally the first few years, must take much responsiblity), another estimated 10 to 20 million subversive citizens were murdered or died after extreme torture and slave labor in camps. Many, as the returning Soviet emigres from France in EAST WEST, were misled like cattle to the slaughter house. More films about this era should be made, but for now, see this one. Much as he did in his Oscar-winning INDOCHINE, the director takes a simple love story and places it into a historical context that gives its soap opera roots grave urgency, and a grand, epic sweep. EAST WEST is as much a detailed look at life in Stalin's workers state of terror as it is a story about the great sacrifices people make for the sake of love. Ultimately, the film is a suspenseful and hugely engrossing drama that asks whether love can survive in the face of murderous political oppression and unbearable exile. "},{"Title":"Sorrowful Rave","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  From the sweeping sorrow of the Russian people to one individual's dangerous marine escape, this movie succeeds in evoking terror, ambivalence, and joy.Mandatory viewing for those born after 1980 or any for whom the Cold War seems surreal. It *was* surreal, but it stamped the lives of millions. A few dozen of those lives come to life in this heartbreaking film. "},{"Title":"A cross cultural slice of dark history","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I have wanted to see this movie for a long time, and I must say it was worth the wait.  Many films that portray life under a communist regime are either way too dark, or try too hard to be light and funny in spite of the oppressive surroundings.  Even though I have not lived under those conditions, I felt the quiet desperation and helplessness that has driven so many to risk everything for freedom.  The acting was excellent.  I agree with some of the above comments that Sacha's final fate was written off too easily and Alexei's complexity was not explored deeply enough, but we only had two hours to span 10 years and I think it was as good as can be overall. Watch it! "}{"Title":"An exceptional movie you really should see!","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" One truly exceptional movie that colorfully depicts situation in Soviet Russia in 1950's. Not only this movie shows all the stupidity of communist ideology (and any ideology in particular), it also in vivid manner shows how far would mother do to protect its child. Numerous personal dramas, love affairs of the two main characters and general tension that could be felt in the air, make this movie so exciting. Remarkable acting skills of the main characters made this film one of the most impressive I've ever seen. For Catherine Deneuve, Oleg Menshikov and Sandrine Bonnaire this were probably one of the best roles of their lives. Try to get this movie and don't make pop-corns - you'll need handkerchiefs instead! "},{"Title":"Realistic, but consists of 2 parts...","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This is excellent-quality movie from technical and historical part. I also liked the realism of situation in post-World War II Soviet Union. I'm suggesting to watch that strong drama everyone who is interesting in history or good storyline. What I didn't like is too much time skipping in the second part of the movie and too slow-on-action part one. It seems like there were two different directors, who tried to bring together one plot. Another disadvantage is accent of some of international actors when they are speaking Russian, however actors play really good and naturally. Overall, I did enjoy the movies, however I didn't suggest it to the people who just want to see action or comedy. This is serious drama and your mood must be the same. "},{"Title":"CAPTIVATING TALE","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  A captivating tale of a couple returning to The Soviet Union, and finding out the trip was not exactly as advertised or promised. Together, they face the reality of Stalinist Russia and the horrors of persecution that reside therein. A very well made film that captures the hearts of its audience, with genuine empathy and intelligence, as opposed to emotional manipulation. Hollywood should take note on how such films like this address their subjects, and the subsequent dialogue. A truly well acted and crafted film. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Mother Russia's cold hand of freedom.","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This film reminded me of going to the zoo. Here you have a community of individuals that are captured by the thought of a longer life, freedom, and food, only when they arrive (like animals in zoo); they are shocked by the realism that it is not a vacation. Food will be served at your captor's convenience, your captors determine the chain of command as well, and finally, nobody can leave once they arrive. After WWII, under Stalin's regime, Russia invites all defectors back to their homeland, but it is a trick. Est-Ouest tells the story of one family's plight to escape a country that has transformed into a wall-less prison. With the KGB watching their every move, our heroes must risk everything to see the light of freedom once more. Living in a post 9/11 world, one cannot help but begin to see the similarities between what Alexei and Marie and the Arab world in America. While not quite as harsh, we constantly are reminded about the vengeful eye of our government and the illustrious Patriot Act.Est-Ouest is one of those films where you could either be excited and happy by the results or be bursting into an emotional sea of tears. From the opening credit sequence until the darkened words crept back on the screen, this film captivated me. With the powerful acting, the intense story, and the brilliant work behind the camera, Est-Ouest will pull hard on your emotions and not release you until the very end. Director Régis Wargnier has done a superb job of bringing the history of the characters, as well as the land, straight into your hearts. He does this with some of the most common techniques and a very simple story. This is a story about love and freedom. He uses these simplistic structures to keep us focused on the overall depth and tone of the film. There is this feeling of being in a non-barred cage, unable to escape, unable to be free due to the vengeful eye of your comrades. Wargnier forces you to feel for these characters, from the beginning until the end, because they are no different than you are I. They are placed in a situation like no other, yet somehow so real that we could witness it happen even today.From our initial meeting with Alexei and Marie on the boat heading to Russia, we are bombarded with a sense of pride, love, and fear all at once. We are unfamiliar with the relationship between Alexei and Marie, but immediately take it as a loving one. Perhaps we are too haste with that decision, because as our story unfolds, as does the bond that connects these two individuals &#133; or at least that is what Wargnier would like us to think. Est-Ouest is more than just a story about escaping to freedom, it is a contrast between patience and immediate self-sacrifice. Marie wants to escape the cold world they inhabit immediately, she wants to see Paris again and taste its freedom, while Alexei does as well, just not quite as quickly. He understands the rules of the nation, and slowly sets in motion a plan that will give his wife all that he has promised. It took me until the end of the film to see this contrast between immediate escape and patience. While I thought that it was a great message to show, I felt as if the timing was a bit off throughout the film. I had trouble following the timeline, while I did realize that several years had passed between these horrific events, the only person that seemed to age was Alexei's son. I needed a stronger connection between these riveting scenes so that I could keep track in my mind the time that had passed.The acting was gorgeous. Oleg Menshikov and Sandrine Bonnaire had such a powerful connection on screen that I could not keep my eyes off them. When they were together you wanted them to be, and when they were apart, you dreamt of them being back together. You cannot say that of many film characters. The late Sergei Bodrov Jr. reminded me of a Russian Brad Pitt. The way he carried himself and acted in this film was similar to that of Mr. Pitt. Together these three key players brought this film to life. While somehow Catherine Deneuve received top billing as well, she didn't seem to carry as much of the weight that I had hoped that she would. While she was vital to the story, I felt she could have brought more to her character. The depth behind her words just wasn't there or just didn't seem to match the emotion of everyone else.The only other negative aspect that I have with this film was that I felt the story seemed incomplete. There were moments where we were given a nibble to enjoy, but never fully developed those nibbles into bites. There were elements of the story that needed to be developed further, such as the relationship between Sasha and Marie. While I did see some evolution when they were in Russia, it was later that I needed the follow-up. It just felt as if some strings were not tied at the end, but instead left frayed with questions looming in the air.Overall, I thought this was a very tight drama. There were some flaws with may have caused it to loose its Oscar win in 1999, but nonetheless, the good did outweigh the bad. The characters were intense, the story (outside of the loose ends) was captivating, and being able to see a darker side of the world was thrilling. Simply put, this was a story about freedom and love, and those are themes that transcend throughout history. Est-Ouest is a story for seeing the destructive nature of Stalinism and its impact on humanity.Grade **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Love,history and very talented actors!","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  The first thought was why would a successful doctor with the French wife decide to return to Stalin's Russia? Nostalgia?. But then, when I was watching the movie, all events seemed so realistic. I'm truly believe that that's exactly what would have happened to them. No life, No escape, No future! The story is about sacrifice we all make for the people we love, but the price Marie and  Alexei paid was too high.  "},{"Title":"Epic Foreign Freedom.","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Est-Ouest (1999) Dir Regis Wargnier / Cast Sandrine Bonnaire, Catherine Deneuve, Oleg Menshikov, Sergie Bodrov Jr., Tatyana Dogileva Interesting look into freedom and hope while examining history. It regards boundaries and isolation. A doctor and his wife are on board a steamship heading for the Odessa but once on shore they are met with soldiers. While some are executed the doctor and his family are sent to a crowded apartment where his skills are put to work. Their marriage slowly deteriorates as she makes plans to escape with her son and sees opportunity with a young swimmer. Engaging until it reaches its poorly handled conclusion that threatens to sabotage what led up to it. Well directed by Regis Wargnier with terrific production and photography that compliments the film's period atmosphere. Sandrine Bonnaire portrays a woman who submitted long enough. Now she seeks freedom and despite torture and trials she is determined to survive. Oleg Menshikov plays her husband who surrenders and uses his skill to protect his family but also makes a sacrifice of his own. Catherine Deneuve plays a French actress whom Bonnaire contacts while she is on tour. Sergie Bodrov plays the swimmer whom becomes her hope for freedom as he undertakes a daring swim. Strong theme regarding hope and persistence during a nightmarish time in history. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Sho West","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  After luring emigres back to the motherland following World War II, Stalinists killed or imprisoned many of them. Alexei (Oleg Menchikov) and his French-born wife, Marie (Sandrine Bonnaire) the fictional couple who suffer for their patriotism in East-West are allowed to live because Alexei is needed as a doctor. But existence is brutal, and spies seem to overhear even dreams of escape. The film allows little perspective on the extent of Stalinist cruelty, even when terrible things happen they do so sedately. Landscape, costumes, Bonnaire's sad face - they're all gray. Only ruby-lipped Catherine Deneuve is allowed an expression of personal color in the role of a famous actress, who in Deneuvian grandeur, helps repatriate a fellow daughter of free France.  "},{"Title":"a sad but beautiful movie","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  the best thing about this movie is the way it brought sad feeling to me without making me depressed. i enjoyed every minute of it. and i also love the ending, it's simply beautiful. somehow i still sense hollywood things in it, but i think it's understandable, considering we're living in a time when hollywood rules the film industry of the world. "},{"Title":"Fine film on Stalin's Russia, good for comrades. Not at all a Gesamtkunskwerk (total art work)!","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The aesthetic options this movie takes will make you immerse into the epoch. From the beginning, when they get down from the ship and the music and military marches don't sound as they should, but muffled and empty, you could see reality was going to take its toll on the couple's dreams.While quite implausible (Sasha's crossing, Aleksei Golovin getting scots-free from all he did) the villains are not as dumb and cartoonish as in other films of, say, Nazy Germany.Sandrine Bonnaire is fine. Unrecognizable from her half wit Sophie from La Cérémonie (1995) as well as the sleuth in Chabrol's Au coeur du mensonge, she's radiantly beautiful here. Only later, watching some scant pictures at IMDb, did I realize that her nose, for instance, isn't exactly nice. Good for her, her smile erases our rationality ).I found the film surprising, specially since the couple of main characters don't perform according to expectations. Aleksei, while the honest bright physician, falls in the clutches of a believable Olga (as Tatiana Doguileva) without much ado. And Marie is not immune to Russian charm either, forgetting her son at her charge to boot.What I really didn't like is the heroic format of Catherine Deneuve's actress turned freedom fighter Gabrielle Develay. As if the director, writer etc. had to erase with one elbow what had been (well) written with the other one, this character comes out of the blue to be the only hope of liberty at western capitalism. As one character says to her You hardly know this person you're risking your life for!. Besides the tricks for a Disney movie, the last minute efforts, the stupidest guards on earth etc, I suspect the KGB didn't run the country or kill more than 20 million people and could have not realized that, for instance, once Marie first gave sure signs of dissidence and then did what she did (Sasha), she wasn't going to try more mischief. So Sasha's story, from his swimming talents (like a bad Hollywood movie), the state official realizing his family had all been traitors and him being let free to wander in the country, then his standing at the French Embassy like if somebody in his condition could really barter for anything (there were millions of people in the same condition).The dismal housing problems are accurately depicted, as well as the troubles of too many people living under a single roof. Of course, like in all big productions, visuals are fine (like Sasha's training at a beautiful cold river), as the epoch (the buildings, cars, clothing, the already mentioned crowded flat, even the expensive Bulgarian hotel looks, well... Sovietic and fadish!). The opulent interiors shot in drab color as jotix100 from New York writes at IMDb. Ah, the petty thiefs who find chicken around the corner and jewellry from a relative are sympa, they add some naive contrast to the dire Soviet conditions. Which were probably many times worse than what the film dares to show.All in all, I liked the film. But I feel it lost gravitas and depth due to concession to the ticket office. "},{"Title":"It attracts my attention through out the movie.","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"     At first, I thought that this is a comedy about those people coming from outside back to Russia, and experienced an entirely different cultural shock. It is actually a very serious movie, and it glued me to the screen for the entire two hours. It just feels so short when the movie ended.   I have seen quite a few movies about the horror living in a socialist country. However, I think there should also be a few good movies that tell the other side of the story. This movie is very authentic describing the horror and fear that people live under constant surveillance. And they can not go back ever again. The sacrifice the husband made, you can have a good heart cry over this movie.    If you have time, you should also listen to the directors' commentary. I think that the best part in this movie is about them going to the France Embassy of which the guard looked at their different shoes.   The love, the tenacity, the emotions are just so real.  "}{"Title":"Wonderful, compelling movie that grabbed me from the first second...","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" ...as I watched it one night earlier this week on cable TV. Had only heard about it years ago, and was so struck by its ruthless depiction of cruelty and beauty as well as poignancy of old-fashioned love story of sacrifice a la Casablanca.A must-see for anyone who thirsts for quality, taste and intelligence. "},{"Title":"Life was very bad under Stalin","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  A compellingly told story of Russian emigres who return to the USSR at Stalin's invitation after WWII. As they sail to Odessa, the audience understands that they are making a very serious mistake.The story that ensues is about one couple's struggle against the oppressive brutality of the Soviet state. The story is personal -- of love, infidelity, friendship and loyalty. But the grim reality of Stalin's USSR lurks in every niche of the movie.How lucky we are that all that is gone. "},{"Title":"The harsh world under Stalin","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  If you want to have a clear picture of how the daily life under Stalin's USSR was, you must see this great movie. When you watch the Russian official destroying the French woman's passport, you have a hint of what is awaiting her, her Russian husband and their young boy. The escape scenes are also thrilling and so revealing.  "},{"Title":"A harrowing film, long and difficult, like life in the Soviet Union","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This unflinching look at the former Soviet Union just after WWII should be seen by all those who might still harbor some romantic feelings for the communist past. There is an almost Orwellian atmosphere to the film, which is supposedly a true story of a group of Russsian émigrés living in France who are invited to return to the USSR to help rebuild the war torn country. As soon as these ostensibly Russian patriots disembark on Soviet soil they are hurled into the madhouse world of Stalinist Russia. The similarity to the Nazis as families are separated, manhandled and killed is obvious and terrifying. The rest of the movie is concerned with the survivors' attempt at escape. The acting is first rate and the mise en scene on the button. This a truly harrowing and credible film, all the more so for being a French production. See it and tell some of your far leftist friends to see it as well. "},{"Title":"Once you accept the premise, the rest follows well.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Others have commented on the reality of Soviet/Ukrainian life in the 1950s; since I wasn't there, I can't tell.  But the initial hurdle for me was to accept that the wife, Marie, somehow first agreed to emigrate with her Russian-born husband and their son, and then once there suddenly coming across as let me out of here!  I realize couples in love can make stupendously erratic decisions, but this one was rather major -- leaving France, which certainly was in the throes of its own economic and infrastructure collapse after World War II, to the Soviet Union, which was several times worse off.  I can see Alexei buying into it through some kind of patriotic altruism, but I can't imagine why Marie would have done so. There isn't, as far as I know, any history of large numbers of French -- Communist or otherwise -- voluntarily moving to the USSR following the war (or anytime, for that matter).  They're just too savvy -- they would have said, Hell, if it's this bad in France in 1946, it's got to be utterly wretched in the Soviet Union.  Je ne vais point!  Or words to that effect.Nonetheless, a great movie to watch if only for the actors, the idea of what living in Kiev might have been like in that period, and even the little sad shots of Sofia towards the end.   "},{"Title":"Reagan was right about the Evil Empire, M. Chirac","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Although Catherine Deneuve is not the star of this film, anything with her in it is surely worth seeing.   The main actors -- Sandrine Bonnaire, Oleg Menshikov, and Sergei Bodrov, Jr. -- acquit themselves quite well in this tale about a Soviet emigre (Menshikov) who commitsthe terrible error of returning to the Soviet Union after World War II, bringing his French wife (Bonnaire) and their young son.  The rest of the movie is largely about their difficult life and her all-consuming desire to return to France after they quickly discover that life in the Soviet Union is grim and that they are suspect.   Deneuve appears as a fellow-traveling French actress who eventually makes it possible for Bonnaire to return home after she's spent six years in prison for helping a young man she befriended to escape the country.   Bonnaire is startlingly good and Menshikov as the deluded doctor who brought hisfamily back to the Soviet Union is also excellent.   "},{"Title":"Poor Seryozha","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Poor, poor Seryozha...He first goes to his father's homeland because his parents decided so. Upon arrival they barely get out alive, only to live in a very uncomfortable apartment in another town. But that's alright cause his parents' great love will get them through anything. But, no... His dad gets mixed up with a woman from the room across of theirs. He confesses it to Seryozha's mum because he's a man of principle. Mum kicks Dad because she's a woman of principle. He now lives with his new woman that Seryozha doesn't seem to be very fond of. Very soon Mum starts an affair with a 17-year old swimmer that she was so nice to let in their room, but she lies Seryozha's dad about that affair (she's got different principles, I guess). By the way, they both very much love their son. Small problem for Seryozha is that Mum wants him to only speak French in the house and Dad wants him to only speak Russian in the house. Once the swimmer gets out of the picture, and Dad gets enough of his new woman, he goes back to Mum, who generously accepts him. The happy family is reunited and stronger than ever! But the swimmer reappears and Mum is willing to try and escape to another country with him... Many more dramatic troubles turn up, but the liberal love of Seryozha's parents conquers and we get a pretty happy ending. Oh, boy... "},{"Title":"a history lesson no one should forget","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Excellent movie about the Cold war. It exposes, little by little, step by step, the inhumanity and constant terror/murder tactics the communist regime in Russia used to maintain itself in power.The same model was followed by the communist regimes in Eastern Europe and the Baltic states once these countries were occupied by the Soviet army after World War two.To people living in Western democracies many of the facts the movie shows may seem unbelievable, but they are completely true.Historians even today cannot agree on the total number of people who lost their lives in the Soviet Union in the '30s and '40s and '50s, but the minimum number everyone seems to accept is 10 million people. Not POW's, not foreigners, but Russians (both peasants and city dwellers) who happened to come to the attention of the KGB due to some comment made while talking to friends or, even better, due to some anonymous letter denouncing them as 'traitors to the communist state'. Their homes confiscated, most of them were sent to prisons or camps (Siberia) from where nobody ever returned.The same extermination measures were used by Stalin and the KGB against American citizens who had emigrated in the U.R.S.S. at the height of the Depression in the 1930's in search of jobs. There is a very good documentary on the subject which airs once in a while on the Canadian History channel.Given all these historical facts, it is grotesque to see today all the trouble the Russian state goes to in order to construct itself the image of an emerging democracy, when its population is just as terrorized and pauperized as it was 50 years ago. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fascinating!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This film is such a masterpiece! I don't really know what to say... I watched it over to find a flaw but it's just impossible. One thing, I doubt it was really THAT bad in Soviet Russia. I know it wasn't a heaven of freedom and human rights, but I still have a feeling the situation has been slightly exaggerated. On the other hand, regardless of your point of view, the film is just perfect. The entire cast is very well chosen, and the plot simply hunts the viewer. Even the soundtrack is remarkably intriguing. Simply and briefly, go watch it - NOW!10/10 "},{"Title":"Tragic yet un-involving.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  East/West bears light on the tragic outcome that happened to many emigres returning to Soviet Union in their help to rebuild it after the war.  But at the same time, it just seemed that the husband/wife in this movie never had anything really solid in the first place for them to lose once they got there.  I never really felt their gradual separation or the husband's shift from leaving the Soviets ASAP to building a life there.All in all, the movie still brings to light one of the dark period of Soviet history through the perspective of someone experiencing it. "}{"Title":"At what price freedom?","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  East/West ventures into a time (post WWII) when the Iron Curtain shrouded Stalin's Soviet Union and a curtain of suspicion and distrust shrouded every soviet life. The film follows a French family of three as the patriarch returns to his Russian homeland where he and his family are held prisoners of conscience by communism. The film focuses on the characters, their silent suffering and yearning for freedom while living in a state of constant paranoia which tears husband from wife, mother from son, and where heroism emerges from the most unlikely places. East/West is an entertaining watch for all and, though fictional, offers a sense of what the Cold War was about. "},{"Title":"beautiful and nothing short of a masterpiece","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I came to Canada more than two years ago, from Romania, which before 1989, wasn't far from the Russian way of dealing with foreigners. Western embassies were guarded against people who wanted to defect and betray the country. They were actually wanting a better life. What is the harm in that? That is why I completely understand the heroine's drama.The story is not very original, yet the director knows it and he emphasizes on acting. The performers are simply magical. Sandrine Bonnaire is astonishing as Marie, a faithful French woman who follows her husband in Stalinist Russia only to be with him. When things are completely different than she (and everyone) expected, she will do anything in order to get back. One by one, everyone who could have helped her are disappearing or turn away. The old supervisor, who was sympathetic to Westerners (when she was little, she had a French nanny), is arrested the next day and executed for spying. Her husband who seemingly started to like it here has an affair with a neighbour. Feeling all alone, she turns to the old supervisor's grandson, Sacha and before she knows it she is in love. Sacha also wants to leave Russia and succeeds by swimming to a ship. She is then arrested for his death (she did not know he made it). The prosecutor brings her husband to see her disgrace and Alexei can't believe the charges brought against his wife. Angry but not thinking, the prosecutor pulls out a photo showing Sacha talking to Marie's sister. Though very fragile, Marie feels victorious. The only one who stood by her, and never lost the hope to save Marie, is French actress Gabrielle Develay (played by the incredibly talented and forever beautiful Catherine Deneuve).The other performers are very good. Sergei Bodrov Jr. is very good as Marie's younger lover. Catherine Deneuve is powerful even if she is underwritten. But the one who surprises enormously is Oleg Menshikov, who as Alexei Golinov, does an amazing job in tricking us. From the very beginning, he had tried to get his wife and boy out, but in very subtle ways. We only see that at the end of the movie.The ending is top notch. Tense and heart-breaking. I was very happy and tears of joy flowed from my eyes.However the movie is not perfect. The script jumps from time to time in order to cover 10 years in two hours. Also Sergei is dismissed too easily. We are told that after his suicide attempt, he was saved and now lives in Canada. Too easy.But the two flaws aren't enough to drag the movie down. The film is gorgeously shot, marvellously acted and utterly compelling.9/10.     "},{"Title":"very interesting true-life account of life in the Soviet Union","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I was actually a bit surprised to see a French film that realistically depicted the Soviet Union--particularly in the later years of the Stalin regime. That is because Communism is pretty widely accepted in France. So, it was nice to see intellectual honesty by showing how repressive and brutal Russian-style communism was.Sandrine Bonnaire gives an excellent performance as a French woman who agrees to emigrate to the USSR with her Russian husband following WWII. Stalin insisted all Russian expatriates would be warmly welcomed. However, once they arrived, most were either executed or sent to gulags to be worked to death. However, this woman and her family are allowed to stay--after she is savagely beaten by the secret police for being an imperialist spy. Well, life is amazingly tough in the USSR and she desperately wants to escape back to the West. However, doing this WITH her son isn't easy. Plus it's made worse after she helps another Russian escape. After years in a re-education camp, she is released to her family. Fortunately, she has not given up hope. Will she escape? Will she be able to take her son and husband? Tune in and see for yourself.The film is extremely interesting and important historically--well worth a look by parents or teens (it's a little too adult for younger audiences). "},{"Title":"certainly not the best film ever made","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  The exposition gives us a very clear, cold-war frame, then goes on slowing its way thru the story - a clear failure of either the screenplay or the directing. In the end, unfortunately, wasted energy of brilliant actors Catherine Deneuve and Oleg Menshikov. "},{"Title":"a SHALLOW film","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I really didn't like this movie.  It angers me that this thing recieved an academy award of some sort.  Other than the simple political message this movie was about -- it was completely empty.  The characters were shallow, and the plot typical. As a russian, I was angered by the movie's portrayal of the russian people and of russian society.  Communist Russia was shown like Nazzi Germany is often shown in popular films.  From the very beginning as the group of expatriates get off thee boat - they are separated into two groups like the newly arrived members of nazzi concentration camps. Corruption, fear, lies predominate in this film's depiction of Soviet society. The main character becomes friends with the the woman who used to be rich and whose apartement was made into a communal flat. i don't know. If you are going to watch foreign movies *about* Russia, you should at least do yourself the favor of also watching Soviet movies there are plenty of them, russian movies about russia, from the 50s, the 60s, the 70s.   Then maybe you'll get some idea about what russian society was like.  Because this movie really just capitalizes about everything that was negative about the soviet system, and does not in any way paint a realistic picture... ok well... that's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"based on a true story of a Russian doctor who having lived in France and married a French woman, goes back to Russia in 1946 and faces Stalinist oppression","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I totally believe every word in this movie. My own grandparents, who had been brought to the US by their parents, who escaped Russian revolution and Bolshevik rule in 1918, had later on become enamored of the communist propaganda and disillusioned due to the Great Depression, had them selves gone back to the Soviet Russia in 1930! Their fate was somewhat similar to the characters in this movie. Grandfather perished in 1941 in the Red Army, grandmother survived, but soon thereafter got her opened, and became a staunch dissident. She influenced me greatly in stilling a hatred of Russia and Communism. Eventually, out whole family came to the US as refugees from the USSR - in 1979 and 1985. I am so proud and happy that my 3 sons got to be born in the US.Great lesson in this movie. "},{"Title":"Just A Few Corrections....","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Just a few corrections about the plot.... First, the person like Marie wouldn't be able to LIVE in Soviet Union - soviets never wasted time with people like her - they were too busy building communism, so problems like hers were solved oh, so simply - following famous comrade Stalin's phrase No person - no problem.... Second, people like them would never be allowed to go abroad... Believe me, even Bulgaria was abroad that time... So, please be careful getting caught by the story... BUT.... if you want to dive in daily life of those days, this movie is just perfect its moods, its colors, even glasses used... Very real, indeed... Happy diving.... "},{"Title":"Decent melodrama set against the backdrop of Stalinist Russia","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, this movie is good, but it is only good for what it is (see the one line summary), but nothing else.  A French woman (Sandrine Bonnaire) follows her Russian husband (Oleg Menshikov), seduced, like a number of Russian emigres, by Stalin's treacherous promises at the end of WWII, to the Soviet Union where she gets a good taste of the whole nine yards of post-war USSR.  What follows is a long odyssey of her trying to get out, including a zigzag relationship with her husband and an inevitable love affair, in this case, with a neighbor played by Sergey Bodrov Jr.  It's all very touching, very emotional and tear-jerking, especially exacerbated by the brutal conditions of Stalinist Russia.  But while it's brimming with emotions, it's short on any really demanding substance. I wish, for instance, that Menshikov's character was developed better because he had more complex and difficult choices to face.   In any case, it is a good movie to watch once, but I have no desire to see it again.  Coincidentally, I had the same feeling about this director's other, more famous, film Indochine - a luscious, emotional epic with exotic setting involving a love triangle. Exactly something you receive Oscars for, eh?   "},{"Title":"A Tale of Kiev","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film because of It's plot, and some of It's characters.  But not everything for me was completely likeable.  I'm not sure what it is, but there was too much melodrama here.  Mainly with the lead actress Sandrinne Bonnaire who throughout the film is saddend by the fact that she has to stay in Russia for so long.  Not always bad, just maybe unpleasant.  But, Oscar winner Regis Wargnier knows how to put a film together and this is a good example for foreign film fans of him or just the genre. B "},{"Title":"Excuse my French","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I had watched Est-ouest on a French channel with movie subtitles, and I've got to admit that it's one of my favourite art films and my hatest at the same time. That was weird all along. But I wanted to watch it again since I had seen it only once. I even wanted to buy it online, but I don't have credit cards and my parents won't allow me.This movie about a Russian immigrant, his French wife and their son starting to live in Kiev is so interesting I became Catherine Deneuve's fan and I started to watch her movies at the same channel. I also had a crush on Oleg Menshikov, who played as the doctor Alexei. I realized that he and the late Sergei Bodrov Jr. memorized their French lines phonetically, and it's quite funny but true, believe me. The downfall by the way that although this is a very unforgettable flick, I think there were some errors like Is Kiev really in Russia or in Ukraine? The characters are so dumb... except Gabrielle and Serioja. But then, I can't blame for this. Maybe I could recommend this to myself and my art film fanatic ex-teacher.  "}{"Title":"Good idea, but tainted by propaganda","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I constantly was pinched by the exaggerated dark depiction of 50's Soviet Union and exaggerated bright referrals to western world. France and the Western block are subtly referred to as free world, land of the freedom, etc... The subject the movie is touching is a very tough one and should be handled with care. I think the movie fails to do that and gives in into the blind anti-Soviet wave.Is free world France compatible with expulsion of Jews to German death-camps? Is it compatible with surrendering to Hutler w/o any resistance and support for Nazis? Is it compatible with numerous atrocities committed during colonial period?All countries should reflect on their past in a desperate attempt to prevent the past from repeating itself, but others should not be feasting on those historical remains. The Movie could handle this better in my view. "}]