[{"Title":"Just watched it again.","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"62 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"       I just watched this again the other night.  It's probably the ninth or tenth time I've seen it, and I think it gets better every time.  Contrary to what some people are saying, I don't think the makers of this film are laughing at and ridiculing Mark.  Sure, some of the humor in the film is of the car-crash can't look away variety, but I feel underneath that they really admire the guy and his dogged tenacity.      Another thing is I think Mark does show some skill as a director.  Remember he has zero money shooting this stuff, and Coven was conceived as a money-making venture so he could make Northwestern.  I think some of the samples they were showing from Northwestern actually looked very good.  Now I don't think Mark writes the best dialogue in the world, but looking just at his photographic eye I'd say if the guy had any kind of schooling he might be shooting movies for someone right now.      And finally, I think some of the people making negative comments about this movie need to look in the mirror and think about themselves a bit.  OK, you don't like the movie, that's fine.  But I've seen enough smug, superior, comments on here to make me want to puke.  I love how as long as you're a poor, lower middle-class white in America people love to throw around terms like white trash, redneck, and other such pleasantries.  I believe some scribe from Orange County at the beginning of the reviews even called them inferior.  I'm sure most of the people making the comments consider themselves liberals too; as if they have any concept of what that word means.   "},{"Title":"So sad, it's good","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"43 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I have mixed feelings towards this movie. I found the movie fascinating in the way people are fascinated by car wrecks, and I found it funny in the way one might uncontrollably burst out a laugh at the sight of an eldelry person slipping on an icy sidewalk. It's a sick and guilt ridden enjoyment. The lives of most of the people this movie brings you in contact with are so pathetic that you can't help being intrigued. But lives hardly worth living do not a good movie make. No; there was more to it than that. What sucked me in to this documentary was the perserverence and tenacity of the characters that carry on day after day in an existence that would drive most people to jump off the nearest bridge. People standing around in robes in  a forst in the dead of winter for hours on end to help a friend that will no doubt produce a film only 400 locals would pay to see. A barely coherent old man who's too cheap to use the phone for local calls lends $3,000 to his nephew for a project he is certain is doomed. A mother who is as clueless as her heart is big sticks by her son through thick and thin. These things tug at the heart and, despite all the pity and head shaking they provoke, reveal a humanity that one can't help but be in awe of.Oh, and the comedic moments are priceless. Uncle Bill steals the show in that department, but many others contribute. (The kitchen cabinet door scene nearly rolled me off the couch.) Yep; there are some priceless laugh spots in this film that almost make you wonder whether this isn't truly a mockumentary in the style Christofer Guest (Spinal Tap, Best In Show). But it's not; it's real life making you laugh, and that makes it funnier.Yes; I enjoyed the movie quite a bit, but probably for the wrong reasons. But so did countless others. In the end, it doesn't matter. A good movie is a good movie. "},{"Title":"American tale","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  At several points in American Movie, would-be filmmaker Mark Borchadt is forced to confront what compels him on a trail with seemingly few rewards. A constant refrain is heard in his answers. He doesn't want to work the forgettable life of a newspaper boy; he wants to achieve celebrity. Why? Though Mark doesn't quite know, his volumnious collection of scripts and tomes underscores his simple love of film.Yet American Movie is brutally honest in its treatment of Mark. While it allows his dreams of making the great American film to fly free on film, it also captures a life filled with lower-class constraints and realities. Despite all of Mark's desire, his motivation is frequently lost in a life gush with alcohol. Hence, the making of Borchadt's film, Coven, goes from 6 months to 3 years and the movie suffers a bit from being drawn out.American Movie is rife with memorable supporting characters and Mark is an able lead. This film is really the story of two filmmakers, the one in front of the camera and the one behind. Director Chris Smith has already received his plaudits, and once American Movie makes the rounds of the indy circuit, Mark Borchadt will also have his share of fame. Maybe then he'll know what to do with it. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Okay, so I'm a sucker for a good documentary, particularly where it tells a modern-day Don Quixote story.  A caveat  I met Mark Borchardt in the winter of 1995/96 while he was still working on Coven.  But I'll save that story for later.  American Movie, which commenced production not long after, accurately portrays the person that I knew, although in greater depth than I expected or believed existed. This is simultaneously a very funny and very sad film, and is brilliantly executed.  Mark comes across as his own worse enemy his childlike ambition and optimism -- which I admire -- is undermined by his apparent artistic ineptitude as well as his bizarre fiscal expectations. But he's also a charismatic guy.  His loyal Sancho Panza sidekick is equally likeable loyal, if frazzled, to the core.  Like Don Quixote, American Movie presents an often-ignored inefficient aspect of freedom -- that people will be drawn toward professions to which they are not particularly well-suited, irrespective of repeated failure.  It is a great film. "},{"Title":"This is the best documentary ever made.","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This documentary is the most hypnotizing film I have seen in a long while.   I must have had it on for an entire day.  The selected material included in the piece flow amazingly well and develop three characters that are impossible to ever forget.  The different layers of these people peel back to make an oddly moving film about perseverance, loyalty and determination.  These characters ended up suprisingly fascinating and the film is unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Don't Let This Happen To You","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Praised by some, loathed by others, this Chris Smith documentary tells the real-life story of a twenty-something, amateur filmmaker named Mark Borchardt who sets out to complete his thirty minute film Coven, as a first step toward what he hopes will be a lifelong career in feature film-making. Working menial jobs, Mark lives at home in his parent's basement. He's deep in debt. And he has no professional experience. What he does have is idealism, enthusiasm, supreme confidence, and enormous determination and zeal. The question in my mind was does Mark have ... talent?Reminiscent of Michael Moore's Roger & Me (1989), American Movie is both funny and depressing. We watch Mark write a script, cast players, direct, edit, and especially crucial in Mark's case, find funding. With every one of these tasks Mark plods along frustrated, but determined. All of these activities involve other people, including his mom, his spaced-out friend Mike, and other locals. One of these locals is his real-life Uncle Bill who looks to be in his eighties.At one point Uncle Bill, sitting in his cluttered trailer, demands to be fed before he will consent to being filmed. Later, Mark, being a perfectionist, requires more takes since Uncle Bill can't seem to get it right. Mark to Uncle Bill You have to believe in what you're saying, to which Uncle Bill responds Well, I don't; I don't believe in nothing you're doing. After take 31, Uncle Bill rebels Isn't that enough now? That's all for me.Some reviewers of American Movie have criticized it as pointless voyeurism into the life of a no-talent loser. They refer to Mark and his cohorts as trailer park white trash. Certainly, that is one interpretation, and along with it the conclusion that the film is a sad commentary on the impossibility of achieving Hollywood's idea of the American Dream, when you have no money to work with.But other reviewers find the film to be inspiring, a cinematic pep talk for the underdog, and brutally honest about the realities of indie film-making. These viewers point out that despite the fact that Mark had no money to speak of, he still completed his film Coven, and got it shown at the local theater.My own conclusion is that American Movie is a well-crafted documentary useful for first time indie filmmakers. It's similar to a TV reality show, but without the competition. The cinematography and the editing are excellent. Although I found Mark to be irritating at times and overconfident of his skills, I admired his optimism and determination. Coven, included as an extra on the DVD, may be a cinematic train wreck. But Mark's overall experience is no less valid as a guide to others. In essence, the message of American Movie is don't let this happen to you. "},{"Title":"My all-time favourite film.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Looking for proof that real life is more entertaining than fiction?  You just found it. This superb documentary about an aspiring feature filmmaker (Mark Bortchart) who refuses to admit defeat is the funniest film I have ever seen -- probably because it's also one of the most tragic. Oddly enough, the more I watch the film the more inspired I become.   "},{"Title":"Mark Borchardt Independent Wanna Be","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  After seeing American Movie, you either hate Mark Borchardt or you understand him. If you are a struggling film maker trying to be the next George Romero, John Cassavetes or Alfred Hitchcock, you will understand Mark's determination and where he gets his talentless motivation. The audience that makes up American Movie is just that. Struggling film makers or die hard fans of Troma. Either way, they are all members of the club of hard knocks and non-union independent feature film. The moral of Mark's story is something short of following your dream. It's more and less than that. Whether you relate with Mark in more ways that one, Mark is living a lot of people's reality. Because of that, American Movie is important and should be watched by every film student in America.  "},{"Title":"Well Made Documentary; Heartbreaking","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is a very well made documentary. I read some of the other comments and I get a feeling that a few of these viewers don't watch too many documentaries (and all the reality TV crap doesn't count). Yes, this movie is painful at times because of the ineptness of the horro film director struggling to get his pals and relatives to help him make his demonic movie. But it shows someone (however debatable his talent)following a dream, a passion, a desire to do something. To break out of his hellish life of debts, and child out of wedlock and dreary 9-5 job. The camera captures wonderful moments of human behavior and just like project Greenlight, it shows what happens when people get in over their heads with trying to just film a simple scene (or a scene where someone's head has to go through a cabinet, or an old man has to clearly say ONE line and can't, etc.) BUT, a much better documentary about the same world is the much earlier 1975 documentary Demon Lover Diary - where someone tagged along as these Michigan guys tried to make their horror film. Hard to track down but highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Life, but not as we know it...","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" For me, the best & most memorable movies are often those which on first viewing I know nothing about. American Movie is a perfect example of just such a gem. Watching TV late one evening, I spotted the one & only good review among the dross - thankfully I settled in for a real treat. American Movie is a documentary following the unforgettable Mark Borchardt (pronounced orchard, I believe), a highly articulate & charismatic Wisconson lad, as he struggles to write, direct and produce MidWestern, a gritty, low-budget Horror movie on which he has been working for years. In Mark we discover a young man filled with contrast. His appearance is of the classic trailer-trash stereotype - skinny, bum-fluff mustache, '80s heavy metal styling, mullet hairdo, etc. To camera however, Mark reveals startling wit & insight as he philosophizes upon life, love, movies & the American way. As the movie unfolds, it sadly becomes clear that Mark's lack of discipline & heavy drinking are relentlessly sabotaging his creative efforts. American Movie is a charming watch, filled with hilarious moments & vivid characters. Chief among these is Mark's lovable buddy Mike Schank, a soft-spoken reformed stoner who, having conquered an addiction to scratch cards, is now dependent on soda pop. I absolutely loved American Movie. It generates real empathy between the viewer & principal characters, and provides hilarity without feeling exploitative. I would wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone. "}{"Title":"The Intriguing Story of Someone Who Refuses to Let Go of a Pipe Dream","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  When we are young, we all pick out an ideal occupation for ourselves artist, actor, writer, rocket scientist, etc..  While most of us grow out of our pipe dreams, the main character of American Movie, Mark, has yet to let go of his(and at a thirty-something age too) to become a wealthy acclaimed director.  Despite the fact that Murphy's Law won't leave Mark alone and something always seems to go wrong, Mark is able to persevere during each deterring incident with an even greater drive to reach his goals.  His desire to be a director so controls his character that he sees any person or thing in his life as something to exploit to reach the goal.  While I noticed other IMDB commenters are lambasting Mark's selfishness, I think it's an almost justified sort-of selfishness because for Mark, not becoming a famous director is equivalent to death.  He talks incessantly about leaving some kind of mark on the world, and he sees filmmaking as a way to do this.Unfortunately any viewer of this movie picks up early on the fact that Mark has a near-zero chance of ever achieving his dream.  Is he aware of this? No, not in the slightest, and none of his family or friends want to let him in on the secret(in fact even some of them believe in him).  Strangely enough though, the disappointing future the viewer feels is sure to occur for Mark doesn't impede the ability to find humor in the film.  This is a very very funny documentary.  Most of the laughs come from when Mark is filming scenes for Coven. There's a scene where an actor has to have his head break a cupboard, and it's just not working.  Another scene has Mark's very old uncle Bill saying a few lines to the camera; needless to say, after 20 takes of a lot of headscratching and line-stumbling Bill finally decides he's had enough.  A lot of humor sadly comes from Mark himself.  His screenwriting, which he seems to think is worthy of a Pulitzer, is laughingly bad It's alright, it's ok, there is something to live for; Jesus told me so.American Movie is, contrary to what people might think, a documentary that anyone can enjoy(even though my sister, who watched some scenes, seemed to think it was downright bizarre).  The fact that Chris Smith can successfully bring to the screen a film that inspires both sadness from Mark's depressing lifestyle to hilarity with scenes with Bill(who unfortunately passed away before the film was released) says quite a lot about him.  I wonder how the dreamer Mark regards this documentary.  Does he realize that it casts him in a bad light?  Or that it sets up to show him as a fool in many scenes of the film?  Or does he see it as something that will be shown prior to his own A&E Biography segment?  It's an intriguing subject of wonder, and I hope the latter comes true for him some day.I highly recommend this movie 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Painful Realities","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I enjoyed this one, because I can relate to it. At one time in my life I was trying to make films, and experienced many of the same problems Mark Borchardt did in trying to make HIS film. And I also went through a protracted period of self-absorbed arrested development, where I refused to grow. But then, miraculously, I got married, and had kids. I realized that being a struggling filmmaker was, in all likelihood, not going to feed my family. So I got a decent job and did what I felt I needed to do to make that happen. That is what an mature, responsible adult does. Mark hasn't faced up to that reality as yet, and so, in that sense, he is a retarded adolescent. For this reason, there is a hopelessness about him. Like Don Quixote, he seems so inept and self-deluded that he doesn't realize how bad off he really is. The viewer feels a sense of superiority and pity for him and his circle. Mark has kids and an ex-wife and bills to pay, but the film depicts him caring basically only about pursuing his artistic vision. Despite this, Mark comes across in the film as a likeable individual, surrounded by a very interesting family and group of friends. Unfortunately, Mark lacks many of the things necessary to be successful both in life and in a career maturity, responsibility, education, knowledge, life experience, prioritization, financial clout, etc.. Yet he trudges on, much like Ed Wood, apparently without any semblance of a clue. I guess we are supposed to feel encouraged by the spectacle of the never say die attitude of this noble individual, struggling against the odds. And man, what odds there are! Kiefer Sutherland, Colin Hanks, Tori Spelling and Angelina Jolie are all offspring of big-time film or TV people; no doubt, they will all want to direct some day, if they aren't already. How much room is there for an independent like Mark? It's like watching a guy hit himself in the head with a board, over and over again. Come to think of it, that is pretty close to what happens to one of Mark's actors, with the kitchen cabinet door, in one of the funniest scenes I have ever seen in any movie.Despite these misgivings and seeming criticisms, I truly enjoyed this movie, and would heartily recommend it to anyone. Uncle Bill is amazing. I have a friend who met both Mike and Mark and he told me that, in real life, these guys are just exactly the way they appeared in the movie. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Movie","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Before I comment on the movie's subject matter, I'll say a few things about the movie itself.It's a great piece of filmmaking. I felt like a fly on the wall, like the people being filmed somehow didn't know the camer was there much of the time. And when they did, they were able to be honest and direct. The editing job is first-rate, with much of the comedy coming from the editing.It is a comedy, albeit a dark comedy. Without the humor, the film would be too depressing to watch. Mark's misoginy and neglect of his children is chilling, as is Mike's drug and alcohol abuse. But these people care about each other in their own ways, and they are very passionate about making movies. The interactions betwen Mark and his Uncle Bill are both the funniest and the saddest parts of the film.The DVD includes Coven, and it's much better than I thought it would be. Interesting film angles, competent editing, and passable acting--better than any Roland Emmerich film.The title tells the story This is about the heart of America, and it doesn't matter that it's in the supposed heartland. There are people all over this land with the same dreams as these people--and the same obstacles to those dreams. ...OK. That was pretty corny. Sorry. I really liked this movie. "},{"Title":"Sad, but Frequently Funny","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is a film which people seem to either love or hate, the same as it's subject wannabe-film-maker Mark Borchardt. The film follows Mark as he attempts to make his first feature film (called Northwestern) and complete a short horror film called Coven. He makes films with his friends and family using any equipment and money that he managed to get his hands on, in particular from his elderly Uncle Bill.The thing about Mark is that he is certain that he is one of the great film-makers of our time. He is also certain that he will be successful. However, the chances are that he won't be. This is what makes the film moving. The thing is that, judging by the clips from Coven, the man is not without talent. He certainly has a good eye, and could probably make a career in film-making, if he gets the chance. He certainly appears genuine in his desire for success.there are some hilarious scenes though, for example, where they are trying to get an actor's head to come through a cupboard door. Also Mark's friend, Mike Schank, is hilarious. "},{"Title":"The Untold Story, Here For The Telling!","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  What gives this movie its personality is the knowledge, in the end, that it is all true. While it is a compelling and humorous documentary that does border on mockumentary in some parts (are they staged or is it really happening humorously?), it does seem to get a bit long towards the end.This movie is funny in places it needs to be, and flows relatively well. Reminiscent of Christopher Guest's movies, if you liked those or Adaptation then I recommend you keep a look out for this one.B+ "},{"Title":"Inspired and inspiring!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  American Movie blew me away on first viewing! This movie works on so many levels. It's funny, sure, but also sad, frustrating, depressing AND uplifting. The term 'feel-good movie' usually makes me run away screaming, but this movie DOES make you feel good, and not in your simplistic tree-hugging Oprah/Highway To Heaven way either. I believe in Mark Borchardt. I believe he's got the raw talent to do something worthwhile. He's certainly got the drive and motivation! I wish him luck in the future, and I hope he succeeds. American Movie also makes a star out of Mike Schank. His sheer good humour in the face of hard times is a wonderful thing to behold. Mike is also responsible for the unique acoustic guitar soundtrack of Bach, Metallica, and Mr. Bojangles which complements this movie perfectly.One of my favourite movies of the decade. "},{"Title":"More depressing and long, than funny and enjoyable","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin.  Mark Borchardt dreams about becoming a famous film maker.  He is trying to produce a low budget horror flic, using whatever he can at his disposal (friends, frustrated family members, etc..). Problem is Mark, has great ideas but can't seem to focus on one thing as his mind races at 500 miles an hour.  Enlisting his zombie druggie friend he tries to produce 'Coven' (which Mark continualy pronounces KO-VEN instead of CU-VEN), in order to make his dream.This documentary is BIZARRE!  Mark's ambition is totaly blind to the fact that he is totaly in debt, has 3 kids to support, trying to make a film to get him on the road to the 'American dream'.  His family and his zombie friend in particular, produce a lot of laughs, but the film is also sharp in showing the problems Mark faces.  The camera is there when he's fighting with his ex-girlfriend, when he's trying to borrow money (again) from his uncle, and so on.A lot of reviews have called this a riot of a film, but even though it has some very funny moments, most of the film is bleak.  It's funny seeing Mark taking one of his actors and slamming his head through a cupboard door, over and OVER again, then realising he's actualy broken his moms kitchen and has to repair it, yet, I kept feeling really bad for Mark and at times became very depressed watching his failures.  But the movie is full of hope, as he is DETERMINED to get this film done so he can get make something better of his life.  But that's what the chase for the American dream is all about. As a documentary its pretty slow paced compared to others I have seen, but it is OK.Funny Note  Mark's zombie friend, plays guitar, and a lot of times the film has his music playing in the documentary.  The key one that keeps playing over and over is his rendition of Metalica's 'Fight fire with fire' acousticaly.  That was a riot.Rating 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good filmmaking... sad lives","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I didn't much enjoy American Movie.  Not because it was abad film inherently, but I didn't much care for the people init.  These aren't people seeking the American Dream --these are depressed and *depressing* lives.  And thesepoor people are used by the documentary as comedic foil. I felt bad for them.  It felt like Jerry Springer took the camerato his guests' homes.  This is sad, not funny.  Could havebeen brilliant if it were made with that poignance in mind. What should have been a serious look is used as a joke. These LIVES are used for humor on film!  Shame. "},{"Title":"Could've been more fascinating","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I deeply enjoyed the first 45-minutes-or-so, because I'm an aspiring filmmaker and it's both amusing and insightful to behold the mishaps that go on when making a low, low-budget film.  But past that point, the movie drifts off, fixating on Mark Borchardt's family life, which isn't very interesting.  Hell, neither is my family life, but you don't see me releasing my home videos for the whole viewing public to see.  Borchardt's rantings are often funny (sometimes you're laughing with him, other times at him), but sometimes they get annoying.  I would compare Mark to Ed Wood in his perseverance, but other than that (and the fact that both their films are beyond terrible) they're quite different.  Mark is very paranoid, and if he doesn't get the shot the way he likes it, he throws a fit.  Ed was very confident and if the first take would turn out halfway decent, he'd yell Cut and print!  I mean, if you're gonna be a bad filmmaker, act like a bad filmmaker.  Don't pretend like you're Stanley Kubrick.  But those are my criticisms about Mark, and not the movie.  The movie isn't bad, but the first 45 minutes are the best and the rest is pretty much downhill.  I don't care about Mark passing out on the couch watching the Oscars or watching the Green Bay Packers play on television while he sips beer like no tomorrow.  In a way, documentaries are good, because they hold a mirror up to reality, and we don't see enough reality in mainstream film.  But reality isn't always interesting.  If you want to see a consistently interesting documentary, watch Roger and Me, which contains a wide variety of characters who are each quirky and amusing in their own ways.  All I really cared about was Mark's pursuit in making the great American movie, no matter how far from great it really is.  So if the movie concentrated on that, and the running time was trimmed, I would've found it much more fascinating.  My score  6 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Great Film about Making Film!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Some other reviewers have slighted Mark Borchardt's vision in their reviews. There is no doubt there is humour in American Movie but there is also great passion shown by Mark B. Do those who scoff at his efforts really think Coven or his other films are so far away from the initial efforts of John Waters or other cult film makers?I'd like to see the next 10 films he would make as he learns the process. Too many films are made by people who have no passion but some (learned) ability.Rock on Mark...you are an inspiration to people in any walk of life...all the best! "}{"Title":"Hilarious proof Michael Bay might not be the dumbest guy working in film.","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" No Hollywood hasn't got this lazy yet that they just tell you what it is and where it was made, American Movie is a documentary about a man with perhaps the greatest divide between ambition and ability currently working in film, and his efforts to make his debut film.As a digression though I have found altogether too many films that just say whack American in front of something and there's your title!, maybe it's familiarity, maybe misplaced nationalism, but these films always seem to make a few bucks, leading to more and more.So we have American&#x85; Pie / Gangster / Psycho / Beauty / History X / Splendor / Dreamz All in the last decade off the top of my head, with dozens more out there.Back to Mark Borchardt the subject of this American Movie. Mark is a movie devotee who clearly has at least put in the time watching and studying film. He has grand plans to become an established filmmaker in his own right, he just needs to make his debut short film to drum up some money so that he can make his name with a full length feature.The film will be called NorthWestern, and while early goings of this documentary introduce us to many people already associated and indoctrinated into the process it is clear early that this won't be a tale of cinematic triumph against the odds.Even Mark's most ardent supporters admit that years have passed with little or no progress. Mark is idealistic, ambitious, passionate and sincere. But he is also delusional at times, ill equipped and has a chasm between his ideas and capabilities.Low budget is low budget, and it worked for Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell, but Mark is an ideas man without a clue. In any case the intrigue isn't what the film will be like or even if it will be finished, it is the people dragged into Mark's life because or at times despite the film.Mark's Mum is his biggest supporter, his Dad seems to be hopeful but doubting, and resentful of Mark's open animosity and hatred of a 9 &#x96; 5 existence, seeing as that is what his Dad himself did. Mark has kids, exes, a girlfriend, cast and crew to deal with day by day. But it seems only one true friend in Mike Shenk (who deserves his own movie &#x96; I'll get to him) and dear old Uncle Bill.Bill is an elderly man who Mark nags incessantly for money *ahem* film financing capital, with tales of future Scorcese style glory and Snyder sized box office returns until poor old Uncle Bill gets exhausted and relents&#x85; again&#x85; fully expecting never to see a penny for his outlay.It seems Mark's unerring sense of self belief and endless optimism convinces others to get involved without the slightest assurance or inkling that anything will ever eventuate.But even Mark has doubt at times, it is obvious to all that when he drinks his resentment of authority and a more hardworking existence rise quickly to the surface, and he lacks the ability to say no to alcohol, allowing it to set himself further and further behind, both financially and cinematically.But enough with the serious stuff. American Movie is a well made doco about a man trying to make his own personal Citizen Cain with a Troll 2 budget and skillset. Mark is enigmatic and at times compelling but it is Mike Shenk who provides the reason to watch American Movie.Mike is a self confessed unemployed former habitual drug user. He never seems there even though he is right&#x85; there. His dazed expression and half breathed high pitched voice continually suggest a room with the Vacant signs up, and his bizarre stories to nowhere only provide further assurance.In limited screen time Mike steals the film with his rambling stories, acoustic guitar noodlings and tales of personal punishment suffered through his previous drug abuse, all laced with a familiar blank smile and a shrill girlish laugh.When Mike steps to the mic (Beastie Boys style) late in the film and lets loose with the most blood-curdling scream I can recall on film for audio looping it is simultaneously incredible, bewildering and hilarious that this deathwail can come from such an unassuming stoner.Final Rating &#x96; 6 / 10. Mark Borchardt is a walking, drinking, profane, bespectacled dichotomy, and evidence that film smarts don't necessarily mean smart films. On this occasion it does make for compelling viewing &#x96; albeit perhaps more about a man triumphing over his limited abilities. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, hilarious, sad, inspiring documentary about the American dream","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This movie, about supremely untalented American film-maker Mark Borchardt and his attempts to make a short film in order to make a small amount of money which will launch him into fame and fortune as a film-maker, is riveting. As they say, fact is stranger than fiction. That is certainly borne out by this picture. Borchardt uses his friends, family, and assorted local actors to try and complete this picture.Borchardt is a character who could drive a novel or inspire cult members. One sometimes wonders why so many of the folks who people his film work for as long as they do, with him. But in truth, it's not hard to tell. Borchardt, however misguided, has vision. He doesn't have much talent and he has a drinking problem, but he has a vision. He has determination and perseverance that others can only dream of. He has charisma. It makes him a compelling leader, but unfortunately he is devoid of many great ideas. His lack of focus and alcoholism extend the length of the production almost indefinitely. He does complete Coven and even gets a premiere in his hometown theater, but it takes him a long time.He never makes the movie Northwestern which he dreams of making. Perhaps he didn't have the vision to bring that movie to fruition, but he did want to make epic films and leave the everyday grind of life in the US. He had his dream. Unfortunately, he didn't have the vision to bring his dreams to life but he had an awful lot of determination. If people take potshots at Borchardt for his supposedly being white trash then I hope they are living lives of total sophistication and order because if they aren't, they're total hypocrites. Yes, Borchardt might exhibit characteristics of being white-trash, but the purity of his belief in getting out from under the life he had, is absolutely inspiring. "},{"Title":"Strangely heartwarming documentary","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" 'American Movie' is a documentary about Mark Borchardt and his attempt to make a movie about growing up in Milwaukee ('Northwestern'). Filming isn't going so well, and he's strapped for cash, so he returns to his old horror movie project, called Coven. His plan is to hit the independent horror market, sell a bunch of videotapes and then sink the money into finishing 'Northwestern'.The director, Chris Smith, could have just played the movie for laughs. And there are moments when the movie is laugh out-loud funny. Borchardt isn't the brightest guy in the world, and it's quickly obvious he's not much of a filmmaker. Borchardt's got the Milwaukee drawl they play off in 'Fargo', and he refuses to accept that Coven isn't pronounced Cove-Ann. His best friend Mike is a more friendly version of Beavis complete with huh, huh, huh laugh. It's hilarious when Borchardt tries to ram his lead actor's - Tom's - head through a cupboard door. It takes a lot of attempts to get this money shot for 'Coven', while Tom's head steadily gets softer on top.Yet that cupboard scene moment is actually a good indication of why 'American Movie' is a real good 'un. Tom takes the repeated bashes on his head with good humour. There's a real sense in the movie that people are pulling together to try to make a film. Borchardt is a bit of a jerk when he's drunk, but he's got a dream and he's going for it.But the star of the movie is Uncle Bill, a curmudgeonly 83 year old who fronts the money for 'Coven' and occasionally busts into a song about his life Goodbye dear, hope you're in heaven where you belong / I was wondering if they had cigarettes in heaven, I don't think so / I still love you, I'll visit your grave every day / Not every day, but I'll visit it sometimes if I ever find it.And... you know what... Borchardt tries to look after Bill too. He cooks Thanksgiving dinner for Bill and washes his clothes, and behind all that bravura he seems like a nice guy. And, maybe off the back of that deep-seated charm, 'American Movie' is a great, fascinating documentary. Sadly, 'Coven' is terrible... but please don't let that put you off 'American Movie'. "},{"Title":"Multilayed, complex and simple.","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This movie is a work of art. At first I thought it was like a spinal tap look at a hopeless film maker and that Mark was the butt of his own joke but then the other layers of this film came through. Mark's admirable drive to make something of himself, regardless of his talent, at least he tried with all he was capable of. And he's not without skill and knowledge, be it half known knowledge at times. It was inspiring to see him clawing his way to the finish line using everything he could to achieve his goal, getting his mum, friends, his girlfriend and his kids to be the camera operator, sound, actors etc. The stuff with his uncle Bill were complex too. Firstly it seemed he was just trying to milk his aging uncle for cash for his project but then there was a real affection and caring, and wanting to include him, draw him out of his trailer. And that's one of the things that inspires most about Mark. He is a catalyst a hapless doer that motivates his dead end world to something more. On one level you can laugh at this guy and his friends, but there's so much more in this story than incompetent nobodies. This is an uplifting film about struggle. I love it and am moved by it. "},{"Title":"sad and funny, awkward and heartwarming, an adventure into the stubborn, crazy beauty of the American dream","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Sometimes all you need is passion, or a need to keep working at something so that all of what you want the world to see is in the work. The so-called 'American Dream' is all about somebody trying to get out of the little world they're living in and make something of themselves, to be more than they are. In this case we have a filmmaker, very independent minded and determined through years of trial and tribulation, who wants to get his dream somehow. Which is not easy since the guy, Mark Borchardt, is an beer-guzzling factory/cemetery worker who has three kids with an ex-wife he barely sees, a mountain of debt, an executive producer Uncle who is half-senile and half never supportive (despite giving up the thousands for the film-making), and, obviously, gets very depressed. But it's a story, in spite of everything that happens, funny or tragic, is hopeful and inspiring about the future for Mark.And it's also about something else, how making a movie takes time, and money, sometimes both in equal measure. Borchardt's movie he's planning is a feature-length exploration of his life and times in Minnesota, Northwestern, but he's having trouble getting it off the ground not ready to direct, not ready with the script, no locations or a solid cast. So instead he goes back to a short film he started years ago, a psychological horror called 'Coven' (or CO-ven as he points out), which is a mere 40 minute movie that takes him more than three years of production. As he's making this movie we get to know who Borchardt is- or at least what Chris Smith gets to know him as or reveals- and his family and friends, including his old and not-all-there Uncle Bill, his friend Mike who is an ex drug addict turned gambling addict, and his colleagues and girlfriend who all comment about Mark's ways as an artist and as a human being.A marker of a truly knowing and superb documentary is how close a filmmaker can get to the subject and make it into a story, make it into a story that is absorbing and true to something in the human condition, and can be just told well through the usual means of film-making itself. As Smith's film is about such a subject that he's making, one might think back to other documentaries on directors with a super (and I mean SUPER) passion for the story they're telling, almost to the point where they might not know when to let go (Herzog and Coppola docs come to mind like Burden of Dreams or Hearts of Darkness). But here we see a man who is a decent guy, though never truly professional. As one says, he's instinctual and primal, he knows his stuff, but whether he can finish his movie, and maybe finally get a catharsis from it (if only financially) remains to be seen.His struggle isn't just one of being an artist and after something he needs time and money to find, but about the ways that a person goes about finding it his own way, and that's a big key to the success of the movie. We care about this guy, even if some of the things he does or comes across are, frankly, quite funny in the way that Borchardt goes about filming Coven, or directs (or mis-directs) his actors, or says he'll ship out 3,000 copies of his short film without a clear idea who his audience is. And Smith really captures the other people around him with a precise but tender accuracy we understand who they are at first, but then that understanding deepens based on the circumstances they live in (i.e. the method of alcoholism among Mark and his friends over the years, vodka being a big component), such as his Uncle's disillusioned feeling about Mark's lack of success, despite his backing of the project and what he does. Watch the scene where Mark directs his Uncle in the ADR recording of a certain few lines and one gets a key moment Mark will stop at nothing to get what he's after, even if all hope might be lost.American Movie is a bittersweet experience. We want to root for this guy even if he is hapless and whose troubles might hit close to home for some, or may seem pathetic to others. He's not born into Hollywood royalty and didn't go to film school, but he'll keep on what he's doing just because, if nothing else, there is nothing else really except for the toilet at the cemetery full of feces. It's an entertaining parable, and a revealing portrait of truly independent film-making. Speaking of which, make sure to watch Borchardt's movie Coven on the DVD of American Movie - ultimately, when all is said and done, despite what the few clips in the documentary might suggest, he's a really good director. Sometimes, perhaps, humping the American dream in a small Northwest town is worth it. "},{"Title":"You have got to love this guys drive ....","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Mark Borchardt is the subject of this riveting documentary. He's that kind of guy that you can't decide if it's genius or insanity. His focus is razor sharp, he knows exactly what he wants to do, exactly how he wants it done and you just know that NOTHING will stop this guy making his movie. The documentary follows Mark around as he postpones making his movie Northwest to make a movie he started 6 years earlier called Coven. His crew is made up of buddies. his financing is basically family, friends and scratch cards. Nothing is going to stop Mark doing what he wants. You grow to like him as the movie progresses and the dynamic between him and those around him is so soft and warm that you almost wish you had him as a friend. Coming from a background of drug abuse, alcohol abuse and many AA meetings Mark is the epitome of the human spirit. Obsessed with the American dream of wealth and good fortune he will succeed or he will die trying. Good luck to you Mark. "},{"Title":"Aw dude. I'm sorry I tried to put your head through that.","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This documentary tags along as independent filmmaker Mark Borchardt struggles to make his own cult-quality film. It's a sincerely one-of-a-kind, hilarious. and heartfelt film, and it won the Grand Jury Prize at Sundance in 1999.Using relatives, local theater talent, slacker friends, his MasterCard, and $3,000 from his Uncle Bill, Mark Borchardt strives over three years to finish Coven, a short horror film. This is his story.Mark is behind on his child support payments, he drinks too much, and all the movies he has managed to make have been unreleased. he wants to make a feature-length film called Northwestern, but he needs to make money on this horror short to do it.It was really fascinating. Uncle Bill may have given him $3,000, but he didn't really think he would get his money back. The kitchen cabinet scene was hilarious, but I understand it didn't make the final cut of the film.Anyone thinking of making a film has to see this movie. Everyone else should see it just to see the cost involved, both financial and personal. "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" American Movie is a fascinating documentary of an amateur film maker who dreams big as he struggles to complete a short film. The completion of this film (Coven, 2000, Mark Borchardt) is hindered by a dysfunctional family, a lack of financing, a lack of a cast and crew and other troubles, yet somehow if finally is finished.This is an interesting look at one version of the American Dream, where one can hope to achieve one's goals in spite of apparently insurmountable obstacles. I was hugely impressed with Mark's dedication to his dream and his desire to make movies, no matter how many obstacles were set in his way. Clearly, alcohol and drug use, both his and his friend's, and a dysfunctional family background make the realization of his dream much more difficult, but he perseveres, and at last, Coven is completed. And while it is not great, Coven is not a terrible film, especially considering the lack of budget and professional actors. I've seen worse in the low budget arena.Director Chris Smith follows the making of this film and the lives of those involved with it in a way that conveys sympathy, humor (often at the expense of the people involved) and a respect for their persistence.This is an interesting movie that is well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"I feel like an idiot.  I thought this was a mockumentary","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Why are all the comments so bad?  I thought this movie was a mockumentary. I laughed so hard when I first saw it.  I laughed even subsequent times. Now I read these comments, and feel stupid.  Anyway, I laughed, and I would see the movie again. "},{"Title":"One of the best gems I've seen this year!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  At times, you may think this film was setup to be absurdly funny (like Spinal Tap), and yet Mark Borchardt's world is what you see on the screen, nothing more or less.  An outstanding piece of work!  One important note if you rent the DVD version ... watch the included short film Coven first before starting into the main feature of the documentary.  You won't regret it, and it puts things into much better perspective as to why Coven (pronounced Coh-ven, rhymes with soaken) is the way it is, and how much work goes into even half-hour shorts. "}{"Title":"We should all be so inspired...","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  It is too easy for a viewer to separate himself from most movies, because almost all movies are fictional.The difference between a fictional movie and a documentary is that if the main character in your documentary is fascinating and inspiring, you have the option of believing in him.Mark Borchardt, the subject of American Movie, has more passion and drive to create his movie Southwestern than most people have about anything. He refuses to let life stop him. Mark has less than no money He owes thousands of dollars in loans and bills to the IRS, the phone company, and to credit card companies. He has no facilities for film editing. He has no actors. Mark's family refuses to believe in him. Plus Mark has three children for which he owes back child support, and which he feels responsible for.And yet, as depressing as all this sounds, Chris Smith's American Movie could not be more uplifting. The only word to use for filmmaker Mark Borchardt is indominitable. No matter what happens, he will not give up his dream of making a movie. How does he overcome all of his obstacles? See American Movie and find out.If you have any interest in learning about the true challenges and rewards of maverick independent filmmaking, or if you want to meet an individual who will inspire you, I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Good Lord!! I know these people...","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Well, maybe not these people in particular, but people very much like them.  The ones who spent way too much time smoking dope and dreaming, and not enough time developing any sort of understanding of the things they claim to love.  Uggghh.This movie was, at times, painful to watch, because I really do know people like this, and I understand their frustrations; however, their frustrations are all self-made and it is sometimes difficult to empathize.  In fact, most often you end up holding these people in contempt (or at least I do) and that may not be entirely fair.  As Ed Wood showed us, it is possible to love film without really understanding it; more often than not, though, these people are simply dodging reality by occupying themselves with pipe-dreams.I felt that American Movie did a great job of portraying the life of such a person accurately... it was sometimes funny, but always tempered by a certain desperation.  See this movie, it was great film-making... but don't assume it will be the laugh riot that you may have heard about... it is a bit more serious than that. "},{"Title":"Amateur Hour","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  American Movie is a major step back for independent films.  What started out as a quirky and colorful (if filming Milwaukee for three years is colorful) chronicle in the life of an amateur filmmaker, Mark Borchardt, trying to complete his 35 minute horror shtick called 'Coven', becomes instead a non-film.  It is bland, it is boring, and it requires immense patience to get to the end.  This picture is mostly dialogue about ordinary people enduring their ordinary lives and that dialogue, after a few zingers, becomes tiresome (we could have stayed at home and listened to our own families).  When hearing people scream and seeing the different looking sweatshirts (nobody wears the same sweatshirt twice) become  the most interesting part of the picture, something is wrong.  Filmmakers Chris Smith and Sarah Price should have realized there was nothing here and turned off their cameras.  Instead they plowed along even as pathetic Mark plowed along to amuse them as well as himself.  American Movie starts out with Mark convincing himself that he is not a failure even though at age 30, a high school dropout, his only asset appears to be his mouth (as his brother rightly states).  His previous filmmaking has been little else than home movies with titles like 'The More The Scarier' and its sequels and he has been unable to finish two films which are interestingly biographical of his own personal failures (his fixation with 'Night of The Living Dead' and 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' themes is very troubling).  He has three children by a woman he won't marry and he can't take much emotional support from his separated parents, a high-strung Scandinavian mother and a wandering father, nor his two brothers who think he should be working in a factory.  We can be sympathetic for Mark to a point but it becomes clear his abilities do not measure up to his ambitions.  The real sympathies go to Uncle Bill and drugged out friend Mike.  Uncle Bill is worth $285,000 but lives in an unkempt house trailer and Mark is the only one he will give any money perhaps because he is his only friend.  We see Uncle Bill's emaciated body and we know he is walking death.  Mike is an ever-smiling simpleton with one brain cell left after all his drug abuse past.  Mike is also the one true constant in Mark's life, a friend in need.  If we can use Francois Truffaut's Day for Night as the gold standard for a film about people making a film, then American Movie might be better titled, Dead End for Dead End.   "},{"Title":"they keep working with the you","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Watching American Movie requires a lot of effort that is rewarded in a substantial but too brief way.  Neither Mike nor Uncle Bill can sustain a movie of this length, but they keep working with the you (as they do with Mark!)  Rather than build up to the brief  black and white premier of The Coven,  it may have been better to present the premier part first, then show the effort it took to get there.  After watching the tedious and difficult filming of The Coven, I was too little rewarded for the work I had put it.  I could have gotten almost as much out of hearing the audio alone, although the cabinet bashing scene is unique as is Mike's enduring pause with every delivery; Uncle Bill is familiar to many, and so, endearing. A valuable movie, an oft told tale of a man and his passion; a movie that will be much appreciated by independents. "},{"Title":"I'm half and half man, half with the Satanist idea and half with the Christian idea","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" American Movie starts off with a shot of its principle subject, Mark Borchardt, driving on I94, northbound I think. Right away it brings me home and in some respects I'll have a hard time treating this film objectively. Mark and his family and friends hail from southeastern Wisconsin, the Milwaukee suburbs, as does much of my family, and I grew up with and have known people like them all of my life. So excuse me if my review is a little more subjective and biased than usual.Mark B is a very tall, 30ish working-class guy from Menomenee Falls WI (I think; that's the suburb most referred-to) a town on the outer ring of Milwaukee suburbs. Mark has been trying for years to raise money - and talent - for a full-length low budget horror film production called Northwestern but as the film opens in 1995 he's having a hard time getting it together. Part of the problem is that nobody else seems to share Mark's passion - he has a habit of talking in technical film jargon to people who have no comprehension of it, or for that matter of a lot of simpler concepts. Not having money or any kind of film education, Mark is surrounded by amateurs who are mostly family and friends, notably total burnout Mike Schank (who provided the beautiful, low-key acoustic guitar music for the film) and his uncle Bill, who is physically weak, terminally depressed, and possibly senile. Much of Mark's time is spent trying to cadge money out of Uncle Bill, who doesn't understand or care about Mark's project. Early on he realizes that the feature project just isn't going to happen soon, so he decides to finish off a short film he has been sitting on, Coven, and to put his hopes on video sales of this work getting him enough money to get going on Northwestern. Most of the rest of the film alternates between Mark filming, editing, and post-dubbing Coven, with many scenes being both funny and rather sad or pathetic - like his attempts to have his uncle Joe, the executive producer recite a very simple line - and his generally despondent personal life, including jobs as a paper deliveryman and a groundskeeper/janitor at a cemetery, the same cemetery (I think) that provides him with fond memories of childhood escapes from his ever-fighting parents. It's not a life of quiet desperation, but rather one of loud, profane and sometimes almost spastic desperation.For me this was, as I said, familiar territory; I have a cousin very much like Mark in many respects and I've been around would-be low-budget horror filmmakers quite a bit. The feel of the hopeless rut that Mark feels he's in, both physically (suburban Milwaukee ain't exactly exciting) and mentally (he drinks way too much and has problems with his ex-girlfriend and seeing his 3 kids) are really conveyed well, and yet there's an overriding optimism that always seems to carry him through. A lot of people have commented on his obnoxious, overbearing attitude, and it certainly isn't something that appeals to me - I'd probably hate the guy if I knew him in real life, at least if he kept making condescending statements to me about life and dreams like he does to his family - but somehow it's endearing when you're not right there and you're just seeing how he - somehow - manages to get his project through to completion, over two more years. Much of it is really funny - I couldn't help but find his buddy Mike funny despite his completely wasted, burnt-out life, and Mike too is good-natured about things. It's in a lot of ways a very hopeful and invigorating film about taking chances, and as somebody much like Mark (only older, even) who has frittered away a lot of my life, I can only take heart.One odd element to the whole thing that I haven't seen anybody mention is the interplay between the filmmakers of American Movie - themselves working on a very low budget and scrabbling around a bit - and Mark and his family and crew. It's an odd choice that there's never really any back-and-forth between them about the nature of the film-about-the-film, we don't know for example where Chris Smith and his crew are staying while they do this, how they're managing with their budget, etc. Not really a fault, but an interesting artistic choice to leave all of that out. What does Mark think about his life being filmed, for that matter? We don't get much of that either.The fine DVD that I just watched offers a couple dozen deleted scenes, none essential but most worth seeing, two separate commentaries, and Borchardt's completed Coven which I'll review separately. Highly recommended - especially if you're a filmmaker, or a Wisconsinite. Or both. "},{"Title":"everything a documentary should be fun, sad, shocking in its portrait of one man/boy's vision of the American Dream...","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" ...which consists basically of a big house he'd like to buy someday. the star of the film, while making his dream movie, for motivation drives around an upper middle class neighborhood to remind him that somewhere out there is what he considers the American Dream money (I guess). He considers himself a filmmaker, though I'm sure he would have chosen guitar god/drug dealer/salesman if these professions had caught his fancy as a youth. instead mr. borchardt decided to make movies.and i'm of the opinion that 1) this is a heartbreakingly sad but at times laugh out loud funny flick. the abuse of the poor uncle is awful. where are borchardt's parents? the uncle is borchardt's father's brother, letting him scam money out of a wealthy but senile old man. do this old guy's brothers realize that mark could probably have been charged with abuse? i bet they didn't. borchardt's parents are absent while being present. their son is 30 and does not want to face the fact that he is NOT A TALENTED FILMMAKER, yet they don't require him to do something with himself. his brothers obviously dislike and resent the special treatment that enigmatic and manipulative brother receives from the parents, who do not get along and are not shown once in the same frame as one another. tragic situation right there two parents more involved in their dislike/hatred for each other than the raising of their children, who are in their 20's but still obviously craving some parental guidance.2) the funny moments, whatever else i think of the people, are PRICELESS!!!! the best friend/burnout/guitar playing dude is the only one in the film with ANY TALENT! he can play, and provided the music for the movie. but he is also a few brain cells shy of a full load. his non reactions are worth spending an hour and 50 minutes with the unsavory borchardt the guy should have his own show! scratch that less is more of the ex-druggie. hope he is doing well as of this writing (9/2006). bless him, he is sooo cool. and so sweet. just hanging out with a guy that you KNOW that he knows is not much of a friend because the burnout is so, i assume, lonely. very touching subject.did borchardt make it as a filmmaker? i don't think so, though i recall him getting on letterman (that may be a false memory, though). i do think he got his 2 minutes of fame, though no way in the world did he ever get that Dream house. when you're 30 years old and can't make a 30 minute short, it's time to work in a factory dude. or whatever. well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Chris Smith- Great Filmmaker","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Everyone wants to comment on Mark here. Sure, after seeing the movie so many times, and working on a very similar level as Mark, I connect with him as a character and I know a few different guys like Mike, The real brilliance here is Chris Smith. The essence of a successful documentary begins with choosing the subject matter- then finding a story that every viewer will connect with. Chris does this, and his film makes me wish I had his talent and guts AND makes me wish I was friends with Mark Borchardt! If you can make a documentary so transparent that anyone sees is the subject matter and not your camera angles or moving montages, you've succeeded. After surveying these comments, I'd say Chris Smith succeeded! "},{"Title":"Long Live Mark Borschard","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I loved this film. I could really identify with Mark's pain and desperation in wanting to get his film made - the lengths he went to get it made getting his family and local community involved is genuine and heartfelt. As already mentioned, this film really needs to be seen by every wannabe filmmaker out there and also those who work hard to make a dream to come true, but for whatever reason never make it.Also other comments have mentioned the whole mocking attitude that this doc is having at Mark. I disagree. Like i said i can totally relate to the ill-prepared attempts that Mark goes through, and the isolated feeling that no-one understands because they really couldn't care less unless you're rich and famous.And in this day and age of manufactured garbage, the value of an honest artist trying his best to make it is totally shat on. Okay I'm getting personal here....I've read that since American Movie was made, Mark and his buddy found small time success in the Industry...guest appearance on some TV show or whatever... When I heard that I felt so happy for the guy,no matter how limited or short lived that TV episode or whatever it was, was.... because it encourages people like me to feel that despite the BS, if you want it bad enough, underdogs like Mark can still succeed. And so can I. MARK BORSCHARD....you RULE!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Suck down peppermint schnapps and try to call Morocco at 200 in the morning.","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" There's a core of irony at the centre of documentary American Movie The Making of Northwestern (1999). While documenting a struggling, no budget filmmaker, American Movie, and it's low budget documentary styled horror contemporary The Blair Witch Project (1999), attracted lucrative bidding from the major studios. On top of that, Mark Borchardt, the focus of the documentary is clearly desperate to be recognised for his film-making, but ultimately seems destined to be remembered, perhaps unfavourably, for being the subject of somebody else's successful film.American Movie director Chris Smith was teaching a film-making class when the eccentric enthusiasm of pupil Borchardt caught his eye. Spotting rich material to be documented, Smith set about shooting the 70 or so hours of footage that would become 107 minutes of Borchardt's unwavering ambition to be a 'somebody'. We see his struggle with personal and production finances, responsibility, doubting relatives, ham amateur actors and an indeterminate level of competence. Though prone to moments of insightful self evaluation, Borchardt eschews all usual sensibility, such as holding a steady income and providing for his barely mentioned children, in favour of pursuing the less than bankable prospect of completing his film projects. This, along with his somewhat redneck appearance and acid casualty side-kick, has lead many treat American Movie as a comedy piece or in some cases even a Spinal Tap (1984) style mockumentary. On the contrary, Smith resists the smug temptation to make fun of his subjects; the content is genuine and occasionally affecting. There are, of course, moments of humour on show; the scene where Borchardt is forcing an actor's head through a stubbornly solid door is classic, and friend Mike Schank seems at times to conform to the familiar comedy stoner caricature. Admirably, Smith resists condescending from his bohemian, middle class director's chair, possibly because he sees something of himself in Borchardt. For example, Smith had trouble funding the documentary and ran up $28,000 over nine credit cards, in the opening scene we see Borchardt receive his first, and only card amongst a pile of legal threats and tax demands.American Movie is filled with colourful characters, minor conflicts and major aspirations. Whatever you make of the people it depicts, the film provides a thought provoking study of a struggling filmmaker, and yet another spin on the ever elusive concept of the 'American Dream'. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and Loving Look to Achieve the American Dream !!!","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Compelling documentary by Chris Smith and Sarah Price of a man whose reach may have exceeded his grasp. Set in the confines of Wisconsin, Mark Borchardt sets out to capture the American Dream, by filming his movie Northwestern. But sidetracked instead to film a short subject named Coven, pronounced long o, not like oven, this is an important distinction. Aided by the love of his family, he secures financing from his Uncle Bill Borchardt, who becomes Executive Producer. Over a 3 year period , Mark Borchardt overcomes tremendous obstacles, technical problems, casting logistics, weather changes, personal finances,private battles with his ex-significant other, child custody arrangements, script changes, and growing pains. Chris Smith wonderfully blends the turmoil of Mark's triumphs and pitfalls, with sentimental touches and engaging realism, which provoke the viewer to question the direction of their own reality. Ken Keen gets honorable mention for his relentless work ethics and optimism. Mike Schank, a talented musician, and Friend to Mark, gives unwavering support and comic relief to the ensuing chaos and turbulence, Mark must endure to realize his dream. Ultimately, the triumph of the would-be Director, comes in the form of lessons learned and achievements earned. The crowning moment of the film is the premiere of Coven at the local theater, where Uncle Bill and Mark share a moment of truth.What could be better when an exhausted Mark , helps his Uncle to the movie theater , surrounded by admirers , and see the culmination of his and his families efforts. Very inspiring !!!The underlying foundation of the movie is the love and support of the Borchardt family and friends, in spite of some dysfunction, they conquer the elements,and provide true inspiration for anyone who has aspirations...Get the DVD of American Movie, which has Coven on it.The name Coven, gives the film the Directors signature ! of ownership. A great winter movie, for viewing on cold nights, where your soul is exposed , to a warm fire , it will fill your heart..... American Movie gets an 8, for everyone who has a dream..... "}{"Title":"You can't go wrong with this subject","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Documentary about film-maker Mark Borchardt, who hasn't really been succesful. And who never will be...We follow his life while shooting his new film 'Northwestern', before he decides he hasn't got the funds to shoot it, so he falls back on his previous project 'Coven'. Meanwhile, his friends and family (and at the same time, cast & crew) are introduced.And it's these extra's that make it an enjoyable movie, as Mark isn't the most likable guy around. But you gotta love his friend Mike (love that guy!) and uncle Bill, RIP.A lot to laugh about, though maybe not as much as I expected. Still, check out the scene where Uncle Bill has to do his lines, or when the guy has to smash his head through the cupboards. Hilarious stuff.7/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent view of the other film makers","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Possible spoilersThis documentary shows the struggle of an independent filmmaker (Mark Borchardt) desperate to make a big hit called Northwestern and although this movie is not finished in the film (and still isn't,he's been working on it for over 10 years now) the dedication is there.The documentary focuses more on the short movie Coven,a low budget horror movie in the style of Ed Wood.You can compare Mark with this legendary director,also a very dedicated but untalented director.Still the dedication of creating something is very pleasant and funny to watch.Most fun is when Mike Schank appears,Mark friend.He is what you would call a complete loser with strange humor and a very weird laugh.Still,to me he is the highlight of the movie cause he always stands by his buddy.Other great characters are Mark uncle Bill and his mother Monica,a Swedish woman.Overall,an honest documentary about the real struggle of film making that every big producer,actor or director in Hollywood should see.Worthy of the Sundance award for best documentary.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Inspiration in it's purest form.","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  After watching this documentary I felt like a new person. I always wanted to be a film maker. This documentary pushed me to the next level. I have been making short films with a friend of mine since I bought my first camera. It was a Tyco kids cam which only shoots black and white video with sound. Watching this documentary gives you the charge you need to do anything. It's pure inspiration. I highly recommend it to all. "},{"Title":"An Inspirational story of a wild and passionate filmmaker.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Nobody ever said that being a filmmaker was easy but nobody said that it won't be fun.  I guess this film really deals a lot with the emotions of that featured filmmaker.  It's a raw adventure with many unexpected moments.  If you're expecting a big Hollywood mansion, car or even lifestyle, you're in the wrong seat.  This movie is about a struggling filmmaker who wants to make a feature and make something for himself.  I like this film.  Though it make not be the summer blockbuster of the year, it's a movie where i can just sit back and relax to.  It funny and entertaining and you would surely feel for each and everyone of the characters featured.  They are just like you and me, having fun and living live to the fullest, they are chasing the American dream.  It's a film about a group of people making a film.  Self reflective as it can be, it does command it's own beauty.  I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Different, but lead (Mark) was a turn-off...little charm, etc. Limited vocabulary was irritating.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I enjoyed the humorous aspects, found the characters steeped in pathos; the limited vocabulary (Man this and Man that), esp. the repetitive four-letter word(s) detracts from what little  drama was attained.  The depiction of those sweet children as potential manipulators like their father depressed me.  I'm a Granny, I care about how children are trained and I was not amused by Mark's immature nurturing skills. "},{"Title":"Nice and funny film - don't miss it","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The trailer for this film is hilarious.  It drew me in, and I had to see the movie.  A fine film, and a must-see. There are so many funny moments, but it is also touching and insightful.  Surprise references to all American culture include Billy Crystal, and of all people, Sammy Davis Jr.  This is one of the best documentaries you will ever see. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"A Must See for Potential Filmmakers","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" American Movie is a delightfully humorous documentary about the making of a short film over a three year period. Mark Borchardt is our foolishly charming subject who struggles and struggles despite insurmountable odds. He lives in his parent's basement in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, scrounging money through various odd-jobs and a tiny gaggle of investors. Acting as writer, director, co-producer, editor and star, Mark hopes to finish the horror short Coven (which he pronounces Coe-van) without resources, marketability or talent. Yet through all his setbacks, Mark keeps his head high which garners the admiration of local theater talent, slacker friends and his family.American Movie is, at times, a very cringe-worthy movie to sit thought. Mark is armed only with a small film camera and an unabashed love of Night of the Living Dead (1968) and Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974). He naively thinks that's enough to make it to Hollywood and in his words achieve the American dream. Yet Mark's intensity and enthusiasm for his movie are completely at odds with everything and everyone around him. Testimonial after testimonial from his mother, his uncle and the gaggle of bit players he hired, point to a man needlessly suffering for his art. I always thought he'd wind up a serial killer, muses one of Mark's former high school friends. His intensity as well as his broken home life certainly seem to be pointing in that direction.Yet American Movie is not a mean-spirited take down of the American dream, with Mark it's unwilling patsy. Most of the camera's perspective hones in on the very human need to accomplish something. Despite efforts to paint Mark as a modern day Don Quixote, each interview subject ultimately concludes Mark is one persistent kid. And of course Mark does has his allies including Mark's long suffering girlfriend Joan Petrie, and Mark's layabout best friend Mike Schank.The film takes a few jabs at the expense of small town naivety, especially when Mike is on screen. Yet behind the playful ribbing there's a lot of heart to American Movie. It features a moment in time concerning a true amateur; someone with no experience but anxious to make his mark. American Movie is warts-and-all documentary filmmaking. Those who are considering a career in the seventh art need to see this film and take stock in their plans, their resources and their talent (or lack thereof). What's clear by the end of the documentary is Mark Borchardt will not give up. He sees film not as a career choice but as a calling. In the years since, Mark has struggled to continue making and featuring in films though he's done so consistently for a few years. Some see American Movie and see sad, hopeless people searching for glory; I say thou hast seen nothing yet. "},{"Title":"Menancing ... Cut!","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Assertive, mullet-haired white trash dude ropes his family and friends into a shaky realisation of his movie-making dream.Interesting documentary that plays around with the truth. Lots of reviews flag this up as comic, but I wasn't laughing, and when the feel good came on toward the end it seemed fake - but was the fakery part of the story? The characters are extraordinary - I haven't met a single person of that type, but like to think they exist. Uncle Bill especially. But how much of that is down to the director, how much to the people playing up to the camera? Fake or not, it does have a complete feel - like Grizzly Man, which also played around with the real life of a delusional performer.Overall, engaging story but I want to know more. So I guess it succeeds. "},{"Title":"manufactured documentary","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Outside of Milwaukee, Mark Borchardt is trying to make his independent film Northwestern. He's a film enthusiast with no money and some minor experience in filmmaking. Using relatives, his credit card, slackers friends and open casting, Mark struggles to pull everything together. He decides to finish his horror short Coven and use the proceeds to finance his dream movie. It's a long winding unexpected journey.I think most people took this movie as a straight up documentary and enjoy the real world of guerrilla indie filmmaking. I take it a little differently. It never seem real that the documentary is far superior to anything that Borchardt could achieve. This movie seems set up somehow. Yet I can't really say that it is. This conflict colors my enjoyment of this movie. I couldn't really decipher how much of this is true and how much is true for the camera. "},{"Title":"A fascinating look at the raw reality of the creative process","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Imagine you know what you have to do, imagine that you have a clear vision of what you need to achieve and what you want your life to be about... And then imagine every single obstacle possible jumping into your way, preventing you from realising it. That's the problem faced by Mark Borchardt, and this movie is about him trying to overcome those obstacles.To that end, the film is fascinating and intriguing. You cannot help but root for Mark, the terribly flawed by exceedingly driven subject of this film. He's a man with a true mission, and his journey is one that will inspire anyone that has an ounce of creativity in them.I think you will enjoy this movie. "}{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" American MovieThanks to crowd-sourcing your movies online, your film's financial investors are now faceless strangers without legal representation.But as this mockumentary confirms, in the late-90s', aspiring auteurs were indebted to their families.When Mark's (Mark Borchardt) feature film project is put on hold due to a lack of funding, he redirects his focus to an unfinished horror movie of his called Coven.With his senile uncle Ben backing the short-film and his best friend (Mike Schank) serving as sound-engineer, Mark and many of the townsfolk begin to make one of the worst movies ever made.Marred by his alcoholism, lack of organization and ongoing custody battle with his ex, Mark's cinematic debut is threatened at every angle.One of the first and funniest found-footage documentaries to follow around down-and-out losers, American Movie is inventive, inspiring and awkwardly uproarious.Nowadays, however, the hardest part of movie-making is choosing which bestseller to adapt.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Engaging documentary featuring some great characters","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This was shown on telly as part of a horror season but it has little to nothing to do with the horror genre. The fact that the guy in the film is attempting to make his own zero budget horror film doesn't really figure into it. Instead, this is an engaging character study of some ordinary, everyday characters who occasionally find themselves in extraordinary situations.It's also a psychological study of passion, obsession and dedication, focused around one man's seemingly endless quest to finish making his movies. Mark Borchadt is an engaging character indeed, not an easy man to like but nonetheless one whose personality makes him very appealing on film. Watching him throw tantrums is entertaining, yes, but in the end it's his dogged determination which wins through and gives the viewer a grudging respect for him.The story is funny in parts and tragic in others, and I was thoroughly engrossed in the storyline throughout even though nothing much really happens. It reveals the lives of working class Americans better than many a modern reality TV show. Watch out for the delightful Uncle Bill, a lovely character who proves to be the highlight of the movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie portraying great people.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Just saw this movie tonight for the first time and had the pleasure of having the Co-Director and producer Sarah Price there after the movie to talk to us about it. I personally loved the movie, the characters were so amazing and I never felt like they were being made fun of. Of course they were not the brightest people on the planet, but they had very real things to say and great outlooks on life. It was nice to see the passion that Mark had. His persistence and vision is something that you do not find very often in any career field. Sarah made it clear to us that they were never ridiculing the family. And they are actually all very close. I love seeing real people in movies, and it doesn't get more real then the Borchardt family. I can't wait to watch it again. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Movies","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Incidentally, it's tied at first with Ghostbusters and It's a Wonderful Life. Mike, why do you make movies? Well, because Mark makes movies. He's my friend, and I value his friendship. Each time I watch this movie, I get something new from it. The first time I saw it, I have to admit, I was a bit shell shocked by Mark and Mike and was set aback to ridicule them a little. The second time, I was drawn in by Mark's vision, and I saw the talented filmmaker struggling against a lack of opportunities. The third time, I saw it more as a study of Mark himself, as he struggled against his own flaws (his alcoholism, how he takes advantage of everyone in his life so he can make his movie, his fear of success). Other times I saw it as a metaphor for American life, as a real life The Ecstasy and the Agony, as the shift in American cinema to the indie, as a philosophical look inward.Ultimately, I think it's a story about friendship and passion.Of course, the next time I watch it, I'll probably change my mind about that. "},{"Title":"Interesting up to a point","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I wish 'American Movie' had focused more on the film-making of its subject Mark Borchardt, a part-time cemetery cleaner and full time dreamer attempting to complete a long-dormant short film project, 'Coven' (rhymes with 'woven'), in lieu of an aborted feature. Anyone who's made a low- or no-budget film will laugh along and nod sagely as Mark struggles to realise his dream, but this is tempered by a nagging feeling that he needs to grow up; the movie makes for uncomfortable viewing when it zooms in on other aspects of his life.The scenes in which Mark bashes together his short are where the movie really works. His constant frustration at the restrictions he faces are painfully comic, especially when he burns through take after take after take with his mum humouring him from behind the camera. The scene where one poor actor has his head repeatedly whacked into a cupboard door that fails to give way is classic makeshift movie stuff. His black and white footage is surprisingly decent, in terms of composition if not writing and acting. I would have liked to see more about the development of his film and more of the film itself.No-one has as much faith in Mark as he has in himself, which is one reason why 'American Movie' started to lose me. I wanted to like and support Mark but the longer the movie went on the more I sided with his family. His mum is tolerant enough but his dad is fed up with lending him money, while one brother says he's best suited to factory work and another expected him to have grown up a serial killer or stalker. It seems harsh, but after a while it's easier to see where they're coming from. Mark borrows $3000 to complete his short film when he owes about that amount in child support, a misplaced priority that severely dents his likable goofball persona. He can't pay his bills but he's excited when he's approved for a credit card, and he bums money off his friends &#x96; his burnt out best bud Mike doesn't want to tell him about a minor lottery win because he knows it'll disappear into the black hole of the movie's budget. The scenes with Mark tapping his uncle Bill for funds made me squirm, although Bill's addled honesty about the quality of his nephew's project suggests that he's brighter than he seems. Even the people working on 'Coven' are aware of Mark's inability to see anything through to completion.Mark is clearly passionate about his films but I found it difficult to maintain interest in them once the movie has established his one-track mind. Even so, this could have been a fascinating look at unrealised dreams, misplaced enthusiasm and the frustrations of amateur film- making. But the story is told with no real forward momentum, the inertness of Mark's life mirrored by the film's inability to depict dull events in an interesting way. It's often boring, and that's a shame.I still haven't seen 'Coven' in its entirety, but I'd like to. "},{"Title":"If this young man could do it, why not us?","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This movie provides an excellent insight into the world of movie making, a world that requires no special training, just the desire to to do something creative. Movie making is one of the few areas left where formal credentials are not required. Case in point is the subject of this movie, a young man who starts out with nothing and years later creates a commercial product. It's really quite impressive. What I did not like about this documentary is that the young man and his associates are portrayed as being marginal and dysfunctional characters when in fact they are business people trying to put together a commercial product, and just because they don't dress or sound the part does not make them any less deserving of respect. Then again, maybe that's a strong point of the documentary. Whatever the case, this documentary should be a must see for anyone who has an urge to create but does not know where or even how to start. If this young man could do it, why not us? "},{"Title":"Hilarious Documentary With Excellent Characters","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" One look at this movie and there is no way that you would believe that it is a documentary. The stars of this film are not just people in a documentary, but they are characters. After a few minutes of watching this, I had to double check that it was indeed a documentary and not a mockumentary. If there is a real-life incarnation of Jay and Silent Bob, it is Mark and Mike. The duo works great together and really compliment each other quite nicely. The cast of characters feel like they are straight out of a film such as Napoleon Dynamite. Uncle Bill is another character who really adds to the movie every time he is on screen. The goals and dreams of Mark, that drive the plot of the documentary, seem destined to fail. Mark has hopes of directing and producing a film. Without the necessary resources to achieve a feature length one, he settles on one that is to be approximately a half-hour in length. Mark does not seem like the most intelligent individual who has ever aspired to make a film. He drinks many beers throughout the film and does not seem as though he's got anywhere near the necessary resources to make a movie, which is a difficult task even for someone with an abundant amount of resources and intelligence.Mark, Mike, Uncle Bill, and the rest of the characters all add a vast amount of humor throughout the run of the movie. My favorite line is when Mark was talking about sucking down Schnapps and calling Morocco at 200 am. I can relate. The scene of Uncle Bill attempting to deliver his line is a home run as well. Uncle Bill's monologue at the end of the film is a nice touch. It had meaning, Bill was trying to say something, but at the same time he is thoroughly confused. However, it came off as a good, meaningful rant of an old, dying man. This movie has a lot of laughs and some great characters. It is a very successful documentary. "},{"Title":"Hero","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" There's stuff in this movie you just can't make up, it just happens somehow. Our protagonist/anti-hero Mark Borchardt would do anything to make a movie and takes part in all kinds of crazy stuff, but none of the makers ever seem to mock him, in fact I think they respect him tremendously. So we follow him in his daily routines, which mainly include mooching. The visits to his elderly uncle Bill that just wants to be left alone are undeniably the absolute best parts of this movie, so real but so hilarious at the same time. Uncle Bill is a great character, only he's not because he's an actual person. He still steals the show though. I guess there's also some sadistic fun in seeing Mark struggling to capture the movie magic, even though anyone with a pulse would side with him. At one point one of his characters needs to be thrown through a kitchen cabinet, so he figures he might as well just have the actor do that for real rather than using some effect. That's persistence right there. This is a movie for people who thought making movies was easy. "},{"Title":"I agree with INFOFREAK'S comment, except...............POTENTIAL SPOILER!","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I find this film to be desperately sad because if Mark and Mike had NOT been alcoholics/ druggies and partied way too much, I think of what they each MIGHT HAVE DONE artistically. As they are now, Mark comes across as someone who's intellect is completely and forever jumbled by dead brain cells, and Mike seems to have no brain cells left and is now just a sweet kid - but he is in his 20's, not six years old.But on another level, Mark's film IS what independent film is all about (even though he pronounces Coven incorrectly, which had me laughing hysterically) and I hope he sobers up, grows up, and wakes up to his own intelligence (there is something other than swearing and belligerence in his head, I KNOW that!) in time to truly realize all of his dreams. "},{"Title":"Context is Everything","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and I'm still wondering who and what Mark is. At first I thought the entire thing was a farce, but it's not!  Mark is way too real to be made up.  Maybe I've just never met anyone like him, but that's why he's fascinating.  A lot of reviewers say he's just a really delusional guy who thinks he can be great, when he's really just below average.  I really started believing that he was great.  It made me wonder if we could be great if we just believe we are.  He never never doubts himself--it's almost irrelevant if he knows what he is doing--which I went back and forth from thinking he was out of it, and that he really knows what he's doing.  I kept thinking, they're going to take this guy to Hollywood, whiten his teeth, cut his hair and he'll look like Tom Cruise.  Then, without all his friends and family around, and lunching at the Bel-Air, he'll seem like a genius who knows exactly what he's talking about and knows exactly how to do it, without a shred of doubt.  Will that be Mark out of context, or is he out of context now? "}{"Title":"Interesting look into the lives of ordinary people.","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"   This was a good movie about ordinary people. Mark Bochardt is no bizarre person (many have commented on that) he's a dreamer, which is a common type of person.  I usually don't like documentaries that focus on one person (it tends to come off as self-righteous and one-note) but American Movie was an exception because it kept my interest all the way through. Do you care if he ever finishes his movie on the end? Yes. Although Bochardt is not the brightest person in the world we do wonder how he will finance his film and eventually get it seen at a nearby theater (or if he ever gets to that point.) Everyone has had a friend like Mike Shank (A college fraternity friend, at least) and the smalltown middle America expose was nothing incredible. So, just an interesting slice of life, nothing spectacular, nothing classic, but worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"very funny but I felt guilty laughing","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  i have a hard time believing this is real.  the people in this documentary are tooout there - it is amazing.  and yet if they were acting these were some of the best performances i have seen in a while.i thought it was a very entertaining documentary (which is pretty rare actually) and although it rang a bit of project grizzly it was much more pleasant and enjoyable and not as condescending.  i hope mark borchardt keeps making his movies - not my kind of films, but clearly he has a passion for it...  good luck mark. "},{"Title":"Godspeed Mark Borchardt!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"       AMERICAN MOVIE is a documentary about Mark Borchardt, a man who wants to be a filmmaker.  God bless him, he has the ambition to be a director, it's just that the films, are... well, let's just say they have a cult following.  Mark would like to direct a film about his Northwestern life in Winsconsin. Yet, he doesn't have the money yet.  So to get the money for budget, he get's his Uncle Billy to loan him money so Mark can finish his film that was almost done, but got set aside for a while called COVEN.      Mark grew up watching horror films, (the George Romero LIVING DEAD films are his inspiration) and he too wants to be a horror film director.  He gets the help of his devoted friend Mike Schank, who grew up with Mark.  Together, these menanticpate to sell about 3,000 some copies of COVEN to make Mark's bigger film, NORTHWESTERN.  Hhhmmmmm, too bad Mark didn't think up of BLAIR WITCH PROJECT, he would be making millions.      But, AMERICAN MOVIE is the following of Mark's life and dream to be a successful filmmaker (I understand what he goes through).  This is a very funny and witty documentary about the life of Mark Borchardt, a man who isn't a scholar, who isn't making art, but just a film that is suppose to be entertaining. Mark wants to be the next Romero, a classic horror director. But, AMERICAN MOVIE, will make Mark not only a horror director but also a human being.  It does show the struggle and stress that poor Mark goes through to finish COVEN and to get the profit.      AMERICAN MOVIE is another one of those independent films. A movie like RESIVOR DOGS and BLAIR WITCH PROJECT, that's going to make Mark Borchardt famous among the college crowd.  And hopefully, COVEN will make him a household name.....o.k. maybe not.  But you do have to give Mark credit, he does have his heart in the right place, and also give Mike credit.  Mike for sticking with Mark though thick and thin, and for being sober for over 1600 days, way to go Mike!  After seeing this movie, go to the offical web site, it adds more laughs from the movie.  And, oh yeah, say hello to Mike!  ****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Dude! ROCK ON!","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This film ranks as one of my favorites of the year, and one of my favorite documentaries of all time (right up there with Cane Toads and Vernon, Florida).Mark and Mike are the real-deal, and are some of the most engaging characters your likely to meet on the big screen.  This film is full of humor, despair, action, intelligence, and unexpected tenderness (kudos to Chris and Sarah).  I HIGHLY recommend seeing this film.Mark my words... These guys are headed to the top.B "},{"Title":"For future film makers","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I love this film. I see it as the ultimate How not too make a film guide for all prospective film makers. This movie is full of interesting characters and flawed goals. Very watchable documentary. It is such an interesting watch as Mark talks up his films and abilities. Sometimes he sounds so knowledgeable, yet at other times he is talking so much crap. He certainly is a salesman and perhaps that is where his talents should be aimed at. It is sad to watch though how Mark and his friends and family are so self destructive. This film shows you a complete journey from the conception of an idea and right through to a somewhat triumph. "},{"Title":"Great documentary about a fun and sad movie making obsession","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This film could very well be just another mockumentary (there are frequent discussions on the net whether this is real life stuff or not, though I do actually believe this is 'the real thing').Still it is in itself a great movie (documentary or not), depicting a film fanatic and his struggle to completing a short movie which is intended to be generating the profits he needs for his main goal of a full feature film.The style of this documentary is a bit TV'ish compared to other modern documentary movies; it makes less frequent use of rapid back-and-forth cutting, it does not apply old propaganda-style footage to capture the viewers attention, nor does it use a narrator voice-over. But the plain style just gets you closer to the life and personality of the characters, and with such a cast there is no need for artificially generated humor.Even though neither Coven nor Northwestern became the blockbusters Mark Borchardt hoped that they would (has the latter even been made?), this movie more than makes up for it! Documentary or indeed a mockumentary? Who cares when it is such a great movie! "},{"Title":"a Life changing documentary","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" There are not many documentaries out there that have really changed the way i see and live my life but thisone did just that for me. It opened my eyes to the ambition of some ofmankind and the total opposite for others. how some people are just stupid and others just find themselves in unwanted positions because they justnever did anything with their life. A master piece on the human condition.the unintentional extreme deadpan humor is from the several charactersis second to none. "},{"Title":"Failure, but what a glorious failure","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This documentary focuses on a Wisconsin local named Mark Borchardt and his lifelong goal to make movies. He went the usual Super-8 route as a kid and now, in his early thirties, finally puts the finishing touches on a low-budget, black-&-white short horror film named Coven. The documentary shows about three years of his life in the pursuit of finishing this film. We see his family & friends, all pressured into helping him, including an uncle(Bill) who is on his last legs, but finances most of the pic and is listed as executive producer (we learn he died shortly after the documentary was done). The trouble with Mark is he's stuck in 'perennial juvenile' mode - despite 3 kids & an ex-wife, he's still a teenager, moving from a paper route to sweeping at a cemetery as jobs. His best friend is worse too much pot and acid has put him in a continual 'zone-out' and he usually mumbles incoherently. These two are, for better or worse, a sizable representation of Americana and its natives today - or in the nineties, at least. I've known these people personally - not Mark & his buddy specifically, of course. Despite all this, Mark's perseverance and creativity win out and Coven is completed, with a premiere at the local cinema (the DVD has the complete 33-minute film, and it's not that bad). This IS Americana. Did I say that already? This is a triumph on a scale rarely seen. It IS Americana. "},{"Title":"An Award for Mark","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Moving portrait of Mark Borchardt, a rural American filmmaker who struggles to finish (and make) his movies. Admittedly, the footage we are able to see is far from great moviemaking, but it's not that terrible either we all have seen mainstream movies with pedestrian images and ideas, and which do not have an ounce of the passion Borchardt puts into his productions. So Chris Smith's documentary makes one reflect on the opportunities in the American film industry, and how it can turn mediocre actors into superstar directors, with inflated budgets that guarantee top-notch personnel to help them transfer their visions... to the screen. I know that we can identify a name or two who fit this description. Completely enjoyable, and one wishes Mark will have better luck in the future. "},{"Title":"Well done! An excellent job.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Truly an enjoyable experience. The time and energy it took to harvest this gem needs to be applauded. The story is complex and takes you through a thought provoking adventure along with the main character. The supporting (and unsupporting you might say) cast will make you laugh one moment and shake your head with disbelief the next. I still have discussions with people about the authenticity of the material due to the time it must have taken to gather all this footage. Bravo to Chris Smith for going the extra mile! "}{"Title":"Often Excruciating","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  At first I thought it was a mockumentary with bad acting.  But it turned out to be a true story about a guy who's optimism and energy wasn't quite enough to offset his lack of money, bad luck and incompetent colleagues.  Often excruciating to watch but mostly boring. "},{"Title":"The greatest of the American movies","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I can't remember if this came out before American Pie or after American Beauty.  I do know that the footage comprising this film is some of the most astounding i've seen in recent years.  This is a documentary about a man named Mark Borchardt who is trying to make a film about the misery and angst of life in the frozen deep of the American midwest.  He has tried and failed to do this countless times.  In a final effort to raise money for the feature he shoots a thirty minute film which ends up taking two years to complete.  The first time I saw American Movie I thought it was fictional. It's all true, American Movie ultimately becomes the film that Mark is raising money to shoot.  No other movie has ever so accurately shown the anguish of living in the middle of nowhere.  This film is hilarious, tragic, and moving with its characters who are all stranger than fiction.  My favorite is Mike, whose Led Zeppelin shirt I have also been a proprietor of. I saw this movie last year during that season that comes between Winter and Spring, the world's waiting room as CS Lewis would say.  I didn't know where I was going at that time and I still don't to a large extent.  When watching Mark and Mike in this film I can't help but see myself doing everything to get away from my certain fate.  If this film were fictional and based on a novel, that novel would be the Grapes of Wrath for the new millenium. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I have seen this movie a few times. I think the idea is brilliant! The torture that some fledgling film makers must go through to get their vision on the screen. It makes me appreciate the steps needed to get a film done. I like all of the people this film deals with. They are unique. The scream that Mike Schank does for the sound effects track is awesome! I liked this film and recommend it. Good to see a unique perspective on film making. "},{"Title":"I thought it was a spoof, maybe still do...","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie was painfully good. After being exposed to movies such as Spinal Tap, Best in Show, Waiting for Guffman, I naturally assumed that this movie was of the same genre -only done better. I was literally holding my sides and smacking the ground during much of this film that I perceived as a brilliant comedy. It was brilliant how the director and actors had so perfectly captured these characters and moments. I felt like I knew them =partly because I know people just like them . It was a couple weeks later that I discovered that these people were real. Dumbfounded. OK, not a brilliant comedy. A brilliant documentary. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" When I first saw this movie I didn't realize it was a documentary. I couldn't believe how interesting, funny, sad and inspiring this film was. I love those guys! My friends and I have several in jokes from this film. I really appreciate them letting us see into their lives. "},{"Title":"Winning documentary about a magnificent obsession","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  It is ironic and a little cruel that the success of this documentary by independent film-maker Chris Smith is due largely to the bungling of Smith's subject, would-be film maker Mark Borchardt. And yet, despite Mark appearing to be an object of pity for much of the film, and occasionally feeling sorry for himself, he emerges as a kind of existential hero, battling against the odds, never giving up, and living to fight another day. (Though it appears that Mark may have given up the directorial struggle at least for the time being, and turned to acting; according to IMDb he's appearing in The One, due for release shortly.)Perhaps the best parts of Smith's film are not directly about Mark's efforts to bring his horror movie, Coven, to completion, but about the circle of friends and relations supporting him. Mike Schank - who provides the music for Smith's film - may or may not be a good advertisement for drugs, but he is certainly a good friend, who's there when Mark needs him, as are Mark's Mom, his Uncle Bill, his girlfriend, and sundry Milwaukee residents. But it's a two way street - while they give Mark financial and material strength, they draw a spiritual or psychological strength from him; and they seem to look  to him to fulfil their American dream as well as his own. American Movie is at times funny; at other times sad; but ultimately it's quite uplifting.   "},{"Title":"Its about the journey","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I wanted to see this film after Ebert said how great it was. It didn't disappoint. It had been three years between the Ebert review and when I finally got to view it. So eccentric were some of the characters I questioned whether they were real people!My thoughts are that the documentary filmmakers behind American Movie were very astute to pick their subject matter. Since the camera crew must have practically lived with the Borchardt family, this group of family and friends and townspeople seen in the film really let their guard down, leading to some very touching, very funny and amazing moments that not just brought their own story to light, but the story of a hidden America. An America rarely seen, where McJobs are the only thing going, where people live hand to mouth, and alcohol and drug addictions are passed on through the generations with scary certainty.YET in this hidden America, huge dreams and ambitions live and breathe, as represented by amateur filmmaker Mark Borchardt. These dreams just shine on and on, and are contagious and have the power to lift up other people and bring them together in a common goal. Which is heartening in a country where people are frequently becoming more isolated from each other, hiding out in their home with the television or the computer as their best friend.The core message in this film confirms what we already know that life is about the journey. This film is also a wonderful tribute to friendship and the family bonds that (if we are lucky), are there through good times and bad. "},{"Title":"Reaching for the Dream","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Being a fan of movies and an aspiring movie-maker myself, this film definitely worked for me.  Sure, this movie isn't for everyone, it's not one of those laugh out loud comedies.  But, you also have to know this is a documentary.  Something, I didn't know at first.  Then, I checked out the website and found out that this is all real...and still happening!I disagree with what the last person said about Mark being a scam artist and all.  Sure, I don't agree with the drug/alcohol use, but you have to realize the dream.  A lot of people don't do what Mark's doing and that's chasing the dream.  I commend Mark, and I commend the filmmakers of American Movie.  For not only letting us realize the dream, but giving us a touching, funny, enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie was excellent. So many films/documentaries are made about these wannabe movie directors/producers. They take themselves too seriously and the content is crap. This movie is different. These guys are really passionate about their moviemaking. It is more than wanting to drive the porsche into their meeting with William Morris in Los Angeles. They don't even contemplate that. This guy just wants to be good at what he likes-making movies. And it shows. It is refreshing to see people doing what they truly desire to do out of pure passion, not self importance. Yes, this guy gets a little overwhelmed and has to use a few people here and there. But you could say the same of any other career venture. I love the Midwestern appeal of this movie. The honest look at life.  "},{"Title":"Borchardt is just CLUELESS of his own shortcomings!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" They say that when you can make people laugh and cry at the same time than you're approaching art. Mark Borchardt doesn't quite achieve this as a film director, but this documentary about Borchardt's relentless determination nearly does. What makes American Movie an almost hauntingly ironic documentary is that Borchardt is completely unaware of the potential of the film being made about him. He is so consumed by his own poor products that he doesn't comprehend the value of his own sad, sad life story and the events surrounding the making of his b movies. The production of his own short film (Northwestern) becomes a backdrop to a depressing and still uplifting tale of middle-American so-called artists. He along with his antithesis of a best friend Mike Shank, are living proof of what years of no-cause, anti-septic suburban life can produce. The rest of his family seem to have their feet on the ground (which only makes the story that much more credible and holds it together--Poor Uncle Bill!!) but if Mark and his friends influence just one person to make or be part of any one film, look out for the future of cinema! Whether you find Borchardt's talent and taste abysmal (and you will) you still have to admit you're bewildered by his passion for recognition. You also have to wonder what Borchardt thought of the documentary himself because he's completely clueless of it's implications as it's being made. I would definitely recommend this documentary. It's not in a class with Roger & Me or Crumb, but they do capture some unexpected moments on film that really drive home the movie's point. It's a sad story that somehow made me happy to just be me. "}{"Title":"A movie making documentary worth seeing.","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie/documentary was a little slow at times, but I have to admitt that I really felt for Mark Borschardt as he tries to make movies and follow his dreams.There were a few times in the film that were laugh out loud funny. At some points the movie dragged. And at some points I couldn't help but feel sorry for Mr. Borschardt as he can be seen as just a loser chasing dreams that will never happen. But I've got to admitt, Mr. Borschardt does have a mouth to him. He can convince people to follow him and his dreams. Who knows, maybe one day he will make it!I will rate this movie a 7. This achieves the minimum rating that in my opinion makes a movie worthwhile to see. "},{"Title":"Good film, Bad subject","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I did find this documentary very entertaining, especially coming from the upper midwest and knowing many people who would love to make it in Hollywood but cannot or do not want to.  However, this subject is an idiot.  For every scene of passion where he talks about his films, there is two scenes of beer drinking and cigarette smoking.  If I had enough money for beer and cigs, I certainly would not be standing around bemoaning my fate.  And where did he get all his equipment from?  Good documentary, but my sympathies will be elsewhere.  I give this a 7. "},{"Title":"This documentary is at once sad and funny","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  American Movie is a satisfying documentary of a wanna-be filmmaker with probably more ambition than common sense. Mark Borchardt is 30 years old, lives with his parents, supports three children by vacuuming a funeral home, and has accrued something like $10,000 in debt without completing a single film project. His already dubious mental stability is exacerbated by the fact that he drinks too much beer, gets high often and is so focused on his dream that he willingly lets American Movie's documentary crew turn his life into a voyeuristic freak-show. It's a situation that I think worked more successfully in the independent/unreleased documentary Driver 23 (essentially the same story, only this time the visionary wanted to be a heavy metal star), but the crackpot cast of people who populate American Movie (Mark's burnout friends, his emotionally distant parents and poor, pitiful uncle Bill) make it a hilarious and occasionally poignant film that's definitely worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Icky, but Good","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I liked the movie; It was kind of like watching an entire movie about the rabbit lady from Roger and Me.  The only problem was that it made me feel so icky afterwards.  If you're in the mood to documentary about a delusional alcoholic white-trash guy from Milwaukee, this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Inspirational !","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to see American Movie at it's UK premiere in London on June 11/00 where both Mark Borchardt & Mike Schank along with Chris Smith & Sarah Price were present for a Q&A after the screening.As I usually do, I avoided reading anything about the film so as not to spoil the experience and so at first I thought the film was actually a spoof docu. a bit like Spinal Tap only about an independent film-maker. So as I watched and laughed and laughed and laughed even more, I couldn't wait to see what these dudes were really like !Well I was not disappointed. Both Mark & Mike came across as two very honest, genuine and down-to-Earth people, totally unaffected by any attention they may have got so far from appearing in this documentary. I found the film and the Q&A session very inspirational...because it's not just about a film-maker and his dream, it's a story/situation that every human can probably relate to.Mike was selling home-made tapes he'd made of the soundtrack, entitled Songs I Know (it's very good). "},{"Title":"Dear Heloise How do I get crayon off wallpaper?","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This pathetic little exercise in narcissism, as far as I could tell, lacks all wit, grace and charm and offers virtually nothing in the way of meaningful content or interesting production values. At my host's party, I found myself wishing he had chosen My Life As A Dog or Tampopo or Mon Oncle. Although at times it can be modestly interesting to watch an infant play with its diaper contents, and that seems to be the level of this trendy sort of cinema verite, American Movie never quite rises to that height. I suppose there is some merit in occasional exposure to the ill-educated, self-destructive, and determinedly obtuse people and lifestyles among us, but on the whole this particular record is enervating, drab, much much too long, and certainly not worth the celluloid it's written on. One finds oneself in the position of an observer trying to determine what the subject had for dinner from the nature of the flatulence. On the bright side, the videotape version includes over 1.5 hrs of reusable tape. But remember, you can never recover the 100 minutes you wasted watching American Movie. Like, it's gone, man, y'know?  "},{"Title":"Some filmmakers just don't know how to give up. This is one of them.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Chris Smith presented his fantastic documentary American Movie at the 1999 Toronto International Film Festival with a group of supporters from behind and in front of the camera. As revealed in an entertaining Q&A after the film, Chris Smith met Mark Borchardt, an independent filmmaker, while both were working on their films in Wisconsin. Mark is best described as a horror film and heavy metal enthusiast who's tenacity is rivalled by none. His hobby has been filmmaking since he was a kid and has made numerous home movies. Man is the most commonly heard word at the end of his sentences, and he is rarely at a loss for words.After speaking with Mark, Chris decided to begin a new project following Mark's progress in trying to get his film finished, and the results are vastly entertaining, often hilarious and of the knee slapping variety. If you miss this film, you're missing something special.When Mark's plans for his feature length film Northwestern fall apart, he sets out to finish Coven (pronounced Coh-vin), a short, black and white horror film that he'd been working on for some time.  He plans to complete it and sell his modest film at the price of $14.95 with a projected goal of 3,000 units to be sold to cover costs and finance his upcoming feature. As we get a glimpse of the film work already completed, we can see this is going to be no small feat. As Chris revealed at the screening, this was expected to take six months time. Two years later, their saga had ended.In a most entertaining way, we see that Mark's efforts are rarely short on enthusiasm. He is however, usually short on resources, skills, and finances. He struggles at every turn to get his film made, enlisting the assistance of his family and friends in all aspects, from acting to rolling the camera to splicing the film in editing. We watch as Mark separates his thrifty Uncle Bill from $3,000 of his money to finance the film. We laugh as Mark makes thirty attempts at getting the same Uncle to get one line down for ADR. We cringe as he rams an actor's head through a less then pliable kitchen cupboard door. All along the way, we share in the turmoil that Mark's family has gone through and the sacrifices he makes to make his film and the continued efforts in pursuit of the American dream. He just wants to make movies and despite the mountain of debt he has accumulated, he perseveres.After the film we were treated to a 35mm print of the nightmarish and very raw Coven which to date has sold 100 copies. But in his own words, Mark declares, I'm gonna sell those 3,000, man, that's not arrogance, that's just something I've got to do. Videos and T-shirts were available for sale in the lobby. The scary thing is, I think he's going to do it. "},{"Title":"Pointless as a documentary and is even tiresome as a look at white trash sold on an American Dream","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" A documentary following the dream of movie director Mark Borchardt to finance and direct independent horror movie Northwestern. Having not managed to finish his previous attempt at movie making with the short film Coven. Borrowing money left right and centre, Mark pulls together his cast and crew and begins pre-production with his friends and relatives giving support. However without good planning and management skills, Mark struggles to get things moving and doesn't seem entirely sure what he is doing other than doing a lot of talking in a production that seems as ambitious as the small town he lives in.I tuned into this film expecting to see a documentary about making a (very) low budget film but it quickly becomes a car crash of a movie that is less about that subject and more about just gawking at the white trash, small-town characters on display here. This is a shame because the latter would have been more interesting but it soon becomes evident that Mark isn't the sort of person we want to follow in such a story &#150; he is no visionary, he is no struggling artist and he is not creative. The fact that he is simply copying horror films he has seen before, without adding anything of value to it could have been used as a condemnation of the US film-making machine but it isn't. Instead we are just left to watch Mark talking a lot of air without substance, his family seem unbothered by anything, his friends mostly act stupid and stoned.Luckily this aspect of it is just about amusing enough to justify watching but it does get tiresome after a while. Mark is a character but he doesn't seem to realise that the audience are laughing at him rather than going along with him. He is a few steps away from trailer trash and I suppose he at least seems to be driven towards his dream &#150; but it would have been more interesting if this belief in an American Dream that many are mis-sold had been picked away at, but instead the film just lets him talk away. In fairness he has done OK out of it and he has had his dream of fame in terms of being mocked on Letterman for a while but other than that you do wonder what the point of the film was. Perhaps it is a real Jay & Silent Bob movie, which is all I could think as Mark and Mike bumbled around on screen.Overall, a documentary it is pointless and rather dull; it doesn't look at the making of a film very well at all, nor does it explore the idea of the American Dream (something it could easily and fascinatingly done). Instead it just watches the characters bumble around and, although the small town trash are amusing at points, they are not interesting or funny enough to fill the running time and even this gets boring before the end. "},{"Title":"If a movie is only as strong as its characters, American Movie has strength in spades","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Perhaps any documentary, like any film of any sort, is only as strong as its characters.  In this regard, American Movie has strength in spades.  The lead character Mark is a self-absorbed redneck who manipulates everything and everyone in his path to achieve his dream of making the Great American Movie.  The way he goes about achieving his dream, and the way in which he treats the people who believe him, is shown in such a way that it had me in cynical stitches at the humanity of it all.  Mark does not lack drive, and he certainly doesn't lack chutzpah, and in this regard we feel &#145;more power to him'; Mark has swallowed the great American lie that you can be whatever you want to be as long as you really, really, want it.  What he lacks, and seems to unaware of, is any sort of education, institutionalised or otherwise, as to how to get there &#150; he has no path other than those in his immediate grasp, and he will make them suffer for his art.  Mark seems to treat his filmmaking colleagues as mere stepping stones toward his great goal. Those who believe in him are as deluded as he is and seem to believe they're riding his non-existent coattails.  This would all be tragic if it was simply a case of Mark, a victim, who has swallowed the lie &#150; but this is not the tale of the wannabe starlet whose world comes crashing down around her.  Mark's world is constantly crashing around him, he just refuses to see it.  Which hit me as a kind of mercy, much in the same way that Sam Lowry &#145;adapts' at the end of Gilliam's Brazil.  Here, though, it's a clear case of one's ambition overcoming the sense of one's own limitations.  As his own brother puts it, sincere and with a distinct absence of malice, &#145;Mark would probably be better suited to a life in a factory somewhere.'What is more fascinating than the lead character's seemingly deluded ambition, are the people in his life who insist on stoking the fires of that delusion to critical mass.  His perplexed but indifferent mother, his long-suffering actors, his alcoholic drug-f***ed best friend, his depressive rich uncle who lives in a trailer park, the girlfriend who through denial has imbued herself with the patience of Job, and finally the only real victims in this film - Mark's children.  Whether the filmmakers intentioned it or not, the moment I stopped laughing was when the children were introduced.  Up until this point I could laugh heartily at the frank stupidity of the films situations and characters, but Mark's kids have no choice in the matter.  Suddenly the seemingly harmless world of idiots that this film encapsulates becomes a tragedy for the young ones who have no say. Mark loves his kids, there's no doubt of that, and indeed for that we can be grateful, but there's too much pathos in the sight of a man's children bedding down with him in an editing suite he has managed to scam at a cut rate, not because they share his deluded beliefs, but simply because they love their daddy.  I'm not exaggerating when I say I almost wept at the sight of people who have the potential to be self-actualised adults, and yet in reality have all the odds working against them. On a similar note, the character of Mike, Mark's best friend, provides an insight to potential destroyed.  Mike is not untalented &#150; in fact as a story-teller he far surpasses Mark in that Mike provides a number of the films jaw-dropping moments; a monologue about an OD he once had, a monologue about how he and Mark met &#150; ( &#145;no-one wanted to drink this votka (sic) I had, and I just wanted to drink some votka, and Mark said he drink my votka with me&#133;'), and a moment whilst recording screams for a wild-track, where Mike outshines any and all before him &#150; a moment both compelling and frightening.  Frightening because, in light of his OD story, when we see him screaming so magnificently we get a sense that he's not acting.  All the potential he once had as a functional human being comes bubbling up to his throat for one last cry of injustice, a death rattle of the soul.The filmmakers have made a thoroughly engrossing film that takes an unblinking look at a man and the people that perpetuate his self-deceptions. I get the feeling that this may have started out as a somewhat sympathetic look at a struggling filmmaker, but that the makers of the documentary found a whole other story &#150; a bigger story where the sympathy becomes ironic. Ironic because it is there despite the film's main character, not because the main character has evinced such understanding. That aside, there's another element working for the film that I hadn't expected to walk away with &#150; a sense of &#145;there but for the grace of God go any number of artists'.  Who is to say that Mark is any more deluded than Spielberg or Lynch?  Certainly they all share a passion and drive to make film, and greater artists with more dubious persona's than Mark have sprung from more dubious beginnings.  I think this is why the film works.  "},{"Title":"Get a Haircut and Get a Real Job","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Often entertaining but ultimately depressing look at the American lust for fame. Mark B has wasted his life and shamefully neglected his responsibilities as a parent, and for what? Coven makes Plan 9 From Outer Space look coherent. From the clips of Northwestern it seems to consist of endless shots of drunks and potheads getting high and stumbling through junkyards. For this this guy avoids payiing child support? For this he scams his sad old uncle and everyone else in sight?On another note, I would recommend that American Movie be shown in every high school in America so that kids can see the effects of drugs first hand.  "}{"Title":"the most hillarious documentary I've ever seen","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Two years in the life of Mark Borchardt, independent film maker somewhere in Wisconsin, and his American Dream of becoming rich and famous by making THE movie of his life. The film, although a documentary, has a lot of love for its real life characters such as Borchardt himself and his passion or his buddies Kenny and Mike, who have been on drugs way too long. Wonderful film, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"An intriguing documentary about a man living his own American dream","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" American Movie is an outstanding documentary. It follows - from a neutral point - Mark Borchardt and his unique friends and relatives. Borchardt, an aspiring filmmaker who goes all the way to make the film Northwestern, for which he first needs to make the short Coven. Borchardt's prime examples and influences are Night of the Living Dead and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.American Movie shows the process of the making of Coven, for which Borchardt has to work extra to try to make his ambitions and dreams come true. That way, the film isn't purely about the making of the movie, but more the attempt to live an almost impossible American dream.A very touching and sometimes hilarious film, that from time to time resemblances a mockumentary. Very recommended. "},{"Title":"Totally enjoyable","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This movie isn't a fast-moving suspense thriller. The people in the documentary are non-glamorous and pretty average. But this is a gem of human culture. I really like Mark. I'm not going to argue that he has an amazing gift. But he's persistent, optimistic, and generally a cool guy. This is one of the most 'real' movies I've ever seen. If you want to be a fly on the wall of lower-middle class American life, you ought to watch this. Also, if you were taken in by comics and horror movies of the 80's and 90's, I think you'll really enjoy Mark's spirit. Some users argue that he is talentless, but I disagree. 'Kevin' wrote a review saying that he thought if Mark had a little schooling, he would be shooting for someone right now. And I agree. Part of talent is a strong drive and consistent interest in what you're doing. And Mark has all the 'desire' lined up. You don't have to be an aspiring amateur film-maker to enjoy this. I would recommend this to anyone with a keen interest in people and a lot of common sense. It's not the kind of movie to sit down and watch with friends and family, but I think it's a good study-piece to watch a few times yourself. The cover for this movie is an accurate one. Mark and his slow-witted friend are thoroughly enjoyable people to be a part of. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" If you have ever wanted to make a film, you should watch this documentary about an auspicious filmmaker named Mark who dreams of making an epic about his own life, aptly titled Northwestern. Mark is shown writing his script, casting the film, trying to promote it and gain money to finance it... halfway through the documentary he scraps it after he is unable to gain enough funds. He then finishes up an older film of his, Coven, which he had scrapped two years before.Coven really exists (http//imdb.com/title/tt0225434/), and so does Mark Borchardt. When I first saw this, I knew it had to be a mockumentary. It is not.I'm sure some scenes were staged, acted or re-shot, but it seems not many. I've heard and read from various sources that the majority of this film is realistic and factual. Which is actually rather sad, and scary.This movie will move you if you've ever wanted to direct a film. It is also an invaluable insight into the production of a film and just how hard it is to get one made. Not every wannabe turns into Quentin Tarantino, and American Movie The Making of Northwestern exposes this sad fact very clearly. "},{"Title":"MUST SEE!!!","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  American Movie was completely and totally awsome.  If you havn't aleady, go out and get it, it's definately worth it. It was such an insperation to me, it kept me going on my journey to becoming a filmmaker.  This is really great, plus you get to see Coven, if you havn't, do it.  I can't wait for Mark Borchardt's next film, Scare Me!  Check him out at americanmovie.com or at northwestproductions.com.  Trust me,it's worth your time. "},{"Title":"A Must-see on DVD","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  If you understand that humor takes many different forms and that it doesn't need to be Ernest Goes To Camp, or Ernest Goes to Jail to be humorous then you will enjoy this film. The character are so pitiful that all you can do is laugh. I really enjoyed the director and actor's comments feature on the DVD as well as the deleted scenes (some of the deleted scenes are so funny that I'm surprised they ended up on the cutting room floor). Make sure you really give this film a chance and that you really listen Mark's comments/ideas/dreams... Hilarious. "},{"Title":"Uplifting","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  For any independent filmmaker out there, this movie is truly a model for us all.  Much like Bowfinger but this is for real.  The subject has a true passion for filmmaking and he serves as an example to any struggling artist. "},{"Title":"Man Refuses to Accept Life of Mediocrity in a Depressing yet Hilarious Overview","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  When we are young, we all pick out an ideal occupation for ourselves artist, actor, writer, rocket scientist, etc..  While most of us grow out of our pipe dreams, the main character of American Movie, Mark, has yet to let go of his(and at a thirty-something age too) to become a wealthy acclaimed director.  Despite the fact that Murphy's Law won't leave Mark alone and something always seems to go wrong, Mark is able to persevere from each deterring incident with an even greater drive to reach his goals.  His desire to be a director so controls his character that he sees any person or thing in his life as something to exploit to reach the goal.  While I noticed other IMDB commenters are lambasting Mark's selfishness, I think it's an almost justified sort-of selfishness because for Mark, not becoming a famous director is equivalent to death.  He talks incessantly about leaving some kind of mark on the world, and he sees filmmaking as a way to do this.Unfortunately any viewer of this movie picks up early on the fact that Mark has a near-zero chance of ever acheiving his dream.  Is he aware of this? No, not in the slightest, and none of his family or friends want to let him in on the secret(in fact even some of them believe in him).  Strangely enough though, the disappointing future the viewer feels is sure to occur for Mark doesn't impede the ability to find humor in the film.  This is a very very funny documentary.  Most of the laughs come from when Mark is filming scenes for Coven. There's a scene where an actor has to have his head break a cupboard, and it's just not working.  Another scene has Mark's very old uncle Bill saying a few lines to the camera; needless to say, after 20 takes of a lot of headscratching and line-stumbling Bill finally decides he's had enough.  A lot of humor sadly comes from Mark himself.  His screenwriting, which he seems to think is worthy of a Pulitzer, is laughingly bad It's alright, it's ok, there is something to live for; Jesus told me so.American Movie is, contrary to what people might think, a documentary that anyone can enjoy(even though my sister, who watched some scenes, seemed to think it was downright bizarre).  The fact that Chris Smith can successfully bring to the screen a film that inspires both sadness from Mark's depressing lifestyle to hilarity with scenes with Bill(who unfortunately passed away before the film was released) says quite a lot about him.  I wonder how the dreamer Mark regards this documentary.  Does he realize that it casts him in a bad light?  Or that it sets up to show him as a fool in many scnes of the film?  Or does he see it as something that will be shown prior to his own A&E Biography segment?  It's an intriguing subject of wonder, and I hope the latter comes true for him some day.I highly recommend this movie 9/10. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Upon repeated viewings of American Movie, Chris Smith's amazing documentary only gets better.  The aspiring filmmaker, Mark Borchardt, takes you on an emotional ride that depresses, motivates, and still makes you laugh harder than ever before.  Borchardt and his friends are characters that never cease to be entertaining, making this documentary almost too good. This film is one of my personal favorites of all time, and anyone with any sort of taste for movies should check out this classic as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"A funny and touching documentary","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  American Movie is a beautifully crafted documentary  as well as a funny satire on middle class values and the art  of movie making. I could really identify with Mark's aspirations and dreams. Chris Smith has done an impressive job directing. One hilarious scene that really stood out for me is when Mark's daughter and her friends are interviewed about Apocalypse Now that Mark took them to see.  The horror, the horror. A great film and highly recommended. "}{"Title":"One of the most entertaining documentaries in a while...","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I remember when I first saw this film sitting on a shelf in my local video store and something about the cover oddly drew me to it, but it wasn't until two or three weeks later when a friend of mine purchased the DVD version of American Movie.  I have to say that this film is very well put together and reminds me very much of my other two favorite documentaries, Trekkies and Roger & Me.  Overall the film leaves you with the feeling of either Why am I not as determined as this man? or I really don't want end up like him. Although these sound like of negative they really aren't.  You have to credit Mark with having as much heart as he does to go through the stuff he does.  Being an aspiring filmmaker myself this film hit very close to home and showed me another aspect of the field that usually isn't shown in dramatic films. "},{"Title":"American Icons, not heros","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Any great painting is a static portrait of a time, place, and/or person. The viewer may interpret those features as he/she wishes, embodying them with whatever stories or unshown details wished. In movies the portrait is more defined, more flesh and blood. This movie is about a particular person in a particular time and place. Can we take this person out of that time and place? Of course not. Can we change that person? Of course not.Mark Borchardt, is an American icon, but no hero. At an early age he invented himself as a movie maker, and the road to that end has defined him. With incredible diligence he tries to fulfill his version of the american dream, and himself, despite rather than because of his several faults. He is not to be looked up to as a human of great character, but for his humanity, including the warts. This view of him informs even the humor of the movie.Early on we see his bookshelf. No matter how ignorant he is of a great many things, no matter how sublimely naive and narcissitic his philosophies, he is dedicated to his muse and his dream. Should we laugh at him and his seemingly addled friend, Mike Schank? To a point, of course. But each has his own strengths, no matter how limited they are.I found myself confronted by this movie. On the one hand there is a human being so dedicated as to be blind. On the other his dedication is derailed time and again by his inability to be more than he is. I rooted for him even as I was appalled by his behavior at times. I can't think of any greater attribute of a movie than that it depresses, amuses, and enlightens you. By virtue of its tortured and torturing main character it does this.I can't say this is the greatest documentary of last year, but it is certainly one of the most insightful in terms of the place, time and person chronicled. "},{"Title":"Most entertaining documentary ever","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I just recently saw this film when a friend of mine let me borrow his copy of the DVD.  I didn't know what to expect but being a person who's always wanted to become a filmmaker, I began to watch it the second I got home.  Words can't describe how many great moments this film has.  It's truly hilarious, inspirational, and extremely entertaining.  The one thing I was worried about while watching this film was what if I ended up like this 10 years from now?  But as the film went on I have to say I liked Mark's enthusiasm towards making films.  Some may find him pathetic to look at, which in some cases this is understandable, but he's without a doubt one interesting person to base a film around.  Lucky for DVD owners, the DVD also has Mark's film Coven on it as well which you'll be destined to watch after seeing this documentary.  For those who haven't seen it, rent it.  And if you can't find any place to rent it, buy it. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Thanks for the great movie!!!!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I cant believe that a documentary can be that good. I watched the movie second time one hour after the first time I saw it. F*** the Hollywood, long live student radio.I hope see American Worker and Coven soon "},{"Title":"A cool doc. about the hardships of being pathetic )","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I really thought it would suck, but these people are enjoyable and out and out funny because of their stupidity.  Mark had the room rolling with his idea of being half a satinist, half a christian. Great fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Touching, entertaining, and hilarious.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  American Movie is the type of film that should win Oscars. It is undoubtebly the best film documentary ever. If you have ever seriously thought about making a film, see this movie at any price. Or if you are just seeking a great rollicking comedy, (Which 90% of the audiences saw it as) see it. I'm going to rate it a ten, but due to Mark's tendency to ramble a bit, I'll give it a nine.OVERALL 9 "},{"Title":"for anyone who's ever wanted to be a filmaker....or just wanted to be in a film....","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  i remember reading a blurb for this film about a year ago and wondering what to expect. After a friend of mine went to a screening and came back raving, i was really curious....however, i didn't get a chance to check it out until last night.... this was a pretty darn amazing film about REAL people, doing REAL things and no punches are pulled.... i had no preconceived notions and no real expectations....this is a film for anyone who has ever wanted to make movies.... it proves you don't have to be a hollywood type to win in the end....and don't forget to visit www.americanmovie.com.... "},{"Title":"Oscar worthy documentary filmmaking at it's best","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  A film that should've been in the running for best documentary at the Oscars, American Movie is one of the best documentary/films I've seen in a long time. It follows Mark Borchardt, a frustrated Wisconscinite filmmaker with accent and all who has made a series of small horror films since he was a kid. Working from job to job, Mark finally puts a plan in motion to film a 37 minute horror film. The documentary follows Mark in the two years of his life as he darts back and forth from quitting the project or getting it made. All in the while, the documentary interviews his parents, his friends, and his ragtag crew of amateur actors. Some of which take the opportunity to crush Mark with self esteem reducing insults. A particularly amusing moment in the film is Mark's best friend, Mike Schank who describes a trip to the emergency room after a drug overdose at a concert. A real meat and potatoes film in the heart of America, American Movie should have gotten notices from the academy.  "},{"Title":"The best film I have ever seen...period.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  American Movie is the best film I have ever seen.  It's a documentary of Mark Borchart, you're average everday midwesterner who dreams of making films. It's about the trials and tribulations he faces in his attempt to make a film titled NorthwesternAmerican Movie proves that the best characters are the ones from real life.  Mark's a guy who is doing something and not just sitting around waiting for life to come to him.  I know guys just like this, and finally a film has come out that shines the spotlight on guys who are just trying to do what they want to do in life.Do yourself a huge favor and watch this film.To further understand the background to American Movie I highly recommend that you check out two web sights americanmovie.com and northwestproductions.com "},{"Title":"Everyone has their own opinion.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  There seems to be a severe love/hate thing shown here.  Frankly, I liked American Movie.  I thought it was funny, insightful, and quite satirical.I admit.  It is long.  It does kind of drag.  My family couldn't stand watching the video along with me.  But thing is- that is how documentaries and independent films in general are.  It's like sushi- it's an acquired taste.Nevertheless, I still think the movie was pretty good.  It was well done production/directorial wise, and it was funny, something documentaries usually aren't.  The movie was about hick type dudes from Wisconsin notable accents by the way- Mark trying to live the American dream and his fellow (unintended comedic) consorts (including a friend with a gambling addiction to lottery tickets).  The characters in American Movie just seemed a bit too unreal to be real.  American Movie is kind of like a dirty/politically incorrect joke- you'll laugh and as you're laughing you're thinking this is so bad... but soo funny!If you like good independent films- watch it.  Anyone who likes blockbuster/mainstream type of movies- you ought to pass so that you won't add another user comment about how much American Movie sucked.  What do you expect- it's a Documentary.  "}{"Title":"a funny, tragic, honest and ultimately inspiring documentary","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This may actually the finest film of 1999. No I'm not kidding. This documentary directed by Chris Smith captures the very spirit of artistic compulsion. Smith does the smart thing any documentary filmaker should do he keeps invisible and refuses to judge his subject. As the viewer watches Mark and his efforts, no matter how funkily aggressive they may prove, to finish his films. He refuses to compromise and suffers repeatedly as a result. But lest we forget, remember Speilberg, Scorsese and others started just as humbly.And what a great subject he chooses. Mark, his family and friends are all fascinating characters, far more than any character created in last year's fictitious cinematic products.This film oscillates on the dime between comedy, tragedy, touching sympathy and leads us ultimately to inspiring any viewer with an urge to create, despite talent issues, to get off their butts and make something.The film is about maverick artists and their passions. It is also about families, no matter how co-dependent and disfunctional they may be and how unique and beautiful that organism truly is. Mark proves in the film to be utterly devoted not only to his dreams, but also to his family as well- and they to him. Why this film was not nominated for documentary of the year is beyond me and criminal (that is assuming it was eligible last year). This film is to be sought out and treasured. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious, 100% entertaining","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Anyone remotely interested in making films will love this movie..I rented it in a hurry. .saw the box cover and said, that looks good, and checked out.  When the movie started, I kept fast forwarding b/c I thought it was another preview, then rewound, and thought, Well, I rented another piece of crap.  (this was shortly after I watched the indie-disaster Social Intercourse.)American Movie is absolutely hilarious. .you have a 30 year old not-quite-totally-burned out director who's creating a 35 minute short film that's taking him 2 years so far, and he doesn't even know how to pronounce the title.  When someone tells him how to pronounce it, well, he meant to call it cO-ven in the first place,.  .etc  The characters are great, right down to his best friend who rewrote a Black Sabbath song and changed a word to make it his own. .Anyway, you gotta see it. .not your typical documentary, and though a look into real lives, is a great story. . Mike will definitely get what he's working for.  "},{"Title":"Pursue, Conquer, Achieve!","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Having missed it in theaters, I rolled the dice and purchased this very good film on DVD. AMERICAN MOVIE serves as a fine example of one believing in one's self to pursue a dream. I found this film very funny, honest, interesting, and REAL.  The filmed documentary follows one man's pursuit of making an independent film called NORTHWESTERN. Trouble arises (aka NO MONEY), and the dreamer resolves the issue by returning to his original horror film, COVEN, where he sets out to finish his thirty-five minute, black and white film of that title. If he can get that one in the can and sell many-a-copy, he just might be able to realize his dream. There are some hilarious moments in this film. One revolves around a scene from COVEN in which one man has to get his head tossed throw the cabinet doors underneath the sink. Needless to say, more than one cut is needed. The DVD has over 20 deleted scenes, along with the  thirty-five minute, finished version of COVEN. I am glad I bought this film. It is inspirational to me because I am in the midst of completing my own independent film. Only, I have my sh@t together a bit more than the interesting subjects of this very good film. See it and meet someone new in this world. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Mike Shenk Lives!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I rented this movie for two reasons. The first was all of the good things that I read about it. I definately was  impressed, and couldn't agree more with all of the reviews I read. The second reason is because I know these guys. I don't know Mark as well as I do Mike. He hasn't changed much from the years we knew each other. I know him as  the reaper from a local Milwaukee radio station (WMSE). The way he is in this film is genuinely Mike 100%. He once  gave me a table that he made. It was a little one, about 15 high, that said Metallica on it. The odd thing about it was it only had two legs. Sometimes it's the thought that counts, and Mike always has thought about others first. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Indie Flick","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I'm proud to say I'm a student at UW-Milwaukee, where parts of the film were shot. Yep, I recognize Mitchell Hall, where I took a film class, possibly the same course as fellow student Smith.That's where I learned about American Movie. Our professor told us about it shortly before its release. To be sure, I was intrigued, but for some reason, I put off seeing it for several months(it must've done pretty well if it was still playing, at least in Milwaukee).When I finally got around to seeing it, I thought it was an entertaining documentary. It's not a masterpiece-it goes on a bit too long-but I find Mark's passion and commitment inspiring. I hope this film signals the beginnings of bigger and better things him. Maybe his forthcoming Northwestern will propel him to fortune. Who knows?Rating *** (out of ****)108 min/Released by Sony Pictures Classics "},{"Title":"Inspiring, funny, and an unintended Anti-drug message.","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  If you aren't inspired by this film to make your own independent feature, then you must be on more drugs than Mike has injested in his lifetime.This film is funny, real, and inspirational.See it, and make your own damn film. "},{"Title":"The funniest damn documentary you'll ever see.","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  My companions were astounded to find that this movie was a documentary. It was so funny, it seemed scripted, yet it gives a stirring picture of real life in the indie film life.  We felt moved to purchase Coven and wanted to meet Mark and Mike.  As college students, this film gave us a much needed glimpse of real life. "},{"Title":"I was sad to see this one end...","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Anytime I'm not giving 150% to my dreams or my goals I think of Mark Borchardt, the real-life subject of American Movie. Mark's dogged persistence at having his first feature film produced and shot is so captivating that it will have you laughing, shaking your head with sadness and rooting for him.I haven't seen a documentary this honest since the movie on R. Crumb. The supporting cast (Mark's real-life family and friends) are all great. Give this movie a chance and you'll see a great film and a wonderful portrait of the stuff that the American dream is made of. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The subject matter of this film is potentially depressing a man about thirty, with no job, little education, three kids from a failed relationship, living in his parents' house, but with a dream of directing feature films.  But about a half-hour into the movie you realize that Mark Borchardt has a bottomless supply of drive and ambition--it's just that it's all channeled into his need to direct movies, and nothing else will make him happy.   The movie jumps all over the emotional spectrum, but in the end you come away feeling happy, because you've just gotten to know some wonderful people.  Go to see this--you'll end up wishing it was longer. "},{"Title":"I was there, too.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I was also at the tortured screening of American Movie, and enjoyed myself tremendously. I have the privilege of knowing Mark Borchard and hope the best for him. He is a unique soul to say the least.  But when I saw the film for the first time at Sundance, I was extremely impressed. Chris Smith has shown his genius once again. So all things aside, I recommend this film highly, you will not see a funnier more uplifting film than American Movie. And if you get the chance, see Borchard's Coven. Also a piece of work, you will be asking yourself Blair Witch What??? "}{"Title":"Great!!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This documentary is such a wonderful example of what an entertaining and amazing experience a documentary can be, if done so well as this.  The subject, Mark, is smart, funny and very driven, and this story of his personal fight to live his dreams will be inspiring to anyone who knows what it is like to harbor an impossible dream. See this mov "},{"Title":"Excellent documentary, what documentaries were meant to be.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  American Movie is a wonderful documentary.  It follows the trials and tribulations of a very determined independent filmmaker as he struggles to finish his first film.The raw footage and insightful content of this film is an excellent example of how documentaries should be produced.  I also feel that the film can very inspirational to those of us that want to be filmmakers ourselves. "},{"Title":"A delightful and hilarious documentary.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Chris Smith's American Movie is an insightful examination of the American dream.  The movie focuses around Mark Borchardt, an independent film maker from Wisconsin.  Mark has dreamed of becoming a great writer and director since he was a teenager and had an out of focus hi8 camera. The movie follows Mark through his attempt to make his dream feature film, Northwestern. There are a number of hilarious scenes in the film as Mark goes through pre-production of Northwestern and later his short film Coven (pronounced co-ven, the correct pronunciation, Mark says Sounds too much like oven,) which he plans to use to raise money to complete Northwestern. This film's insight and humor is on par with Roger and Me, Michael Moore's great film.  I first viewed it at a chaotic Sundance Film Festival screening that brought out the spirit of the movie- a giant air duct fell from the ceiling at the beginning of the movie, hit seven people and caused a twenty-five minute delay; half way through the film the sound started fluttering and the projector had to be stopped to fix it, and in the last twenty minutes the projector stopped and the film burned up.  Despite the delays, the audience stayed through the movie and gave it a standing ovation.  American Movie also won the Grand Jury Prize for Documentary at the end of the festival. I highly recommend this fine film, worth sitting through any hellish screening. "},{"Title":"Dude This Movie Rocks!","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Let's face it, lot's of bad movies are made all the time. For those people who work in film, you have probably poured a lot of time and effort into many of these plot less wonders. Sometimes, and this is my opinion, it is the act of merely making the movie that is important to us. To tell a story, (no matter how simple and unrealistic). Also, the collaborative process is one key characteristic that is unique to film and theater. To put on a production of any caliber, requires the talents of a varying amount of people, depending on its scale, to bring its story to life. The most intriguing part of American Movie, however, is not the movie being filmed. It is the movie maker himself, as a character of his own life, which demands our attention. None of them serve as models of the filmmakers we know and have worked with. But, I will argue, they are archetypes of small parts of us which try to be a part of this cult activity of independent film-making. (Alright a very small part of us) These are the people who live under the rocks of their own lives and just so happen to be snared by the romance of cinema. This leads me to my next argument. American Movie captures the raw spirit of independent film-making. Bad stories told on (nowadays) digital film with sloppy effects and horrible performances- because this IS the best they can do with a budget of a couple thousand dollars rather than a studio budget of several million dollars a day. That is the difference between low low LOW end productions and studio productions. The independent filmmaker just wants to create a linear or even a nonlinear story to shoot as well as he can with the money he's investing in himself and the resources around him in order to see a finished product on his rundown TV. Rugged Individualism materializes in every art form. I find this film to be a brilliant document of truth for many filmmakers. And no, I'm not full of myself. Man, these people are hilarious. Their problems seem hilarious, their characteristics are hilarious. Best line of the movie It's alright!. . . It's okay!. . . There's something to live for!. . . Jesus told me so!!! Said a million times by a funny old man. Hat's off to Tom Beach. Chicago Rules. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Blend of Hilarity and Horror","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Chris Smith is a superior filmmaker with the seldom-seen talent for spotting a good story, then getting the hell out of its way. Smith's American Movie is the true-to-life record of filmmaker wannabe Mark Borchardt, a loser intent on milking his elderly uncle for cash to complete his horror short. But never, under any circumstances, to pursue gainful employment or support the children he's conceived.Such is producer Smith's skill that Mark appears more sympathetic than otherwise. Even as he entices Uncle Bill with sugar-spun dreams and executive producer credits, it is his desperation to be somebody, to have his name coupled with the likes of Scorsese and Spielberg that touches us.American Movie also belongs in that rare, often attempted but seldom achieved sub genre that successfully blends hilarity with horror. The humor comes from Borchardt's Ed Wood-style belief in his own genius. From his appalling attempts at acting, from his substituting his less than film-savvy mother for a missing cameraman and from his employing sweet but brain-damaged friend Mike whenever he's short an actor or crew member.The horror comes from seeing what Borchardt cannot It is this very American attitude--I Want, Therefore I Am Entitled--that keeps him from seeing just how much he has to learn about his chosen craft. He is so confident he can't fail that failure is guaranteed. "},{"Title":"What was the point?","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Intermittently fascinating and boring, but I have a suspicion that underneath, the filmmakers were secretly making fun of Mark Borchardt and his friends and family.Many of those posting here have commented on Borchardt's being untalented, but where do you get that from? Based on the snippets of his films shown here, he's no more or less talented than any other low budget, struggling filmmaker. I think the untalented moniker comes because Borchardt isn't all urban and sophisticated and polished. He drinks too much and uses the F word too much and tries to show off his command of filmmaking lingo around his friends and family. And frankly, he would be a total embarassment at an L.A. industry lunch at the Ivy. But does that make him untalented?So other than making fun of Borchardt, what was the filmmakers' point? That some Midwestern, uneducated schlub doesn't have a prayer of making a movie? That he has colorful relatives who live in trailers? Was it supposed to make urban, educated, sophistacted NPR subscribers feel superior? I don't understand..... "},{"Title":"Decent movie inhibited by stuck-up audience members","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This mockumentary is basically so-so. It has it's enjoyable moments. The burnt out character Mike Shank is hilarious as is decrepit Uncle Bill who also provides some touching moments. The humor drew chuckles from me but roars from much of the audience Anyway American movie is worth seeing on video, I wouldn't pay to see it on the big screen. The acting is very natural and at times poignant. The picture of Mark Borchardt is one of a non-conformist destined to never succeed yet never looking back. The movie kind of got me depressed, as any movie involving rural American life usually does. It runs a little long, it should be about twenty minutes shorter, but I wouldn't not recommend this movie. It's decent. "},{"Title":"American loser","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" David Lynch shot his first film, 'Erasurehead', over several years, adding new scenes each time he managed to raise a little bit more cash. Kevin Smith made 'Clerks' at work, while working as a clerk, and Robert Rodriguez has boasted that 'From Dusk Till Dawn' cost precisely $30,000. But $30,000 is still a hell of a lot of money to raise if you work as a cleaner in a cemetery. And what if an aspiring film maker not only had such a job but also had all the ambition of such luminaries, and all the dorkishness of Smith, but absolutely none of the talent. Such a figure is Mark Borchardt, the subject of this hilarious documentary which chronicles his attempt to make a pair of movies over many many years. Borchardt combines his lunatic dreams with flights of depression and a fatal inability to call it a day; one senses he almost prefers the endless labours of searching for an impossible perfection to an accommodation with the reality that he's simply (on the evidence presented in 'American Movie') not very good. And like a modern day Ed Wood, he surrounds himself with an epic crowd of fellow losers, his genuine affection for whom is his greatest redeeming feature. The collection includes his warring parents, his best friends (one a criminal, the other a reformed drug addict), his own hapless children and best of all his aged Uncle Bill. Bill may live in a trailer park, and just about have given up on life, but he is the owner of a small fortune ($280,000 to be precise) and the touching but potentially exploitative relationship between the two men lies at the heart of the film. Borchardt manages to enlist a few actors to perform (alongside himself, of course) but in the main he is wholly dependent on friends and family to complete his work (even Bill has a role on camera). On British TV, the BBC brilliantly scheduled a screening of 'American Movie' back-to-back with 'Lost in La Mancha', the story of Terry Gilliam's ill fated attempt to film 'Don Quixote'. In that film, one was impressed by the huge amount of professionalism on display (inadequate as it was to the task in hand), and just how damn difficult it is even for experts with millions to spend to make a film; whereas Borschadt is not only penniless, but also such a clown that he can't even pronounce the name of his own work ('Coven') properly. Ultimately, Borschadt is human enough for you to want him to succeed, but awful enough for the viewer to still be able to laugh at his failures. If this film was fiction, you'd dismiss it as unbelievable; but as it is, it's one of the funniest documentaries you're likely to see. "},{"Title":"Funny but not in a good way","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This film does have a lot of laughs, but after the first 20 minutes, you realize that all of the laughs are coming at the expense of truly pathetic people.I keep wondering how the people in the film really feel about the audiences kept in stitches by their inept, short-sighted, selfish, manipulative lives.The only way this movie succeeds is as a strong anti-drug/anti-alcohol propaganda piece.  Most of the misery in these people's lives seems to be caused by their heavy substance abuse.  Mark, Mike and Uncle Bill have wasted lives because they've spent most of their lives wasted.This is the most un-glamorous look at drug and alcohol abuse I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"The cruelest film I've ever watched.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  If this had been a mockumentary, it might have been very slightly funny.Since it's an actual person whose life and dream they're profiting from by publicly displaying as ridiculous, I think American Movie is just plain mean. I felt sick watching it. "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  interesting but not really a story","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" American Movie is interesting because it shows you the raw passion of a modern independent filmmaker. But there's not much story behind it, and if it weren't a true story it wouldn't even be that compelling. Given that it's a drama and a documentary and a low-budget independent film, it does quite well.But for an action movie buff like me, who normally avoids dramas, I'm glad I saw it but could have watched perhaps half and gotten the same effect. It's powerful but you sort-of have to piece together the deeper themes to get it.Who should see this film-- small town movie makers seeking inspiration-- drama / documentary fans willing to put in a little effortto behold what is truly a beautiful dedication to artI'll give American Movie a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's Not A Mockumentary ...","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" ... And it's a not very good documentary either American MOVIE seems to have confused some people into thinking this is a spoof documentary (  Mockumentary ) and even some newspaper TV listings described it as such . I'll not laugh out loud at that because it's easy to mistake this documentary as one big wind up ala THIS IS SPINAL TAP What seems to have caused the confusion is that the documentary centres around budding film maker Mark Borchardt who is .... How can I put it ? Rather self deluded ? Yes but that's not necessarily a bad thing since if we had no dreams we'd all still be living in caves and the fact that Mark is obsessed with horror movies is not to be taken as a criticism since both Sam Raimi ( Yes that one ) and Peter Jackson ( yes that one ) both started out doing low budget horror comedies so again it's not a criticism . No it's just that Mark Borchardt ( yes that one ) is a parody of American trailer trash Remember in THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY Ben Stiller gives a lift to a dodgy hitch hiker (  Come into my office because you're f***in' fired  ) ? Well that's who Mark resembles along with most of Jerry Springer's guests so it's very easy to see why some people thought this wasn't a real documentary . It's also not a very good documentary since Mark and co give me the creeps . Did you know that someone thought Mark would grow up to be a serial killer ? Does anyone else think there's plenty of time left for this to happen ? "},{"Title":"Oh no, what went wrong!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The concept of this movie is unique, however its execution is less than special. When i arrived at the cinema and realised that there were only about 15 people or so in the crowd, i thought i had made a mistake. However the true mistake was realised in shocking detail when the film has ended and i knew that i had wasted two hours of my life.Without the cruel recordings of the old man, and the stupidly funny friend, this film would have rated 1 out of ten.This film is special, special because it is probably the worst film ever to be generally released to the public.There is also the issue of whether you could call it a film or just an advertisement for the probably crummy Northwestern.If you are thinking of watching this film for the plot, the humor, the filming, the locations, then don't. On the other hand if you like to experience both ends of the film production spectra then go, just take a book, or a small game or just some novelty item. "},{"Title":"Inarticulate Speech of the Trailer Park","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I am the perfect candidate audience for this. I watch a couple theatrical projects a day. I love film and am hungry for new and/or intelligent experiences. Plus, I have a passion for `folded' films, films that about themselves in some way. Moreover, this project comes with Sundance buzz attached, and trailer park voyeurism can be cinematic (`Gummo,' `Kalifornia,' even `Freeway').What we have here is a film made (in ways that its making is overt) about the making of a film. The interesting possibility is the distance between the damaged filmmakers we see (lots of attention is given to the drug addled friend Mikey) and those we don't see. Those latter are clearly competent, detached and omnipresent - everything the crew we see is not. It gives us a smugness, but it gives us nothing else of value.What we have instead is sport a soap opera structured in such a way that we can read and judge the stereotypes easily - a `Startup.com' where the characters don't pretend as much.This is pretty damaging stuff for a viewer. If what you are about is building a self using film as an aid, you can't do much worse. Its a drug, no more.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"dreadful","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This was a dreadful, boring movie, even for a documentary. At times, it did provided insight to life and also had humorous moments, but overall it was not worth seeing. Every time I began to feel sympathetic towards Mark and began to hope he would be successful, I would become disappointed by his lack of responsibility and drug and alcohol abuse.  "},{"Title":"Sooooooooo boring","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I usually enjoy underground movies and antiheroes but this is a bad joke. I wonder how this can be called a movie. All these people are loosers and the filmmaker doesn't succeed in making them interesting at all. They are not funny, not tragic just plain stupid and boring.May be I missed something but I won't watch it again to find out what. Anybody with a camcorder can do better than that...I give it a 1 for the originality. All the rest is crap. "},{"Title":"Not a real documentary","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Sorry, folks, but all of you that say this is a great documentary... and that award it won at Sundance... well, you've all been duped. I've heard for a few years how I had to see this documentary and I finally watched it. Maybe in 1999, when it came out, and reality TV didn't have such a dominant presence in the industry, this movie would have seemed entertaining. But Mike and Mark are so obviously playing themselves, Mike and Mark. At times they are funny and some of the lines seem off the cuff, but mostly they do not ring true. They are the reality version of Jay and Silent Bob. Yes the people are real, they are not actors, but it's put on, it's exaggeration of themselves, and it's so obvious that it's hard to believe so many people think it's the real deal. I wasn't fooled so it was actually a tad boring. Mildly amusing, but not missing much if you miss it. "},{"Title":"Ebert and Sundance loved it...WHO CARES","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I love documentaries.  They are among my favorite genres of film.  Before seeing this film I hadn't seen one that I hadn't liked.The premise for this film is a great one.  The execution is well done.  There were some times early on when I laughed and smiled.  Yet as the film went on the more tedious and irritating it became.  This could have been something special had the subject not been such an inarticulate, childish, inept putz.  I appreciate his passion for film, but quit your whining.  If you're short on funds, maybe you shouldn't have so many kids, or spend so much money on alcohol.  Maybe you should have gone to film school, or at least graduated from high school.  Maybe you should have lived life and gotten perspective and experiences that could add to your vision. There are so many people out there with stories that are interesting, funny and poignant.  To see this guy chosen over any of them is nothing less than crass.  If you want to do a documentary on a film maker, why not do one on someone from China or Iran, a film maker with REAL problems? Two final questionsWho takes a little kid to see Apocalypse Now?How many times did this guy say man? "},{"Title":"The Worst Film Ever Made","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Should you wish to see the worst film ever made, look no further.  Some wretched movies are watchable because they are unintentionally funny.  Alas, American Movie has no wit at all, no unintentional humor, just obscenities thought by its director to be laughable.For those who liked this film, I suggest you watch Kevin Smith's Clerks, similar in tone.  In Clerks you will find creativity, wit, and enjoyment -- all on a shoestring budget. It should make you forget this hideous effort.     "},{"Title":"A documentary about something not worth documenting.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This film has been lauded to the point of the ridiculous. American Movie is a boring documentary about a boring person so ordinary you'll find equivalents on just about every corner in America. It takes a long, hard look at a guy who's failed at just about everything in the interest of making an independent movie..or two. Were his failures for other than his own selfish pursuits or were they in the name of real art, the movie might have had a chance. America has an abundance of better stories to be told. This one should be flushed and many critics have good reason to be ashamed. Two thumbs up indeed! "}{"Title":"don't see this movie","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie sucked wind.  I imagine that the other 300 people that gave this movie such high votes must be independent filmmakers.  I can't imagine that anyone else could possibly find it funny or even slightly entertaining.  I feel like 100 minutes of my life were just wasted. "},{"Title":"A shoddy movie about shoddy people making a shoddy film","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is an Emperor's New Clothes situation.  Someone needs to say That's not a funny and original, (etc., etc.) film; that is an inferior film.  Don't waste your money on it.  The film is trashy, and the people in it are embarrassingly inferior trailer trash. They are all-too-realistically only themselves.  They have no lines, they don't act.  The American Dream is not to create shoddy no-quality films or anything else shoddy and of no-quality; it is to achieve something of quality and, thereby, success.  Only people who are desperate to praise any film not made in Hollywood (it can't have been made in Hollywood, can it?) would try to impute any kind of quality to this film.  It's worse than Ed Woods, another film about a film-maker without standards.  These films shouldn't have been made, and you shouldn't go see American Movie. "},{"Title":"A shoddy movie about shoddy people making a shoddy film","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is an Emperor's New Clothes situation.  Someone needs to say That's not a funny and original, (etc., etc.) film; that is an inferior film.  Don't waste your money on it.  The film is trashy, and the people in it are embarrassingly inferior trailer trash. They are all-too-realistically only themselves.  They have no lines, they don't act.  The American Dream is not to create shoddy no-quality films or anything else shoddy and of no-quality; it is to achieve something of quality and, thereby, success.  Only people who are desperate to praise any film not made in Hollywood (it can't have been made in Hollywood, can it?) would try to impute any kind of quality to this film.  It's worse than Ed Woods, another film about a film-maker without standards.  These films shouldn't have been made, and you shouldn't go see American Movie. "}]