[{"Title":"Charming throwback to 1930s musicals","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Thanks heaven for Kenneth Branagh; without him, cinema would be far less interesting and rewarding. His adaptations of Shakespeare will undoubtedly be his lasting contribution to the history of film, and this is no exception.Having never read the play, I was quite pleased that Love's Labour's Lost was as easy to follow as it was. This has a fair amount in common with Branagh's earlier Much Ado About Nothing; mainly the highs, lows and plain ridiculousness of love. That film also featured Hollywood star casting (Keanu Reeves among others), but like that film, does not suffer from it. Indeed, it only seems to boost the feel-good nature of this film, as the actors joyfully get their collective teeth stuck into some of Shakespeare's wonderful dialogue.What really makes this a must-see though is how the text is broken up into easily digestible chunks, interspersed with classic musical numbers from the 1930s. I wasn't prepared for how much of a joy it was to see some wonderfully romantic songs (sung pretty well actually) being put to some great dance numbers - Adrian Lester in particular was good. If, like me, you're too young to feel particularly nostalgic towards a time and genre of film that has long since gone, then I urge you to watch this and learn. And if you are old enough to yearn for those days, then do yourself a favour and go see! "},{"Title":"Much better than the remarks found here","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Interesting reading the reviews herein.  The reviewers either loved or hated it.  Some witty shots taken at Branagh's effort to make one of The Bard's weakest comedies into something enjoyable.  I mean, c'mon.  The play is a story of young men swearing off of love and being made to eat their vows by clever women through little games and switched clues.  Hardly a deep plot with potentially tragic twists like Much Ado About Nothing, or confusion reigning during a lover in love with love as in Twelfth Night, or a knee slapper like Midsummer's Night Dream.  So, Branagh, ever the innovator and risk-taker, makes it into a gishy late 30s musical with all the trappings (make that 'tappings') from lead into song and dance routines to coordinated smiling shapely swimmers peeling off like a deck of cards into a swimming pool.  Busby Berkeley would have loved it, as would those guys like Cole Porter, Irving Berlin and Vincent Youmans who wrote those songs back in the 30s.  OK, so the ending sucks but how else can you wind up this comedy? It's not Branagh's fault this play is Much Ado About Nothing;  blame it on the Bard.  He wrote it.  "},{"Title":"Darn the critics, full speed ahead!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Something about Love's Labour's Lost is causing critics to sniff and huff and puff like never before.  The dance numbers aren't perfectly in sync and the music isn't perfectly performed, they sneer.  Shakespeare and Gershwin don't mix.  It's sheer fluff.  It's bizarre.Thus saith the critics.  The forest that they're missing with their shrubs of discontentment is the overwhelming charm and infectuous fun of this silly little film.  Yes, when Branagh and his cronies do a dance number it isn't lock-step choreography (one arm a little high, perhaps, one foot off the beat a bit).  When Alicia Silverstone and her ladies-in-waiting cavort and giggle in a pool, they're not quite Esther Williams and company.  Instead of picture-perfect Fred & Ginger, they look like real people dancing and singing because dancing and singing are fun.  And unless you're Ebenezer Scrooge, The Grinch, or a movie critic, you'll have fun, too.That's not to say the movie is just sloppy silliness.  Branagh stages some gorgeous set pieces, including gondolas lit by Japanese lanterns, a prop-plane goodbye straight out of Casablanca, and a production number in which the film's silliest character kicks the moon like a big silver soccer ball.  It's about a third Shakespeare, a third 30's musical, and a third Looney Tunes.  What's odd is that the styles mix so well under Branagh's direction.If you want a picture-perfect musical, rent The Unsinkable Molly Brown or some other dull thing.  If you want perfect Shakespeare, rent Branagh's Hamlet.  If, however, you want a movie to make you believe in movies again -- if you want to kick up your heels, laugh out loud, and float out of a movie theater humming Cole Porter -- see this movie. "},{"Title":"the sublime and the ridiculous","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Beautiful words, delightful music, great acting!  What could ruin such a mix.  The answer, the ego of Kenneth Branagh.  He is much too old for the part of a young student.  His direction is absurdly literal.  For example probably the best use of the song Heaven, I'm in heaven... is sung by Angel Islington in Neil Gaiman's Neverwhere.  Here the song is ruined by literally yanking the singers up on wires to a ceiling painted to resemble heaven.  If a song mentions a hat, the director shows us a hat, and so on.  The camera is always doing things that are distracting and annoying.  The choreography is nothing but a string of literal quotes, from Busby Berkley to Fred Astaire to Gene Kelly to Bob Fosse.  It never flows, just jerks from quote to quote.  And while the older actors are superb, there does not seem to be an actor under 25 who can do Shakespeare...they all sound as if they are mouthing words that are not a part of their vocabulary.  And the slapstick -- 'taint funny Magee.  After all this, I still recommend watching the film.  It is much kinder to the clowns than most productions of LLL.  Branagh's great speech in praise of love is worth the price of admission.  He acts sincerity so well it is almost enough to make us forget what he did to Emma Thompson.  And the music is ... heaven. "},{"Title":"It's cheesy, sappy and delightfully romantic","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Love's Labour's Lost is a delightful song and dance compendium of classic song and dance blended with classic literature.  The drama and acting are way over the top.  But the broad stroke of the actors art is required as an important element of the Shakespearean craft.  There is a delightful energy to the show and an alluring innocence as one might expect from a forties musical.  It is classically campy with delightful bits of direction augmented by stunning costume and decoration.  But mostly, it is just fun.  Let the show flow without study or analysis and have some fun with the words, dance and songs.  I would recommend this show for those who are inexperienced with Shakespeare work as an introduction to the art.  It is also for those who do not take the works of Shakespeare as gospel not to be trifled. "},{"Title":"Triple dedication besides Shakespeare it also celebrates romantic musicals, lavish revues, and Movietone newsreels","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  So it is, right at the first frame next to the title, a romantic musical comedy is the tagline -- up front with no misconception whatsoever for everyone to see. The entrance is grand in Patrick Doyle's scoring style, along with the credit treatment on red satin and all. What an invitation! 'Like it already. Shakespeare would approve and applaud.It's truly there's no business like show business like no business I know. Here Shakespeare and his comedy of errors, a-mixing and a-matching love signals at play again. This common love bug (literally so) theme is ever present in A Midsummer Night's Dream, in Much Ado About Nothing, it's all love wires a-blindly and mistaken assumptions a-crisscrossing.  'Tis all seeds of Love's Labour's Lost. The outstanding ensemble cast, the charming pairings of the lovers, the song and dance numbers (including a sizzling Let's face the music and dance), the costumes and sets, Branagh's script and the Cinetone News segments, his impeccable direction, and Patrick Doyle, a vital collaborator who provided the attractive score -- collectively made this romantic musical comedy most entertaining.Branagh's passion in showing off Shakespeare in film media for all to enjoy is beyond evident. It all seem so facile, yet obviously there's plenty of love in nourishing this dream, lots of labour unrelenting from all involved in this production, and the lost would be Branagh's total steadfast lost in realizing this project -- love, labour, 'lost' shiningly shows. He's out done himself!If you like musicals, romantic comedies, light-hearted Shakespeare -- go for it. The only special effect here is Branagh's magic.   "},{"Title":"The most delightful and refreshing movie-going experience in AGES!","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  All of you who are expecting this to be the greatest thing Branagh has ever created may just be in for a shock. I start with this simply because I don't want anyone going in with their expectations too high because that almost ALWAYS ruins a movie. My advice Just go in with the anticipation that this will be a delightful experience and a real treat.Love's Labour's Lost is definitely the most refreshing movie that has been made in ages. It just soothes with charm and brings out the child in you. It has scenes that normal adults would almost be embarrassed to enjoy which forces out one's inner child to make you truly relax, be yourself and have fun. I refer mostly to the dancing and singing but also some tremendously hilarious scenes with the Spaniard Don Armando. Another highlight was Geraldine McEwan who played her small role as Holofernia perfectly! She was such a delight it was almost disappointing that she didn't have a bigger role. Everyone was perfectly cast from the Princess down to Dull the bobby (okay, I had my second thoughts about the Princess played by Alicia Silverstone, but I got over it and think she pulled the role of quite marvelously).As everyone knows by now it was shot in the style of the classic musicals of the '30s and '40s. Even the opening credits are done EXACTLY like a film from that time (with a silky background and headshots of all the actors with their roles, much like Wizard of Oz - it even goes through the ENTIRE credits in the beginning - something unheard of in today's society). It's Much Ado About Nothing meets Singin' in the Rain (Really!). The songs all fit in so well it almost looks like they were written for this film.When the first number started there was this big build-up (with the music) and then suddenly the four buddies stopped everything and switched into their dancing mode. It was so funny! I was impressed that they all could do the choreography (dance steps) so well!There were several moments where the music sort of built up to a musical number (or so it sounded) and then there didn't come one, so it was quite exciting trying to predict when they actually were going to perform something and when it was just a cleaver trick. ;o)I really could go on and on about this film because I truly loved it but I want to leave a few surprises in there for those who haven't yet seen it.One final word of caution The story is a bit shallow and would definitely not have stood it's own ground had it not been for Branagh's cleaver twist (the dancing and singing, etc.) to liven things up. Don't get me wrong the four buddies wishing to devote themselves solely to their studies and taking a vow was cleaver enough, but the romance side of it was shallow and the ending was a bit abrupt (IMHO).If you like Shakespeare, musicals, romance, comedy and/or classic films this is definitely something for you. Take my word for it you will be thoroughly entertained!  "},{"Title":"An odd little movie","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Boy, Kenneth Branagh will try anything, won't he? Even infusing Shakespeare's comedy with a string of Gershwin-era songs and dances. But while his Much Ado About Nothing was a frothy, wonderful gem, Love's Labour's Lost . . . just didn't quite work. It's a noble try, though.Whether the concept itself is flawed is up for debate. (Surely some Shakespeare purists were up in arms when this came out!) What cannot be argued, however, is that Branagh's cast is unable to pull this off. They simply are trying to hard at what should come naturally, and the audience can't help but notice. His direction also sinks the film at various points, and as a result, the film jerks from scene to scene, from song to song, ultimately culminating in a collection of bits that never gel into a unified whole.That's not to say that the movie doesn't have its strengths. There is a sense of fun that pervades the film which is quite pleasant. The costumes and art direction are appropriately light and beautiful, and some of the comedy moments are quite fun. Each actor also has his or her strength. Alessandro Nivola (Laurel Canyon, Mansfield Park) is the best singer, Adrian Lester (Primary Colors) the best dancer, Branagh the best actor, and Matthew Lillard (Scooby-Doo) . . . sure is tall. The supporting cast (Nathan Lane, Alicia Silverstone, Emily Mortimer, et. al.) each do their best to rise above the film's shortcomings, as well.Ultimately, the audience ends up really trying to like this movie, but the flaws are too great to dismiss. 6/10 stars. "},{"Title":"The simple play makes a charming movie","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I love the film. It is so pleasant! I've never saw anything particular interesting in the play, and the film has surprised me. A modernizing of some story is not always a good idea, but it works excellently in this case. Setting the story against the war makes it more touching and convincing to us.  And at the same time the movie is a light dynamic musical. Tunes, that were used, are unfamiliar to me, and I don't have the feel of nostalgia, described by some other reviewers here. Nevertheless, the music is good, I like singing and dancing in the film. Branagh does his best as Berowne, and so do others. I like the way they speak their text, so easy and natural. The movie is really enjoyable, it's entertaining and moving and funny. Kenneth Branagh has a rare talent for adapting Shakespeare, and I think his comedies are the best (Much Ado About Nothing is brilliant as well). I admire him both as the actor and the director. Wonder, what interesting thing he will produce next? Meanwhile, Love Labour's Lost is well worth seeing, and more then once.  "},{"Title":"In anticipation of Kenneth Branagh's adaptation of Shakespeare's Love's Labour's Lost","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  And it's a musical, with songs/tunes by Cole Porter, George Gershwin, Jerome Kern, Irving Berlin, with film score, once again, by Patrick Doyle, the wonderful original music composer for the 1993 Much Ado About Nothing (which was infectious, easy to comprehend, and sweeps you away by the sheer joyful production and performances led by director Kenneth Branagh, who adapted Shakespeare's poetry for all long before Shakespeare in Love became an instant popular success.) I don't often do this buying a film's soundtrack before I see the film. The trailers, the Charlie Rose interview with Kenneth Branagh, Alicia Silverstone and Nathan Lane, simply propelled me to pick up a CD copy of the truly infectious music. The excitement of first seeing the poster outside the cinema -- WOW! a musical's coming! The fascination of first seeing the film being introduced among the trailers with intro words Stanley Donen and Martin Scorsese present on screen -- that's already a definite influence on me. I have not seen Donen's name for quite a while, and his name certainly associates with quality musical and wonderful movie experience guaranteed; the same with Scorsese's name -- sounds like a MUST for sure. The music and dance presented in the trailer is exhilarating!The soundtrack is truly no disappointment it's irresistible! It brings back memories of the wonderful MGM musicals and the grandness of it all. It's too marvelous for words! Branagh's effort of having the cast singing and dancing along with him reminds me of a similar effort of Woody Allen's 1997 Everyone Says I Love You, when everyone in the cast danced, and sang (except one) -- here in Love's Labour's Lost, everyone sounded well in tune and professional. It's rare we get to have a musical these days, let alone a superb one. If you like musical, and a bonus if you appreciate Branagh and Doyle's collaborations, get the soundtrack of Love's Labour's Lost and immerse in the melodies and magic of it all. Bewitched you shall 'heaven. I'm in heaven&#133; you'll be singing along. Definitely go enjoy Branagh's Love's Labour's Lost!  "}{"Title":"Wallow in unabashed romanticism","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  There are so many things to surprise and enjoy in this film the way it's so obviously filmed on a soundstage; Patrick Doyle's arrangements of the classic songs; the fake Pathe newsreel; rent-a-nutter Matthew Lillard's unexpectedly sweet singing voice; the gorgeous clothes; Adrian Lester's breathtaking routine to 'I've Got A Crush On You'; and at the heart of it all, a script from a writer you can always trust to deliver.Those who criticise this film do so with three arguments. Firstly they say it fails as a production of Shakespeare. Why? When I watched it, I was entertained, I was enchanted by the language, I got a vivid picture of the emotional landscape of the play and most of all, I wanted to watch more Shakespeare. Mission accomplished, surely? What Branagh's critics do no appreciate is that he makes not films of Shakespeare plays, but Shakespeare films translating the stories into a modern medium so that people who will never pick up a book or set foot in a theatre can be touched by the most beautiful language ever written.Secondly they say it fails as a musical, citing the cast's limitations as singers and dancers. But the days when Hollywood stars could dance as a matter of course are gone (imagine a director telling Adam Sandler to charleston). And if you go back and watch some of the great musicals, you'll see that the best voices (Sinatra, Judy Garland) were singers first, and actors second, a luxury that a director of Shakespeare cannot afford. And anyway, none of the cast are tone deaf with two left feet. They perform with competence and enthusiasm, and those who can really cut it (Lester, Nathan Lane) are given ample opportunity to showcase their talents.Lastly they criticise its unabashed romanticism. Well, here I agree if you haven't a romantic bone in your body, you'll hate this film. But if you've ever been tempted to sing 'I'm on the street where you live' under your lover's window (no matter how drunk you were), this is a delicious treat. Save it for when you've had a pig of a day and indulge yourself. "},{"Title":"Like a glass of champagne","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I saw Kenneth Branagh's new Shakespeare film, Love's Labour's Lost, at a London preview screening last month, and it's a delight.  Elizabethan purists may moan that less than a third of Shakespeare's text makes it into the movie, but face it - Love's Labour's Lost is a minor romantic comedy which contains thickets of obscure wordplay.  Branagh's decision to replace much of that dialogue with classic songs by Gershwin, Porter and others is quite inspired.  The cast sings and dances more than competently (okay, maybe not quite up to Fred-and-Ginger standards), and it's impossible not to be swept up in the sheer giddy fun of it all.  The ending, which wordlessly expands on Shakespeare's play, may be controversial, but I thought it worked, leaving the heart as well as the funnybone touched and satisfied. "},{"Title":"positive","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  The fact that the screening which I attended of Love's Labour's Lost was packed by academics holding their sides with laughter speaks for itself.This film is one of the most unique and enjoyable productions of Shakespeare I've ever had the pleasure of viewing.  Filled with send-ups of great old films, wonderful music (sung by the actors themselves, I might add) and all of the camp and slapstick humour of A Day at the Races, it ably showcases Mr. Branagh's unique ability to make Shakespeare accessible and enjoyable to all.  Frothy and light as a champagne bubble, this adaptation is sure to enjoy a long, long run.When was the last time you left the theatre singing?  You will.Warning This film should not be viewed by pseudo-intellectuals or persons with closed minds! "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I found Kenneth Branagh's Love's Labors Lost to be delightful. There are those who approach the Bard with religious awe and will be scandalized by how much of the original script has been truncated here and replaced by singing. And there will be those hate or adore Branagh and cannot view this movie without comparing it to others of his movies. And there will be those who love musicals and are bewildered at performances by the usually unsung and flatfooted. But taken on its own merits, it's a fun, farcical, giddy, touching, beautiful, musical romp. In its spirit, it reminded me of A Funny Thing Happened to Me on the Way to the Forum but with a simpler plot and more beautiful imagery and language.As others have commented here, Love's Labors Lost is not Shakespeare's best, but there are some gems of language and an amusing, though fairly simple, plot. Branagh did just the right editing of some of the more tedious or dated wordplay and set the action in a romantic Navarre surrounded by the very real dangers of a European conflagration. I couldn't help but imagine Shakespeare delighting in the light elegance and witty turns of phrase in the Cole Porter and Gershwin music... exactly the spirit of the original and a good match for the plot but adapted to modern sensibilities. I enjoyed the singing and dancing by actors who don't routinely do this sort of work; it added to the naturalness and effervescence of the performances. On the whole, it's not dazzling musical fare, but its perfectly enjoyable, almost a musical parody of musicals. And the clowning was just ridiculous in the best sense of the word, and often slapstick.In short, it's not a conservative adaptation of Shakespeare, it's not a Broadway extravaganza, it doesn't have deep or complex character development or conflict. It's an unusual and well done movie. And it's just fun. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Musical-Shakespeare","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This movie should be taken for what it is... experimental Shakespeare. Those expecting a loyal and painstaking presentation of the bard's work will likely be disappointed. Then again, so would someone searching for intelligence in Zoolander or Dumb and Dumber (both of which, I enjoyed after adjusting my expectations). To make a fair comparison, one must consider this movie against other experimental Shakespeare productions. I would say that it is on par with the adapted Romeo and Juliet from the 90's to give a rough idea. Certainly I have seen worse. For example, an adapted Hamlet (at our local Shakespeare in the park) with shameless pop culture references gratuitously inserted, including a spoofed scene of The Matrix. Anyway, I enjoyed the musical selection and dance routines (especially Adrian Lester's) of LLL very much with only a few exceptions, and would recommend this as a date movie.Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve "},{"Title":"a very fun time","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I went into this movie because I love Shakespeare and Ken's interpretations of him.  I was not disappointed.  The new context fitted the comedy beautifully.  I mean, the comedies all have songs (LLL is no exception)... and the old movie musicals used songs in the exact same way (just stuck in the middle of the action)... it just works.  And works surprisingly well, once you give it a chance.  The most important thing to remember is that this a *comedy*.  It's not supposed to take itself too seriously.  From the very first musical number, it's obvious these guys are just out there having fun.  And it's fun and meant to be funny- just look at The Way You Look Tonight.  Yes, you should laugh.  But realise that you'll be laughing *with* the movie.  The songs aid Shakespeare's words as well.  It's hard enough to watch the lovers decide to be apart for a year, but when Ken starts to sing They Can't Take That Away from Me... well...  I guess all I can say is it works.  Don't go to this movie expecting Hamlet or Henry V. That's not what Shakespeare  or Ken was going for.  It's a comedy.  Laugh.  "},{"Title":"Delightful.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I'm ashamed to admit it.  Critics steered me away from this movie, despite the fact that every Branagh film of Shakespeare I've seen had been wonderful.  I waited for the video, but my local chain store never got it in.  I finally found it in a little hole-in-the-wall store.  What a charmer! It's true that there's only one real dancer in the film and only one real singer, but all of these folks know how to put over a number.  Nathan Lane shines as the clown (he may be the funniest Shakespearean clown I've seen, mostly because he's more Borscht Belt than RADA), but the eight principals pull off the difficult feat of being fatuous and winning at the same time. Branagh did what he had to do  devise a new context for this decidedly second-run Shakespeare comedy and yet convince us of a kind of fairy tale. The context (that of Thirties movie musicals) suits the material down to the ground, and the music throughout is superb, drawing most effectively on the great songs, not all of them well known, of the Twenties and Thirties. Love's Labours Lost can go on and on, but Branagh gives it to us in easy bits, breaking things up with an hilarious parody of Thirties newsreels and imaginatively staged numbers.  There is the sombre thread of imminent war in Europe throughout, and it provides the necessary casus for the final transformation of character in the play, which normally seems a little abrupt.  All in all, terrific. "},{"Title":"A Labour of Love","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh has triumphed again.  This time, he's taken the Bard and twisted him into swing time, and the result is phenomenal.  Love's Labour's Lost retains the story of four men determined to swear off wine, women and song and devote themselves to serious study, until the Princess of France and her enticing entourage descend upon them.  It's set now as a 1930's musical, Porter and Gershwin gone but never forgotten.  Though it's been decades since audiences have been treated to a good movie musical, the result is nothing short of entrancing.  Kenneth Branagh and Natascha McElhone are especially luminous, infusing their verse with such meaning that the language floats through you.  Adrian Lester invokes the spirit of Gene Kelly, and he is a joy to behold indeed.  `Let's Face the Music and Dance' is one of the hottest and most sensual numbers seen on film since Cabaret.  And to make up for a few shortcomings among the younger cast members Nathan Lane is on hand to demonstrate the power of song and dance with a touchingly wistful rendition of `There's No Business Like Show Business.'  When Kenneth Branagh is helming the production, truer words were never spoken. "},{"Title":"An Enchanting Frolic","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I saw Love's Labour's Lost at a screening on Monday night with the director/star Kenneth Branagh present to introduce the film and a few of his cast members.  Mr. Branagh called his new movie musical deeply silly and urged the audience to sing and dance along if they felt so moved.  Well, nobody danced in the aisles, because we were all much too absorbed in the enchantments taking place on screen.  The audience was most responsive, applauding each musical number and laughing spontaneously at the antics of Mr. Branagh and his charming cast.  The movie is dazzling, romantic, captivating and a bit what the French ladies in the Bard's story would call triste.  Mr. Branagh tells that story through ravishing visual images, but honors the text.  He has worked well with his younger cast members to bring out their gifts and as for the veterans like Nathan Lane, Timothy Spall, Geraldine McEwan and Richard Briers -- they are all in top form.  Mr. Spall gets my Old Trouper Award with Nathan Lane as a close second.  Mr. Branagh has chosen the melodies with care to illustrate the bittersweet tale -- and when Mr. Lane leads the cast in There's No Business Like Show Business, it is magic time.  Be sure to catch this charming new film -- you will leave the theatre floating like a feather and will find yourself breaking into song for days afterwards. "},{"Title":"Love's Labours Lost is Just great Fun","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" If your looking for stirring Shakespearian dialogue, then no, I admit you will not find it here. But you will find a smile on your face. This movie is hilariously fun to watch. It is meant to be outrageously silly. Watch it once and you will see that Mr. Branagh is having a laugh with himself and everyone else. It is a comedy of great proportions. So get off your high horse and put a bag of pop corn in your hand and sit your keester down and watch this, with your whole family. Even my teenage boys love certain very sill parts and I must be sure to call them in to see their favorite scenes. And don't forget the out takes. Well worth the time. Maybe funnier than the film! "}{"Title":"A new spin on an old classic","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Shakespeare is a playwrite that one often uses to symbolize the theatre. Love's Labour's Lost is a comedy.  However, this rendition brings a more entertaining aspect to the famous classic.  From the old Broadway tunes, to the dance numbers it leads the audience to a world they would have not thought possible from something written inthe 16th century.  Branaugh, who always takes the staring roles, does a masterful job combining the old with the new. Matthew Lillard surprises everyone with his role as Longaville; a far cry from Shaggy in Scooby-Doo. Timothy Spall turns in another excellent performance as well.  The most impressive face is the vetern Broadway actor and movie personality Nathan Lane.  This small, angry little man from Jersey truly steals the show with well times lines, and clever reparte'.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A worthy entry","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This production is indeed a worthy entry into the world of Shakespeare on DVD. Right now the only significant DVD productions of Love's Labour's Lost are the BBC production from the 1980s, and this one. There is a Globe Theatre production out on DVD this year, but I know nothing about it.To get back to the two main DVD productions -- the BBC's is minimalist, due to their low budget, and wordy, rapidly spoken, and hard to understand, yet devoid of subtitles. I don't consider it perfect by any means, for those reasons. In fact, it can be quite off-putting and dull.Branagh's, on the other hand, is easily understood, has subtitles available, and is clearly spoken with modern pronunciation. Likewise, scenes that bear dwelling on and getting the most juice out of -- such as the end -- are dealt with lovingly and languidly, as they should be, whereas in the BBC version they just whiz by.The controversial things about Branagh's production are the addition of songs and the deletion of substantial portions of the text. However, I must say, that to get across the gist of the play, many of the scenes deleted by Branagh are not needed, and some of them are in fact irrelevant and irritating to a modern audience, and so justly removed.Lastly, the musical numbers, which are the most controversial I felt that there were a few too many musical numbers, and several of them were overproduced to the extent they seemed silly and out of place. That said, I did not object in principle to the presence of the songs. I think Branagh just got carried away with the number of them and with the over-the-topness of some of them.I'll sum up as follows If you are new to this play -- which is one of Shakespeare's wordiest and in a sense most difficult, I recommend availing yourself of BOTH the BBC version AND of this Branagh version. Having seen both, I think you will have gotten the gist and thrust and enjoyment of the play in a way that neither production would give you on its own. I think the stuffy wordiness of the BBC production needs to be balanced by this Branagh version, and the breezy modernism of the Branagh version can stand to be completed by the unabridged BBC version. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" As a fan of Shakespeare I adore these modern adaptations that are so frequently coming to our screens and Love's Labour's Lost is no exception.Wonderful dance routines and great use of song mixed with the Shakespearean language provide a fabulously entertaining film. The cast themselves are a complete mix, featuring teen queen Alicia Silverstone and comedy master Matthew Lillard along side awesome Shakespearean actor Kenneth Branagh. Branagh himself is, as always excellent; he really brings Shakespeare alive. Oh, and the dancing! My favourite is without a doubt 'Face the music' as it has to be one of the sexiest dance routines around.This is a great film using an original director's concept in order to portray one of Shakespeare's lesser known master pieces. Suitable for pretty much all the family. Go watch it, it's brilliant! "},{"Title":"Innovative approach to the play","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I was entertained and that was all I had hoped for with this.  In terms of presenting Shakespeare to the masses, it would make you interested enough to go to the text and find out what was supposed to happen. In terms of entertainment value, it was wonderful.  I love the classic songs from the musicals and they were performed in a fun way. I thought the singing and dancing was great, better than in Woody Allen's Everybody says I Love You, which had the same sort of idea but featured people who couldn't sing.   This lot were good singers for the most part, they looked great and the costumes, etc were also great to look at. I think Ken has taken a brave approach and got away with it, and LLL is the sort of play that needs a radical treatment.  The idea is to get people interested in Shakespeare by whatever means possible.  Worth seeing if you need something to cheer you up, not too demanding!  "},{"Title":"Who says they don't make films like this anymore?","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  And yet again Kenneth Branagh does the unthinkable with Shakespeare, and gets away with it!  People are far too ready to show undue reverence to Shakespeare's plays, and to deride any attempt to make them more accessible; what they forget is that Shakespeare was writing for the people (not a small cultural elite), thankfully Branagh has understood this.  Compare his version of Henry V to the Olivier original, both have their merits, but I feel the Bard would identify more with the more recent version - let's face it, if he was alive now, he'd probably be writing scripts for Eastenders!In Love's Labours Lost Branagh has captured the fun of the play; the updating works (although just barely), and the choice of music is inspirational (kind of a Bard version of Singing in the Rain, if you can forgive the pun)!  Yes, many of the actors had never done this sort of thing before, but you can see they had fun trying!It seems invidious to single out any performances, but there were a few that stood out; every review I have ever read heaps unstinting praise on Adrian Lester, and they are right to do so.  However, let us not forget the incomparable talents of Nathan Lane, the joy of seeing Timothy Spall have a chance to go completely over the top (makes a change from all the Mike Leigh films!) and the sheer radiance of Natascha McElhone, with whom I am now totally besotted!  And a special mention for another fine performance from Richard Briers, as Kenneth Branagh helps him prove (yet again) that he is so much more than Tom Good.Kenneth Branagh is often accused of being a 'luvvy' (an image which he lampooned so well in the recent Harry Potter film, well done Ken!); he's much more than that, he's a genuine original, somebody with a passion for film and theatre and the ability to share that passion with the rest of us. This film is (along with Amelie) one of my never-failing pick-me-ups; I look forward to whatever he has next in store for us!!! "},{"Title":"How do I love thee?  Let me count the ways","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This play is impossible to perform  whole or even reasonably intact in our time.  Connoisseurs can only read it and trust in their feeble imaginations.  It was written for the court of Elizabeth I, an audience that cannot be remotely duplicated in modern times.  Yet it is exquisite in every detail.  So Branagh, brilliantly, did what he could do with it, and the outcome is a miracle.  He saves as much of the gorgeous Shakespeare as he can, including a climactic speech given, of course, by himself.  And then interpolates those marvelous numbers that remind me of Pennies from Heaven, except none are ironic, all are romantic.  Ken, may I live to see your Lear, and look you, botch it not. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I don't know why people seem to dislike this movie so. I enjoyed it, and I'm not ashamed to say it. It's a fun movie. It is definitely not perfect, of course not, but what film is? And of course even with masterpieces there will always be the sourpuss or sniper who just can't sit back and enjoy it. It all comes down to a matter of taste, and in my opinion there is no good taste or bad taste, there is simply what you like and what you don't like. And I liked this movie.I saw this movie without seeing any kind of trailers, hearing any kind of previews, reading any kind of opinions or reviews. In fact I had little knowledge of the play itself--I do enjoy Shakespeare, but I don't have enough time to sit around reading it a lot (and a Shakespeare play takes considerable time to read). And, as stated by other people, this is one of his lesser-known plays (one of the reasons Branagh chose it, I heard). So I came into it without any kind of bias. And I liked it.I thought it worked. I thought the set design, the newsreels, the musical aspect, and the colors worked. In my opinion, it fit. I especially enjoyed the musical aspect because musicals nowadays are an endangered species.And as for the fact that they use Shakespearean language I have this to say I can't understand everything they say, but I do understand quite a lot of it, and the visual aspect aids in understanding so that anyone who watches it will get the idea of what is going on enough to enjoy the film. Unless they aren't paying attention; in that case they won't get it, but all movies work like that.And on the subject of Alicia Silverstone okay, she's not stellar, but she wasn't bad, either. And the other actors were enjoyable as well. Nathan Lane, of course, was very humorous, as with the rest of the supporting cast. It was not badly acted at all.So, to put it briefly, you will like this movie if you do not overanalyze it. If you sit back with an open mind and just watch it, you will not hate it, I promise. It was not meant to be dissected like a frog. It was meant to be enjoyed, like--oh, I don't know, a movie? So enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Musical, slapstick, and still respectable homage to Shakespeare","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  It's a song and dance version of the Shakespeare, lovingly created, and all the old movie favourites (Cheek to Cheek, Let's Face the Music and Dance, There's No Business Like Show Business etc) used to heighten the story. The dancing is mostly non-professional dancers and they use colour, sets and clever choreography to make it effective rather than technically difficult dance routines. Alicia Silverstone shows she's capable of much more than teen movies by giving a heart and soul (if fairly undemanding) performance and Kenneth Branagh has never looked so young and alive as he bounces into song and dance! The interpretations of the classic songs are wonderfully inventive and a joy to behold. Even the slapstick is handled wonderfully.New interpretations of Shakespeare, or films of Shakespeare generally, should aim to use the medium of film to bring out more of the content of the play than can be achieved on stage. This is sometimes done by sheer budget and labour (as in Branagh's Hamlet) or by inventive use of the medium (Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet, or Polanski's Macbeth). Branagh's Love's Labour's Lost falls into the second category and happily avoids leaden readings (such as Hoffman's Midsummer Night's Dream) or using Shakespeare as a mere device for artistic flamboyance (such as in Taymor's Titus). "},{"Title":"Hilarious, fun filled Shakespearean joyride.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Love's Labour's Lost is an all out fun ride through the comedy of Shakespeare. Never before have I laughed so hard while viewing Shakespeare - Kenneth Branagh's direction captured the comedic side beautifully. Although seemingly corny or over the top at times, it can be recognized that each scene that demonstrated these characteristics was intended to do so - rather than they were funny attempts that fell short. Performances were good, the music was a nice touch, and the story - wonderful. It was simply a lot of fun! "},{"Title":"Let's face Shakespeare...and dance!!!","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Here we have Kenneth Branagh doing a Shakespeare play again, but hold on...there's something special about this one. It is also a hommage to the old Hollywood musical films from the 1930's. It's a bit like Woody Allen's Everyone says I love you, but then in the atmosphere of the former Hollywood studio productions.The art direction is great. It has the same card-board buildings and sweet colours as the classics. Then there are the male actors (Branagh, Lester, Lillard etc.) who are exactly like Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra in the old days. Every move and face they make reminds you of them. Even the slapstick humour looks the same as then... And then there are of course the musical numbers. After a few delicious, dramatic Shakespeare lines, the film suddenly changes in a famous musical number (the numbers fit so perfectly well), like Let's take the music... and Heaven. So we have something totally unique here...it breeds the same air and gives you the same happy feeling, as the old musicals did. Also look out for a wonderful supporting cast. Alicia Silverstone did a good job, as well as Adrien Lester (the only one who can really dance great), Nathan Lane (the clown) and most of all the great Timothy Spall, who is absolutely hilarious. I recommend this movie for everyone who likes...well, films! I have been smiling for the full 90 minutes, I loved it! "}{"Title":"It's flirtatious fun, and I left the theater with a smile on my face.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I recently attended a screening of Kenneth Branagh's version of Shakespeare's Love's Labour's Lost. He adapted the play to a Hollywood-style musical that takes Shakespeare and dusts the cobwebs off. It has tons of slapstick humor and I defy anyone to claim that Shakespeare is dull and boring after seeing this. The movie pays homage to films of the 30s and 40s such as Top Hat, Casablanca, and Horse Feathers, but never takes itself too seriously. The cast was very good, and Tim Spall (Topsy-Turvy) really stood out. I'm not a Shakespearean scholar and I found this film easy to understand. It's flirtatious fun, and I left the theater with a smile on my face.  "},{"Title":"Likeable - not traditional","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  To begin with, I must say that the version of Love's Labour's Lost that I saw had not been fully edited and the soundtrack comprised mostly of incidental music from Much Ado.  Therefore I would surmise that the finished version will look better and slicker and, well, more finished.Branagh has taken a play which is fairly long, quite banal and filled with complex yet beautiful language and by cutting it down to 93 minutes, adding 5 or 6 song and dance routines and eliminating much of the original Shakespeare, he has managed to produce a very likeable farce.Traditionalists who hold Shakespeare in holy awe will find this film to be quite blasphemous.  However, I feel that Branagh has captured the feeling of the piece extremely well.  It is after all a slightly bawdy farce with lots of terrible jokes and a plot as shallow as a puddle in the drought season. Shakey raises it with many great and moving speeches (most by Berowne / Branagh surprisingly enough) and these have been lovingly restored in Branagh's film.My main gripe about the film is the ending.  Not wishing to give anything away, I shall just say that Mr S intentionally left the ending of the playvery open - even quite pessimistic(?)  Branagh doesn't.  Even this is not crushing in itself and is thoroughly understandable in order to appeal to a bland, formulaic-loving Hollywood audience.  But Branagh puts us through 3 separate endings to go along with this.The first, a usual musical device is used - to end on a spirited chorus song and dance.  Branagh treats us to this - even to the extent of bringing on all of the cast for their bows.  Then however he lets the momentum down for Ending No. 2 (the end of Shakey's play) which is slow, poignant and moving. Finally, he revs us up once again to give us a 3rd ending which the play did not contain and in my mind was superfluous to the piece as a whole.So what do I think?  I would recommend it highly for the song and dance routines, the colours, the sets, the clever use of Shakespeare and actors getting pretty damned close to the bard (Alicia Silverstone really surprised me), but if you wanted your Shakey 'as is' this isn't the one for you.  "},{"Title":"Funny, sexy, and entertaining...","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Since this is one of Shakespeare's more popular plays, it's done in every drama class and high school production possible. Hence, you get very tired of hum-drum lovers and fairies with plastic wings, and no one even having the first CLUE what their lines mean. Not so with this re-make. First, you have a excellent group of actors, who actually DO know what they are saying, and have good chemistry. Especially the lovers, (being naked around someone that much isn't all that easy). Second, the costume and sets are creative and fun. The era they decided to film in accentuates the story line and the use of the bicycles is a fun little twist, instead of a bunch of actors running around out of breath. There is, of course, always a danger of putting fairies and glitter together, simply for the fact that it looks fake and fantastical if not put in the right setting. Not so in this version. It gives the movie a sexier appeal, and definitely emphasizes the love story. Either way, this viewer relished it. Altogether, this movie is enjoyable and a good edition to a Shakespeare re-make library. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Apt Parody, Missing Contemporary References","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Branagh continues to fascinate. Here is his most ambitious experiment in terms of adaptation, here of the play with the strange apostrophes. The play is an early one, a confection with some wonderful language, but little poetry. The play as written constantly reminds the audience that these are players. They take on roles within the play, and provide copious contemporary references to stupid ideas. Contemporary figures are parodized (Harriot, Florio, Raleigh...). A true adaptation would likely make fun of Pat Robertson and creationism. Branagh's notion is not very true to the spirit of the play, so his choices should be held to a very high standard indeed.The good Branagh plays the role that was almost certainly Shakespeare's. And does wonders with the few lines left. Also, the film is just about the funniest I have ever seen. Shakespeare was having fun with rival Marlowe, so was making fun of the fantastic plotting of contemporary plays. Branagh's humor is in how he shows us how absolutely ridiculous are the much-beloved musicals of the 30s-40s. In so doing, he uses obvious non-singer, nonactors to accentuate the effect.This is along the lines of what Shakespeare did with Armado, Holophernes, Costard, Dull, Moth and the Wench. These are supposed to be not only ridiculous characters but ridiculous actors. Branagh did this with Michael Keaton in the earlier Much Ado where we recognize the comically ineffective comic effort. Spall is the best here, but the Wench Jacquanetta is perfect in her small part.Also good Branagh knows how to start a movie! Here we have a different effect than the superb Much Ado, but very well crafted. His approach of the princess and her maids on the boats is delicious. Alicia Silverstone is here because of her skill at fey coyness, which she delivers. But she shows real courage in putting her chubby thighs in fishnet stockings and dancing next to her svelte companions. My hat is off to her.The bad So far as Shakespeare's language is concerned, everyone but Branagh is poor. I understand deliberately letting an amateurishness show in the song and dance, but not, heavens not in some of the world's most lovely language. Beyond appreciation for Branagh's fearlessness, one misses the scenes that were cut and their language. I did not appreciate the change in gender of the pedant. Suppose that's part of modernity, but the new character wasn't silly, rather somewhat lovable. Why? This film has historic significance not only for The Tempest, but as a window into great house studies which influenced the foundations of modern science and logic. A loss without these insights.Yes, a loss. But how can you be angry at an effort that is so funny. "},{"Title":"Dancing With Shakespeare","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Dancing With Shakespeare is the direct translation of the title this film was given in Norway, and it is quite an apt description not only of the film's content, but the fundamental, gnawing weakness of the film a play that above all plays with language seems ill at ease in a jacket marked dancing. When you dance with Shakespeare you don't want to get out of step, and Love's Labour's Lost doesn't QUITE come together. And it's very sad because it's a film you so much WANT to work, because its heart is in the right place, and its intentions are good and creative and exciting and bold. Yes, it's enjoyable and frothy, silly and sincere in equal measures, beautifully shot with a camera that plays a part in the best Hollywood-golden-age manner, and sometimes it's very funny and works beautifully. But frequently the novelty of turning one of Shakespeare's most language-reliant comedies into a nostalgic romantic musical simply works against itself, and the result is then flat rather than uplifting. And this is not because people don't TRY &#x96;everyone involved in the film really gives it a good go, and clearly wants to try to make it come off. It very nearly does, but not quite &#x96;there is an unevenness about it that keeps us from getting fully engrossed in what we see, and this is the sort of film that needs that to work. I was lucky enough to see this film originally at a special screening introduced by Kenneth Branagh and Alicia Silverstone, which boosted the preview audience into a higher gear of excitement and expectation than would be usual, so the experience was a little like the prospect of drinking lots of champagne &#x96;delightful, but somehow never as good as the idea of it!Upon re-watching the film recently, I think the film in fact rather MORE resembles one of those very fancy, colourful cocktails you order when on holiday, with tiny umbrellas and exotic fruit and flowers sticking out and looking enormously tempting on the menu and when brought to you, but always somewhat impractical to drink and with ingredients that don't quite mix together satisfyingly enough. With Love's Labour's Lost the conceit of transforming Shakespeare's rich ideas into classic Hollywood musical numbers to bring across certain moods and emotional moments is a fun recipe, but it seems to me to clash too often with the actual text the film is based on. Now, admittedly much of Shakespeare's play is very obscure and difficult to understand compared to other plays he wrote, and severe editing was going to be inevitable; but putting in musical number after musical number as a replacement seems more a way of padding the film to arrive at a decent length rather than really moving the story along. In fact, many of the musical numbers &#x96;skillfully and cheekily staged though some of them are&#x96; just get in the way of things, and frequently I found myself wishing that Branagh had been even more faithful to Shakespeare and instead kept in more of the actual play itself. Thus I was pleasantly surprised to find a number of deleted scenes on the DVD of the film that sadly never made it to the final cut. I think these should have been kept in because they help make more sense of the story. The diversity of performers that comprise the cast is quite interesting and there are some magnificent individual performances, though again the range of different styles doesn't always gel on screen. To a certain extent this was also true of Branagh's Much Ado About Nothing and Hamlet. Everyone is doing their own little film, and sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. Timothy Spall's Don Armado is perhaps one of the most outrageous performances ever seen on screen, but it is totally in keeping with the character as written. And both he and Nathan Lane (as Costard the clown) bring an essential element of sadness to their otherwise comic roles that is very moving. But the double quartet of lovers that form the central romantic story of the film is a very mixed bag indeed. Branagh understandably gives the plum role of Berowne to himself and sells his Shakespeare with that admirable deftness that is uniquely his, but he is really too old for the part and this works against him here. I also feel at times he should have directed himself more astutely or had better assistance at doing so, for it is largely the scenes in which he does not appear that work best &#x96;simply because at such times he, as director, is able to concentrate fully on the other performances. The film also seems unable to break itself totally free from its staginess to become the truly filmic musical it aspires to be.So, I am quite ambivalent about this film. I DO like and enjoy it, and applaud Branagh for tackling a lesser-known Shakespeare comedy, and with such gusto, but I SO wish I were able to like it more and be fully satisfied by it &#x96;and by the greater film that is in its heart.. "},{"Title":"And when Love speaks, the voice of all the gods makes heaven drowsy","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Although the film is directed by my favourite living director Kenneth Branagh, I was a little apprehensive before watching it since it received some rather mediocre to poor reviews and I couldn't really imagine a severely trimmed down Shakespearean play featuring classic 1930s Broadway hits working very well. However, my trepidation was lessened considerably when I watched the 1985 BBC version and was singularly unimpressed by both the play, often considered to be one of Shakespeare's weakest, and its lifeless adaptation. In any event, I need not have worried as Branagh was able to make the very inaccessible text very accessible by turning it into a tribute to Golden Age of Hollywood musicals, which he loves almost as much as Shakespeare. The soundtrack includes highly memorable songs by the likes of Cole Porter, Irving Berlin, George and Ira Gershwin and Jerome Karn such as I Won't Dance, The Way You Look Tonight, Cheek to Cheek and There's No Business Like Show Business.The strongest cast member is Branagh himself as Berowne, who has a great deal more fun with the role than the dull as dishwater Mike Gwilym did in the 1985 version. He is at his best during the And when Love speaks, the voice of all the gods makes heaven drowsy speech. Alessandro Nivola may not be the most gifted Shakespearean actor in the world but he handles the material quite well and is hugely likable as the Prince of Navarre. As much as I love Branagh's films, he does have a tendency to make rather...questionable casting decisions such as Keanu Reeves and Michael Keaton in Much Ado About Nothing and this is seen on this occasion in the form of Alicia Silverstone as the Princess of France. To be perfectly honest, I was prepared for the worst. Shakespeare is not exactly her forte and there are some rather bad line deliveries but I was surprised that she was actually quite decent in the role. In any event, she was very ably supported by three very talented actresses as the other ladies of France, namely the extremely underrated Natascha McElhone as Rosaline, Carmen Ejogo as Maria and Emily Mortimer as Katherine. Nivola and Mortimer met during the making of the film and have been married since 2003, incidentally.The weakest cast member is Matthew Lillard as Longaville, the worst piece of casting that I have come across in a Branagh film. His delivery of every single line is awful. He really had no business being in a Shakespearean film. In contrast, Adrian Lester, a very experienced Shakespearean actor, is excellent as Dumaine. He was also one of the most experienced singers and dancers in the cast and his performance in I've Got A Crush On You is one of the film's highlights. Broadway veteran Nathan Lane is a laugh riot as Costard, Richard Clifford is very good as Boyet and Branagh's mascot Richard Briers has a great small role as Sir Nathaniel. Geraldine McEwan, who I don't think can act at all, is very annoying as the gender flipped Holofernia but her appearance in the film is mercifully brief. Timothy Spall, another very bad actor, is horribly, horribly over the top as Don Armado but he likewise has very little screen time. BRIAN BLESSED is conspicuous by his absence.A great creative decision was to set the film against the backdrop of the opening days of World War II in much the same way as Branagh's Hamlet took place in the late 19th Century. The costumes and sets are beautiful and Branagh directs the film with his usual level of style, flair and energy. Uninterrupted takes are one of his directorial trademarks and it is best used on this occasion with Dumaine's dance number. I adored the newsreels, narrated by Branagh, which perfectly evoked those of the period. The first three are comic in tone but the last is much more serious as it depicts the fall of France, D-Day, VE-Day and other major events of the war and does not pull any punches. In a manner consistent with both Shakespeare's comedies and Old Hollywood musicals, however, there is most certainly a happy ending! Overall, this is enormous fun. It may not be on the same level as the best Shakespearean adaptations by Branagh or anyone else but it is breezy, frothy fun. At only 90 minutes, it flew by and I was grinning for most of the film. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly light on substance","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Surprisingly light on substance.A Kenneth Branagh written-and-directed adaptation of the Shakespeare play. Set in WW2 for the movie, The King of Navarre and his three best friends have sworn off wine, women and song for three years, in the interests of studying. But then the beautiful princess of France, and her equally-lovely ladies-in-waiting arrive, and their oaths are quickly and sorely tested...Fun and funny at times but ultimately quite empty. It is short to begin with - about 85 minutes. Then you have the fact that this version is a musical and the amount of actual movie time is even shorter. In the end it just seems so full of empty schmaltz, fluff and padding. Reasonably moving ending though.On the subject of the music, I generally dislike musicals but the choice of music here is pretty good George Gershwin, Cole Porter, Kern and Hammerstein, Irving Berlin. While I would still have preferred no musical numbers - it just wrecks any plausibility and continuity - it could have been a lot worse.Decent cast - Branagh, Alicia Silverstone, Alessandro Nivola, Natascha McElhone, Emily Mortimer, Nathan Lane, Timothy Spall - who put in solid performances. Don't know what Matthew Lillard is doing there though (note that I didn't include him in the decent cast list). He is conspicuous by his lack of acting skills and should stick to C-grade frat farces. "},{"Title":"Candy-coated adaptation of lesser Shakespeare","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Just as Love's Labours Lost is not one of Shakespeare's popular works, so this adaptation of it is considered lesser Branaugh. Its offbeat combination of Shakespearean comedy and old Hollywood style musical has no doubt put off many viewers. To say it is an underrated masterpiece would be pushing it, but I thought this was better than many have given it credit for.The WWII setting is inspired, giving the frivolous story even more of a dark edge than it possessed in the text. The coming of the war contributes a lot to the originally melancholy ending. The costumes are gorgeous and colorful.The musical numbers are bizarre at first, their 1930s style jarring in comparison to Shakespeare's verse, but one quickly becomes accustomed to it. Aside from Branaugh, Adrien Lester, and Nathan Lane, almost nobody can sing well. The dancing is not perfect either. But there is an undeniable enthusiasm and charm to the musical numbers.As a result of the old Hollywood homage element, much of the film is designed to be stagey. The sets are unashamedly artificial and the few special effects shots the film has are executed with old school models.This will not appeal to everyone. It can be corny and is as goofy as a Looney Tune. That Alicia Silverstone is horrible with her line delivery also drags the film down, but overall, this is a fun movie. I don't think a straightforward adaptation of LLL would have been as memorable or unique as what Branaugh accomplished with this delightful mash-up. "},{"Title":"Branagh's weakest Shakespeare film, but still has its charms","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I love Shakespeare and musicals, and I have a great respect for Kenneth Branagh. Love's Labour's Lost was not as bad as I'd heard, but I can actually understand the criticisms as while it does have its charms it is a heavily flawed film. The play is one of Shakespeare's weakest due to how overly-wordy it is, so I knew that when I heard about this film that it can go either way. I will start off by saying that Branagh does deserve credit for trying to make Shakespeare's work accessible to wider audiences, but it uncharacteristically came in mixed results here. I often praise Branagh for his respect and understanding for Shakespeare, but his other films especially Much Ado Nothing, Hamlet and Henry V did this much better. Other than the title and some of the dialogue, which is not the most poetic and witty Shakespeare has done but has evidence of both, there's not really enough that of that Shakespeare feel. That is largely because while making a noble attempt to make the play accessible Branagh oversimplifies the writing and consequently loses the story's consequently making it here thin and too much of an excuse to string song-and-dance numbers one or another.Another consequence is that as a directing job it is on the unimaginative side and feels like too much West End not enough Branagh. There are also two miscasts. Matthew Lillard is a tall, handsome and likable guy, but here he constantly sounds and looks like he's got something up his nose. Even more problematic is Alicia Silverstone, who I liked in Clueless, but I thought she was pretty awful here both as a singer-dancer and as a Shakespearean actor, she can barely sing a note without being breathy and out of tune and is often behind the beat in the singing, and in terms of acting her delivery is always forced and awkward especially in the darker shift of tone. Finally, I usually like Timothy Spall a lot but his I Get a Kick Out of You was for me an embarrassment.On the plus side, the 30s setting is evoked absolutely beautifully, and it is well filmed too. The songs from the likes of Cole Porter, George Gershwin, Irving Berlin are outstanding, and the dancing sequences in the film do have a lot of charm and pizazz, especially Let's Face the Music and Dance, There's No Business Like Show Business and They Can't Take That Away from Me. Even though the singing is not exactly great, it isn't entirely awful, the best voice of the entire cast easily comes from Carmen Ejogo. The characters are not that developed, due to the oversimplifications but do have a lot of easy-going charm and likability that I can't hate them. Some members of the cast, namely Branagh, Richard Briers and Geraldine McEwan do show an understanding of Shakespeare, how it should sound and feel. I did like most of the performances. Branagh is not entirely convincing age-wise but is enthusiastic at least in his role. Briers and McEwan are splendid, while Nathan Lane is hilarious. I especially loved Natascha McElhone and Adrian Lester. McElhone plays her role with such beauty and depth, and Lester is sublime in his equally sublime musical set piece.All in all, has its charms but for me it is not one Branagh's finest hours. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Ups and  downs","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" There are many good moments in this movie, which by the way I like. Alica Silverstone gives a very performance - even in many scenes suggesting real majesty, Kenneth B is also good as might be expected. Nathon Lane is wonderful - especially in the musical numbers, which should be no surprise! He even makes something out of nothing with the poorly written comedy routines.But the rest of cast for me was very uneven. I did like and I thought was brilliant the use of news reels to add an extra depth to the action. And they were well chosen to boot. also the songs were like the great hits of American song writing. I wish the performances were as good.They were not. especially 'On the Way you Look Tonight And I've got you under my skin.' But the goodbye scene when nothing is resolved with them singing They Can't take that away from Me were truly moving and sad. The war scenes in black & white wee excellent and the end when they reunited was truly moving - especially the headline Victory! For its faults this is a film well worth seeing. Just don't expect it to be a typical film. "}{"Title":"Love's Labour's Lost","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" From actor/director Kenneth Branagh comes another William Shakespeare tale, just four years after his four hour version of Hamlet. The story is an update based in the 30s/40s where the King of Navarre (Jurassic Park III's Alessandro Nivola) and three companions, Longaville (a miscast Scream's Matthew Lillard), Dumaine (Adrian Lester) and Berowne (Branagh) swear an oath to stay away (and obviously not fall in love) with women for three years. Unfortunately this plan fails when they are immediately acquainted with The Princess of France (also miscast Alicia Silverstone) and her three chums, Rosaline (The Truman Show's Natascha McElhone), Maria (Carmen Ejogo) and Jacquanetta (Stefania Rocca). They form close friendships and almost bonds, and they have other people to talk to about their concerns, including an all-star cast Emily Mortimer as Katherine, Richard Briers as Nathaniel, Nathan Lane as Costard and Timothy Spall as Don Armado. With some fantastic actors and memorable songs mixed in, this is a great almost modern adaption to a Shakespeare tale. Kenneth Branagh was number 25 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, and he was number 6 on Britain's Finest Actors. Good! "},{"Title":"Amusing but somewhat overstays its welcome.","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This odd production of Shakespeare's 2nd-rate comedy is not bad with its admixture of various old standard song-and-dance numbers from American musical comedies by Kern, the Gershwins and Irving Berlin as well as real and not so real newsreel clips from World War 2. That it doesn't really make sense is balanced by the fact that it has the courage of its anachronisms and doesn't try to do so.The song-and-dance numbers are mostly only tenuously connected to the action of the play but this is part of the film's charm. Though I wonder why Nathan Lane is channeling Ethel Merman in the song from Berlin's Annie Get your Gun, There's no Business Like Show Business but, never mind, it works well enough.I only feel that after a while I have gotten the joke and wish it would soon end.And while only Kenneth Branagh is really a Shakespearean actor, the others do well enough in this artificial atmosphere though the women's forced merriment gets to be a trial. And Miss Silverstone's acting is generally adequate until the mood suddenly darkens towards the end and then she's not up to it at all.The DVD extra with the actors' comments is quite helpful and, yes, they prerecorded their songs (you can watch them doing it here.) and lip-synching to their own voices afterwards. "},{"Title":"An experiment that works... mostly.","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" The general commentary on this movie is that Kenneth tried something experimental with Shakespeare -- that is, transforming it into a true musical, punctuating or replacing various scenes with classic prewar songs by Berlin, Gershwin, Porter, and others -- and that, for the most part, the experiment worked.Some of the changes were very welcome. Timothy Spall's rendering of I Get a Kick Out Of You is brilliant, with bits that put me in mind of Bullshot Crummond. The masked ball scene (avilable on the DVD as a deleted scene -- and believe me, it deserved to be deleted) was replaced with a wonderfully-performed tango, Let's Face the Music and Dance. The effects in Cheek to Cheek took me completely by surprise.Of the deleted scenes on the DVD, only two -- a hilarious, if brief, bit of physical comedy with the stuffed bear in the library, and the original Pageant of the Nine Worthies -- truly deserved to be left in. The latter was replaced by Nathan Lane and the cast of that play-within-a-play performing There's No Business Like Show Business, and while this was a very good piece (and, unfortunately, Nathan's only song) I would have rather seen the Nine Worthies in full production. Kenneth directed it with a warmth and good humor not often seen in this part of the play, an atmosphere providing for a beautiful segue with the sad news leading to the show's end. And the end, which I've normally seen with only sadness and loss, is given a bittersweet warmth that blends wonderfully with Branaugh's postwar coda.In conclusion, while it's not a top-notch piece of work -- too much to ask, I think, for such a daring and experimental project -- it has many brilliant touches and will probably affect how many directors approach Shakespearean comedies for years to come.Between this and Hamlet, I hope Kenneth will see his way clear to direct The Merry Wives of Windsor before long. "},{"Title":"Another superb adaptation by Brannagh, with wonderful musical sequences.","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I will admit straight away, I am an incredible fan of Kenneth Brannagh. I think his work is outstanding, in particular his treatments of Shakespearean plays. So to settle down to watch this film I was rather excited, and anticipated much, and I would say I was not disappointed.This was an unusual method to deliver the least liked of Shakespeares plays, in a style that had not been completed successfully in some time, that of a musical. I was so surprised to hear the works of Gershwin and Porter alongside the verse of Shakespeare, and does it work? Without a seam it does.The chosen songs fit so well between the lines, and are nothing but complimentary to the adjacent scenes. Brannagh, however, in some routines has some stilted dancing, but all in it produces another wonderful adaptation. "},{"Title":"The greatest and most brilliant musical movie ever!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  For some reasons I really can't explain, this fabulous movie didn't get the success it deserved here in France. Anyway it's oh so great! Shakespeare-specialist Brannagh managed to show us a quite unknown Shakespeare piece in a very pleasant and refreshing way! The choice of the music is surprisingly very pertinent, and even if the actors ain't necessarily great dancers or singers, they manage to be sensitive and talented, with a touch of soul real Broadway entertainers don't always have! And of course, last but not least, as we say in French, the cherry on the cake (do you guys got the same expression?)  ALICIA SILVERSTONE plays in it. She is the cutest, sweetest actress ever (well, at least alive). And IMHO, it's her first real appearance, I mean in a real great movie. We don't have so much news about her in France, but I hope we'll see her soon and I wish her goodluck! "},{"Title":"Fortunate","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This film never had a cinematic release here in WA. While I would have liked to have seen it on the large screen it is probably fortunate I never had the chance. No matter how many times I have watched the video I still cannot avoid joining in the singing. I also cannot watch the closing sequences without a tear coming to my eye and to quote Jay in Dogma there's nothing worse than watching a fat man cry.    "},{"Title":"A Classic Movie With Classic Style","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  this is a great movie! i absolutely love musicals, so this is no exception!! i am always impressed when actors and actresses do thier own singing, even if they need to work on it. I love the songs in this movie. Its like having the great classics come alive again, but i do think that the movie would have been a whole lot better if it wasnt in Shakesperian english.  Indeed, this is a movie that makes you want to jump up and dance. Great cast, great story, if only i could understand what they were trying to say. "},{"Title":"Flawed But Good","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I love Shakespeare. I started reading him when I was only eight back in 42. I am a great lover of his work and if I hear anyone slander him I am likely to respond by punching him hard in the face. So when I heard a new Shakespeare film was opening I rushed to see it.I went to see this film on opening night in my town in Ireland. And I was disappointed. It has some great performances. Mostly from the supporting cast. Nathan Lane is brilliant as is the actor who plays Boyet and the stunning Timothy Spall, also the actress who played Jaqueneta ... in short I adore the supporting cast. The main actors Braghnna and the other lovers, lack style and substance. I was disappointed to see that a lot of lines were given to Braghna that aren't actuly given to his character in the play. Seemed a little like a very large ego taking control to me (This is the first Bragnhna film I saw that I was dissapointed by his performace.). As for the songs ... I didn't mind them. They were amuseing and delightful. They were some of the highlights for this film. In short the supporting cast's performances make this film worth seeing. 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Song for Swingin' Lovers","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  In Kenneth Branagh's latest Shakespeare adaptation, Alessandro Nivola stars as the King of Navarre, an enthusiastic chap who vows to devote himself to a life of study and self-denial (including the injunction not to look at any women) for three years. Two of his friends, Dumaine (Adrian Lester) and  Longaville (Matthew Lilliard)  follow his lead without much reflection. Only Berowne (Kenneth Branagh) urges them to think twice about their ascetic course of action, before joining in with less of an idealistic spirit.Inevitably enough, the Princess of France (Alicia Silverstone) and her ladies are coming for a conference. Not only does this cause the boys problems with their vows not to see women, everything is further complicated when all concerned fall in love. The plot is eminently predictable from then on.Alicia Silverstone may seem a surprising cast choice, but then again this world of flirting and flightiness isn't all that far from the world of Clueless (a Jane Austen adaptation after all) The cast also features Broadway star Nathan Lane as a sly clown, Timothy Spall as a ridiculous yet romantic aristocrat, and Richard Briers and Geraldine McEwan as two elderly tutors who nevertheless prove that love can affect hearts of all ages.The classic songs from the likes of Cole Porter and the Gershwins include The Way You Look Tonight, Cheek to Cheek, There's No Business Like Show Business, I Get a Kick Out of You and most memorably and movingly They Can't Take That Away From Me. At first the songs seem strangely artificial; when Nivola and his three chums launch into I'd Rather Charleston in the opening scene it seems to come from nowhere. But as the film goes on the songs seem more natural and complement the action. Love's Labour's Lost is widely regarded as one of Shakespeare's weakest plays and Branagh has cut and  condensed the action wholesale (a stark contrast to his brilliant full-length, four-hour adaptation of Hamlet)This certainly isn't gritty urban realism or an existential trip into the heart of darkness. But if you love the glamour, wit and style of old-style Hollywood, and the classic songs from the era, then this is the film for you.   "},{"Title":"Definitely Branagh's most disappointing film to date, but working from poor base material?","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Love's Labours Lost felt like three different films.The first was the scenes between the four lords, and those between the four ladies.  These were generally watchable, but the standard of acting wasn't brilliant - Branagh was easily the best, and (unlike some others) I thought Alicia Silverstone as the Princess was well up to scratch - in general, the ladies were better than the gents.  Putting the 1930s spin on it was a workable idea - as a period it works as well as any other - but every other scene (or so it seemed) had a spoof `Pathe News' introduction - fine to start with, but once is enough the novelty soon wore off.  And the song & dance routines?  A couple of them worked, but in general they didn't.  `Big dance' musicals just don't work on screen anymore.  I'm sure the idea of putting 20th-century songs into a 16th-century play would work well on stage, but not on film.The second film was when the `comedy characters' were on.  This was almost embarrassingly dreadful, and it's where (I think) Mr Shakey let him down. Remember the bit in `Shakespeare in Love' where the manager says that what audiences want is a couple of clowns and a bit with a dog?  Well, apart from the dog, that's pretty much what we got.  The characters were just there to be laughed at - probably works well on stage, doesn't work at all in a film. If there was a comic sub-plot then I'm afraid I missed it by cringing.The third film was the last twenty minutes, which was very good, streets ahead of the rest of it.  The Princess learns that her father has died, that war is imminent, and that the ladies must return home and leave the lords behind until after the war.  It got all serious and suddenly it became really worth watching.  Even the song at this point (Gershwin's `They Can't Take That Away from Me') seemed to work well.  After the dialogue of the play had finished, there was a black-and-white montage section, lasting several minutes, of simulated World War 2 archive film, showing the main principles from the play in various war occupations (medic, bomber pilot, resistance-fighter, etc), culminating in VE-day-type celebrations in London where they all meet up again.  It was actually quite moving.Overall?  A curiosity.  In general, it didn't work, but there were occasional flashes when it did.  If Branagh could have made the rest of it like he made the last twenty minutes, then it really might have been something, but I really don't think he could have with the characters Shakespeare gave him.  Pity - his Much Ado is one of my all-time favourites, and I hoping for more in a similar vein.  This looked amateurish.  "}{"Title":"Loved the Music, Tolerated the Shakespeare","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I am old enough to be nostalgic for the film genre that inspired thisShakespeare update and musical spoof. I loved the '30s musicand motif, but I'm afraid the Shakespeare is still too heavy for me(my favorite poem is Ogden Nash's The Ice Breaker Candy isdandy but liquor is quicker).Still, I was pleased to see that the plot never really interfered withthe dancing. It was obvious that the only real dancer in the groupwas Adrian Lester. Alicia Silverstone was just a bit pudgy in one ofthe dance numbers. If it weren't for the delightful Kenneth Branagh, the irrepressibleNathan Lane, and the magnificent Natasha McElhone, thenonmusical sequences might be hard to take. Why wasn't IrvingBerlin given musical credit for There's No Business Like ShowBusiness?I'm sorry this film was not a box office success in its limitedtheatrical distribution. We need more real musicals (as opposedto rock garbage), with or without Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"a clever idea, but a shakey final product","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Love's Labor's Lost isn't a bad Shakespearean comedy, but lacks the popular appeal of his other works because it is obviously outdated.  Brannaugh cleverly set his adaptation in 1939 on the brink of war.  I think the idea of this film is better than the movie itself.  First of all Brannaugh fails to translate the plot fully, coming off with only brief glimpses of the true comedy and underdeveloped characters.  Only being familiar with the play myself helped me appreciate what was  going on.  The cast has gaping holes at times.  I think Alicia Silverstone has somehow managed to do the impossible, that is, make Shakespeare sound stupid and silly.  None of the princesses ladies truly stand out besides the brilliant Rosaline. Brannaugh is the perfect Berowne; however, Brannaugh is perfect in everything. Alessandro Nivola is a pleasant surprize as the King.  He is one of the few strong voices and he glows during all his scenes with a mischevious glimmer in his eye.  Adrian Lester also can sing and dance but lacks in charm. Matthew Lillard, however amusing in other films, seems embarrassingly out of place.  The musical numbers are bright and happy, a perfect homage to the old musicals of the 30's and 40's.  Some of the songs come off very awkward and stilted; however, the songs with the men work the best. My favourite scene was the one in the library when the men discover each other's treachery.  It has the Shakespearean comedy, a musical number, and the hammy comedy of old movies.  From that scene you can tell what Brannaugh's true vision for the whole movie was, and could've been.  I recommend this film to lovers of old musicals and fans of Kenneth Brannaugh, for he is truly a visionary. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I wasn't expecting a musical, since I hadn't heard anything about this movie before I saw it, but it was certainly one of the most entertaining movies I've seen all year. The parts were performed perfectly, and the music was good and well sung. Some of the transitions into the musical numbers was just downright silly, but who does serious comedy anyway? If they had composed the musical numbers specifically for the production, it would have gotten a 10. "},{"Title":"A delight comedy - wonderful musical","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I've been a fan of Branagh since Dead Again.  He is not afraid to do the unconventional - a Shakespeare play as a 30's musical - I smiled constantly throughout the movie - I especially love the dancing in the park - amateur choreographers can't help but love that piece.  It seems such a simple show - but the work that it must have taken.  Thanks, Kenneth for giving us fun movies! "},{"Title":"Bloody Brilliant","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Wow... I mean wow... I'm 15, and while I like Shakespeare quite a bit, I've never seen it done more amazingly than this. Like I said, I'm 15, so take this as you will as a naive misinterpretation, a complete miss of the point, or as a man's brilliant way of capturing the teenage attention span for as long as possible, and squeezing every last bit of understanding and amazement into it.Some things that shouldn't fit here do wonderfully. People who have really no business singing or dancing do it here, and pull it off very well. People who I previously thought had no business doing Shakespeare proved me horribly, horribly wrong (i.e.- Alicia Silverstone). While I understand Branagh cut out a good portion of the play, the entire movie just WORKS. The language works, the commentary works, the scenery and costumes work, and the musical numbers work. I'm very impressed. If you have any interest in Shakespeare, this is one to check out. If you have any interest in musicals, this is one to check out. In fact, if you have a pulse, this may very well be one to check out. "},{"Title":"A charming romp","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  True, the movie isn't really a film of the Shakespeare play. However,since Love's Labour's Lost as written is a play full of contemporary in-jokes, largely unintelligible to those of us outside the Elizabethan aristocracy, what Branagh has done is capture the giddiness of the love story, and in a most charming and imaginative way. Definitely worth seeing--and a great movie to see if you want your spirits lifted! "},{"Title":"Not One of His Best Efforts","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Sure, I had fun.  I had fun at my four year old's dance recital, too.  That doesn't mean it could be compared favorably to the Bolshoi.  When a movie is adapted and directed by someone of Kenneth Branagh's talent and training, we deserve more than some musically unskilled actors trying desperately to stay on key while attempting to negotiate the choreographed dance steps.  Surely Branagh could have found a group of actors who were more skilled dancers and singers.  Branagh's voice is pleasant and Adrian Lester has a rousing dance solo, but I've seen better community theatre musical productions.It is not as if the cast's comic flair or dramatic abilities can compensate for their clumsy dancing and bland warbling. Natascha McElhone is unremarkable as Rosaline and made me miss Emma Thompson's chemistry with her ex-husband.  Matthew Lillard's performance was so bizarre, his every appearance evoked titters from the audience. All performances were generally unmemorable and one-dimensional. Nathan Lane is his usual self.  Take from that what you will.It's not as if Branagh has given his cast much to work with.  He has chopped most of the text, including the famous Muscovite scene, and the narrative suffers from it.  He has replaced the text with the admittedly wonderful songs of Gershwin and Porter and others.  Despite their amateurish execution, they are always enjoyable.  The movie is lovely to look at, too, with costumes and sets evoking pre-WWII Europe.  The movie ends with a Branagh-created coda, depicting the characters' wartime plights and the requisite happy ending.  These are movie's most touching scenes, revealing the cartoonish characters' human sides that Branagh had not before allowed.  "},{"Title":"Cute !","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I went for some great musical numbers, and on that expectation I wasn't let down ... the musical numbers in this movie are, for the most part, incredible. Especially Adrian Lester, whose solo stuff is fantastic. I found it kind of weird that Kenneth Branagh chose the combination of 30s music and Shakespeare, but I guess the whole story fits into the history pretty well.The story is a little different to normal romances - but in a movie like this, who cares? This is a musical, and it's a success. And the ending should make you cry!! I did! "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable 'fluff'","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This film is guaranteed to make you come out humming!  Lots of lovely songs, great performances, especially Timothy Spall as Don Armado.  While you won't come out of this an expert on Shakespeare's original play you will certainly have a smile on your face.  The cinematic equivalent of candy floss - light, sweet and will make you feel good! "},{"Title":"Best film of 2000","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  The new millennium dawns, but the best film of the year is a throwback not only to the previous century but to many centuries before. Not being an ardent Branagh fan I went to this with some trepidation, but my fears were unfounded. Not as pompous as his Henry V, this is great cinema. It is not a contrived reason to put a play on film. It is surprising in its nature to touch on two of the most important raw human emotions -- humour and unabashed romanticism. True, these are the basest levels that a film can touch, but never mind. It is a fascinating mix of 1930s chic music (dig that Cole Porter and Gershwin, and Berlin), David Niven stiff-upper moustache never in the field of human conflict imagery and Shakespearean dialogue. What marks this out as a great film, and what all the critics I've read have so far missed, is its ability to appeal to all ages of filmgoer, from uncouth youth to aged drama graduate who's seen it all before. This is a five-star, gold-plated, Rolls-Royce (think up your own hyphened adjective) movie. If you don't laugh, weep and come dancing out of this one you might as well give up living now. "}{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Just a brief comment to recommend everybody to go and see this masterpiece. A 10 out of 10! As usual, Kenneth Branagh has made a wonderful movie. Lots of surprises guaranteed! The actors are completely amazing. If you love musicals and good films see it, you won't be disappointed. It is moving and has lots of laughs. Just waiting to see it again! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Yes this movie is a bit different from Branaugh's style - but give him credit for experimenting with the ways Shakespeare can be adapted to suit modern times. This movie's hokiness is part of its charm - it's meant to be farcical, to poke fun at the glossy, over-the-top musical numbers of the 30s and 40s films. The brilliant colours and outrageously overblown acting are not examples of a fine director losing his touch - these techniques are deliberately utilised to downplay what most people associate with Shakespeare - the sweeping, dramatic gestures, the grand intonations, etc. Branaugh has always been talented at turning Shakespeare into an enjoyable experience for mainstream public tastes. And his use of the rhythms of tap to illustrate the rhythms of iambic pentameter is truly inspired.  "},{"Title":"Vandalism","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" As an avowed lover of Shakespeare Branagh has an odd way of demonstrating his affection. His versions of the plays are vastly edited, adumbrated, hacked and stuffed into curiosities.This one is the most bizarre. It is barely the real play Love's Labours Lost, which is, by most reckoning, not a very good play, and like many Shakespeare comedies suffers from his often irritating humor. Onto that Branagh imposes musical numbers and then again he has a real in-joke using 1940s newsreel with his arch accent as a way of editing the play which is very heavily cut by at least an hour in length.So he packs a cut version of a play into less time and uses two other artistic/media styles into a shorter length. It's a not even the play; he might have called it, Some Songs and Dance on Old Bill.Walter Benjamin might have used this film in his essay, The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction as an example of how facile it is to transfer properties into a broth which is disingenuous.It takes gall and conceit to construct something that is not one thing nor anything else; that is a travesty on any measure. It's atrocious Shakespeare; it's even more degrading as Busby Berkeley musical as no one can really sing or dance; and as a piece of direction it is starchy, inelastic and very English in all the worst of all possible ways.Murder most foul is the Shakespeare line that comes to mind. "},{"Title":"Mistake of a concept expertly done","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Kenneth Branagh is attempting yet another Shakespeare play. This time he's adapting it as a 1930 era musical. The King of Navarre and his three companions swear a very public oath to study together and to renounce women for three years. Their honor is immediately put to the test by the arrival of the Princess of France and her three lovely companions. This one stars Alessandro Nivola, Alicia Silverstone, Natascha McElhone, Matthew Lillard, Emily Mortimer among others.I'm fine with a musical. It's not my favorite genre but I won't hold it against this movie. However, everybody is playing it so broad. At times, they act like it's a parody of a 30s musical. It was ridiculously annoying. The second problem I had was the story. Here we have a story about powerful kings and princess. But it takes place in 1930s when royalty have only nominal powers. It makes no sense. Again it's really annoying. The stagecraft is good but there's no way I can recommend this to anybody other than musical lovers. "},{"Title":"Oookay...","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I am a huge fan of Branagh, but I have to say He blew it with this one. And a great shame it is, as it is one of the very rarely filmed plays, and my expectations of it were rather great. I was seriously disappointed. Love's Labour's Lost is a fairly difficult play to stage well, and Branagh, in this case, was too ambitious, and in the process fouled it up.The 1930s setting makes no sense, and all the male main characters - incl. Branagh's - are indistinctive and unbecomingly effeminate. My single greatest peeve about this production, though, is Don Armado and especially Moth - these are just about the most HORRIBLE versions of those characters that I can imagine! Fat lumbering fools?! Yes, I have heard of irony, but this is ridiculous! Sure, they are comic relief, but they are also important, substantial characters, and Moth is a child!! A small child! Moth! Get it?! Sigh. Guess not.However, there is also good news. The women in this production are all beautiful and capable and perform exceedingly well. A pleasure to behold. The greatest revelation being of course Alicia Silverstone, who surprisingly pulls this role off to an A+, showing that she's got what it takes to be a real actress, despite allegedly being a shallow teenage celebrity (well, not anymore, but for her that image has rather stuck to her). Shakespeare's words sound really good in her pretty mouth. Again, one is saddened that there were no other similar roles for her; that this was a one-of-kind type of thing, as with John Cleese's excellent Petruchio in BBC's 1980 Taming of the Shrew.So, well, the female half of this film had some merit, but overall... let's just say we're still waiting for a good Love's Labour's Lost. Meanwhile, see Branagh's version of the sequel, Love's Labour's Won, a.k.a. Much Ado About Nothing, which he filmed with definitive success in 1993. 1993 was a very good year.....6 out of 10. A low rating for a Shakespeare play. "},{"Title":"halfway interesting","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh's 'musical comedy Shakespeare' is somewhat egotistical since he seems to require himself to be in a majority of scenes taking centre stage.  The film itself doesn't mix the Shakespeare play and the 30s and 40s Porter, Berlin and Hammerstein tunes that well; there seems to be something missing and the viewer fails to connect with any of the characters.   There's also an overuse of 'newsreel footage', none of which fits with the rest of the sequences.There are one or two good musical sequences, though - the main one being a rousing all-cast rendition of 'There's No Business Like Show Business', headed by the talented Broadway star Nathan Lane; and others being 'The Way You Look Tonight', kicked off by none other than Geraldine McEwan!, and 'No Strings', where the boys' love interests go synchronised swimming.  Compare this effort to any musical from the heady days of the 1930s-1950s, though, and it fails miserably to stand up to scrutiny.  It was good to see Adrian Lester getting a chance to reference Fred Astaire at one point but too much stodge and too much Branagh kills this film. "},{"Title":"Pretty Awful","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie, really I did.After seeing Dead Again, Much Ado About Nothing, and Henry V, I was fully prepared to hail Kenneth Brannagh as the new Orson Welles. I was even willing to cut him some slack after his interminable production of Hamlet. However, Love's Labour's Lost is something I just cannot forgive.It had an excellent cast, great sets, wonderful direction, however it was a stupid idea.For those of you unfamiliar with it, the idea was to stage Love's Labour's Lost as a MGM-Style musical from the thirties, interspersed with Song-and-Dance numbers by Cole Porter. It looks good on paper, but the problem is that Shakespeare does not naturally lead in to Cole Porter tunes. Thus, you have a group of people reciting Shakesperian dialogue one second, and then next second you are VERY suddenly whisked into a song and dance number which only obliquely has anything to do with what they were talking about. Adding to the confusion is the fact that it looks like about half the play was excised (no doubt Brannagh was reacting to getting dinged for his full-length Hamlet), in favor of mock-newsreels (narrated cleverly by Brannagh), which, while entertaining, made the whole thing feel very rush, like we were only getting the Cliff Notes version of the play, and NO feeling for any of the characters.The sad part about it, though that everything else about the movie is wonderful -- great acting, great song and dance numbers, pretty costumes -- you name it, this movie succeeds in all the important ways except for the fact that the fundamental idea behind it all just did not work.With the talent he'd assembled for this movie, he could have easily made a great 30's-Style musical, or else done a great version of Love's Labour's Lost -- but, sadly, it was just not possible to do them both at the same time. "},{"Title":"A Colourful Oxford Musical","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Having worked with Denzel Washington in 'Much Ado About Nothing', Laurence Fishburne in 'Othello', Will Smith in 'Wild Wild West', Kenneth Brannagh went on to work with Adrian Lester in this colourful Oxford musical. Whereas Othello was distinctively black, as well as Don Pedro of Aragon, both Will Smith's role in 'Wild Wild West' and Adrian Lester's role in this film were token roles. It broadened Lester's base as an all round actor doing musicals as well as perfecting American accents, but this role was not tailor made for him in the same way that 'Othello' was for Laurence Fishburne. Although a very colourful musical, and demonstrating the diversity of Lester's talent, it was not a good vehicle to lift his career. "},{"Title":"Not totally successful","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Some poor cinematography, horrible singing and even worse dancing prevent this film from succeeding as it could of. Creative use of classic songs is a plus, but uninspired choreography distracts. Does that mean this movie is as lame as most Hollywood drivel? Not at all.Thanks for at least trying  "},{"Title":"Charming In Spite Of Several Weaknesses","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  An updated telling of one of Shakespeare's lesser known plays has some wonderful moments, but overall falls a bit short of the mark.I have never been convinced that Shakespeare should ever be updated. Written at a particular time within a specific historical context, to update Shakespeare is to force his work to fit into what is, for all intents and purposes, an alien world. This particular attempt is at times extremely confusing. The movie is set in September of 1939, yet much of the language used remains Shakespearian. There is a general war about to break out in Europe, but it is a fictionalized conflict and not the Second World War of history. The France of 1939 in this movie has a king; the real France of 1939 was a republic. Question why update the play and then completely re-invent history to accommodate the update? I have to say also that the background music was also a problem to me. I found it rather loud and distracting, sometimes drowning out the dialogue (particularly problematic when the dialogue is offered in an unfamiliar dialect.)I can't come up with an answer for the second problem, but there is one excellent reason for the update the song and dance numbers! This may be Shakespeare updated, but it is also very much a retro-type movie, hearkening viewers back to the charming musicals of a bygone era. The dance scenes (and especially a solo performance by Adrian Lester as Dumaine, expressing his love for the lady of his dreams) are wonderful and worth watching in themselves. The movie also features very funny performances from Nathan Lane as Costard - essentially the king's fool - and, in a more limited role, from Timothy Spall as Don Armado, the Spanish count. Both demonstrate that they have great talent in the area of slapstick comedy.Overall, there are many charming features to this movie, and it is definitely worth a look. I would give this one a 6/10. "}{"Title":"Recycle trash, yes.  Recycle trash culture?  No!","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Am I the only one in the world who is getting sick and tired of homages to pop culture?  I mean, what is the point of doing Shakespeare if you're going to cut most of his words, throw in a bunch of newsreel footage and 10 absolutely superfluous dance numbers?  I don't mind adaptation.  I do mind steamrolling.But then to wrap it all in a sickly sweet paste of Hollywood kitsch!  Talk about adding insult to injury!Production values in this picture were very poor.  Sound and film quality change noticeably before the dance/song numbers, and, at one point in a close up shot, a string of spit forms between Branagh's lips as he sings. Letting something like that slip past editing is stunningly inept. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite come off","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" There have been successful musicals based on Shakespeare plays such as Kiss Me Kate and West Side Story. In Love's Labour's Lost, however, Kenneth Branagh's attempt to marry Shakespeare to the romantic musical genre of the 30s and 40s, though it has an appealing innocence and charm, doesn't quite come off. The musical numbers such as Just The Way You Look Tonight, I've Got a Crush on You, There's No Business Like Show Business and others from Berlin, Porter, Kern, and Gershwin are timeless of course, yet the songs and dance routines are inserted randomly throughout the film, often without connection to the story. To accommodate the tunes and the elaborate dance routines, two-thirds of the original Shakespearean text has been cut and the result is much good music but Shakespeare in name only.The story itself is slight and the influence of the Italian commedia dell' arte is apparent. The setting is the fictional kingdom of Navarre but Branagh updates it to pre-war Europe in the 30s using parodies of Movietone newsreels to frame the action. The young King (Alessandro Nivola) and his three friends, Longaville (Matthew Lillard), Dumaine (Adrian Lester) and the courtly Berowne (Kenneth Branagh) take an oath that they will devote themselves to an ascetic regimen of study for three years, renouncing the pleasures of women, sleeping only three hours a night, and fasting once a week. Berowne is the merry madcap lord whose &#133;eye begets occasion for his wit; For every object that the one doth catch, The other turns into a moving jest. Of course, the three friends quickly yield to temptation as the Princess of France (Alicia Silverstone) arrives with three women, Maria (Carmen Ejogo), Katherine (Emily Mortimer) and Rosaline (Natascha McElhone). The men fall in love and spend most of the time breaking their oath of abstinence. The theme of oath breaking so prominent in the play may be a gentle ribbing of Queen Elizabeth who, when lodging at Cambridge for five nights in 1564, violated her 1561 proclamation that no woman would ever be permitted to stay overnight at an English university or abbey.As usual, there are clowns inserted for comic relief the swashbuckling Spanish soldier Don Adriano de Armado, played by Timothy Spall, and Costard, played by Nathan Lane. As Armado confesses that he is in love with Jaquenetta (Stefania Rocca), a base wench, and Berowne is smitten with Rosaline, an interchange of letters is delivered to the wrong parties and the comic relief soon turns into camp. Love's Labour's Lost is an early work, probably written in the 1580s, that seems to mock the affected style of writing known as Euphuism that flourished in that period. Most scholars agree, however, that touches were added that may date to the early 1590s. Interestingly, the play is not recognized as one of Shakespeare's best and was not performed for two hundred years after its opening. The Branagh film is its first cinematic version.Although the play contains some colorful characters, there is not enough time to allow us to feel invested in any of them and the acting, particularly that of Alicia Silverstone and Matthew Lillard, does not measure up to the standards set by Branagh in his other Shakespeare adaptations. The greatness of the thirties musicals lay in the superior acting and dancing of people like Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. Without professional singing and dancing, and actors worthy of the bard, updating the genre to the present day is an interesting bit of nostalgia but ends up being more of a spoof than an homage. "},{"Title":"Interesting failure","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I applaud Kenneth Branagh for attempting this film. He's going for Shakespeare + Astaire and Rogers. Unfortunately, he doesn't succeed. Therefore, on the other hand, I must castigate Branagh for not planning it all out more carefully. The film has great potential, and is often a lot of fun. But where the tremendous energy goes slack, it simply becomes grating. In fact, it feels like the whole project was tossed together in as short a time as possible. Here are my complaints and suggestions1) Branagh clearly wanted to make a surreal, visually inventive film, but that inventiveness stops dead in its tracks every time it gets going. He'll be playing with the colors, dressing his characters in beautiful and vibrant shades, but then he won't compose his shots so that the color is at its maximum effectiveness. He just throws everything up on screen. The intent with the sets seems to be to make the film more theatrical. I think this is a mistake, especially when, at first, he was going for the visual inventiveness. Something neat will happen, like, for instance, when the men start floating in the air during Cheek to Cheek. I was hoping for a ceiling dance or something, a midair dance, perhaps. Nope. They just float their in the air like Charlie and Grampa Joe, and flailing like a possessed character in the Evil Dead movies. And during the No Business Like Show Business scene, the camera is positioned straight above, ready for the Busby Berkeley number. But no. That shot lasts less than a second.2) Which leads me to the second complaint The editing is far too quick. It's headache-inducing at times. Not that the editing shouldn't be quick. It would work if it were paced a little better.3) Branagh never really utilizes the potential of the older musicals he seems to want to be parodying. He's not bad in segueing into the songs; I was rather impressed on that account. Sometimes he blends the Shakespeare and the Gershwin, especially in the They Can't Take That Away From Me, which may represent Ira Gershwin's best lyrics. But Branagh never does it for any reason other than a gimmick. He sets the story in 1939 Europe, with WWII breaking out across the continent. The Astaire-Rogers team went on hiatus at that point. It would have been so easy to follow the logical loss of innocence of that age. Instead, the musical stuff feels gimmicky and the WWII stuff feels terribly clunky (especially the climactic montage of the entire war). 4) What's with Alicia Silverstone? I almost want to leave her alone, because it's too easy to criticize. To tell you the truth, she's not as bad as I had envisioned, but she's definitely not up to it. I would say as much about Matthew Lillard, too, but his role is so incidental that it's not bothersome. He is actually in the movie all the time, but has little dialogue. Lillard does have one particularly embarrassing scene - although the embarrassment of its creation belongs to Branagh - where he humps his top hat. But, wait, what am I talking about? This is the guy who cast Keanu Reeves in a Shakespearian movie, not to mention the fact that he was playing Denzel Washington's brother. But I don't want to tear into Branagh. In fact, I was serious when I wrote that I applaud him for attempting Love's Labours Lost. It's worth a look. Few more interesting movies have been made in the past few years, and I can think of no more interesting failure. 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Where's the Plot?","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  It's not such a bad idea to put musical numbers in a Shakespeare play.  Shakespeare himself put songs into virtually all of his plays, even the tragedies.  And the comedies usually ended with a song and a dance.  If you're going to do that, why not make it songs from a classic period of twentieth-century songwriting?Kenneth Branagh knows this. He used a song as a recurring theme in Much Ado, and as a climax in Henry V, and they were both awesomely effective.  But they were just one song; they complemented the action and didn't try to substitute themselves for it.The problems with song in drama is that unless it's some kind of recitativo sequence like they have in opera (where they have no choice but to sing the drama) the song doesn't move the plot forward any.  This is apparent in the musical genre;  dialogue sets up the situation which the characters comment on in song.  The song serves to underline the emotional states of the characters which have been revealed by the dialogue and action.Obviously, if you want a lot of songs, you'd better have a very simple plot and a few shallow characters.  There isn't time to deal with anything more complex.  Conversely, If you have a complex plot and a multitude of characters (as in a Shakespeare play) you'd better go easy on the songs.Unfortunately Branagh didn't.If he had picked the three most effective songs and stopped there, this would have been a much better movie.  Certainly, They Can't Take That Away From Me brilliantly underlined the emotions at the end of the play.  The segu from Berowne's speech into Cheek to Cheek was also smooth and effective.The problem is that so many musical numbers are jammed in here that large chunks of the play have been removed, leaving gaping voids which musical numbers, being unable to advance the plot, are powerless to fill.  Nevertheless KB tries.  So we get a scene anticipating the visit of the men to the women, disguised as Russians, a totally irrelevant dance routine, and a scene resolving the difficulties that arose when the men came disguised as Russians.  It's like the projectionist put on reel 3 instead of reel 2.  The same thing happens when we are promised The Pageant of the Nine Worthies, we see the preparation for it, the audience arriving, then suddenly everyone's singing There's No Business Like Show Business, and after, Berowne says, Worthies, away.  What Worthies?  What time warp did they disappear into?Shakespeare knew full well that the romantic plot was light and that the lovers were virtually indistinguishable from each other, so he wrote in a half dozen stock comedy characters from the Commdia dell'arte to provide some relief.  Here the musical numbers have caused the dialogue to be cut away to practically nothing, and we get no sense of the nature of the characters.  Moth, for example is a wisecracking servant who can get away with it because his boss, Armado, is so stupid.  Every single one of Moth's lines is cut and he remains as some sort of convenient victim for slapstick jokes.Replacing the comedy relief with yet more musical numbers makes the viewer wonder what the heck he bothered even casting these parts for.  Presumably so he could get Richard Briers in the cast somewhere.What's even more irksome is that, while Branagh's singing voice is pretty good for a guy who's not supposed to be a singer, and some of the dance routines are quite good for people who aren't supposed to be dancers, some of them, such as the attempt to imitate Busby Berkeley or the scene with Holofernia and Nathaniel are so bad as to be painful.  (Indeed this latter is so awful one suspects irony, but why?  What would be the point?)  It would have been so much easier just to tell Geraldine McEwan she doesn't have to dance.To me, had the song-and dance numbers been cut back, this would have been a first-rate film.  Nathan Lane did a good job of what was left of Costard's part.  Branagh is effective as always with the Shakespearean speeches (all the speeches except Berowne's are cut to make room for the music).  Making Nathaniel and Holofernes of opposite sexes works. Nor is it improper to my mind to suggest that the men do grow up as a result of this encounter, face reality, and get the girls. The Path-style newsreels (so necessary to explain what's going on since you can't figure it out otherwise) and the whole 30's feel worked very well with the theme of the unreality of the men's attitudes as opposed to the grim reality of death which intrudes at the end.  The contrast between the Astaire-Rogers world and the world of the Depression and impending war mirrors this very well. Either go into this prepared with a summary of the plot or forget about trying to make sense of it and bathe in the Hollywood froth. "},{"Title":"wanted this to be good. really did!","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" SPOILERS All too often, Hollywood's Shakespeare adaptations entertaining pieces of cinema. Beautifully shot they are well performed and faithful to the text. Films including Branagh's Henry V and 1993's Much Ado About Nothing are powerful pieces of work. Watching Love's Labour's Lost therefore, it's such a huge disappointment for expectation to be so hideously thrown to waste. Sadly Love's Labour's Lost is awful! The King of Navarre (Alessandro Nivola) and his friends have forsaken drink and women for three years to focus on their studies. Plans begin to fall apart however when the enigmatic Princess of France (Alicia Silverstone) and her entourage arrive. Soon love is in the air and philosophy is off the Prince's mind.From the start, you realise that this film is not quite Shakespeare. Cleverly relocated into a 1930s musical by Ken Branagh, the plot is still there and the script remains, but now it has been sacrificed in favour of dire musical taste. Classics like The Way You Look Tonight, Let's Face The Music and Dance, I'm in Heaven are all destroyed by weak singing and a strong feel that they just don't belong here.Aside from weak singing, we are also treated to an increasingly large number of awkward performances by regular stars. Ken Branagh and friends might enjoy making this film, but they provide us with a stomach turning collection of roles.The main eight actors (four men & four women) are all equally dire, and the only positive on their behalf is a vast improvement on the truly dreadful Timothy Spall.In fact, only one individual leaves the film worthy of any praise and that's the consistently magnificent Nathan Lane. Lane has proved over the years that he is a comedy genius and in this feature he once again adds an air of humour to the jester Costard.There's little else to be said really. Love's Labour's Lost deserves mild praise for Branagh's original take on an old tale. Unfortunately though, that's where the positives end. Weakly acted, performed, sang and constructed, Love's Labour's Lost is perhaps the weakest Shakespeare adaptation of the last forty years. It should be avoided like the plague and should never have been made. A poor, disappointing choice by Branagh and here's hoping his next effort is better. "},{"Title":"It should come with a health warning","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I actually enjoy Branagh's acting of Shakespeare, and was looking forward to finding out what he'd done with this far-from-easy play. But it is definitely a lost labour of love. There's just so much pointless fiddling with the original that lengthy criticism would be repetitive and shrill. So here's a couple of comments instead.The only result of replacing large chunks of the play with Cole Porter lyrics is to demonstrate how relatively impoverished C.P. is as a writer when compared with Shakespeare. And I never thought anyone could spoil C.P. for me until Branagh managed it. Branagh must have a tin ear not to realise the serious loss of quality.And the ending of the play, and all its meaning, is reversed. The words of Mercury are harsh (harsh, underlined) after the songs of Apollo, says Shakespeare, not What about if we fast-forward to a happy-ever-after conclusion?If the film were clearly signposted as a cabaret reworking based on an original idea by Shakespeare, then nobody could feel cheated by this nonsensical trifle. As it is, after one viewing, my video of the film went straight to a Thrift Shop. At least the next mug to buy it will be donating something to a good cause.  "},{"Title":"Branagh Blows It Big Time!","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I usually count on Kenneth Branagh to make sense of Shakespeare, but this adaptation just doesn't do it for me. In the first place, KB makes a big mistake by casting himself. Passing himself off as a school boy when he's in his forties is the first unbelievable notion. Secondly, the casting of Alicia Silverstone is another misfortune. I hate to say it, but most of the time she is totally clueless as to what she is talking about. I guess KB didn't have time to explain it to her. She memorized the lines for sure, but there is nothing behind them. Finally, these great songs from the 30's and 40's just don't work in the context of Shakespeare. You have all this fluid 17th century language and poetry, then suddenly they're singing about doing the Charleston! One of the first rules of musical theater is that the lyrics of the songs have to match the style of the book, otherwise the mismatch is too jarring to the ear, as it was in this case. I did enjoy the choreography, especially the flying sequence in Cheek to Cheek and Nathan Lane can do no wrong wherever he turns up. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This ill-advised venture should have been abandoned in the planning stages.  Although not usually regarded as one of Shakespeare's greatest plays, LLL is a work of youthful exuberance and probably presents Shakespeare's illustration of his astonishing verbal abilities. None of that is evident here. The text of the play is severely cut, and what is left is interspersed with truly wretched song and dance numbers. Moreover, the acting is atrocious, with the exception of the always reliable Nathan Lane, who has a minor role. Some of the actors, Alicia Silverstone for example, don't even attempt to hide their American accents, which are, needless to say, ill-suited for Shakespeare. Best to read the play instead. "},{"Title":"No title more apt.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This self-indulgent mess may have put the kibosh on Mr. Branagh's career as an adapter of Shakespeare for the cinema.  (Released 4 years ago; not a peep of an adaptation since.)  I just finished watching this on cable -- holy God, it's terrible.I agree with the sentiment of a reviewer below who said that reviewing something so obviously and sadly awful is an ungenerous act that comes across as shrill.  That being said, I'll take the risk, if only because  *Love's Labour's Lost*  is the perfect reward for those who overrated Mr. Branagh's directorial abilities in the past.  Branagh has always been a pretty lousy director  grindingly literal-minded; star-struck; unforgivably ungenerous to his fellow actors  (he loves his American stars, but loves himself more, making damn sure that he gets all the good lines).Along those lines, the sad fact remains that  *Love's Labour's Lost*  is scarcely worse than the interminable, ghastly, bloated  *Hamlet*  from 1996.  In fact, this film may be preferable, if only because it's about 1/3 the length.  Branagh decided it would be a good idea to update this bad early work of Shakespeare's to the milieu of Cole Porter, George Gershwin, Fred Astaire, yada yada.  So he sets the thing in 1939, leaves about an eighth of the text intact in favor of egregious interpretations of Thirties'  standards  (wait till you see the actors heaved up on wires toward the ceiling during  I'm In Heaven), and casts actors not known for their dancing or singing  (himself included).  The result is a disaster so surreal that one is left dumbfounded that they just didn't call a horrified stop to the whole thing after looking at the first dailies.  I don't even blame the cast.  To paraphrase Hamlet, The screenplay's the thing!  NO ONE could possibly come off well in this hodge-podge  the illustrious RSC alumni fare no better than Alicia Silverstone.  Who could possibly act in this thing?Branagh's first mistake was in thinking that  *Love's Labour's Lost*  was a play worth filming.  Trust me, it isn't.  It's an anomaly in the Bard's canon, written expressly for an educated coterie of courtiers -- NOT the usual audience for which he wrote.  Hence, there's a lot of precious  (and TEDIOUS!)  word-play, references to contemporary scholastic nonsense, parodies of Lyly's  *Euphues* . . . in other words, hardly the sort of material to appeal to a broad audience.  Hell, it doesn't appeal to an audience already predisposed to Shakespearean comedy.  The play cannot be staged without drastically cutting the text and desperately  updating  it with any gimmick that comes to hand.  Which begs the question, Why bother?Branagh's second mistake was in thinking that Shakespeare's cream-pie of a play could be served with a side-order of Gershwin's marmalade.  Clearly the idea, or hope, was to make an unintelligible Elizabethan exercise palatable for modern audiences by administering nostalgic American pop culture down their throats at the same time.  But again, this begs the question, Why bother? "},{"Title":"Just what it was supposed to be","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Kenneth Branagh's Love's Labour's Lost does exactly what it was intended to do Turn Shakespeare's play into a thirties American Musical. The result is just that. No more, no less. It is as bad as any of those miserable American musical from the late thirties-late fifties. The fact that it's Shakespeare does not arrange anything Branagh is only really interested in the thirties aspect. Like any of those musicals, it is corny, completely artificial, has no depth. But it also funny, charming, and mostly entertaining. There are occasional times where you will laugh like a madman (one must admit that it's much better than As You Like It) Branagh's scream as the King of Navarre pushes the ramp Branagh is on, every second with Timothy Spall, who is hilarious (Boy, what sign is it when a worthy man grows mel-an-choly- Hilarious, and the whole I Get A Kick Out Of You musical number), Miss Marple's monologue and version of The Way You Look Tonight , and other things. Overall, this film is nothing more- nor less- than an American Musical, worth seeing just to see how well Branagh pulled off the idea of making Shakespeare's play be exactly like a musical. "}{"Title":"A bold attempt","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" ...but the film really doesn't work. It might be argued that trying to marry one of Shakespeare's weakest plays (a nonsense plot full of puns that no longer and apparent absence of an ending) with Golden Age musicals necessitates actor who can not only sing and dance but also recite Shakespeare. Branagh himself fairs best here but some of the performances are dreadful. Alicia Silverstone squeals every line as if experiencing a sugar rush and seems to have no understanding of the meaning of the words while Matthew Lillard flounders around hopping weak physical comedy will cover his lack of acting talent. The dancing and choreography is perfunctory at best, the seemingly effortless quality of the musicals of that era came from years of training and can not be replicated by sheer enthusiasm alone. It is always a delight to hear Branagh bring the Bard's word to life but this really didn't work. Commendation also to Richard Clifford's Boyet, he caught the warmth and subtlety of the character tempered by a sadness that he himself seems to be alone. He shone while everyone else senseless mugged into the lens. "},{"Title":"The one time Ken misses the mark...","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I am a Shakespeare fan, and I can appreciate what Ken Branagh has done to bring Shakespeare back for a new generation of viewers.  However, this movie falls short of conveying the overall intentions of the play with the ridiculous musical sequences.  Add that with Alicia Silverstone's stumbling over the dialogue (reminiscent of Keanu Reeves in Much Ado About Nothing) and other poorly cast roles, it all equals an excruciating endurance of viewing. "},{"Title":"Um...WHAT?","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Let me start off by saying I love Alicia Silverstone and think she's a great actress but lately has made some awful movie choices....and this I hate to say is one of them. Maybe I shouldn't even be writing this review since I didn't stick around for the whole movie but oh well. Now I will tell you Im not the smartest person in the world but I'm average and I didn't understand this movie at all! I loved Romeo and Juliet, understood every word they said but with this I never knew what they were talking about or what was going on! Maybe one day I'll give it another chance and watch all of it but I don't really think my reaction will be that much different. A weird movie, and from what I've seen 1/10 "},{"Title":"WORST OF THE (SHAKESPEARE) EFFORTS","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Unlike Richard III, this 1930s setting adds nothing. Are we supposed to laugh or sing along during the musical numbers? Branagh's Hollywood imports look like startled bunnies in the headlights, as they struggle with their lines.This is very Much Ado About Nothing. "},{"Title":"Clever idea that gets stuck in its own muck","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I honestly did want to like this film - I mean, you have to give credit to an idea that combines a 30's musical with Shakespeare.  And, I really like Kenneth Branaugh, one of the few classy actors out there.But... it just didn't work.  I lost my attention throughout half of it. It's not that the performances were bad it's just that the story didn't make a bit of sense and I stopped caring about what happened.  I mean, I think it tried to be too creative and they really didn't think about those necessary things - called a plot.Well, good try anyway. I gave it a 6 for an effort to be creative or original which is not an easy thing sometimes. "},{"Title":"Worse film in AGES","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I am amazed to see that a lot of people liked it, from the comments I have read. This was one of the worse films I saw in the last two years or so, and I can tell you that I saw about 200 of them in that time. Ken 1) ruined the play by making a nonsensical adaptation to 1939; 2) oversimplified the plot; and 3) Has no idea of what a musical should be. Some freshness and originality are the only touches that save this film from being a complete disaster. 3/10  "},{"Title":"Pretty but just a tad pretentious","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Love's Labours Lost is a play that's not performed very often and that should really have warned Branagh. LLL has a complicated and more than usually improbable plot, and Branagh has made a valiant effort to jazz it up by throwing out a lot of Shakespeare's dialogue and replacing it with songs by Gershwin, Kern and Porter. It's a clever idea, but it doesn't work. The songs bear little relation to what is supposed to be happening in what's left of the plot; and he seems to have rather missed the point that they're actually rather good songs and need good singers to put them across. Silverstone et al while decorative and energetic weren't able to put it across. Branagh has also updated the action to 1939 just before the outbreak of WW2, which gives the girls a chance to wear some pretty party frocks, but unfortunately makes a bit of a nonsense of the drama. Nice try. Ken; better luck next time. "},{"Title":"It's a musical","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I must admit right ahead that I hated it, but the audience went all bonkers about it. Maybe it's because Branagh himself was present with the complete ensemble (Berlin film festival), including Alicia Silverstone and the much more beautiful Natasha McElhone.My problem with this movie is that it is a musical, and I, as a rule, hate musicals. The play, which is not so known and is considered as one of the poet's weaker efforts, is here set into a pseudo-Oxford of the 30s. It's about the King and 3 friends who take up their studies and vow to stay abstinent for 3 years, especially to stay away from women. But here comes the French king's daughter with 3 of her friends, and all gets mixed up, of course. There's not much text left from the Old Bard, because at least 50% of the movie consists of the singing of old Gershwin and Porter classics and of (intentionally so) amateurish dancing. There are a few laughs, but all in all I sat in the Berlinale palace waiting for the song to get over and the plot (or what was left of it) to drive on.  I know much of this was equally intended to be parodistic as it also was meant as homage.I give **, but if you are really enthusiastic about musicals, this picture might give you more pleasure than I had.  "},{"Title":"Lesser Piece of Branagh's Shakespearian Work","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I think this is one of the weakest of the Kenneth Branagh Shakespearian works. After such great efforts as Much Ado About Nothing, etc. I thought this was poor. The cast was weaker (Alicia Silverstone, Nivoli, McElhone???) but my biggest gripe was that they messed with the Bard's work and cut out some of the play to put in the musical/dance sequences.You just don't do Shakespeare and then mess with the play. Sorry, but that is just wrong. I love some Cole Porter just like the next person, but jeez, don't mess with the Shakespeare. Skip this and watch Prospero's Books if you want to see a brilliant Shakespearean adaptation of the Tempest. "},{"Title":"A great play, unfortunately filmed.","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I've read comments that you shouldn't watch this film if you're looking for stirring Shakespearian dialogue. This is true, unfortunately, because all the stirring dialogue, this wonderful play contains, has been cut, and replaced with songs. I've read this play, and recently was lucky enough to see it performed, at it remains one of my favourite Shakespearian Comedies, but this movie seems to take all that I like about it away. The Princess, though no doubt doing what she was directed to do, had no regal bearing, and all the girls seemed to lose the cleverness of their characters - also affected by unwise cuts, which not only took away the female characters already sparse dialogue, but took comments out of context - it was a little unnerving to hear the Princess proclaim; We are wise girls to mock our lovers so!, when mocking had not taken place at all. The news reels throughout the film also disrupted the flow, and took away many excellent scenes, as they showed the information in the scenes after them, and were in modern phrasing. In conclusion, an excellent play, ruined by an odd concept, and unwise cuts. Kenneth, I usually love what you do. What were you thinking? "}{"Title":"Shakespeare gone sour","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I love Shakespeare. I really do. I also am also a huge fan of Kenneth Branagh. His Henry V, Hamlet, Much Ado About You, As You Like It, and Twelfth Night are all excellent. I feel the problem here is that he tried far too hard to make Shakespeare marketable. I love musicals, especially old ones, as well, but I find something lacking in the combination. And, as much as I adore Kenneth, he cannot dance. This is not Shakespeare's best comedy in the first place, but even Branagh's ambition couldn't save this disaster. The ending is happier than the play's cliffhanger-like promises, which I like. That is about all I like. "},{"Title":"Disappointing though easy on the eye if you like 30's musicals and don't like Shakespeare dialogue","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I do get irritated with modern adaptations of Shakespeare when the director can't make his mind up whether to use the original or to update it. If it's using the original words in an updated setting, that's particularly tricky if set in the 20th or 21st century although it can work OK in period styles, eg the Trevor Nunn Twelfth Night set late Victorian very effectively. It could work with the 30's setting if only there had been far less of the song and dance and far more of Shakespeare's text. Unfortunately, it just ends up being a pretty trivial though very pleasant show. Another problem is Branagh himself. I agree he's far too old to play one of the students but more important, he's such an experienced Shakespearean actor that in spite of all his efforts to be just another student, his strength of acting shows all the time. Of course he should have played the King - no problem in having a mature student King surrounded by younger students. Instead we had a pleasant but unimposing actor for the King, thus an unimposing so-called King with no Kingly attributes. The amount of song and dance, which I found tedious in spite of the nice songs and pleasant enough dancing, unfortunately meant the great Shakespearean dialogue had to be cut down drastically. So the whole thing ends up a trivial and mild confection, and I got very bored, including with the comic turns, and was glad when it ended. Branagh has not done Shakespeare justice in this production.Accolades however to Richard Briers and Geraldine McEwan, absolutely splendid as the older couple. "},{"Title":"Great concept, terrible execution","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" When I first heard Kenneth Branagh was going to make this play as a 30s musical, I was thrilled. As strange as it may sound, it's a terrific concept - the idea of Shakespeare's language and bursting into song not being mutually exclusive. And in fact, I was given the soundtrack (with dialog) of this movie before it came out, and it all seemed to work well and sound quite charming. Well, the music works, mostly. But it's about the only thing in the movie that does work.I like Branagh's work in general very much despite its rough edges, but this movie is an inexplicable failure -- not due to the concept or music or even the slightness of the play itself, but wholly due to Branagh's strangely uninspired direction. The indifferent acting from a few of the leads is forgivable; the bad singing even more so; although the bad dancing is sometimes quite hard to forgive. But what really kills this movie is that it seems to totally lack Branagh's usual gusto as a filmmaker. The concept may be audacious, but the staging is completely undercooked. Right from the opening credits, which are just weirdly static -- headshots against red satin?? -- where is the Ken Branagh who gave us those fantastic opening credit sequences from DEAD AGAIN and MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING?? (Another early warning signal of this movie's inertness is an early scene where a guy is riding a bicycle so slowly that it's a wonder he doesn't fall over.) The camera work is boring, the atmosphere of the settings extremely artificial and static, giving the whole movie a stilted, deadened air that doesn't remind one of a 30s screwball comedy so much as it reminds one of a... bad movie from any era. None of the actors (Branagh included) seem to know why they're there; nobody seems to be having any FUN (except maybe Adrian Lester). Plus, the movie looks as if it were made on a painfully low budget - it probably had a higher budget than actually seems to appear on the screen. Only rarely do we get the slightest glint of the old Ken Branagh - the beginning of the final musical number is very nice and has real feeling.This is probably the one movie I've seen where, when it was over, I desperately wished for a DO-OVER... although those don't happen in Hollywood and certainly not for quirky little Shakespeare movies. What a lovely and unusual concept for a Shakespeare movie, down the drain because of weirdly bad direction by a guy who, even if he's not Orson Welles, usually has a mastery of the basics. Come back to us, Ken... "},{"Title":"Truly this Labour was Lost","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I really really wanted to like this film, having read the play not too long before, but I just didn't enjoy it.  There are many many cuts from the play, which isn't bad- but the cuts are replaced with songs that are poorly sung and danced. The one exception being Adrian Lester, who shines brighter than all the other actors who are game and bouyant, but for the most part miscast.  It felt a bit like watching my college production- well meaning, and it so wants to be liked that it's hard not to, but still- it's just not very good.  Stick with Richard III or Branaghs own Henry V if you want a good film of a Shakespeare film. "},{"Title":"Simply terrible","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  My roommate and I sat down to watch this movie expecting Good Things(TM) from Kenneth Branagh, Nathan Lane, the Weinstein brothers, and the array of talented artists retained to create this movie.It opens in a fresh and original manner -- the retro newsreel draws one in, seeming to promise a clever interpretation of a Shakespearean comedy. After enjoying Clueless and 10 Things I Hate About You, which are charming (and admittedly fluffy) interpretations of classic literature, I was looking forward to Kenneth Branagh's take on this play. The play was, in fact, not an interpretation, but a literal recitation of the lines of play. I hesitate to call it a performance. A train wreck of taste would be more appropriate.Aspects of this movie that were good include the costumes and the sets, and the performances by the upper tier actors. I do not include Matthew Lillard in this tier. In my mental construction of these tiers, Matthew Lillard is wandering somewhere in the basement wondering out loud to himself why he always seems to have a stuffy nose.And while I am on the topic of actors whose grasp of delivery is tenuous at best, Alicia Silverstone (in the lead actress role as a French princess) southern-california's her way through her lines in a way that will make you shudder or cry or possibly fall to your knees and beg Ol Willy's forgiveness for the stomach-turning butchery of his poetry. It seemed at times as if the king would have to be surreptitiously wiping his face at regular intervals, since Ms. Silverstone started spraying her lines whenever the read rate leaped above really slow.The attempts at farce, e.g. a stuffed sheep falling over suddenly, rubber chickens, and a mortifying and incomprehensible performance of Don Something-schmermen-vermen-moustache, were in most cases just flat. One out of five caused me to make a hiccupy noise that might have been taken for a chuckle, though I wouldn't have wanted to lay odds either way.I watched the DVD through the first eight chapters, but could not bear to finish watching this movie. It was ponderous and embarrassing -- taking something beautiful and human and elegant and worth the effort to understand (Shakespeare) and slathering heavy makeup and clown shoes on it in order to relate to a modern audience. It is dismaying to be a part of this modern audience and to be thought of in such an ungenerous fashion. Intelligence and soul in a story shine right through the screen, but call for a light touch. This movie could have been really good. It just plain wasn't. "},{"Title":"Senile dementia creeping in","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Poor Kenneth Branagh.  When he gets it right, it's bottled lightning.  Henry V, Hamlet, Much Ado About Nothing.  But when he gets it wrong... oh dear.  Dead Again, Frankenstein, and now this big old swirly mess.Let's list the good points.  Attractive women.  Nice costumes.  An attempt at an innovative fusion.  Sound  cinematography.On the downside, the biggest damnation is that there is almost no narrative structure.  There is a brief introduction to set the scene, and then a series of almost completely disconnected vignettes that could be shown in almost any order, and would still make as much sense.  The insertion of newsreel clips to recap the plot only highlights how messy this production is.Also, there are very few US actors who can do Shakespeare, and unfortunately Branagh didn't get any of them.  Shakespeare is *not* a foreign language.  You don't just learn it foe-net-ik-alley.  You have to *understand* it to be able to act it.  The contrast between Branagh's varied delivery and the flat sing song of the US cast is painful, and the fact that he steals the best lines for himself doesn't help - Branagh has never been a particularly generous director.  Note that he also assigns the classiest looking actress as his love interest.10 out of 10 for effort, but a big fat 1 for execution, Ken.  And aren't you really getting a bit old to be playing young men now?  Find a new direction, and find it fast. "},{"Title":"What was he thinking?","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I sat through much of this film with my jaw dropping, dumbfounded at the arrogance that could produce such a thoroughly awful movie. KB surrounds himself with a combination of no-talents (Alicia Silverstone frequently looks as though she has no idea what the words she is mouthing mean), and excellent Shakespearean actors such as Richard Briers who look embarrassed to be associated with this misconceived atrocity. From beginning to end, and in just about every aspect of this production, the only word that applies is horrible. The singing frequently takes on a fingernails-on-blackboard quality. The dancing is obviously choreographed by Captain Ahab. Sets often look like they been dragged off a high school stage. And the ending, seeking to invest this fluff with some serious meaning, verges on the offensive. The man behind this movie is capable of so much more, and could have made a much better film even of such a minor Shakespeare. If measured by the gap between the talent that made it, and the actual product, this would rank as one of the worst movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Three Miles Below Disappointing","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  My love for Branagh's Shakespeare films crashed into a large concrete wall with this piece of drek.The original play is junk, which doesn't give high hopes for the Shakespearean half of the film.  With the exception of Branagh, Nathan Lane and some of the older cast members, nobody has a handle on dealing with the language.  Handle?  Nobody even has a potholder.  Alicia Silverstone is especially unfortunate, so it must have been comforting for her that her match in the movie, Alessandro Nivola, is just as bad.As for the musical half, if you're serious about making a musical, the casting emphasis has to be on people who are dynamite singers and dancers.  As my wife commented, It looks like somebody saw 'Everyone Says I Love You' and said, 'I can do that!  With Shakespeare!'  Watching non-singers sing and non-dancers dance is cute for the first three seconds.The true test came when we started playing Mystery Science Theater 3000 with the movie, commenting on every goofy, inept thing that came along.  We were *so* lucky that this horrible movie vanished from theaters before we paid money to see it.  We're still thinking of throwing a rock through Blockbuster's window for carrying it.Have I mentioned that Love's Labour's Lost is really bad? "},{"Title":"Branagh losing touch","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" LOVE'S LABOUR'S LOST (2000) *1/2 Kenneth Branagh, Alicia Silverstone, Alessandro Nivola, Matthew Lillard, Natascha McElhone, Adrian Lester, Emily Mortimer, Carmen Ejogo, Nathan Lane, Stefania Rocca, Timothy Spall, Jimmy Yuill, Richard Brieres, Richard Clifford, Geraldine McEwan, Daniel Hill, Anthony O' Donnell. Badly executed attempt to breathe new life into a moldy old work of Shakespeare's with Branagh solely to blame (just when the hell did he lose his touch?) in this lack luster adaptation incorporating its characters to suddenly belt standards by Cole Porter, Irving Berlin, George Gershwin and Jerome Kern in this musical incarnation about a king and his buddies starting a He-Men Women Haters' club with only a visiting queen and her ladies to gum up the works all taking place in transplanted WWII Europe. Comes across like a bad high school production and feels like it too including the shameless hamminess by Lane as the court jester a la a vaudevillian comic. Only worth noting for Branagh's distinct eye in true talent the over-the-shoulder cam gawking at the impressive cleavage of the hottie Roccca. (Dir Kenneth Branagh) "},{"Title":"Bad Review","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This movie was worse than the play. The plot line was thin and the oath quickly broken. It moved so slowly, the afternoon we watched it my boyfriend fell asleep- at 400 in the afternoon! I couldn't wait for the damned thing to end. The acting was lacking and a couple of the actors voices (singing) were so terrible I had to mute it during their solos! If your having trouble sleeping, I suggest you rent this film; you'll be sleeping like a baby in 15 minutes. "}{"Title":"How NOT to make a musical","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I love Shakespeare and I love musicals. I really do. But putting them together is almost never a good idea (the one exception I can think of to this rule is West Side Story, which at least at the grace to disguise its origins).Kenneth Branagh has always struck me as an extremely overrated director. He made a perfect adaptation of Much Ado About Nothing, but his Henry V and Hamlet were all about himself. He seems to suffer much from having no Emma Thompson to balance with.This movie was a mistake from start to finish. To begin with, it's a bad play. Yes, even Shakespeare had his flops and this was one of them. It's already a complicated plot that makes little sense with a ton of characters that are impossible to keep straight. So what did Branagh say? Let's make a musical! Bad idea. If you're going to film a bad play at least leave Cole Porter out of it. The musical numbers don't fit at all and are incredibly overdone. They simply don't work. They don't add anything and really seem to take away any chance the film had of being taken seriously. It's just a bad movie.Some people found it enjoyable, and I'm honestly mystified as to why. They may like seeing Cole Porter songs come to life, but they need to realize that a film should either be Hamlet or Moulin Rouge. It should never try to be both. "},{"Title":"Bad Shakespeare and Bad Musical Comedy","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Kenneth Branagh attempts to turn William Shakspeare's obscure, rarely-produced comedy into a 1930s-era musical, with the result being both bad Shakespeare and bad musical comedy as the actors are rarely adept at one or the other of the two styles and in some cases flounder badly in both. Particularly painful is Nathan Lane, who seems to be under the impression that he is absolutely hysterical as Costard but is badly mistaken, and Alicia Silverstone who handles the Shakespearean language with all the authority of a teenaged Valley Girl who is reading the script aloud in her middle school English class.The musical numbers are staged with the expertise of a high school production of Dames at Sea, leaving the cast looking awkward and amateurish while singing and dancing, with the lone exception being Adrian Lester who proves himself a splendid song and dance man. The only other saving grace of the film are Natascha McElhone and Emily Mortimer's contribution as eye candy, but they have given far better performances than in this film and you'd be wise to check out some of the other titles in their filmographies and gives this witless mess a pass. "}]