[{"Title":"A refreshing departure from the c**p that is most gay films","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"40 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you're tired of gay-themed movies about groups of catty, superficial gays backstabbing each other over guys and then offering platitudes of eternal friendship, or treacly movies about English schoolboys in love set against the gritty urban backdrop of their working-class neighborhood, or movies about a fabulous woman's best friend who is clean-cut, bitchy, and dresses to the height of fashion but is in no way a gay stereotype AT ALL, then Urbania is for you. It stands apart from every gay-themed movie I've seen in that it's unsentimental, free of the feel-good sentiment almost every other gay movie is terrified to be without, and is a challenging piece of writing and film. It's the first gay movie I've seen that doesn't bend over backwards to excuse the fact that it's gay.This is a movie that is impossible to synopsize without giving away its biggest plot point, but suffice to say it's refreshing to see a movie that takes the depth and intellect of its gay characters for granted, and also assumes a decent level of intelligence of its audience. The movie contains complex characterizations and a challenging structure, exploring the dark side of human nature, especially the nature of those who have dealt with a number of additional issues revolving around being gay. This film begins a mile and a half past the starting point of other gay movies, who still seem stuck desperately trying to peddle a Gay is Okay agenda. The acting in this movie is also good, especially the main character, and the editing and cinematography keep the viewing experience tense and exciting.I did not enjoy watching this movie, the way one enjoys, say, Godzilla 2000. It's a harrowing and difficult film. But it's wonderful to see a movie like this coming out; one that is challenging and unsentimental, a real, thought-provoking work of film that happens to take gay men and their issues as its topic. It's a big step forward for gay film, and makes almost all other gay-themed films look as horribly amateurish, or just plain horrible, as they are.--- Check out website devoted to bad, cheesy and gay movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"A unique film that demands multiple viewings","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Finally! A gay-themed movie with some depth!  It is REALLY refreshing to see a movie about gay men that goes beyond their sexual orientation.  It seems that most gay-themed movies in recent years are just about teenagers coming out to their parents.  Although some of these films have been good (Edge of Seventeen for example), it is very nice to see a movie where the main character's sexuality is not the focal point of the film.  While homosexuality plays a substantial role in what Urbania is about, it is not the centerpiece of the story.  This film actually has a hauntingly resonant story, well-written and memorable characters, a terrific ensemble cast, and brilliant direction by Jon Shear in a directorial debut.I really loved how this film was directed in a non-linear fashion.  You only gradually learn why the main character, Charlie, (Dan Futterman in a great performance) is so troubled.  The climax of the film and the resolution are both heart-stopping and cathartic.  And there are many great scenes that lead up to this finale that are alternately hilarious and emotionally moving.One of the best of the year 2000.  I think I will see it again. "},{"Title":"I've got one and this one really happened. I swear.","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A night in the life of obsessed Charlie (Dan Futterman) who, thanks to Daylight Savings Time, has one more hour of the night to fulfill his need &#150; whatever it may be.  Like a moth to a flame he is drawn to Dean (Samuel Ball) &#150; but the question is will the flame consume him?The story is told in a disjointed series of flashbacks that means you must actually pay attention to the complex story.This is one film where the term `cinematic style' cannot be under used.  It is stylish, dark, atmospheric and intriguing from start to finish.  It is also hilariously funny at times.It was nominated for many awards and won most of them; including Best Actor for Dan Futterman at the Seattle International Film Festival. He is most well-known for his role in `Birdcage' as Calista Flockhart's boyfriend. He plays against type as the obsessed gay man determined to make this one night in his life count for something important.Every urban legend ever repeated is exhumed; and as Charlie says near the end of the film `We would be the stuff of legend.'Jordan Beswisck (Casting) and Director Jon Shear did an especially remarkable job with the supporting characters.  They slink in and out of Charlie's night like the creatures of the dark they are.  Particularly notable are Josh Hamilton as Matt the bartender, Lothaire Bluteau as the street person that has taken up residence on Charlie's door step, William Sage as Charlie's upstairs neighbor Chuck and his girl friend Clara brilliantly played by Barbara Sukowa.  What an amazing, yet disjointed, ensemble!The cinematography by Shane F. Kelly deserves special recognition it is dark, fast, enigmatic and always brilliant.The producers Stephanie Golden and J. Todd Harris also need to be acknowledged for their bravery and foresight in bringing such a difficult film to the screen.  They have the ability to see beyond the obvious to the golden moment that IS this film.This is not a film for everyone &#150; but if you possess intelligence, wit and character it is a film you must see. "},{"Title":"Tragic, violent, surreal nightmare of attempted redemption","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT ***** SPOILER ALERT *****It is difficult to discuss this film without giving away key plot points. I'll try to do so without revealing too much - don't want to ruin someone's initial viewing, but if I do this inadvertently, please forgive me- hence the SPOILER ALERT.Charlie is a gay man, coping with the death of his lover, Chris, killed before his eyes by thugs, with Charlie being restrained and prevented from helping. He carries the guilt with him that he could not protect his lover. He recognized a tattoo on the arm of the killer and suddenly remembers cruising him. He has (oddly enough) chosen not to reveal the man's identity to the police - he wants to take his vengeance on him personally. (You may ask why the gang left him alive if they knew he could identify them, but that's a plot point I cannot resolve).So begins a journey of a Ulysses in Nighttown as he seeks stories from the flotsam and jetsam of humanity he meets while searching for Dean, the identified killer- a hunk of a beast who delights in abusing women and gay men. The odd assortment of types he is thrown up against - or manages to avoid are a woman who seduces men, drugs them, and then cuts out one of their kidneys (a particularly gruesome and disturbing piece that opens the film); a woman who pays a bartender to expose himself, a homeless brain-damaged man, a friend who is dying of AIDS, a woman who places her wet poodle in a microwave to dry it (wrong move!), a straight couple he taunts at a bar, a bisexual tease he follows to a belligerent sexual encounter, etc.When he finally finds Dean, he begins a cat and mouse game, befriending the man while not revealing his gay identity, as he learns more and more about the hateful and abusive monster who killed his lover. Finally, he has him at his mercy, knife in hand, in an abandoned field.What makes this film so engrossing is the exceptional direction of Jon Shear, although the excessive violence left me quite queasy and disgusted, and the trio of exceptional performances - Dan Futterman (reminding me so much of Ben Gazzara), Samuel Ball, and Matt Keeslar.The romantic scenes between Futterman and Keeslar (in flashback and particularly in one set in a white heaven after life - a dream- a hallucination???) are amazingly palpable. You feel as if you are a voyeur allowed in to the most intimate of moments. How these actors achieved this connection is astonishing. Keeslar is strikingly handsome with a personality that is gentle and kind. He lets us FEEL Futterman's emotional pain at his loss by making us fall in love with him too. Ball is like an accident - incredible bone structure, containing a loathsome soul - you want to turn away, but you're fascinated to see if some part of him is redeemable. Lothaire Bluteau delivers an exceptional turn in a small role as a homeless man, Charlie befriends. Likewise, Alan Cumming is unforgettable in one scene. We wanted to see more of him. Christopher Bradley appears all too briefly in two scenes - barely a minute on screen.Futterman's emotional breakdown in the white room, confronting a lover who no longer exists, is so heartbreaking, you'll be in tears if you haven't gone there already.This is an incredibly powerful film - very hard to take - have the fast forward button handy during the violent scenes if need be. I can guarantee one thing- the images will stay with you - you'll never forget it.  "},{"Title":"Powerful drama is a genuine cathartic experience","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Urbania is a film that deals with tough issues in a complex way.  Directed by first-timer Jon Shear with amazing surehandedness, Urbania tells the story of recently-singled Charlie, who has seemingly become disillusioned from society.  Shear's script, based on the play Urban Folk Tales, is a sharp and occasionally hilarious look at a gay man's search for redemption and love.  Obsessed with a man he's only seen on the street, Charlie wanders the streets, looking for love, and hoping to rekindle his past relationship.  It's a simple story, dealing with some hard issues in a non-linear way.Dan Futterman is heartbreaking in a very challenging role that requires him to gain our sympathy in spite of his problems.  On top of it all, however, is Shear, who handles this material with affection and heart.  His direction manages to be moody, atmospheric, suspenseful, and scary, all the while maintaining our sympathy for Charlie.  Thankfully, just as the film gets too serious for its own good, Shear throws in numerous asides to urban folk tales and reenacts them.  It's very funny, but in the end, it's as cathartic a film as you will see all year.  Do yourself a favor and catch this emotionally-haunting film but remember bring tissues.  You'll need 'em. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended!","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just caught Urbania on IFC.  What a terrific surprise!  I had no idea this film even existed.Urbania is one of those rare films that grabs you by the back of the neck and holds holds you hostage until the final credits.  It's as if one were shadowing the lead character as he plays out the fate of a lonely and harrowing night, facing demons of circumstance as well as a few monsters he creates himself.Watching this film, I felt as if I was being forced to examine some disturbing sides of life when all I wanted to do was turn my head and look another direction.  Much like driving upon a tragic car accident, it's hard not to stare but, by the brute force of some macabre fascination that lives deep in the human psyche, one feels compelled to do just that.While Urbania is a tragedy, the content is handled with a sense of grace and humility.  During the final frames, one is left with a feeling of relief and healing, although tainted with the bitterness of loss.The direction, screenplay and style of Urbania is superb.  The acting is fantastic.  This film is a must see! "},{"Title":"Fascinating character study and so much more.","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Urbania starts out with the protagonist asking us Heard any good stories lately? Next, we see a couple well-known urban legends played out, and this sets the tone and theme for the rest of the film, which starts out to be about a man trying to come to terms with recent past events, while pursuing a potential love interest (but you don't really learn much about this man until the plot unravels.) This movie was so fascinating I watched it twice in one weekend. I rarely do that, but this seems to demand multiple viewings. This is easily the best movie I've seen about urban legends. It utilizes a bleak urban setting to weave this popular folklore with the story of one man's night and the difficult time he has struggling to face his past and gain control of his life. Fantasy and reality are appropriately difficult to separate, just as it is with urban legends. The cinematography is excellent and innovative, the script is tight, the acting is perfect (Dan Futterman is outstanding as the lead), the character development is exceptional. This is quite brilliant, really. Like a David Lynch film, every second, every sound, every word, every image tells you something important. Finally, this is a film that (going along splendidly with the urban legend theme) questions assumptions some groups of of people have about the other (and vice versa). My Rating 9/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Charlie (Dan Futterman) wanders around NYC one night looking for another man who (might) have something he is looking for.That's all I'm going to say about this--you have to see the film to understand it. The film starts off slow (and surreal) but quickly draws you in with fast, incredible images and a plot that becomes clearer as the movie goes on. Dan Futterman is just superb in his role...this had to have been a difficult part to play but he pulls it off. Actually no one is bad but Matt Keeslar (as his lover Chris) and Samuel Bell (as Dean) deserve special mention.This film is not for everybody. It challenges you and makes you think (how many films nowadays do that?) and is very dark, disturbing and depressing. It also demands multiple viewings (I had to see it twice to actually understand it). Also there is some violence that is jarring. But, at the end, I was in tears--I've seen this movie at least seven times and I STILL cry at the ending. It's actually a happy ending (sort of) but really hits hard.Basically this film deals with love, loss and coming to terms with it. Also there are urban legends played out during the film--they DO fit in. It deals with gay relationships primarily and there's plenty of kissing and flashes of nudity. Easily one of the best films of 2000 and it's in my list as one of the ten top films ever made. Just great--I highly recommend this.Try to see it on DVD--the commentary and extras really explain the story and themes more. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie.","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I got this movie through Netflix.  The first time I sat down to watch this movie, it was late at night and I thought it seemed sort of wierd.  The first scene made me a bit squeemish, it didn't seem like what I was expecting, and I was being interrupted by phone calls anyway, and couldn't really give it my full attention, etc. so I thought, well, I'll put that one aside for now and think about whether I really want to watch it. Finally, one evening I was rummaging around for something to watch and I saw this lying there and said, OK, I'll give it another try.  I am so glad that I did.  As I let it play on from the beginning I found myself totally engrossed.  Turns out it's very fast moving and you have to be on the ball to get everything out of the movie.  The ending moved me to tears.  This is a thriller with a dark thread of ironic comedy woven into a very serious and moving story.  I love the writer's and director's use of urban legends. I think the film clearly illustrates how there really are injustices in this life, (ie the story of the main characters), but how many horrible injustices in society get overlooked and dismissed as trivial, through the desensitization of being grouped together and schluffed off as 'just another one of those urban legends...it didn't happen in my back yard so it must never really happen...etc.'?  But, as Charlie's character points out, s**t really does happen.  The truth is that these types of injustices happen often (whether to straights, gays, lesbians, people of color, homeless, handicapped, etc.) but it's always easy to overlook and dismiss as non-existant injustices that have never happened to you or anyone you know. No amount of denial can negate fact.  No amount of mass ignorance can void truth.  This film is not a good 1st or 2nd date movie and not a good choice for the person who has no depth of character, intellect or emotion.  But if you are someone who has the ability to think deeply and see further than the end of your nose, and enjoy reflecting on a film after you see it, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A true gem.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently saw this movie and let me say this, WOW. I was blown away by the whole thing! I was shocked at the end especially. Director Jon Shear did a terrific job, and i am appauled that he recieved little or no recognition for this movie. It was powerful, totally redeeming the silly and love-stricken gay films of recent memory, (Beautiful Thing, Get Real and the like,). It gave the gay film industry and not to mention society a new face. Dan Futterman, (Bless him,) did an about-face on his career with this movie, as did Samuel Ball, Matt Keeslar, and Alan Cumming. If i could, id award ALL of those in this film. The depth, power and heat of Urbania are its real stunning feats. It plays as a hetero-flick, (at the beginning, i thought Charlie was straight,) and engulfs us in heart-warming and loving flash-backs. But towards the climax, the film reveals its true colors. Gay characters have never been played with such villanous or sinister-esque qualities. It is a slap in the face for those who think the homosexual community is weak and sissified. Futterman's brilliance for villany upheld the main idea and the motive behind Charlie's actions. I was shaken when the movie was over, shaken in a good way. If this movie had gone through mainstream release,(which it should have,) homosexuals would be seen in another light. A more darker light which would bring heterosexuals closer to accepting the gay community as the people they are. ****, (four stars out of four) -a shocking, brilliant, and redeeming work of art- "}{"Title":"Urbania is highly recommended.","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Good films I will see two or three times in the theatre. Really good films, like Urbania, I will watch several more times on video. God bless the advent of video and DVD for cinephiles like myself. This is one work, as someone else noted, that begs for multiple viewings. Not only for it's entertainment value, but because it allows one to see just how cleverly this film keeps its secret until it's the right time to reveal itself. It also gives one the chance to see a beautiful and complex performance by Dan Futterman.But there is one scene with Futterman and Alan Cummings which shines like a tiny diamond in the center of Urbania. While the scene fits neatly and contributes to the flow of the story, it is so well written and acted that it feels to me almost like a separate entity. Alan Cumming packs so much subtextual information into the turn of a phrase and a facial expression that it's breathtaking. While it's not an easy film to watch due to the subject matter, it is intriguing. Oh yes, and also remarkable is Lothaire Bluteau's (Bent, I Shot Andy Warhol, Being at home with Claude) moving portrayal of a homeless man.Urbania is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Gay film makers should see this movie","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't say much more than has already been said about the film, but this is only one of two gay themed movies I've seen that is actually a movie. I say that meaning you could actually plug any straight or gay character into any role and the movie would still have an interesting story and time line reference.   It was very well thought out and put together and in my opinion had every element of a good film which I can't say about any other gay themed movies. Some are good because of the story, and most are just plain bad (except for the costumes and sets - lol).I don't think this is a film for everyone but I do think Gay film makers should take a look at this movie and understand that just a steady camera and an every day drama do not a great film make.  "},{"Title":"Very Emotional","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie about 2 years ago and I still recommend it to my friends. I did just that today actually.The whole movie is an emotional ride. What's going on? Why did he leave him? The ending had me in tears. It was so sad seeing a wonderful relationship destroyed. I don't want to give anything away because it was such a moving movie.Some made a comment about this movie being too gay. Yes it involved 2 gay men, but I think straight people should see this movie as well to see that relationships are all the same. Some get destroyed for the wrong reasons. And just think, gay people can say that MOST movies are too straight. But then there wouldn't be many movies to go see. So, gay or straight, just watch it for the storyline and meaning.  "},{"Title":"Dark, deep, full bodied, with a twist of crime....","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I stumbled across this flick on late night TV while it was well into the movie and got intrigued by its tone and flavor. I later had to seek it out so I could see the entire thing. I found it a REALLY good watch. Some people will really hate it though. It isn't a movie for everyone. It is rather dark and brooding, and maybe even a little depressing. The humor is black and it deals with unclear emotions and psychology. Dan Futterman does a great job with his character and it was a pleasant surprise to learn that he had some real acting talent under his boyish looks. His character, Charlie, is suffering a kind of breakdown from grief, guilt and rage. The movie basically deals with how he functions daily and about the strangeness of the others and events of the city around him. Watching his personal journey and his transformation is certainly worth the time and money you will spend on the rental. "},{"Title":"Urbania is Five Years Old!  What's Shear Been Up To?","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've watched this film a number of times over the past 3 or 4 years. Last night, I put it on for my godson (24 yrs.) and his buddy after we watched Open Your Eyes. Not a bad double bill, by the way. They were appropriately stunned by the filmcraft and, of course, the slow reveal in the third act.My question this morning, though, is what has Jon Shear done lately? I came to imdb to search his more recent work. There's nothing listed! Is it possible that Shear hasn't been able to launch another project? His work on Urbania is great and completely promising.When will we be treated to another film from you, Mr. Shear? "},{"Title":"Futterman excels in this cross of Insomnia meets After Hours","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  URBANIA (2000) *** Dan Futterman, Alan Cumming, Matt Keeslar, Josh Hamilton, Lothaire Bluteau, Bill Sage, Barbara Sukowa, Paige Turco.  Futterman gives a strong performance as an insomniatic homosexual man trying to come to grips with the loss of a lover during one stressed out evening in New York City with the novelty of daylight savings time giving him an extra hour of redemption as he seeks retribution and only adding fuel to the fire by striking up conversations with urban legends mixed with anomie and angst.  Original script by director Jon Shear and Daniel Reitz is crafty in its depiction of the darker side of one's mind and the lengths one can go to in a downward spiral with reminiscent tones to Scorsese's `After Hours' of Gotham as a limbo to hell.   "},{"Title":"Urbania = Urban Legends = Urban Fears!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  They say that urban legends are created by people trying to deal with fear and anxiety - like the gruesome fairytales from the Brothers Grimm are supposed to help children work out their worst nightmares. In Urbania, we watch Charlie (brilliantly played by Dan Futterman) stumble out of his sleepless bed into a series of seemingly unrelated vignettes some of these tales we know (the dog in the microwave number, for example), some of them our hero is living through at the moment - or is he? He is after something - or someone, but what? Could it be that beautiful and sexy man on the street?We meet through him friends, lovers, strangers - all with a tale to tell - but what exactly is Charlie's tale?Sounds confusing? Well, it is, and it's supposed to be, and it's wonderful. You get lost in a fever-dream, beautifully written, directed, filmed and acted. When you wake up from the dream, the surprise is substantial. An urban legend that has something to say for itself. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Moving, emotional, evocative","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After watching this movie again on cable last night, I feel compelled to add to its positive reviews here and try to negate its not-so-positive ones. First off, this is not a gay movie.  It's a movie about a gay man finally, agonizingly, coming to terms with horrific events of the recent past, which, to give away, would be to give away much of the movie's appeal.  Dan Futterman plays Charlie so well, so delicately, never coming out of character or breaking stride.  The nuances of Charlie are believable and perfect.Some other comments here have said that only the gay men are portrayed with any honesty and reality, all the straight men are stereotypical, homophobic and whatnot.  Not true.  Not true for any of the characters. (To those who disagree...think about the bartender.)  The fact is that this is a small movie, with a small cast of characters.  If the characters portrayed here are a certain way...who cares?  Those are the people Charlie encountered while he dealt with his grief.It's a completely bare look at one man's suffering.  Believable and emotional and very, very good. "},{"Title":"Tense but worthwhile","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dark. At times gruesome. Strange and surreal. Well-acted, especially by the lead, Dan Futterman, but also most of the supporting cast does a good job. This is a dense film that requires patience and intelligent viewing. The subject matter of grieving, loneliness and gay-bashing, is not easy material. Still, if you can handle it, a very satisfying and well-written film. "},{"Title":"Spooky, engrossing movie with great cinematography","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie.  I can't say too much about it, because it is filled with flashbacks, leading to the revelation of the true reason why the lead character (Charlie?) is pursuing a handsome, homophobic cretin, who he eventually picks up at a bar in New York.  The movie keeps you guessing, and it treads on the intersection between sex and violence.  Charlie is disturbed, but you don't quite know why until the end of the film.  The film has a jittery quality, like Pi, with disparate and dissonant music heightening the tension.  I found myself quite satisfied when I left the theatre.  The movie sticks to your ribs. "}{"Title":"The real tragedy of Urbania.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The real tragedy of this film is not found in its plot. The tragedy is that the film is likely to be unappreciated for its brilliant portrayal of the effects of serious trauma on its victim(s). I fear that it will be trivialized by viewers who may simply equate the events in the film with the minor daily harrassments and indignities, suffered by anyone who is perceived as different by bullies.  That would be a shame. I admire the film's makers for tackling this very heavy subject matter in a way that did not sensationalize its ugliness and pain. I think they did a great job. I thought the acting was generally on target. I am recommending this film to others with my voiced opinion that it is not just a gay film, in the way that Shindler's List is not just a Jewish film.   "},{"Title":"Gay man struggles to come to terms with tragedy","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" URBANIA Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby DigitalHaunted by recent tragedy, a young gay man (Dan Futterman) encounters various wild characters whilst pursuing a stranger (Samuel Ball) whose life is inextricably bound with his own.Aside from a fragmented opening montage which annoys more than it informs, there's much to admire in Jon Shear's study of sadness, alienation and urban mythology, based on the stageplay 'Urban Folk Tales' by Daniel Reitz (who co-wrote the film's screenplay). Futterman is terrific as a man torn apart by grief, seeking closure through his pursuit of a rough stranger (Ball), though the reason for his odd behavior is kept back from the audience until the climax, when quarry and prey are brought together by a series of dramatic revelations. The gorgeous Matt Keeslar (SPLENDOR) plays Futterman's boyfriend with loving grace - their scenes together are warm, tender and more than a little sexy - and Shear makes the most of a fine supporting cast, including Alan Cumming (as a former party animal, now dying from an AIDS-related illness), Lothaire Bluteau (JESUS OF MONTREAL), Josh Hamilton (ALIVE), Paige Turco (TV's The Agency) and Christopher Bradley (hunky co-star of David DeCoteau's LEATHER JACKET LOVE STORY). Quirky, dramatic and heartfelt, URBANIA is an unusual entry in recent gay cinema, and worth a look.NB. Samuel Ball plays the mugger whose life takes a radical turn for the worst following a late night encounter with Joey Potter (Katie Holmes) in 'Downtown Crossing', a memorable stand-alone episode of TV's Dawson's Creek which first aired in 2002. "},{"Title":"fine, moving job overall, though its style competes with its substance","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'd had this taped but unwatched on my Tivo several times over the past two years, because its reviews during its theatrical release described it as so dark and depressing.  It appeared again this week on IFC, and this time I trusted my Tivo's suggestions.  It's dark and ambiguous both a noirish exercise in style and a surprisingly poignant, necessarily non-linear, study of loss and grief, with excellent performances by Dan Futterman as Charlie, a skilled supporting cast, and an all-too-brief appearance by Alan Cumming (whom I usually don't care for when he's playing Britoid fey, sexually ambiguous roles as in Julie Taymor's _Titus_).  Anyone who can quote Glenda Jackson from _Sunday, Bloody Sunday_ and invite Charlie to stay and watch _Women in Love_ with him is a friend of mine.  Given that Cumming's native Scottish accent verges on outtakes from _Trainspotting_, I appreciated how perfectly he sounded as a NYC aesthete.potential spoilersIt may be simplistic to treat this as a revenge fantasy, and this may sound cold (and defiantly oblivious to the real-life cases) but gay bashing as a dramatic theme requires all the artistry a writer can muster, and after seeing it treated mawkishly 24 or so years ago in NYC in Torch Song Trilogy (with Harvey F. and Matthew B.), I'm inclined to view every attempt since as another exercise in agitprop.  I'm not sure that Urbania completely avoids this, though it wins points for its indirection.The final scenes in his former lover Chris' apartment seemed like eerily prescient outtakes from today's _Dead Like Me_ or _Six Feet Under_, and the symbolism was surprisingly unsubtle.  And I would swear that that Chris' tufted off-white Mies Van Der Rohe chaise-longue was featured in this week's NYTimes.Finally, maybe it's deliberate or just me, but I thought that both his former lover and the neighbor upstairs looked exactly like tidied-up versions of the street thug and were all played by the same actor.  Even though they weren't, you might appreciate all three of them as variants of Charlie's type (would they be Charlie's Angels?)  "},{"Title":"What Else Can I Say?","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just watched this master work again for about the umpteenth time and with every viewing I understand less the negative comments written here about this film. If you want to THINK about what you're seeing and hearing, this film delivers with gusto! In every scene, the cinematography, lighting, music, costuming, direction, atmosphere and best of all the performances glow brilliantly in a film that is very thought provoking, mesmerizing, chilling, horrific, sad, funny, chaotic, etc. etc. Jon Shear has fashioned and excellent portrayal of Charlie's desperate struggle to come back to reality after a devastating life event. I remain fascinated with the way everything preceding the climax is ingeniously woven into a tapestry of visual and aural sensation that reveals the inner workings of this man's mental anguish. I would fully recommend this movie to anyone who seeks a fuller understanding of human emotions. Kudos to Mr. Shear, the cast, and everyone else instrumental in bringing this superb feature to the screen. "},{"Title":"Dan Futterman Provides a Good Introspective for an Intriguing Tale of Lost Redemption","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The wounded, dreary lead character (a great Dan Futterman) walks up the stairs to his friend's apartment and opens the door.  He sees a singer, singing and dancing.  He sees his lover, and all of his friends.  And at the corner of the party, he sees himself, having a great time.  Then he comes back into reality and walks into the comfort of his buddy. I had a great fascination of this scene.  Maybe it is because I saw this movie after the death of my greatest summer and related to the character's yearning for the better times.  I watched this while still in that early school year nostalgia, constantly thinking about those great parties that seemed so long ago.  Whatever it was, this scene instantly rang true for me. The character's ascending into the great past was shown in a way I had never seen in a movie before.  It is an honest and original way of showing how one in mourning thinks. Although he is looking back to great memories in a sad nostalgia.his loss had more to come.  His lover had been brutally murdered in front of his eyes some time after the party.  This sets him adrift into a sad routine of leaving messages on his machine, hoping he will pick up, and waiting at a bar.hoping someone he saw on the street one day, who captivated him, will walk in. One important trait about the hero is that he is a homosexual.  He is prey to a New York City jungle of hate, and flashes back to letting go of his lover's hand after seeing gay-bashers.  This frightens him, and saddens him even more when the one he waits for turns out to be one of those kind of punks. This is a rare film that fills you with an intense uncertainty until a mind-blowing conclusion.  Many will be turned off by what seems like an aimless tale.but stick through this one for an ending that redeems any negative feelings about it, for the most part. I still do have just one negative feeling about the movie, however, and the reason the ending didn't erase it is because there is an almost unrelated opening scene.  The movie contains a lot of storytelling from different characters, but one in particular involves a woman who isn't who she seems. The screenwriters felt the need to open the film with this, which it does have some relevance with the story, but I thought it branched away from the main focus of the film.which is the mourning protagonist. "},{"Title":"A great big Wow","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first hour or so was intriguing and very creative, but a bit tedious to follow. Nice camera work to help us realize Charlie's mind was playing tricks on him. Interesting that the various urban tales were woven into the main story. By the time the movie reached its conclusion--it snowballed into a very powerful and mesmerizing story. Not so much of revenge as others have commented, but a tale of redemption.  "},{"Title":"Wow! This is a fantastic film!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect when I rented the film, and I was really impressed! The acting is first rate (Dan Futterman was robbed of award nominations), the story is facinating and intelligent, and the direction is superb! Rarely does a film come along that actually challenges the audience without being pretentious. I have seen it 3 times already and still find new layers of plot, character development, symbolism, and meaning. I found the DVD and love the commentary & extras.Although it got great reviews, Urbania didn't get the recognition it deserves. Rent and buy this film, and tell your friends about it. Hollywood needs the message that the audience loves smart, stylish films, not dreck like Driven! "},{"Title":"Any Good Stories...? (Tiny SPOILERS)","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  URBANIA is based upon the stageplay URBAN FOLK TALES, though it rarely shows it's stage roots in John Shear's dark and sophisticated tale of a man with a mission through the concrete jungle.  Dan Futterman is wonderful as the central character, who happens to be gay.  Just who he is looking for isn't immediately clear, but his search forces him to wade through a sea of urban legends, most of which are re-enacted around him on his journey.  Near journey's end, the tangled plot (helped by non-linear editing) becomes a bit clearer to the viewer and the story culminates with it's biggest twist of all.  (BTW, if you hated the ending of Broadway's ill-fated musical STEEL PIER or a certain mega-hit suspense flick of a couple of years ago - steer clear of URBANIA.)  Although Dan Futterman and those he encounters are fascinating, I'm not sure I fully understand how urban legends fit in - other than to provide a few tingles and giggles along the way.  Well worth a look (or two), but pay attention - or you'll have to rewind for sure! "},{"Title":"A remarkable debut.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Urbania moves like a fever dream, a dark night of the soul puzzler that aims to reveal all the anxiety, horror and beauty in modern life simultaneously... and somehow movingly and believably reaches that goal. The less you know the better, actually, but if you can confront and conquer the film's often harrowing series of events along with the central character, the film will leave you cleansed and uplifted.  First-time writer/director Jon Shear is a talent to be reckoned with. "},{"Title":"A Film for Intelligent Adults of Any Orientation","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Urbania is a satisfying film on several levels. Mainly, it is serious, adult film with gay characters. These characters are complex and not always sympathetic; they seem real. While several of the actors are above average in the looks department, their roles are not happier for it. None of the usual cliches of gay-themed films are present. There is no drag queen with a heart of gold to fix everybody's problems. There are no incongruous, campy musical numbers. This film deals with emotional lives that, at bottom, have, in fact, little to do with homosexuality. The traumatic event--gradually revealed--experienced by Charlie is something to which anyone should be able to relate.At the center of Urbania is a finely-tuned performance by Dan Futterman. This very appealing actor has demonstrated his abilities in TV work, but here displays a range that seems unlimited in its emotional spectrum. The supporting players are high-caliber as well. Matt Keeslar has never been better, nor has Alan Cumming. In truth, there are no weak links in the cast.Intelligently written, brilliantly filmed and edited, Urbania also features a striking soundtrack by Marc Anthony Thompson, with an unconventional use of source music (Mingus, for example, in a bar scene).Urbania should be seen by anyone interested in current film. Not only in a year of mostly mediocre fare, but because of the depth and power of its cathartic resolution. "}{"Title":"Shockingly Fabulous","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would have personally gutted the gay-basher, but then again, I'm not a nice guy.  Cudos to the filmmakers, I loved it! And let's see more of that microwaved poochie. "},{"Title":"Futterman's best work by far","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a rather strange movie, interweaving urban legends into a story that is sadly too common.If you pay attention, it's pretty obvious from near the beginning what happened and who did what to whom, but the unfolding of the story is well presented. The use of time-dysphoria is extremely well done.This is not a feel-good movie... be prepared to have to think a little about what you just saw when it's over.And as the title to this comment says - Dan knocks it out of the park. An amazing performance.Alan Cumming as one of the main characters friends also turns in a good supporting shot. I would have liked to see more of his character, but I do understand why we only saw him briefly... it does touch on the theme of the movie, but not in a direct manner. "},{"Title":"Something to see indeed","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I stumbled upon this movie in the wee hours of the morning and couldn't stop watching it. It's not the best movie I've seen, but it's something that any gay/bi-sexual man should check out at least once in their lifetime. Ditto for those curious about what the GLBT life can be like, and anyone else who just happens to be in the mood for a neat, quick, very realistic drama. The main character is enticing and intriguing. He serves as kind of an enigma for most of the movie, until the end, when his full-on grief is laid out for all to see. It is heartbreaking and uplifting at the same time. It did my heart good to see that even though there is violence in the world, that the victims of such violence can learn to forgive and to rebuild. This movie is def a classic. "},{"Title":"Difficult but great movie","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just caught up with this film on DVD from my local video store. For the first two thirds of this tale I was engaged but not attached to this story, but something made me want to keep watching and I'm glad I did. As I started to get what this story was about i grew more and more engrossed in it, the final scenes were masterful and moving. For those of us who attend to rage and hate, this movie takes us to the heart of the experience. Without surrender to sentimentality it exposes human frailty, sadism, rage and connection and salutes complexity rather telling us how to feel. Rare to find this depth of story (and execution of story) within gay genre movies. Congratulations to the writer and director, you guys are heroes "},{"Title":"Requires Re-Viewing for Fullest Appreciation","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a complex, layered film that appeals most to those looking for something beyond mindless fluff. That having been said, by the time one reaches the film's conclusion, one feels exhausted, vindicated, furious, empowered, blown-away, or some combination thereof. But to fully appreciate the script and its many intricacies, a re-viewing is required -- it simply gets better the second go 'round. Director John Shear is to be applauded, as are so many of the supporting cast members. Dan Futterman's performance, however, is nothing short of superb. His character's range of emotions could easily be overplayed; Mr. Futterman's delivery is so dead-on that one easily gets lost in his character - we become him - even if we don't fully understand him. This is clearly an example of acting done so well, we forget he's acting. Do yourself a favor set two hours aside during which you cannot be interrupted, forget your DVD player has a pause button, and climb aboard for the ride. "},{"Title":"Futterman is wonderful.","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This 2000 dark film was directed very well by Jon Shear, whom I'm told was in the original play, URBAN FOLK TALES, produced in NYC and California. It is written by Daniel Reitz, who also wrote the original play. He does a superb job bringing this sordid tale to the screen.Filmed almost entirely in New York, Shear manages to set the mood from the very beginning with dark shots in dark streets, making the mood mysterious. You're not quite sure what is happening at first, but it begins to unravel along the way and builds to an exciting and brilliant ending, which I won't divulge. See the movie.Dan Futterman is totally committed to this role and film. You can tell by his amazing and realistic performance, as a young gay man who is searching for answers. This is a far better suited role for him than the wimpish son in THE BIRDCAGE. I liked his choices as an actor and his freedom in working the nude scenes with other guys. You believed him. Along with Futterman, look for excellent performances by Lothaire Bluteau as a homeless man, Josh Hamilton as the bartender in a gay bar, Matt Keesler, as a young gay man living with AIDS, Samuel Ball, as the guy being sought (it's an unsympathetic role, and this guy manages to bring some depth to it) and Alan Cumming as Futterman's lover. They light up the screen with their love scenes. Not only will gay men love this, but straight guys will become aware of more than they thought.Rent this DVD. It's well worth it. I give this a 10. "},{"Title":"If ur patient, ur gonna adore this","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  U will cry and ull love this by the end of the movie. Futterman is excellent in this odyssey and misleads u quite often as to what the real plot is.As I was watching the film, I must admit I was tempted to stop it as I couldn't see where it was going. U will not understand until the very end what did really happen. Its like a present wrapped in too much paper and taken different shape than what it really was. A very different approach of homophobia in NYC that will make you think....Again. Well done Dan Futterman! keep up the good work.  "},{"Title":"It expresses the chaos of the mundane","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have never seen a film express how strange the mundane is. By allowing the film to play out in a non-linear fashion, the audience gradually learns why the main character is troubled. They are then sucked into his world where the everyday rituals of life become disturbing and surreal. This movie reminds the audience that life is not a set course, and we can't control many of the things that happen around us. "},{"Title":"Who Knew....this surprise is a IDF feature.  Bravo Everybody","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" They should warn you before putting this kind of film on at 2 am? Did not even know who Dan Fetterman was. And this little soft bomb is slid under my door on a cold winter night. What in the Hell is this...? But it was too late and they had hooked me, and the roller coaster began to move a real unreal mind f--- as they say...you had to pay attention for dear life....Velvet dynamite with a kiss? I will never be the same, thank GoodnessMy collection of great films, moved over one after this film finished, me off that night. Whew.Dan Fetterman, director, screen play all deserved an Oscar, instantly. Fellini and Bergman should have seen this film...it is like what they made in their early film careers...that powerful. "},{"Title":"Third time, the best...","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a really beautiful movie.I have had it for 3 years now, and it was the third time I watched it. Only now I really appreciated this movie, only now I understood it.Someone said you would have to look at it more than once and I do agree. The first time you just watch and say, hey, this is a good movie (at that time, I didn't review on IMDb...). At the second viewing, some things got more clear, and at the third, I think I got the point, I think I understood.My best friend - not my lover - was killed in a hate crime 12 years ago. Of course I am still upset, because it happened just minutes after we parted in the Brussels metro. I cried through my third viewing, because I could, finally, express my feelings. I think now, after all those years, I can give it a place in my memory.About the performances they are stunning. Beautiful actors, beautiful people, real involvement. Wow...The cinematography is beautiful and the music is just what was needed.I think I will watch Urbania a couple more times. 9/10. "}{"Title":"Despite serious flaws, grips the attention and won't let go...","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" URBANIA held my interest primarily because of the performance by DAN FUTTERMAN as the troubled gay man experiencing pain and heartbreak over a bad week-end in metropolis. He wanders around, seemingly in a daze most of the time, but eventually we understand that this is going to turn into a revenge story where he seeks out the man who humiliated him and his gay lover.Unfortunately, Futterman's character remains ambiguous throughout. At one moment, he's sympathetic and helps a beggar on the street--and the next moment he's completely heartless in the way he treats a street pick-up gone wrong or a young couple he attaches himself to for the mere sport of abusing them with the truth about their being his upstairs neighbors who are not discreet in their lovemaking.He's such a complex person, but the script doesn't explain why he behaves as he does. At least the unpredictablility of the story is not a drawback--in fact, it helps sustain interest since the viewer doesn't have a clue as to what will happen next. It's a nice build-up of suspense that keeps the drama edgy until the final shot.All the performances are beyond reproach, so it's not the actors who are to blame for whatever shortcomings the story has. But some scenes are awkwardly staged, others deeply impressive--so it's an uneven mix of good and bad moments and sometimes guilty of style over substance.It won awards from some of the gay film societies but seems to have made not much of an impression at all on mainstream moviegoers with its homoerotic content, despite the fact that one of its characters mouths off some homophobic comments and gets his comeuppance in the end in what is basically a tale of revenge, gay style. "},{"Title":"Great movie, not for everyone - and that's okay! (Spoilers..)","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a thought-provoking, nerve-wracking movie. Not perfect, but entertaining, sexy, visually interesting, and memorable.My main comment is that sometimes, movies are not meant to appeal to all audiences. As a gay man, this movie touched on one of my greatest fears -- losing my partner to a basher, or being bashed myself. This fear is specific to gay men; although women can relate on some level, and other minority groups can relate on other levels, this movie did a great job of exploring bashing from a gay male perspective. I think it would be quite difficult for a, say, straight male to appreciate this film on a gut level, like I did. It had a lot to do with my life as a gay man, and I always appreciate that, because it's not all that common. I had a similar reaction to THE OPPOSITE OF SEX, which dealt with issues of aging and property and class and inter-generational relations (non-sexual, that is) for gay men - again, rather rare topics for film.I don't mean to say that only gay men can enjoy this film, or that it should be held to different standards, just that as the film's intended audience, I really enjoyed the story, the topic, and the film's execution. And I appreciate the rare pleasure of seeing specific feelings and situations from my life being explored on screen in an intelligent way. "},{"Title":"Stick with the film to the end!","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  CAUTION MAJOR SPOILERS HERE!NOTE The use of the term fag basher in these comments isn't intended as sexist, degrading language.  The term is one used by many gay men to describe a person who commits violence against gay men.I went in to this film without knowing too much about it beyond the fact that it was about gay men.  But within just a few minutes of the opening, I understood what the situation was, despite the fancy cutting and nonlinear development of the plot.All came together for me at the end of the film, and I think Urbania is a solid, decent film dealing with a gay man coming to terms with the violence that often besets gays, particularly gays in urban environments, today.  I found it--finally--a very emotionally moving film.But the film taxed my patience along the way to its conclusion.  At first, it impressed me as just a lot of fancy cutting and unnecessarily complicated fracturing of time.  Then, it seemed as if the film was going to be just another of the sort that shows us the world through the eyes and mind of a crazy person, in this case Charlie, crazed by his grief and anger.  Next, it seemed to develop into a Clint Eastwood Dirty Harry type of film, in which Charlie was going to act out a revenge fantasy that many gay men might have--about killing a fag basher.  Obviously, the filmmaker was trying to replicate the state of Charlie's mind as we are shown flashbacks to the party scene, to the fag-bashing scene, and to other scenes between Chris and Charlie.Interwoven with Chris and Charlie's story are several urban legends.  Did this have a lot to do with the plot?  I don't think so.  At one point, Charlie said something to the effect that he and Chris may become part of an urban legend.  I assume Charlie was referring to the possibility that he would kill Dean and would become known as the gay man who extracted revenge on a fag basher.I'd never seen Dan Futterman before.  He was fine for Charlie, but I imagine he was cast because he bears a strong resemblance to Griffin Dunne, who calls up After Hours, which presents a parallel New York world to the one shown here.Samuel Ball who plays Dean, the fag basher, bears a startling resemblance to Robert Rikas, the lead actor in the classic 1972 gay porno film, Left Handed, directed by Jack Deveau and Jaap Renraat.  Rikas, like the character Dean here, also had a large tattoo (but of an eagle rather than a snake) on his bicep.  I've seen no references to Urbania invoking Left Handed, so I assume this is a connection that I'm making only because I'm familiar with Left Handed.There is much in this film for sophomores of all ages to pour over.  (And I was being a sophomore in the paragraph above.)  Some of the symbolism is obvious, and another IMDb commentator, Matthew Ignoffo, has explained some of it, so check out his notes.  Then there are those viewers who are busy speculating that much of the film is simply Charlie's fantasy, that perhaps Chris just left Charlie, that he was not murdered, and so on.  Yawn.  This is more than I care to consider with regard to this film.There is a large plot hole in this film (at least for me) If Dean had slit Chris's throat, causing his death, as shown here, this would have been front-page news in the NY papers.  There would have been a major manhunt for Chris's killer.  Thus, it's unlikely that Dean would have been hanging around the Village for Charlie to discover.  The film attempts to deal with this plot hole in one scene where Charlie looks up at a street lamppost and notices there an old poster advertising a reward for information leading to the apprehension of Chris's killer.  So, perhaps there was a search for the killer, but the film doesn't waste time on these details.  And, indeed, if Dean had been hanging around the Village and Charlie saw him, wouldn't Charlie have phoned the police?  No, you'll say; Charlie wanted to extract his private revenge.  Well, maybe so.For me, the highlight of the cast was Matt Keeslar, who, I think, is quite a hot number even since I first saw him in Last Days of Disco.  I just saw Keeslar a few weeks ago as Nils, the Swedish nerd, in Psycho Beach Party, a completely different role from what he plays here.  Matt's been hitting the gym and is in top physical form here.  He plays almost all of his scenes either naked in bed with Charlie or in his underwear.  He never shows the full Monty, but his underwear scenes make it appear there's a nice Monty there.  (Sorry, I don't mean to offend straight readers!)Playing a bartender here is Josh Hamilton.  I think of Josh as a Tony Perkins look-alike ever since I saw him in The House of Yes.  Here he has his hair brushed down over his forehead in bangs and doesn't look so much like Perkins.  He's also involved in an urban legend about a woman desperate to see his full Monty and how this worked to his advantage.Bill Sage, who plays Chuck, Charlie's upstairs neighbor, is attractive in a Ken Doll sort of way.This film has been highly acclaimed by critics.  I think it's been overpraised.  It isn't a masterpiece, though it is a solid piece of work, worth your time and admission price. "},{"Title":"Wow! A most powerful film.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ostensibly, this is a brilliant portrayal of a man trying to come to terms with the tragic loss of his partner ... but it's so much more.I am not sure where to begin with this film ... there are so many themes running through which are all tied together brilliantly with asides to urban myths.The style of the film is delightfully offbeat, almost neo-noir but not quite.  Although has the look of being dark and brooding, it isn't.  It certainly made all of us watching sit back and think once it was over.  (Dean SO deserved copping it at the end.)I gave it 9/10 .... and look forward to watching it again and again. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Acting, Great Premise, Gripping Throughout","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Saw this by accident one evening when I was channel surfing.  Couldn't stop watching and waited till it came on another night to watch the whole thing from start to finish.  The fact that it was an independent film from what I understand, did not take away from its quality and I got the feeling that I was watching a truly first rate production. "},{"Title":"AMAZING - Dan Futterman is mesmerizing","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this at the Philly Int'l GL Film Festival in 2000 - where it won the Jury Prize for best feature and well deserved it.  I was shattered by the end of this movie (somebody wrote that it was cathartic and I couldn't find a better word.)I've seen some of the reviews here that did NOT like the movie, and I could see how it's not for everyone.  You have to get into the Urban Myth part of the movie but also separate it from the actual plot of what's going on, and that can be difficult.  However, I don't see how the criticism of the PEOPLE who liked the movie should be included.  Just because YOU don't like something doesn't mean that the people who do like it are stupid or gullible.  Get over yourself - and I'll remember to take your OPINION with a grain of salt next time. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully directed, touching film","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I caught this on HBO last night knowing next to nothing about the movie, I didn't even know that the main character is gay.This is the great thing about having movie channels. While 80% of the films they show are utter crap, typical Hollywood fare, once in a while they show gems like this one that makes the price worthwhile.This film impressed me in a number of ways- (****S p o i l e r  A l e r t******)1) First as a love story. The protagonist and his lover in the flashback scenes are so touching and romantic, making the main character's ache for his former lover that much more sad. 2)As a thriller. I had no idea where this film was heading, at first I thought the main character was a decent guy, than an @sshole, then just someone with a painful past. 3)It's portrayal of violence, and how violence can affect your life. I'm not gay, but I've always thought that losing someone because of a violent crime is the worst thing that could possibly happen. It's something that would drive me insane, I don't think I could ever cope with it. I disagree with the comment from someone who said that gays and minorities can only  relate to this. Well, maybe straight white people like to think they're immune, but violence can affect anyone. A stright white male could have his girlfriend raped and murdered in front of him. 4) Last but not least I appreciated Matt Keeslar in those white shorts! Wow is he hot!My only problem with this film is this major plot hole would that homophobic murderer really not remember the guy whose lover he'd slain. Also, it's hard to believe that he could just walk about freely like that when someone knows what he looks like. Wouldn't he have been caught? Or wouldn't they have killed him too, as the only witness? "},{"Title":"Must be seen twice","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Funny, moving and mysterious story of one man's pursuit of a dangerous looking man.  Don't let anyone spoil this film for you- it makes so much sense at the end you'll have to watch it again.  Futterman is great, and Matt Keeslar is beautiful and touching.  10 star film. "},{"Title":"It expresses the chaos of the mundane","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have never seen a film express how strange the mundane is. By allowing the film to play out in a non-linear fashion, the audience gradually learns why the main character is troubled. They are then sucked into his world where the everyday rituals of life become disturbing and surreal. This movie reminds the audience that life is not a set course, and we can't control many of the things that happen around us. "},{"Title":"A tale of revenge, destined to be a classic","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brilliant movie.  Brilliantly made, brilliantly acted.This tale of a victim's desire for revenge and freedom from fear is one that anyone can relate to.  Our hero is played by Dan Futterman, whom many will recognize as the son in The Birdcage.  Here Futterman's stable and sincere nature allows us to trust him as he enters into a terrifying and surreal night with the man who destroyed his peace of mind.It is a stunning film.  Terrifying, wrenching, and edifying.  "}{"Title":"At times difficult, the film ultimately rewards its audience","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dan Futterman plays Charlie, a gay man in New York City on the night that Daylight Savings Ends. An insomniac, he wanders the night searching for stories and healing, it is a long journey of grieving and redemption... his own story unfolds against the backdrop of amusing and bizarre urban legends...Dark, sly, funny and poignant... the story is told in a tight weave of sometimes surreal episodes with hallucinatory edits and jumps in narrative like a manic night of sleeplessness. At times difficult, the film rewards the audience who endures the discomfort and disorientation to reap moving catharsis by the end of Charlie's long dark night of the soul. "},{"Title":"brilliant film, but a light warning","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While I can't say enough about the stylistic innovations and wickedly elusive plot machinations this film employs (winningly) throughout, I would advise you to be in a fittingly introspective mood upon viewing rather than the carefree state I was in, because this is a movie that will stick with you long after you want it to "},{"Title":"A Long Night's Journey into Humanity","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an amazing film which creeps up on the audience.Let me start with symbolism. Escaping trauma by driving through a tunnel -- which may or may not be what it seems. A sign on a shirt in a closet reading Way to Survive. A One Way street sign. A quilt that may represent the craziness of life as well as being a stand-in for the AIDS quilt. A bar named Karma. A broken clock on the night when we gain a full extra hour of darkness. These and other symbols bring us along on a journey with the main character as he refuses to accept a painful loss. He is haunted, and may even be in love with death because of his loss.The film has laughter, horror, tears -- all presented with an unnerving, subdued power that left me stunned for a long time after watching it. This is a modern Dark Night of the Soul. I was reminded of the quote from Isaiah I gave my back to those who beat me. I was also reminded of a New Testament quote about giving the shirt off your back.The three principal characters, Charlie, Dean, and Chris (Dan Futterman, Samuel Ball, and Matt Kesslar), are the most unconventional and unlikely Christ-figures I have come across in movies -- and believe me, I've seen a lot of them!Ultimately, through the main character's dark journey, the audience learns that hatred can be transformed into a loving sense of humanity and that it takes courage not to respond to hate with hate.The film deserves all the rave reviews it has received. If my comments here seem confusing, it's because this is a movie that can't be discussed easily or simply. See it for yourself! "},{"Title":"Stunning -- literally","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Within the first 30 seconds, I knew what had happened and was happening, plot-wise, but that didn't stop Urbania from riveting me to my seat as it played out. Anchored by Dan Futterman's outstanding performance, the 1500+ edits spin us between backstory, present story, reality and fantasy, confusing the audience only as much as Charlie (Futterman) himself is confused. When I left the theatre, I needed an hour to absorb what I'd just watched. I think people who have dealt with violence close to them will have the strongest reactions to Urbania.In some ways, this is a very New York film -- I saw it with a bunch of Toronto-based critics, and many of the lighter moments completely went over their heads. And there are light moments, which makes the next emotional wist of the knife even sharper.My only complaint -- and I guess this is a slight spoiler -- is that for a mid-size budget, I would have expected higher quality blood. 16mm captures colour and contrast incredibly well, and the blood just looked like red paint.Anything else I could say would be a spoiler. If you like getting inside the brains of characters, go see this. "},{"Title":"Finally! a film about redemption that is not tediously heart-warming!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Urbania is John Shear's daring film that grapples with the difficult  issues of loss, social violence, revenge, and finally redemption.  Dan Futterman gives a remarkable performance in the role of Charlie, a wounded, angry insomniac who meanders through the night searching for the man who will make everything right.The story is told through a sequence of non-chronological glimpses of Charlie's present journey as well as his memory.  It is like seeing something blurry in the distance that comes into focus as time passes.  At the end, we know the whole story with striking clarity, and understand Charlie's complex network of motive and action.  This gradual unfolding of the story gives the film a mysterious quality and a constant sense of discovery.  Shear creates a remarkable sense of rhythm by masterfully juxtaposing scenes of brutal violence next to visions of sheer compassion.  The narrative is also punctuated with funny reenactments of urban legends which lend comic relief as well as a sense of familiarity.  I found these scenes to be very effective, but could see how one could find them superfluous.The film has also received praise for the technical innovations involved in its making.  I am very impressed that  the film is at the cutting edge of cinematic technology, but is not about technology.  Instead, the technology works seamlessly at the service of a very well told tale.All in all, Urbania is an truly satisfying, genuinely moving film.  It is a glorious triumph for John Shear as his first film.  "},{"Title":"Best FIlm I have seen in years!!!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Urbania is one of the most breathtaking films I have seen in years. It is smart, funny, thrilling and ultimately moving.  It is so much than a gay film and to call it one denies the power that it has to so much about the human condition.  Let me say right off the bat that Dan Futterman gives an amazing, powerful performance and all of the accolades that have been heaped upon him are well deserved. I also want to add that the rest of the performances are also first rate.  Also, I got to see the DVD version of the film and it is amazing. It is chock full of really great extras such as a really smart commentary from the director and several of the actors. It also has some great features (including one with Jan Brunvand an expert on Urban Legends - I have his books!!) and it sounds great.  This is one movie that didn't get a wide release last year (although it deserved it from all of the great reviews that I have seen) but this is a great chance to see the film. Do yourself a favor and see it asap!! You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"WOW, AMAZING FILM!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was travelling in USA and was blown away by it in every respect! I was sad it wasnt released commercially in the UK Probably the gay theme stopped it having massive success with broadcasters over here.The acting is top notch. Dan Futterman is brilliant but in my opinion, blow away performances come from MATT KEESLAR and ALAN CUMMING (in a very underused role). They seemed to have such strength in their performances and the bonds in their characters worked so well! The romance between the 2 guys was so convincingly and beautifully played that you would have a heart of stone not to melt whilst watching it and Alan Cummming as the still mourning friend was a perfect addition.I cannot recommend this film enough....Its not easy to watch; in terms of how its put together but once you get through the initial change of style from your normal film then you will be glad you kept with it......... Anyone who wants to talk about this film is always welcome to speak to me. I rank it in my top 5 films ever!!!  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wonderfully written and directed.  Acting is incredible.  I highly recommend it to people who are looking for a movie that depends on story and performances rather than an explosion every 2 minutes. Dan Futterman gives one of the best performances of 2000 (or any other year, for that matter). "},{"Title":"mature, authentic, sophisticated gay film.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Often, gay films turn out to be pretty uneven efforts, either well-intentioned but inexpertly executed, or shallow and very slickly executed.  This one is expertly crafted; directed and acted with a fine sophistication and is, to me, very believable in its portrayal of the grief and rage that drive the story.  The one quibble I had was that sometimes, characters resembled one another a little too much, such that in the flashing back and forth from one point in time to another, I mistook one character for another, until I got the hang of things.  This one should be at the top of the list for anyone, not just gay men, because it is really transcendent of the gay story.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Without question, the best film I have seen in many many years....a brilliantly executed film.  It shines like no other. Do not hesitate to see it when it hits the big screen.Highly recommended.   "}{"Title":"Well-intentioned perhaps, but disjointed and awkward","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a poignant and provocative story that is lost in choppy cutting, poor dialogue, bad acting and a meandering story.The main story itself is worthwhile on its own a guy's male partner/lover is murdered (you find this out at the end); he tracks down the murderer. Great idea, great potential.But there's a theme of urban legends woven in - reenactments of the kidney thief, welcome to the world of aids, others. These stories were worn out in the 1980s.It's a real shame that the director couldn't just slowly tell the story focus on characters, cut out some of the nastiness, get to the point.Instead it's some combo of After Hours and a gay Sex in the City (or whatever that TV show is). "},{"Title":"An utterly dreadful film","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had the misfortune of watching this dreadfully pretentious piece of drivel on HBO today. After 40 minutes, I realized that this was a perfectly dreadful film, but, since I had the glowing New York Times review online when deciding whether to watch it, I told myself that surely it would get better. No such luck. The adulation heaped on this film by the previous reviews on this website are a mystery to me. It just goes to show that if a work is pretentious, dreary, and boring enough, it will probably be hailed as a work of art. We all know what P.T. Barnum said, that there's one born every minute.By the way, regarding all the praise heaped on Dan Futterman's performance in my opinion, he seems to exhibit only two facial expressions, blank impassivity or an irritating smirk. Lack of talent passing as minimalism. "},{"Title":"Affecting","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What starts out as an art house experiment turns into an affecting morality tale that draws genuine concern for the principal players dilemma.  Will the prey become the hunter.Futterman is great but the fantasy sequences get a little incoherent near the end but it wraps it up nicely. "},{"Title":"What Actually is Real?","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I suggest you set your mind for a confused state as you watch this unusual film, which feasts upon playing with your mind and fantasies of the hero, Charlie, as he wanders about seeking revenge for perhaps for the murder of his lover. It's a very dark and depressing film, which uses the seedy part of gay life as its canvas to draw us into a web of utter confusion. A simple interpretation suggests that the filmmakers want to strike back at the gay bashers of the world, something gay people are not usually thought capable of doing--that is, defending themselves physically from the abuse of a small percentage of scumbags that frequent the straight world. But there's probably much more involved that meets the eye here, thus making it a worthwhile movie, one that viewers can see several times the hallmark of important art forms. "},{"Title":"Gimmick and art make this film","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is unfortunate that a director feels the need to play the audience with gimmickry to make his point. I felt that the cleverness in toying with the Urban Legends (hence the nomer) is undermined by the application of device and gimmick to be sure to drive home his point. Sure to be a hit with the art house/festival audience must have been in this director's mind The same effect could have been accomplished without toying with the viewer. It takes 1/3 of the film to discover that you care what is happening to these characters and find out that a finely acted and written film is unfolding before you. Flashbacks and imagination works well in places and a solid performance is turned n by Dan Futterman, although the whole characterization is not quite carried out as far as it could have been if the time were spent on this instead of gimmickry. "},{"Title":"Confusing, but interesting story with outstanding performances.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While this story is mysterious and secretive on purpose, I found it to be a little too confusing at times.  The use of the urban legends was interesting but I can't figure out why they were included, as they seem to have nothing to do with the plot.  But the acting makes this film worth seeing. Absolutely wonderful performances, especially by the lead.  The underlying story, once you get to it, is heartbreaking and tragic.  A little less confusion would have improved this movie, but it was very good. "},{"Title":"Obtuse, Vague Mess that got Good Reviews","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So I found the VHS tape of this film (with a discount sticker from Blockbuster on it) outside a dumpster with a bunch of other videos. Being up on my films and what is released, it caught my interest since I'd never recalled hearing about it.I watched it. Painful. Pretty much from the get-go. The primary thing that makes any film painful to sit through, whether it's a realist or surrealist drama, is the absence of anything that would resemble truthfulness (truthfulness in behavior, truthfulness in dialogue, etc.) A filmmaker can make the most bizarre, esoteric film ever, provided there's some kind of human truth in it. If there is, the audience will be drawn in. I could not find it here. It is reminiscent of another film dealing with the seamier side of the gay nightlife scene of NYC's Village, 1980's Cruising, but at least that film had Pacino to liven it up, and more skilled direction by Exorcist & French Connection director, William Friedkin.This film is painfully vague and obtuse, making a David Lynch film seem like Sesame Street, and the dialogue is written in a way that is hard to imagine that anyone actually speaks. The actors struggle through a sub-par script, however the script may not appear so sub-par if it had better direction. But there is obvious miscasting, including the bartender and the homeless man. I've never encountered a NY bartender quite that timid or blundering, or a homeless guy that could've just as easily been cast in a Wendy's commercial (of course, he also has to stutter and be mentally challenged, though that is far from representative of a true NY homeless person). I would say if you're going to make something up, that doesn't reflect the reality of time & place, make it more interesting.I did notice that Alan Cumming was in the movie, so I waited for his (albeit brief) appearance, to see what a truly talented actor could do with a bad script. Though his scene was one of the few that was not badly written, it was still pleasantly surprising to see what a fine job he did with it. His behavior was completely believable and made for one of the few bright spots in the film.However, even though there's a painful pretentiousness to this film, (and very little honesty), I was quite surprised when I checked out rottentomatoes.com that it had gained some decent reviews, especially from Stephen Holden in the NY Times. He must've seen something I clearly missed. "},{"Title":"I must have missed something here . .","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" . . . that the other reviewers give this movie such glowing reviews. I thought it was an OK film, but certainly not great. This is basically a story about a gay man seeking to personally avenge the gay-bashing murder of his lover. That plot alone would be a little bleak, so I can buy the introduction of the quirky street characters. Adds a sense of realism to the NYC setting. The bartender getting paid a couple hundred buck to expose himself to a woman, and then inheriting a a large insurance payment when she dies in an airplane crash - OK, we're starting to stretch things a little. But, the introduction of the Urban Legends stuff. C'mon - that's clearly brought in to try to camouflage the main plot & attract a wider audience, and an excuse to name the movie something sexier than The Gay Bashing Avenger. This movie has nothing to do about Urban Ledgends, and the title is misleading. "},{"Title":"Genre film, nothing more","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While Urbania does a commendable job in it's portrayal of a lonely and obsessed man, largely due to the fine performance of Dan Futterman, it falls short on almost every other level. In a typical studio marketing ploy, the film is advertised as a sexy thriller with no mention of the fact that it is a gay movie. Most renters will feel mislead, and to imply that Urbania will be enjoyed by both gay and straight audiences is delusional. If the film-makers had truly meant the film for mass appeal, they would have downplayed the sex scenes (which will automatically repulse a large percentage of straight audiences), and spent more effort developing the characters and story line. I thought the premise of the film was quite good A man loses his lover through violence. Loneliness and guilt drive him to the edge of sanity in his search for justice. If done correctly, it could have been an outstanding film, but the director chose, instead, to depend on vague flashbacks, in-your-face gay sex scenes, urban myths that have nothing to do with the plot, and ill defined supporting characters. All the hetero males are mindless thugs. The women are all portrayed as stereotypes, none believable, and only the gay males are handled with anything resembling sympathy. It's okay if the film-makers chose to target a specific market, but let's not confuse Urbania with anything other than a marginal genre film.  A masterpiece by no means. "},{"Title":"bad writing and acting","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" alright, i'm a straight male so if you need an arbitrary reason to discount my criticism, there you are. there are a few clever moments. like when charlie goes up to some stranger's second floor apartment only to find that neither wants to be butt boy (or perhaps charlie's just mimicking for effect, not sure. that bit had a subtlety that i was impressed with). a funny and insightful scene that has no 'straight' analogue. i also liked the scene where charlie strings along his upstairs neighbor and girlfriend with a story that ends with him thanking them for being part of his private fantasy. the 'keep your lifestyle choice out of my face' or whatever was trite, but oh well, i guess it might become a good joke if i had to hear it thrown at *me* all of the time.but apart from these few things, the movie was badly written and acted. dan futterman's acting was so unbelievable it was sometimes funny and made me think, right from the start, about soap opera actors. not to single him out, as most of the cast were at the same level of ineptitude. they were of course not helped by the clunky script and unrealistic dialogue. instead of being the surrealistic, edgy urban drama it feels like it wants to be, this movie is a deception. it keeps you in the dark to make its trite story seem more interesting. granted, i am not generally as interested in stories that are about gay love, but i feel that this movie insults the intelligence of those who are. "}{"Title":"Utter Dreck","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the worst serious movie I have seen in years.  It's non-narrative exists on a continuum between boring and loathesome.  Follow lonely Charlie as he goes from practicing the, uh, solitary sin while  his noisy neighbors have sex, to picking up strange men for anonymous sex, to running into his noisy neighbors at a bar and insulting them, to searching for the homophobe who terrorized him in the past....If you like homoerotic sex scenes, you MIGHT be able to withstand the long, talky, weepy scenes that separate them, scenes in which men talk sensitively with one another about their feelings, their relationships, their disappointments, about us, what we had.  This movie is Oprah with chest hair.  The dialogue is not witty; it is persistently unclever, despite the attempts at spooky subtleties, and the corner-of-the-eye observations of urban legends (the point of which remains obscure).Here's an example of the shamefully trite dialogue the filmmakers torment us with.  Charlie and his anonymous pickup are lying in bed, and Charlie confides, I'm afraid that if I stay in your space, you'll be in my dreams. Really!  BARF! Soap opera pablum.Charlie finds the friend he is looking for, a vicious homophobe who, OF COURSE, is really a gay who hasn't acknowledged this to himself yet...Yes, THAT old cliche. I really can't say more without giving the ending away...let me just say that when you think this movie can't get any more loathesome, it does.  And then it goes back to boring.This movie is a real dog.  Do yourself a favor  Spend two hours watching roadkill rot instead. "},{"Title":"This film has Big Problems","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First, the good Mark Lanagan (Screaming Trees) on the soundtrack. I love multivariance and non-linear story-telling, but this film is seriously flawed. Boys in the Band is a masterpiece which Urbania could have been showing on TV as a prop on the set during a short scene. That's the relative significance of this film. It's too bad, but I don't see anything that could save it. It was filmed using The Blair Witch Projects cinematography. Plus the agenda contained in the Film's message seemed to be nothing more than pumping the acceptance of homosexuality into the mainstream one more time, with a bit of a twist in the saturation ideology.That's fine but come ON how could anyone really dig this? What did I miss? "},{"Title":"Little bit too gay for me","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie on the IMDB recommendations that it was for gay or straight audiences.   Well, I'm afraid I have to disagree.  It was really too gay for me and I didn't enjoy it at all.  It took quite a bit of mental energy to commit to it and the gay aspect just undermined it for me. Please note that I'm not expressing any opinion about gay or non-gay.  If your into that, maybe you'll like it. "}]